This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com


               LIBRARY
                  Of THE
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA.
          ntfO di /dt c.            . i8g 3
Accessions No.          . C/,?.« No.


^


                    NOTICES
                        OF THE
           PROCEEDINGS
                        AT THE
       MEETINGS OF THE MEMBERS
                        or THE
        Institution of t§reat Britain,
                         WITH
      ABSTRACTS OF THE DISCOURSES
                     DgLITKBED AT
          THE EVENING MEETINGS.
                   VOLUME XII.
                    1887—1889.
    WITH AN INDEX TO VOLUMES I. TO XII.
                    LONDON:
PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,
       STAMFORD STREET AND CHARIMS CROSS.
                         1889.
              .
             i! f»       "n? (••:•? -v• v. \ii-,
                           »• *'•'' * * * .>
                           o- _.*'.-/.''

                                                                    '. - / /
                                                                       L.7
                                   9 atton.
                        HEIl HOST GRACIOUS       MAJESTY
                                                                      .
                            QUEEN VICTORIA.
                 Vice=$atton auto ?l?onorarp fflembet.
                              HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS
              THE PRINCE OF WALES, E.G. F.R.S
President—THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. D.C.L. LL.D.
Treasurer— SIB JAMES CBICHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.— V.P.
Honorary Secretary—SIB FREDERICK BRAMWELL, BART. D.C.L. F.R.S.
       M.lNST.C.E.— V.P.
        MANAGERS. 1889-90.                        VISITORS.     1889-90.
Sir Frederick Abel, C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S.    William Anderson, Esq. M. Inst. C.B.
   — V.P.                                 John Birki It, Esq. F.K.C.S.
William Crookes, Esq. F.R.S.— V.P.
Francis Galton, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.          Alfred Carpmael, Esq.
Colonel James A. Grant, C.B. C.S.I.       Jam^s Edmunds, M.D. F.C.S.
   F.R.S.— V.P.                           Ernest H. Goold, Esq. F.Z.S.
The Rt. Hon. Sir William R. Grove,        diaries Hawksley, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
   M.A. D.C.L. F.R.S.                     John Hopkinsnn, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
William Huggins, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D.
   F.R.S.— V.i'.                              M. Inst. C.E.
David Edward Hughes. Esq. F.R.S.          Victor Horsley, Esq. F.R.S. F.R.C.S.
Rev. John Maenaught, M.A.                 Ludwig Mond, Esq. F.C.S.
Edward Pollock, Esq.                      Lachlan Mackintosh Rate, Esq. M.A.
William Henry Preece, Esq. F.R.S.         Arthur William Riicker, Esq. M.A.
   M. Inst. C.E.
William O. Priestley, M.D. LL.D.            F.R.S.
   F.L.S.                                 John Bell Sedgwick, Esq. J.P. F.R.G.S.
John Rae, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.— V.P.         Thomas Edwnrd Thorpe, Esq. Ph.D.
William Chandler Roberta-Austen, Esq.       F.R.S.
   F.R.S.                                 Thomas Tyrer, Esq. F.C.S.
Lord Arthur Russell— V.P.
Basil Woodd Smith, Esq. F.R.A.S.          James Wimshurst, Esq.
 Honorary Profeuor of Natural Philosophy—Joas TYNDALL, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D.
      F.R.S. &c.
 Professor of Natural Philosophy.—The Right Hon. LORD RAYLEIGH.M.A. D.C.L.
      LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
 Fullerian Professor of Chemistry—JAMES DEWAB, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Jauksonian
      Professor of Natural Experimental Philosophy, Univ. Cambridge.
 FuUerian Professor oj Physiology—GBOBGE JOHN ROMANES, Esq. M.A. LL.D. F.R.S.
 Honorary Librarian—Mi. Benjamin Vincent.
 Keeper of Hie Library and Assistant Secretary—Mr. Henry Young.
 Clerk of Accounts and Collector—Hii. Henry 0. Hughes.
 Assistants in the Chemical Laboratory—Mr. R. N. Lennox, and Mr. J. W. Heath.
 Assistant in the Physical Laboratory.—Mr. George Gordon.
 Assistant in the Library —Mr. William Hartnall.

                       CONTENTS.
                               1887.
                                                           Page
Jan. 21.—SIB WILLIAM THOMSON.—The Sun's Heat ..         ..    1
  „    28.—W. BALDWIN SPENCER, Esq.—The Pineal Eye in
              Lizards    ..     ..     ..    ..   ..    ..   22
Feb.    4.—EDWIN FBESHFIELD, Esq. — Some Unpublished
              Records of the City of London ..    ..    ..   28
   „    7.—General Monthly Meeting ..        ..   ..    ..   31
   „   11.—EDWABD B. POULTON, Esq.— Gilded Chrysalides ..    33
   „  18.—WILLIAM CROOKES, Esq.— Genesis of the Elements     37
   „  25.—CAPTAIN W. DE W. ABNET.—Sunlight Colours ..        61
March 4.—VICTOR HORSLET, Esq.— Brain Surgery in the Stone
              Ages                                           72
   „    7.—General Monthly Meeting ..       ..    ..    ..   73
   „  11.—Tho VEN. ARCHDEACON FARRAR.—Society in the
              4th Century A.D                                75
   „  18.—GEORGE JOHN ROMANES, Esq.—Mental Differences
              between Men and Women         ..   ..    ..   78
   „  25.—The RIGHT HON. LORD RATLEIGH.—Colours of Thin
              Plates                                        81
April   1.—PROFESSOR DEWAR.—Light as an Analytic Agent      83
   „    4.— General Monthly Meeting ..      ..   ..    ..   94

IT                              CONTENTS.
   1887.                                                     Page
April 22.—SIB FBEDERIOK ABBL.—The Work of the Imperial
                 Institute                                     99
    „    29.—PBOPESSOB H. S. HELE SHAW. — The Roiling
                 Contact of Bodies                            130
May        2.—Annual Meeting        ..    .. ..   ..     ..   133
   „       6.—THOMAS LAUDEB BRUNTON, M.D.—The Element of
                 Truth in Popular Beliefs                     134
   „       9.—General Monthly Meeting                         136
   „     13.—J. 8. B0BDON-SANDEB8ON, M.D.—Simu' Electrical
                 Fishes                                       139
    „    20.—BENJAMIN BAKES, Esq. — Bridging the Firth of
                 Forth                                        142
    „    27.—EDWABD E. KLEIN, M.D. — Etiology of Scarlet
                 Fever                                        150
 June       3.—DATID GILL, Esq.—The Applications of Photo
                 graphy in Astronomy      .. ..   ..     ..   158
      „    6.— General Monthly Meeting                        173
     „   10.—THOMAS HODGKIN, Esq.—Aquileia, the Precursor
                  of Venice                                   175
 July       4.—General Monthly Meeting                        178
 Nov.      7.—General Monthly Meeting ..      ..   ..     ..  181
 Dec.      5.—General Monthly Meeting ..      ..   ..     ..  185
                                   1888.
 Jan.     20.—The RIGHT HON. LORD RATLEIGH.—Diffraction of
                  Sound                                        187
    „    27.—JOSEPH THOMSON, Esq.—The Exploration of Masai-
                  Land                                        199
 Feb.      3.—FBANK CRISP, Esq. — Ancient Microscopes (no
                  Abstract)                                    201

                                 CONTENTS, ^x*        • £l
   1888.                                                             Page
Feb.       6.—General Monthly Meeting ..           ..        ..   ..  201
  „      10.—W. H. PREEOE, Esq.—Safety Lamps in Collieries            204
  „      17.—SIB HENRY DOULTON. — Some Developments of
                 English Pottery during the last fifty years    .. 212
  „      24.—The VERY RET. G. GRANTILLE BRADLEY—West
                 minster Abbey       ..     ..     .,       ..   ..  217
March 2.—C. MEYMOTT TIDY, Esq.—Poisons and Poisonings                220
   „       5.—General Monthly Meeting ..           ..       ..   ..  230
   „        9.—LESLIE STEPHEN, Esq.—S. T. Coleridge         ..   ..  233
   „      16.—JOHN MURRAY, Esq.—Structure, Origin, and Dis
                 tribution of Coral Reefs and Islands ..         ..  251
   „    23.—SIB FBEDEBICK BRAMWELL.—A Lecture with,—and
                 without,—point (no Abstract)      ..       ..   ..  262
April 2.—General Monthly Meeting ..               ..        ..   ..  263
  „      13.—PROFESSOR FLOWER.—The Pygmy Races of Men                266
   „     20.—The RIGHT HON. SIB WILLIAM H. GROTE.—
                 Antagonism         ..     ..     ..       ..    .. 284
   „     27.—JAMES WIMSHURST, Esq. — Electrical Influence
                 Machines ..                                         300
May        1.—Annual Meeting        ..     ..      ..      ..   ..   306
  „        4.—J. K. LAUGHTON, Esq.—The Invincible Armada : a
                 Tercentenary Retrospect ..       ..       ..   .. 307
  „        7.—General Monthly Meeting                                327
  „      11.—PROFESSOR W. CHANDLER ROBERTS-AUSTBN.—Some
                 curious properties of Metals and Alloys        . . 367
  „      18. —M. ALPHONSE RENARD.—La reproduction artificielle
                 des roches volcaniques. (In French) ..         .. 330
  „      25.—FRANCIS GALTON, Esq.—Personal Identification and
                 Description        ..     ..     ..       ..   •. 346
Juno       1.—PROFESSOR J. A. EWING. —Earthquakes and how to
                 measure them              ..     ..       ..        361

TI                               CONTENTS.
   1888.                                                          Page
June      4.—General Monthly Meeting ..         ..      ..    ..   364
    „     8.—^PROFESSOR DswAB. — Phosphorescence and Ozone 557
July       2.—General Monthly Meeting ..        ..      ..    ..  370
Nov.      5.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..     ..     ..  372
Dec.       3.—General Monthly Meeting ..         ..     ..    ..   376
                                   1889.
Jan.     25.—PROFESSOR G. H. DARWIN.—Meteorites and the
                 History of Stellar Systems     ..     ..     .. 379
Feb.      1.—PROFESSOR W. C. MO!NTOSH.—The Life-History
                 of a Marine Food-Fish                            384
   „       4.— General Monthly Meeting ..       ..     ..    ..   403
   „       8.—SIR WILLIAM THOMSON. —Electrostatic Measure
                 ment        ..      ..     ,. ..      ..     ..  561
   „     15.—PROFESSOR A. W. RUCKER.—Electrical Stress       ..   406
   „     22.—HAROLD CRICHTON BROWNE, Esq. —In the Heart of
                 the Atlas (Abstract deferred)                    409
March 1.— EDMUND GOSSE, Esq.—Leigh Hunt                ..    ..   409
   „      4.—General Monthly Meeting ..        ..      ..    ..   403
   „      8.—PROFESSOR OLITER LODGE. — The Discharge of a
                 Leyden Jar         ..     ..  ..     ..    .. 413
   „     15. —SIB JAMES N. DOUGLASS.—Beacon Lights and Fog
                 Signals    ..      ..     ..  ..      ..    .. 425
  „     22.—EADWEARD MUTBRIDOE, Esq. — The Science of
                 Animal Locomotion in its Relation to design
                 in Art (illustrated by the Zoopraxiscope) (no
                 Abstract) ..       ..     ..  ..     ..     .. 444
   „    29.—A. GORDON SALAMON, Esq.—Yeast..           ..    ..    571
April     1.— General Monthly Meeting ..       ..      ..   ..    445

                                 CONTENTS.                           Tll
  1889.                                                            Page
April 5. — The REY. CANON AINOEB. —True and False Humour
                in Literature (no Abstract)        ..    ..    .. 446
  „     12.—The RIGHT HON. LORD              RATLEIGH.—Iridescent
                Crystals                                            447
May      1.—Annual Meeting          ..     ..      ..   ..     ..   450
  „      3.—SIB HENRY E. ROSCOE. —Aluminium             ..     ..   451
  „      6.—General Monthly Meeting ..             ..   ..     ..   4G4
  „     10.—PROFESSOR DEWAB.— Optical Properties of Oxygen
                and Ozone..         ..     ..      ..    ..    ..   4G8
  „     17. — PBOFESSOR SILTANCS P. THOMPSON.—Optical Torque        474
  „     24.—The RET. S. J. PERRY.— The Solar Surface during
                the last ten years ..      ..      ..    ..     ..  498
  „     31.—PBOFESSOR DEMETBI MENDEL£EF.—An attempt to
                apply to Chemistry one of Newton's principles       506
June      3.—General Monthly Meeting ..            ..    ..     ..  525
  „      7.—ARCHIBALD GEIKIE, Esq.—Recent Researches into
                the Origin and Age of the Highlands of Scot
                land and the West of Ireland ..         ..     ..   528
  „     14.—0. V. BOYS, Esq. —Quartz Fibres                         547
July 1.—General Monthly Meeting ..                 ..   ..     ..   563
Nov.     4.—General Monthly Meeting        ..      ..   ..     ..   565
Dec.     2.—General Monthly Meeting ..             .,   ...    ..   569
Index to Volumes I. to XII.           ,    ..        .              581

                          PLATE.
                                                     Page
Map of the British Empire (Queen's Jubilee) .. .. ..   99

                         Institution of ®reat Britain.
                      WEEKLY BVENING MEETING, .
                            Friday, January 21, 1887.
     WILLIAM HCOGINS, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. Manager and Vice-
                             President, in the Chair.
                 SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, 1L.D. F.R.S. X.R.L
             PROFESSOR OF KATCRAL PHILOSOPHY IV THE USITKRSITT Or GLASGOW.
                                  The Sun's Heat.
 FROM human history we know that for several thousand years the
 sun has been giving heat and light to the earth as at present, possibly             .
 with some considerable fluctuations, and possibly with some not very
 small progressive variation. The records of agriculture, and the
 natural history of plants and animals within the time of human
 history, abound with evidence that there has been no exceedingly
 great change in the intensity of the sun's heat and light within the
last three thousand years ; but for all that, there may have been
variations of quite as much as 5 or 10 per cent., as we may judge by
considering that the intensity of the solar radiation to the earth is
 <i.\ per cent. greater in January than in July ; and neither at the
equator nor in the northern or southern hemispheres has this differ
ence been discovered by experience or general observation of any
kind. But as for the mere ago of the sun, irrespective of the question
of uniformity, wo have proof of something vastly more than three
thousand years in geological history, with its irrefragable evidence of
continuity of life on the earth in time past for tens of thousands, and
probably for millions of years.
      Here, then, we have a splendid subject for contemplation and
research in Natural Philosophy or Physics—the science of dead
matter. The sun, a mere piece of matter of the moderate dimensions
which we know it to have, bounded all round by cold ether,* has been '-\ 7 ^ * '
doing work at the rate of four hundred and seventy-six thousand
million million million horse-power for three thousand years ; and at                 •
     * The sun warms aud lights the earth by wave motion, excited in virtue of            *
his white-Lot temperature, and transmitted through a material commonly called
the luminiferouB ether, which fills all space as far as the remotest star, and has »
the property of transmitting radiant heat (or light) without itself becoming . ." " ,
heated. I feel that I have a right to drop the adjective luminiferoiu, because • .- ••
the medium, far above the earth's surface, through which we receive sun-heat         i» ' .
(or light), and through which the planets move, was called ether 2000 years..'*
before chemists usurped the name for " sulphuric ether," " muriatic ether,"«and •. "•• •
other compounds, fancifully supposed to be peculiarly ethereal ; and I trust.tha|
chemists of the present day will not be angry with me if I use the word ether,'"       •
pure and simple, to denote the medium whose undulutory motions constitute
radiant heat (or light).
      VOL. XII.      (No. 81.)                                        .    B
                                                            ,f -V -

   2                            Sir William Thomsm                          [Jan. 21,
   possibly a higher, certainly not much lower, rate for a few million
   years. How is this to be explained ? Natural philosophy cannot evade
   the question, and no physicist who is not engaged in trying to answer
   it can have any other justification than that his whole working time
   is occupied with work on some other subject or subjects of his
   province by which he has more hope of being able to advance science.
         It may be taken as an established result of scientific inquiry that
   the sun is not a burning fire, and is merely a white hot fluid mass
   cooling, with some little accession of fresh energy by meteors
   occasionally falling in, but of very small account in comparison with
   the whole energy of heat which he gives out from year to year. Helm-
   holtz's form of the meteoric theory of the origin of the sun's heat,
   may bo accepted as having the highest degree of scientific probability
   that can be assigned to any assumption regarding actions of prehis
   toric times. The essential principle of the explanation is this ; at
   some period of time, long past, the sun's initial heat was generated
   by the collision of pieces of matter gravitationally attracted together
   from distant space to build up his present mass ; and shrinkage due
   to cooling gives, through the work done by the mutual gravitation of
   all parts of the shrinking mass, the vast heat-storage capacity in
   virtue of which the cooling has been, and continues to be, so slow.
         In some otherwise excellent books it is " paradoxically " stated
   that the sun is becoming hotter because of the condensation.* Para
   doxes have no place in science. Their removal is the substitution of
   true for false statements and thoughts, not always so easily
   effected as in the present case. The truth is, that it is because the
   sun is becoming less hot lit places of equal density that his
   mass is allowed to yield gradually under the condensing tendency
   of gravity and thus from age to age cooling and condensation go on
   together.
         An essential detail of Helmholtz's theory of solar heat is that the
   sun must be fluid, because even though given at any moment hot
   enough from the surface to any depth, however great, inwards, to be
   brilliantly incandescent, the conduction of heat from within through
   solid matter of even the highest conducting quality known to us,
   would not suffice to maintain the incandescence of the surface for
   more than a few hours, after which all would be darkness. Observa
   tion confirms this conclusion so far as the outward appearance of the
        * [Note of February 21, 1887.—The " paradox " referred to here, is, as I now
   find, merely a mis-statement (faulty and manifestly paradoxical through the
   omission of an essential condition) of an astonishing and most important con
   clusion of a paper by J. Homer Lane, which appeared in the ' American Journal
   of Science, for July 1870 (referred to more particularly on p. 11 below). In
   Newcomb's ' Popular Astronomy,' first edition, p. 508, the omission ia supplied
   in :> footnote, giving a clear popular explanation of the dynamics of Lane's con-
   elusion; and the subject is similarly explained in Bul1's ' Story of the Heavens,'
   pp. 501, 502, and 503, with complete avoidance of the " paradox." And now I
   take this opportunity of correcting my hasty correction of the " paradox " by the
    insertion of the five words in italics added to line 6 of the paragraph.—W. T.]
'-

1887.]                         on the Sun'3 Heat.                                 3
sun is concerned, bat does not suffice to disprove the idea which was
BO eloquently set forth by Sir John Herschel, and which prevailed till
thirty or forty years ago, that the sun is a solid nucleus inclosed iu
a sheet of violently agitated flame. In reality, the matter of the
outer shell of the sun, from which the heat is radiated outwards, must
in cooling become denser, and so becoming unstable in its high
position must fall down, and hotter fluid from within must rush up
to take its place. The tremendous currents thus continually pro
duced in this great mass of flaming fluid constitute the province of
the newly-developed science of solar physics, which, with its mar
vellous instrument of research—the spectroscope—is yearly and daily
giving us more and more knowledge of the actual motions of the
different ingredients, and of the splendid and all-important resulting
phenomena.
     To form some idea of the amount of the heat which is being
continually carried up to the sun's surface and radiated out into space,
and of the dynamical relations between it and the solar gravitation,
let us first divide that prodigious number (476 x 102l) of horse-power
by the number (6 • 1 X 10l8) of square metres * in the sun's surface,                I
and we find 78,000 horse-power as the mechanical value of the radia- 7 jfx ( 0
tion per square metre. Imagine, then, the engines of eight ironclads
applied, by ideal mechanism of countless shafts, pulleys, and belts, to do
all their available work of, say 10,000 horse-power each, in perpetuity
driving one small paddle in a fluid contained in a square metre
vat. The same heat would be given out from the square metre *
surface of the fluid as is given out from every square metre of the
sun's surface.
     But now to pass from a practically impossible combination of
engines, and a physically impossible paddle and fluid and containing
vessol, towards a more practical combination of matter for producing
    * A square metre ia about 10} (more nearly 10-764) square feet, or a
square yard and a fifth (more nearly I-lS'i! equare yards). The metre is a
little less than 40 inches (39-37 inches = 3-281 feet = 1-094 yards). The
kilometre, which we shall have to use presently, being a thousand metres, is a
short mile as it were (-6214 of the British statute mile). Thus in round numbers
62 statute miles is equal to 100 kilometres, and 161 kilometres is equal to 100
statute miles. The awful »nd unnecessary toil and waste of brain power involved
in the use of the British system of inches, feet, yards, perches, or rods, or poles,
" chains," furlonga, British statute miles, nautical miles, square rod (30| square
yards)! rood (1210 square yards)! acre (4 roods), may be my apology, but it ia
only a part of my reason, for not reckoning the sun's area in acres, his activity
in horse-power per square inch or per square foot, and his radius, and the earth's
distance from him in British statute miles, and for using exclusively the one-
denominational system introduced by the French ninety years ago, and now in
common use in every civilised country of the world, except England and the
United States of North America. The British ton is 1-016 times the French ton,
or weight of a cubic metre of cold water (1016 kilogrammes). The French ton,
of 1000 kilogrammes, ia -9842 of the British ton. Thus for many practical
reckonings, such as those of the present paper, the difference between the British
and the French ton may be neglected.
                                                                      B 2

4                        Sir William Thomson                   [Jan. 21,
the same effect : still keep the ideal Tat and paddle and fluid, bnt
place the Tat on the surface of a cool, solid, homogeneous globe of the
 same size (697,000 kilometres radius) as the sun, and of density (1-4)
 equal to the sun's mean density. Instead of using steam-power, let the
 paddle be driven by a weight descending in a pit excavated below the
 vat. As the simplest possible mechanism, take a long vertical shaft,
 with the paddle mounted on the top of it so as to turn horizontally.
 Let the weight be a nut working on a screw-thread on the Tertical
 shaft, with guides to preTent the nut from turning—the screw and
the guides being all absolutely frictionless. Let the pit be a metre
square at its upper end, and let it be excavated quite down to the
sun's centre, everywhere of square horizontal section, and tapering
uniformly to a point in the centre. Let the weight be simply the
excavated matter of the sun's mass, with merely a little clearance
space between it and the four sides of the pit, and with a kilometre or
so cut off the lower pointed end to allow space for its descent. The
mass of this weight is 326 million tons. Its heaviness, three-quarters
of the heaviness of an equal mass at the sun's surface, is 244 million
tons solar surface-heaviness. Now a horse-power is, per hour, 270
metre-tons, terrestrial surface-heaviness ; or 10 metre-tons, solar
 surface-heaviness, because a ton of matter is twenty-seven times as
heavy at the sun's surface as at the earth's. To do 78,000 horse
power, or 780,000 metre-tons solar surface-heaviness per hour, our
weight must therefore descend at the rate of one metre in 313 hours,
or about 28 metres per year.
     To advance another step, still through impracticable mechanism,
towards the practical method by which the sun's heat is produced, let
the thread of the screw be of uniformly decreasing steepness from the
surface downwards, so that the velocity of the weight, as it is allowed
to descend by the turning of the screw, shall be in simple proportion
to distance from the sun's centre. This will involve a uniform con
densation of the material of the weight ; but a condensation so ex
ceedingly small in the course even of tens of thousands of years, that,
whatever be the supposed m&terial, metal or stone, of the weight,
the elastic resistance against the condensation will be utterly imper
ceptible in comparison with the gravitational forces with which we
are concerned. The work done per metre of descent of the top end
of the weight will be just four-fifths of what it was when the thread
of the screw was uniform. Thus, to do the 78,000 horse-power of
work, the top end of the weight must descend at the rate of 35 metres
per year : or 70 kilometres per 2000 years.
     Now let the whole surface of our cool solid sun be divided into
squares, for example as nearly as may be of one square metre area
each, and let the whole mass of the sun be divided into long inverted
pyramids or pointed rods, each 697,000 kilometres long, with their
points meeting at the centre. Let each be mounted on a screw, as
already described for the long tapering weight which we first con
sidered ; and let the paddle at the top end of each screw-shaft revolve

 1887.]                      on the Sun's Heat.                          5
 in a fluid, not now confined to a vat, but covering the whole surface
 of the sun to a depth of a few metres or kilometres. Arrange the
viscosity of the fluid and the size of each paddle so as to let the
paddle turn just so fast as to allow the top end of each pointed rod
to descend at the rate of 35 metres per year. The whole fluid will,
by the work which the paddles do in it, be made incandescent, and it
 will give out heat and light to just about the same amount as is
actually done by the sun. If the fluid be a few thousand kilometres
deep over the paddles, it would be impossible, by any of the ap
pliances of solar physics, to see the difference between our model
mechanical sun and the true sun.
     To do away with the last vestige of impracticable mechanism in
which the heavinesses of all parts of each long rod are supported on
 the thread of an ideal screw cut on a vertical shaft of ideal matter,
absolutely hard and absolutely frictionless : first, go back a step to
our supposition of just one such rod and screw working in a single
pit excavated down to the centre of the sun, and let us suppose all
the rest of the sun's mass to be rigid and absolutely impervious to
heat. Warm up the matter of the pyramidal rod to such a temper
ature that its material melts and experiences as much of Sir Humphry
Davy's " repulsive motion " as suffices to keep it balanced as a fluid,
without either sinking or rising from the position in which it was
held by the thread of the screw. When the matter is thus held up
without the screw, take away the screw or let it melt in its place.
We should thus have a pit from the sun's surface to his centre, of a
square metre area at the surface, full of incandescent fluid, which we
may suppose to be of the actual ingredients of the solar substance.
This fluid, having at the first instant the temperature with which the
paddle left it, would at the first instant continue radiating heat just
as it did whe:i the paddle was kept moving ; but it would quickly
become much cooler at its surface, and to a distance of a few metres
down. Currents of less hot fluid tumbling down, and hotter fluid
coming up from below, in irregular whirls, would carry the cooled
fluid down from the surface, and bring up hotter fluid from below, but
this mixing could not go on through a depth of very many metres to
a sufficient degree to keep up anything approaching to the high
temperature maintained by the paddle; and after a few hours or
days, solidification would commence at the surface. If the solidified
matter floats on the fluid, at the same temperature, below it, the crust
would simply thicken as ice on a lake thickens in frosty weather ;
but if, as is more probable, solid matter, of such ingredients as the sun
is composed of, sinks in the liquid when both are at the melting tem
perature of the substance, thin films of the upper crust would fall in,
and continue falling in, until, for several metres downwards, the
whole mass of mixed solid and fluid becomes stiff enough (like the
stiffness of paste or of mortar) to prevent the frozen film from fall
ing down from the surface. The surface film would then quickly
thicken, and in the course of a few hours or days become less than

6                        Sir William Thomson                  [Jan. 21,
red-hot on its upper surface, the whole pit full of fluid would go on
cooling with extreme slowness until, after possibly about a million
million million years or so, it would be all at the same temperature
as the space to which its upper end radiates.
     Let precisely what we have been considering be done for every
one of our pyramidal rods, with, however, in the first place, thin
partitions of matter impervious to heat separating every pit from
its four surrounding neighbours. Precisely the same series of
events as we have been considering will take place in every one of the
pits.
     Suppose the whole complex mass to be rotating at the rate of
once round in twenty-five days, which is, about as exactly as we know
it, the time of the sun's rotation about his axis.
     Now at the instant when the paddle stops let all the partitions
be annulled, so that there shall be perfect freedom for currents to
flow unresisted in any direction, except so far as resisted by tho
viscosity of the fluid, and leave the piece of matter, which we may
now call the Sun, to himself. He will immediately begin showing
all the phenomena known in solar physics. Of course the observer
might have to wait a few years for sunspots, and a few quarter-
centuries to discover periods of sunspots, but they would, I think
I may say probably, all be there just as they are, because I think
we may feel that it is most probable that all these actions are due to
the sun's own substance, and not to external influences of any kind. It
is, however, quite possible, and indeed many who know most of the
subject think it probable, that some of the chief phenomena due
to sunspots arise from influxes of meteoric matter circling round the
eun.
     The energy of chemical combination is as nothing compared with
 the gravitational energy of shrinkage, to which the sun's activity
 is almost wholly due. A body falling forty-six kilometres to the
 sun's surface or through the sun's atmosphere, has as much work done
on it by gravity, as corresponds to a high estimate of chemical
energy in the burning of combustible materials. But chemical
 combinations and dissociations may, as urged by Lockyer, in his
 book on the ' Chemistry of the Sun,' just now published, be
 thoroughly potent determining influences on some of the features
 of non-uniformity of the brightness in the grand phenomena of sun-
 spots, hydrogen flames, and corona, which make the province of solar
 physics. But these are questions belonging to a very splendid
 branch of solar science to which only allusion can be made at the
 present time.
     What concerns us as to the explanation of sun-light and sun-heat
 may be summarised in two propositions :—
     (1) Gigantic currents throughout the sun's liquid mass are con
 tinually maintained by fluid, slightly cooled by radiation falling
down from the surface, and hotter fluid rushing up to take its
 place.

1887.J                      on the Sun's Heat.
    (2) The work done in any time by the mutual gravitation of all
the parts of the fluid, as it shrinks in virtue of the lowering of its
temperature, is but little less than (so little less than, that we may
regard it as practically equal to) the dynamical equivalent of the heat
that is radiated from the sun in the same time.
     The rate of shrinkage corresponding to the present rate of
solar radiation has been proved to us, by the consideration of our
dynamical model, to be 35 metres on the radius per year, or one         jf
 ten-thousaudth of its own length on the radius per two thousand
years. Hence, if the solar radiation has been about the same as at
 present for two hundred thousand years, his radius must have been
 greater by one per cent. two hundred thousand years ago than at
present. If we wish to carry our calculations much farther back or
forward than two hundred thousand years, we must reckon by
 differences of the reciprocal of the sun's radius, and not by dif
ferences simply of the radius, to take into account the change of
density (which, for example, would be three per cent. for one per
cent. change of the radius). Thus the rule, easily worked out
according to the principles illustrated by our mechanical model, is
this:—
     Equal differences of the reciprocal of the radius correspond to
equal quantities of heat radiated away from million of years to
million of years.
    Take two examples—
     (1) If in past time there has been as much as fifteen million
times the heat radiated from the sun as is at present radiated out in    ty x j-
one year, the solar radius must have been four times as great as at
present.
     (2) If the sun's effective thermal capacity can be maintained
by shrinkage till twenty million times the present year's amount of      - tT
heat is radiated away, the sun's radius must be half what it is now.
But it is to be remarked that the density which this would imply,
being 11-2 times the density of water, or just about the density
of lead, is probably too great to allow the free shrinkage as of a
cooling gas to be still continued without obstruction through over
crowdmg of the molecules. It seems, therefore, most probable
that we cannot for the future reckon on more of solar radiation
than, if so much as, twenty million times the amount at present
radiated out in a year. It is also to be remarked that the greatly
diminished radiating surface, at a much lower temperature, would
give out annually much less heat than the sun in his present
condition gives. The same considerations led Newcomb to the
conclusion " that it is hardly likely that the sun can continue to
give sufficient heat to support life on the earth (such life as we now
are acquainted with, at least) for ten million years from the present   '0
time."
    In all our calculations hitherto we have for simplicity taken
the density as uniform throughout, and equal to the true mean

            8                          Sir William Thomson                        [Jan. 21,
            density of the sun, being about 1 • 4 times the density of water, or
            about a quarter of the earth's mean density. In reality the density
            in the upper parts of the sun's mass must be something less than
            this, and something considerably more than this in the central parts,
            because of the pressure in the interior increasing to something
            enormously great at the centre. If we knew the distribution of
            interior density we could easily modify our calculations accord
            ingly ; but it does not seem probable that the correction could,
            with any probable assumption as to the greatness of the density
            throughout a considerable proportion of the sun's interior, add more
             than a few million years to the past of solar heat, and what could be
             added to the past must be taken from the future.
                  In our calculations we have taken Pouillet's number for the total
             activity of solar radiation, which practically agrees with Hersche1's.
             Forbes * showed the necessity for correcting the mode of allowing for
             atmospheric absorption used by his two predecessors in estimating
             the total amount of solar radiation, and he was thus led to a number
             1 • 6 times theirs. Forty years later Langley,f in an excellently
             worked out consideration of the whole question of absorption by our
             atmosphere, of radiant heat of all wave-lengths, accepts and confirms
             Forbes's reasoning, and by fresh observations in very favourable
             circumstances on Mount Whitney, 15,000 feet above the sea-level,
             finds a number a little greater still than Forbes (1-7, instead of
             Forbes" 1 • 6, times Pouillet's number). Thus Laugley's measurement
             of solar radiation corresponds to 133,000 horse-power per square
             metre, instead of the 78,000 horse-power which we have taken, and
  *          diminishes each of our times in the ratio of 1 to 1 • 7. Thus, instead of
             Helmholtz's twenty million years, which was founded on Pouillet's
             estimate, we have only twelve millions, and similarly with all our
              other time reckonings based on Pouillet's results. In the circum
              stances, and taking fully into account all possibilities of greater
              density in the sun's interior, and of greater or less activity of
         I, radiation in past ages, it would, I think, be exceedingly rash to
2^ I?* '^v assume as probable anything more than twenty million years of the
              sun's light in the past history of the earth, or to reckon on more
              than five or six million years of sunlight for time to come.
                   We have seen that the sun draws on no external source for the
              heat he radiates out from year to year, and that the whole energy of
              this heat is due to the mutual attraction between his parts acting in
              conformity with the Newtonian law of gravitation. We have seen
              how an ideal mechanism, easily imagined and understood, though
              infinitely far from possibility of realisation, could direct the work
              done by mutual gravitation between all the parts of the shrinking
              mass, to actually generate its heat-equivalent in an ocean of white-
              hot liquid covering the sun's surface, and so keep it white-hot while
                         • 'Edin. New Phil. Journal,' vol. xxxvi. 1844.
                         t 'American Journal of Science,' vol. xxvi. March, 1883.

 1887.J                      on the Sun's Heat.                         9
 constantly radiating out heat at the actual rate of the sun's heat-
 giving activity. Let us now consider a little more in detail the real
 forces and movements actually concerned in the process of cooling
 by radiation from the uttermost region of the sun, the falling inwards
 of the fluid thus cooled, the consequent mixing up of the whole mass
 of the sun, the resulting diminished elastic resistance to pressure in
 equi-dense parts, and the consequent shrinkage of the whole mass
 under the influence of mutual gravitation. I must first explain that
 this " elastic resistance to pressure " is due to heat, and is, in fact,
 what I have, in the present lecture, called " Sir Humphry Davy's
 repulsive motion " (p. 5). I called it so because Davy first used the
 expression "repulsive motion" to describe the fine intermolecular
 motions to which he and other founders of the Kinetic Theory of
 Heat attributed the elastic resistance to compression presented by
 gases and fluids.
     Imagine, instead of the atoms and molecules of the various
 substances which constitute the sun's moss, a vast number of elastic
 globes, like schooIboys' marbles or billiard balls. Consider first,
 anywhere on our earth a few million such balls put into a room,
large enough to hold a thousand times their number, with perfectly
 hard walls and ceiling, but with a real wooden floor ; or, what would
 be still more convenient for our purpose, a floor of thin elastic sheet
 steel, supported by joists close enough together to prevent it from
drooping inconveniently in any part. Suppose in the beginning the
marbles to be lying motionless on the floor. In this condition they
represent the atoms of a gas, as for instance, oxygen, nitrogen, or
hydrogen, absolutely deprived of heat, and therefore lying frozen,
or as molecular dust strewn on the floor of the containing vessel.
     If now a lamp be applied below the oxygen, nitrogen, or hydrogen,
the substance becoming warmed by heat conducted through the floor,
will rise from its condition of absolutely cold solid, or of incoherent
molecular dust, and will spread as a gas through the whole enclosed
space. If more and more heat be applied by the lamp the pressure
of the gas outwards in all directions against the inside of the
enclosing vessel will become greater and greater.
     As a rude mechanical analogue to this warming of a gas by heat
conducted through the floor of its containing vessel, from a lamp
held below it, return to our room with floor strewn with marbles,
and employ workmen to go below the floor and strike its underside
in a great many places vehemently with mallets. The marbles in
immediate contact with the floor will begin to jump from it and fall
sharply back again Hike water in a pot on a fire simmering before it
boils). If the workmen work energetically enough there will be
more and more of commotion in the heap, till every one of the balls
gets into a state of irregular vibration, up and down, or obliquely, or
horizontally, but in no fixed direction ; and by mutual jostling the
heap swells up till the ceiling of the room prevents it from swelling
any further. Suppose now the floor to become, like the walls and

10                            Sir William Thomson                        [Jan. 21,
ceiling, absolutely rigid. The workmen may cease their work of
hammering, which would now be no more availing to augment the
motions of the marbles within, than would be a lamp applied outside
to warm the contents of a vessel, if the vessel were made of ideal
matter impermeable to heat. The marbles being perfectly elastic
will continue for ever * flying about in their room striking the walls
and floor and ceiling and one another, and remaining in a constant
average condition of denser crowd just over the floor and less and
less dense up to the ceiling.
     In this constant average condition the average velocity of the
marbles will be the same all through the crowd, from ceiling to floor,
and will be the same in all directions, horizontal, or vertical, or
inclined. The continually repeated blows upon any part of the
walls or ceiling will in the aggregate be equivalent to a continuous
pressure which will be in simple proportion to the average density
of the crowd at the place. The diminution of pressure and density
from the floor upwards will be precisely the same as that of the
density and pressure of our atmosphere calculated on the supposition
of equal temperature at all heights, according to the well-known
formula and tables for finding heights by the barometer.
     In reality the temperature of the atmosphere is not uniform from
the ground upwards, but diminishes at the rate of about 1° C. for
every 162 metres of vertical ascent in free air, undisturbed by moun
tains, according to observations made in balloons by the late Mr.
Welsh, of Kew, through a large range of heights. This diminution
of temperature upwards in our terrestrial atmosphere is most impor
tant and suggestive in respect to the constitution of the solar
atmosphere, and not merely of the atmosphere or outer shell of the
sun, but of the whole interior fluid mass with which it is continuous.
The two cases have so much in common that there is in each case loss
of heat from the outer parts of the atmosphere by radiation into space,
and that in consequence circulating currents are produced through the
continuous fluid, by which a thorough mixing up and down is
constantly performed. In the case of the terrestrial atmosphere the
lowest parts receive by contact heat from the solid earth, warmed
daily by the sun's radiation. On the average of night and day, as
the air does not become warmer on the whole, it must radiate out into
    * To justify this statement I must warn the reader that the ideal perfectly
elastic balls which we are imagining must be supposed somehow to have such a
structure that each takes only a definite average proportion of its share of the
kinetic energy of the whole multitude, so that on the average there is a constant
proportion of energy in the translatory motions of the balls ; the other pnrt being
the vibratory or rotational motions of the parts of each ball. For simplicity also
we suppose the balls to be perfectly smooth and frictionless, so that we shall not
be troubled by need to consider them as having any rotatory motions, such as real
balls with real frictional collisions would acquire. The ratio of the two kinds of
energy for ordinary gases, according to Clausius, to whom is due this essential
contribution to the kinetic theory, is—of the whole energy, three-fifths trans-
latiotml to two-fifths vibrational.

1887.]                      on the Sun't Heat.                            11
space as much heat as all that it gets, both from the earth by contact,
and by radiation of heat from the earth, and by intercepted radiation
from the sun on its way to the earth. In the case of the sun the heat
radiated from the outer parts of the atmosphere is wholly derived
from the interior. In both cases the whole fluid mass is kept
thoroughly mixed by currents of cooled fluid coming down and
warmer fluid rising to take its place, and to be cooled and descend in
its turn.
     Now it is a well known property of gases and of fluids generally
(except some special cases, as that of water within a few degrees of
its freezing temperature, in which the fluid under constant pressure
contracts with rise of temperature) that condensation and rarefactions,
effected by augmentations and diminutions of pressure from without,
produce elevations and luwerings of temperature in circumstances in
which the gas is prevented from either taking heat from or giving
heat to any material external to it. Thus a quantity of air or other
gas taken at ordinary temperature (say 15° C. or 59° F.)and expanded
to double its bulk becomes 71° C. cooler ; and if the expansion is
continued to thirty-two times its original bulk it becomes cooled
 148° farther, or down to about 200° C. below the temperature of
 freezing water, or to within 7."! ' of absolute cold. Such changes as
 these actually take place in masses of air rising in the atmosphere to
 heights of eight or nine kilometers, or of twenty or twenty-five
 kilometers. Corresponding differences of temperature there certainly
are throughout the fluid mass of the sun, but of very different
magnitudes because of the twenty-seven fold greater gravity at the
 sun's surface, the vastness of the space through which there is free
circulation of fluid, and last, though not least, the enormously higher
 temperature of the solar fluid than of the terrestrial atmosphere at
 points of equal density in the two. This view of the solar constitution
 has been treated mathematically with great power by Mr. J. Homer
 Lane, of Washington, U.S., in a very important paper read before the
 National Academy of Sciences, of the United States in April 1869,
 and published with further developments in the ' American Journal of
 Science,' for July 1870. Mr. Lane, by strict mathematical treatment
 finds the law of distribution of density and temperature all through a
 globe of homogeneous gas left to itself in space, and losing heat by
 radiation outwards so slowly that the heat-carrying currents produce
 but little disturbance from the globular form.
     One very remarkable and important result which he finds is, that
the density at the centre is about twenty * times the mean density ;
 and this, whether the mass be large or small, and whether of oxygon,
 nitrogen, or hydrogen, or other substance ; provided only it be of
 one kmd of gas throughout, and that the density in the central parts
 is not too great to allow the condensation to take place, according to
    * Working out Lane's problem independently, I find 22J as very nearly the
 exact number.

12                       Sir William Thomson                  [Jan. 21,
the ordinary gaseous law of density, in simple proportion to pressure
fur the same temperatures. We know this law to hold with somewhat
close accuracy for common air, and for each of its two chief constitu
ents, oxygen and nitrogen, separately, and for hydrogen, to densities
of about two hundred times their densities at our ordinary atmo
spheric pressure. But when the compressing force is sufficiently
increased, they all show greater resistance to condensation than
according to the law of simple proportion, and it seems most probable
that there is for every gas a limit beyond which the density cannot
be increased by any pressure however great. Lane remarks that
the density at the centre of the sun would be "nearly one-third
greater than that of the metal platinum," if the gaseous law held
up to so great a degree of condensation for the ingredients of the
sun's mass ; but he does not suggest this supposition as probable,
and he no doubt agrees with the general opinion that in all pro
bability the ingredients of the sun's mass, at the actual temperatures
corresponding to their positions in his interior, obey the simple
gaseous law through but a comparatively small space inwards from
the surface ; and that in the central regions they are much less con
densed than according to that law. According to the simple gaseous
law, the sun's central density would be thirty-one times that of
water ; we may assume that it is in all probability much less than
this, though considerably greater than the mean density, 1-4.
This is a wide range of uncertainty, but it would be unwise at
present to narrow it, ignorant as we are of the main ingredients of the
sun's whole mass, and of the laws of pressure, density, and tempera
ture, even for known kinds of matter at very great pressures and
very high temperatures.
     The question, Is the sun becoming colder or hotter ? is an exceed
ingly complicated one, and, in fact, either to put it or to answer it is
a paradox, unless we define exactly where the temperature is to
be reckoned. If we ask, How does the temperature of equi-dense
portions of the sun vary from age to age ? the answer certainly is
that the matter of the sun of which the density has any stated value,
for example, the ordinary density of our atmosphere, becomes always
less and less hot, whatever be its place in the fluid, and whatever
be the law of compression of the fluid, whether the simple gaseous
law or anything from that to absolute incompressibility. But the
distance inwards from the surface at which a constant density is to be
found diminishes with shrinkage, and thus it may be that at constant
depths inwards from the bounding surface the temperature is bo-
coming higher and higher. This would certainly be the case if the
gaseous law of condensation held throughout, but even then the
effective radiational temperature, in virtue of which the sun sheds his
heat outwards, might be becoming lower, because the temperatures of
equi-dense portions are clearly becoming lower under all circum
stances.
     Leaving now theso complicated and difficult questions to the

1887.]                         on the Sun's Heal.                            13
scientific investigators who are devoting themselves to advancing
the science of solar physics, consider the easily understood ques
tion, What is the temperature of the centre of the sun at any time,
and does it rise or fall as time advances ? If we go back a few
million years to ft time when we may believe the sun to have been
wholly gaseous to the centre, then certainly the central tempera
 ture must have been augmenting ; again, if, as is possible though not
probable at the present time, but may probably be the case at some
future time, there be a solid nucleus, then certainly the central
temperature would be augmenting, because the conduction of heat
outwards through the solid would be too slow to compensate the
augmentation of pressure due to augmentation of gravity in the
 shrinking fluid around the solid. But at a certain time in the
 history of a wholly fluid globe, primitively rare enough through
out to be gaseous, shrinking under the influence of its own gravi
 tation and its radiation of heat outwards into cold surrounding
 space, when the central parts have become so much condensed as to
resist further condensation greatly more than according to the
gaseous law of simple proportions, it seems to me certain that the
early process of becoming warmer, which has been demonstrated by
Lane, and Newcomb, and Ball, must cease, and that the central
temperature must begin to diminish on account of the cooling by
radiation from the surface, and the mixing of the cooled fluid through
out the interior.
     Now we come to the most interesting part of our subject—the
early history of the Sun. Five or ten million years ago he may have
been about double his present diameter and an eighth of his present
mean density, or • 175 of the density of water ; but we cannot, with
any probability of argument or speculation, go on continuously much
beyond that. We cannot, however, help asking the question, What
was the condition of the sun's matter before it came together and
became hot ? It may have been two cool solid masses, which collided
with the velocity due to their mutual gravitation ; or, but with
enormously less of probability, it may have been two masses colliding
with velocities considerably greater than the velocities due to mutual
gravitation. This last supposition implies that, calling the two bodies
A and B for brevity, the motion of the centre of inertia of B rela
tively to A, must, when the distances between them was great, have
been directed with great exactness to pass through the centre of
inertia of A ; such great exactness that the rotational momentum, or
" moment of momentum," * after collision was no more than to let
    * This is a technical expression in dynamics which means the importance of
motion relatively to revolution or rotation round an axis. Momentum is an
expression given about a hundred and fifty years ago (when mathematicians and
other learned men spoke and wrote Latin) to signify translational importance of
motion. Moment of a couple, moment of a magnet, moment of inertia, moment
of force round an axis, moment of momentum round nn axis, and corresponding
verbal combinations in French and German, are expressions which have been

 14                           Sir William Thomson                        [Jan. 21,
the sun have his present slow rotation when shrank to his present
 dimensions. This exceedingly exact aiming of the one body at the
 other, so to speak, is, on the dry theory of probability, exceedingly
 improbable. On the other hand, there is certamty that the two bodies
 A and £ at rest in space if left to themselves undisturbed by other
bodies and only influenced by their mutual gravitation, shall collide with
direct impact, and therefore with no notion of their centre of inertia,
 and no rotational momentum of the compound body after the collision.
 Thus we see that the dry probability of collision between two neigh
bours of a vast number of mutually attracting bodies widely scat
 tered through space is much greater if the bodies be all given a
 rest, than if they be given moving in any random directions and with
any velocities considerable in comparison with the velocities which
 they would acquire in falling from rest into collision. In this con
 nection it is most interesting to know from stellar astronomy, aided
 so splendidly as it has recently been by the spectroscope, that the
 relative motions of the visible stars and our sun are generally very
 small in comparison with the velocity (612 kilometers per second)
 which a body would acquire in falling into the sun, and are compar
 able with the moderate little velocity (29-5 kilometres per second) of
 the earth in her orbit round the sun.
     To fix the ideas, think of two cool solid globes, each of the same
mean density as the earth, and of half the sun's diameter ; given at
rest, or nearly at rest, at a distance asunder equal to twice the earth's
distance from the sun. They will fall together and collide in exactly
half a year. The collision will last for about half an hour, in the
course of which they will be transformed into a violently agitated
incandescent fluid mass flying outward from the line of the motion
before the collision, and swelling to a bulk several times greater than
the sum of the original bulks of the two globes.* How far the fluid
mass will fly out all round from the line of collision it is impossible
to say. The motion is too complicated to be fully investigated by
any known mathematical method ; but with sufficient patience a
mathematician might l)e able to calculate it with some fair approxima
tion to the truth. The distance reached by the extreme circular
introduced within the last sixty years (by scientists speaking aa now, each his
own vernacular) to signify the importance of the special subject referred to in
each case. The expression moment of momentum is highly valuable and con
venient in dynamical science, and it constitutes a curious philological monument
of scientific history.
    * Such incidents seem to happen occasionally in the universe. Laplace saya
some stars " have suddenly appeared, and then disappeared, after having shone
for several months with the most brilliant splendeur. Such was the star observed
by Tycho Brahe in the year 1572, in the constellation Cassiopeia. In a short
time it surpassed the most brilliant stars, and even Jupiter itself. Its light then
waned away, and finally disappeared sixteen months after its discovery. Its colour
underwent several changes ; it was at first of a brilliant white, then of a reddish
yellow, and finally of a lead-coloured white, like to Saturn." (Harte's translation
of Laplace's ' System of the World.' Dublin, 1830.)

                                               ii .
1887.]                       on the Sun's Heat. \\ -, ' ; -            15
fringe of the fluid mass would probably be much less fEan the
distance fallen by each globe before the collision, because the trans-
lational motion of the molecules constituting the heat into which the
whole energy of the original fall of the globes become transformed in
the first collision, is probably about three-fifths of the whole amount
of that energy. The time of flying out would probably be less
than half a year, when the fluid mass must begin to fall in again to
wards the axis. In something less than a year after the first
collision the fluid will again be in a state of maximum crowding
round the centre, and this time probably even more violently agitated
than it was immediately after the first collision ; and it will again
fly outward, but this time axially towards the places whence the two
globes fell. It will again fall inwards, and after a rapidly subsiding
series of quicker and quicker oscillations it will subside, probably
in the course of two or three years, into a globular star of about the
same dimensions, heat, and brightness as our present sun, but differing
from him in this, that it will have no rotation.
    We supposed the two globes to have been at rest when they were
let fall from a mutual distance equal to the diameter of the earth's
orbit. Suppose, now, that instead of having been at rest they had
been moving in opposite directions with a velocity of two (more
exactly 1-89) metres per second. The moment of momentum of
these motions round an axis through the centre of gravity of the two
globes perpendicular to their lines of motion is just equal to the
moment of momentum of the sun's rotation round his axis. It is an
elementary and easily proved law of dynamics that no mutual action
between parts of a group of bodies, or of a single body, rigid, flexible,
or fluid, can alter the moment of momentum of the whole. Tho
transverse velocity in the case we are now supposing is so small
that none of the main features of the collision and of the wild
oscillations following it, which we have been considering, or of the
magnitude, heat, and brightness of the resulting star, will be sensibly
altered ; but now, instead of being rotationless, it will be revolving
once round in twenty-five days and so in all respects like to our sun.
     If instead of being at rest initially, or moving with the small
transverse velocities we have been considering, each globe had a
transverse velocity of three-quarters (or anything more than -71) of
a kilometre per second, they would just escape collision, and would
revolve in ellipses round the centre of inertia in a period of one year,
just grazing each other's surface every time they came to the nearest
points of their orbits.
     If the initial transverse velocity of each globe be less than, but
not much less than, • 71 of a kilometre per second, there will be a
violent grazing collision, and two bright suns, solid globes bathed in
flaming fluid, will come into existence in the course of a few hours,
and will commence revolving round their common centre of inertia in
 long elliptic orbits in a period of a little less than a year. Tidal
 interaction between them will diminish the eccentricities of their

  1C                          Sir William TJtonuon                      [Jan. 21,
 orbits, and if continued long enough will cause tho two to revolve in
 circular orbits round their centre of inertia with a distance between
 their surfaces equal to (I'll diameters of each.
       Suppose now, still choosing a particular case to fix the ideas, that
 twenty-nine million cold solid globes, each of about the same mass as
 the moon, and amounting in all to a total mass equal to the sun's, are
  scattered as uniformly as possible on a spherical surface of radius
 equal to one hundred times the radius of the earth's orbit, and that
 they are left absolutely at rest in that position. They will all com
 mence falling towards the centre of the sphere, and will meet there
 in two hundred and fifty years, and every one of the twenty-nine
 million globes will then, in the course of half an hour, be melted,
 and raised to a temperature of a few hundred thousand or a million
 degrees Centigrade. The fluid mass thus formed will, by this pro
 digious heat, be exploded outwards in vapour or gas all round. Its
 boundary will reach to a distance considerably less than one hundred
 times the radius of the earth's orbit on first flying out to its extreme
 limit. A diminishing series of out and in oscillations will follow,
 and the incandescent globe thus contracting and expanding alternately,
 in the course it may be of three or four hundred years, will settle to
 a radius of forty* times the radius of the earth's orbit. The average
density of the gaseous nebula thus formed would be (215 x 40)~3,
 or one six hundred and thirty-six thousand millionth of the sun's
 mean density ; or one four hundred and fifty-four thousand millionth
of the density of water ; or one five hundred and seventy millionth of
that of common air at an ordinary temperature of 10° C. The density
in its central regions, sensibly uniform through several million
kilometres, is (see note on p. 11) one twenty thousand millionth of
 that of water ; or one twenty-five millionth of that of air.
This exceedingly small density is nearly six times the density
of the oxygen and nitrogen left in some of the receivers
exhausted by Bottomley in his experimental measurements of the
amount of heat emitted by pure radiation from highly heated bodies.
If the substance were oxygen, or nitrogen, or other gas or mixture of
gases simple or compound, of specific density equal to the specific
density of our air, the central temperature would be 51,200° Cent.,
and the average translational velocity of the molecules 6*66 kilo
metres per second, being J\ of 10 '2, the velocity acquired by a
heavy body falling unresisted from the outer boundary (of 40 times
the radius of the earth's orbit) to the centre of the nebulous mass.
      The gaseous nebula thus constituted would in the course of a few
million years, by constantly radiating out heat, shrink to the size of
our present sun, when it would have exactly the same heating and
lighting efficiency. But no motion of rotation.
     * The radius of a steady globular gaseous nebula of any homogeneous gas is
40 pel cent. of the radius of the spherical surface from which its ingredients
must fall to their actual positions in the nebula to have the same kinetic energy
as the nebula 1ms.

1887.J                        on (he Sun's Heat.                             17
     The moment of momentum of the whole solar system is about
eighteen times that of the sun's rotation ; seventeen-eighteenths being
Jupiter's and one-eighteenth the Sun's, the other bodies being not
worth taking into account in the reckoning of moment of momentum.
     Now instead of being absolutely at rest in the beginning, let the
twenty-nine million moons be given each with some small motion,
making up in all an amount of moment of momentum about a certain
axis, equal to the moment of momentum of the solar system which we
have just been considering ; or considerably greater than this, to allow
for effect of resisting medium. They will fall together for two
hundred and fifty years, and though not meeting precisely in the
centre as in the first supposed case of no primitive motion, they
will, two hundred and fifty years from the beginning, be so crowded
together that there will be myriads of collisions, and almost every
one of the twenty-nine million globes will be melted and driven
into vapour by the heat of these collisions. The vapour or gas
thus generated will fly outwards, and after several hundreds or
thousands of years of outward and inward oscillatory motion, may
settle into an oblate rotating nebula extending its equatorial ra
dius far beyond the orbit of Neptune, and with moment of momentum
equal to or exceeding the moment of momentum of the solar
system. This is just the beginning postulated by Laplace for
his nebular theory of the evolution of the solar system ; which,
founded on the natural history of the stellar universe, as ob
served by the elder Herschell, and completed in details by the
profound dynamical judgment and imaginative genius of Laplace,
seems converted by thermodynamics into a necessary truth, if we
make no other uncertain assumption than that the materials at present
constituting the dead matter of the solar system have existed under
the laws of dead matter for a hundred million years. Thus there may
in reality be nothing more of mystery or of difficulty in the automatic
progress of the solar system from cold matter diffused through
space, to its present manifest order and beauty, lighted and warmed
by its brilliant sun, than there is in the winding up of a clock* and
letting it go till it stops. I need scarcely say that the beginning and
the maintenance of life on the earth is absolutely and infinitely
beyond the range of all sound speculation in dynamical science. The
only contribution of dynamics to theoretical biology is absolute
negation of automatic commencement or automatic maintenance of
life.
     I shall only say in conclusion : —Assuming the sun's mass to be
composed of materials which were far asunder before it was hot, the
immediate antecedent to its incandescence must have been either two
bodies with details differing only in proportions and densities from
    * Even in this, and all the properties of matter which it involves, there is
enough, and more than enough, of mystery to our limited understanding. A
watch-spring is much farther beyond our understanding than is a gaseous nebula.
     VOL. XII. (No. 81.)                                              o

18                         Sir Willinm Thomson                         [Jan. 21,
the cases we have been now considering as examples; or it must
have been some number more than two—some finite number—at
the most the number of atoms in the sun's present mass, a finite
number (which may probably enough be something between 4 x 10"
and 140 x 10") as easily understood and imagined as number 4 or
140. The immediate antecedent to incandescence may have been the
whole constituents in the extreme condition of subdivision—that is
to eay, in the condition of separate atoms ; or it may have been
any smaller number of groups of atoms making minute crystals or
groups of crystals—snowflakes of matter, as it were ; or it may have
 been lumps of matter like a macadamising stone ; or like this
 stone * (Pig. 1), which yon might mistake for a macadamising
                                       Fio. 1.
                                  . 5 centimetres .
 stone, and which was actually travelling through space till it fell on
 the earth at Possil, in the neighbourhood of Glasgow, on April 5,
 1804 ; or like that * (Fig. 2) which was found in the Desert of
 Atacama, in South America, and is believed to have fallen
 there from the sky—a fragment made up of iron and stone, which
     * These three meteorites are in the possession of the Hunterian Museum of
  the University of Glasgow, and the woodeuts, Figs. 1, 2, and 3, have been
  executed from the actual specimens kindly lent for that purpose by the keeper of
  the museum, Professor Young. The specimen represented by Fig. 1 is contained
 in the Hunterian collection, that by Fig. 2 in the Eck collection, and that by
 Fig. 3 in the Lanflne collection—the scale of dimensions is shown for each. It
 may be remarked that Fig. 2 represents a section of the meteorite taken in the
 plane of the longest rectangular axes; the bright markings being large and
 well-formed crystals of plivine, embedded in a matrix of iron. In Fig. 3 is
 depicted the beautiful Widmanstatten marking characteristic of all meteoric iron,
 and so well shown in the well-known Lenarto meteorite.

1887.]                    on the Sun's Heat.                    19
looks as if it has solidified from a mixture of gravel and melted
iron in a place where there was very little of heaviness ; or this
splendidly crystallised piece of iron (Fig. 3), a slab cut out
                                 FIG. 2.
                           . 13J centimetres.
                                 FIG'. 3.
                                                        n 2

20                   Sir William Thomson                  [Jan. 21,
of the celebrated aerolite which fell at Lenarto, in Hungary ; *
or this wonderfully-shapod specimen (of which two views are given
                               FIG. 4.
                          .15 centimetres.
                               Fio. 5.
in Figs. 4 and 5), a model of the Hiddlesburgh meteorite (kindly
given me by Professor A. S. Herschel), having corrugations showing
                        * See footnote, p. 18.

 1887.]                       on the Sun's Heat. *X^f/ * •
                                                     ~**X-Ui •'- - -^-^>-
how its melted matter has been scoured off from the fronfr-psrTbf its
surface in its final rush through the earth's atmosphere when it was
seen to fall on March 14, 1881, at 3.35 P.M.
     For the theory of the sun it is indifferent which of these varieties
of configurations of matter may have been the immediate antecedent
of his incandescence, but I can never think of these material ante
cedents without remembering a question put to me thirty years ago
by the late Bishop Ewing, Bishop of Argyll and the Isles : " Do you
imagine that piece of matter to have been as it is from the beginning ;
to have been created as it is, or to have been as it is through all time
till it fell on the earth ? " I had told him that I believed the sun to be
built up of meteoric stones, but he would not be satisfied till he knew
or could imagine, what kind of stones. I could not but agree with
him in feeling it impossible to imagine that any one of such meteo
rites as those now before you has been as it is through all time, or
that the materials of the sun were like this for all time before they
came together and became hot. Surely this stone has an eventful
history, but I shall not tax your patience by trying just now to trace
it conjecturally. I shall only say that we cannot but agree with the
common opinion which regards meteorites as fragments broken from
larger masses, and we cannot be satisfied without trying to imagine
what were the antecedents of those masses.
                                                                [W. T.]

22                    Profeuor W. Baldwin Spencer               [Jan. 28,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, January 28, 1887.
          SIR JOHN LUBBOOK, Bart. M.P. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
                        Vice-President, in the Chair.
                     Professor W. BALDWIN SPENOEB.
                         The Pineal Eye in Lizards.
 THERE is present in the human brain, buried deeply beneath the
 surface and hence concealed from view externally, a small blunt
 process : it differs in nature from the surrounding nervous matter,
 being hard to the touch. To this email process human anatomists
 gave the name of pineal gland, and its meaning has always remained
 a problem. Investigation of the brains of other animals showed that
 in these the structure was present : in fact it is typical of the brains
 of all true vertebrata, and not only this, the lower we descend in the
 scale of vertebrate life, the more highly developed does it become in
 comparison to the remaining parts of the brain. In such a mammal
 as a rabbit it is, for example, larger than in man ; in a bird it is still
 more highly developed ; whilst when we come down to fishes, the
 pineal gland or epiphysis, as it is better called, assumes the form of
 a forwardly directed hollow process whose distal extremity is swollen
  out into a vesicle, the proximal part forming a hollow stalk running
  back to the roof of the brain. If the brain of a lizard, such as
  Hatteria, be examined, the epiphysis is seen to have undergone a very
  definite change : it is divided more clearly than in other miinmlq into
  the two divisions above mentioned ; sections, however, show that the
  stalk is solid and that the vesicle has become developed into an
  organ of vision—into a pineal eye. This is the highest stage of
  development reached by the epiphysis, and is now preserved, so far as
  is at present known, in lizards only amongst living animals.
      Turning to the development of the brain : it is seen in early
 stages in all vertebrates to have the form of a simple tube miming
 the whole length of the back of the animal ; a little later the walls of
 the anterior division have bulged out and given rise to three vesicles
 which are known as the fore, mid, and hind brains; the part of the
 tube posterior to these forms the spinal cord. As development
 proceeds, from the fore brain on either side is given off a hollow
 process, each one of which forms an optic vesicle, and at the same
 time there grow forward two outgrowths of the fore brain which give
 rise to the cerebral hemispheres ; in addition to these structures, the
 roof of the fore brain gives off a single median outgrowth which grows
 forward within the skull cavity, swelling out distally into a small

1887.]                  on the Pineal Eye in Lizards                     23
vesicle : in the skull wall itself in most lizards there is present a
distinctly marked hole, and in this, which is called the parietal foramen,
lies the small vesicle. Changes take place in the walls of the optic
vesicles which transform them into the sensory parts of the paired
eyes, whilst the small vesicle formed out of the dorsal outgrowth of
the brain, or epiphysis, becomes formed into the single pineal eye.
Thus from the walls of the fore brain are developed in lizards three
eyes—a single median and two paired ones.
    Digressing for a moment, it is interesting to notice that this is by
no means the only example of a single median eye which is known in
the animal kingdom. Almost every people has its myth of a median-
eyed race of men, who may, as in the Grecian Cyclops, be represented
with the single eye, or with this in addition to the paired eyes : it is
curious also to find that Buddha and Siva are represented with median
eyes : whilst to such an extent is this idea carried, that even the
Nautch girl paints on her forehead the outline of a single median eye.
    Leaving the mythical we come to animals in which such a structure
is actually present: in the class Crustacea we meet with many
examples of this ; first in the little fresh-water Cyclops and all its
allies, there is only the one solitary eye, the presence of which has
gained for it its name. In other Crustacea again we find that
the animal on leaving the egg-case has a very definite form, quite
unlike that of the adult : it is, amongst other things, always provided
with three, and no more or less than three pairs of appendages by
means of which it moves about ; it has in addition always a single
median eye which, inasmuch as the animal in this stage is called a
nauplius, is known as the uauplius eye. As development goes on,
there appear two eyes, one at either side of the original one : in some
cases the latter may disappear, in others it may be retained, though
the lateral paired eyes always become larger than the single one, and
thus, though there is no real connection between the two whatever, we
find in Crustacea a median and two paired eyes present just as in
lizards.
     Turning to the latter, we find the epiphysis, as before said,
more highly developed than in any other living animal. The distal
vesicular expansion is present in many forms, but here only is it
transformed into an eye and connected with the brain by a solid
pineal stalk developed from the proximal part of the epiphysis and
serving doubtless as an optic nerve.
     If the head of a lizard, such as an Iguana or Caloles, be examined,
there is seen on the middle line dorsally, and somewhat behind the
level of the paired eyes, a peculiarly modified scale ; it bears a circular
space, which may bo raised into a dome-shape, or may be merely
surrounded by a raised rim, but is always noticeable by its whiteness,
this being due to an absence of pigment in the skin of this par
ticular spot. The modified scale indicates the position of the pineal
 eye lying beneath, and thus of the parietal foramen enclosing the
 eye : it does not necessarily follow that no eye is present, because

24                   Professor W. Baldwin Spencer              [Jan. 23,
there is no special external indication, nor, on the other hand, does
the presence of the latter indicate infallibly a well-developed eye.
    Thus in Hatteria, the New Zealand lizard, there is no external
indication of the eye, save perhaps a slight absence of pigment in the
skin immediately above the parietal foramen ; but if longitudinal
vertical sections be cut through the head, the eye is found lying
deeply embedded in connective tissue within the foramen. It has
the form somewhat of a cone, whose base is directed forwards and
upwards, whilst the apex points backwards and is united with the
pineal stalk. The base of the cone is formed by the lens, which
consists of elongate, nucleated cells, arranged so as to form a couo
whose apex points inwards and lies in the line of the optic axis ; the
Ions is directly continuous with the retina, and thus, unlike that of the
paired eyes, is formed directly out of what was originally part of the
brain-wall. The retina itself is well developed in Hatteria, and forms
a strong contrast to that of the lateral eyes, inasmuch as the rods, em-
bedded in dark-brown pigment, face inwards and line the cavity of
the vesicle, whilst in the paired eye, the same structures are on the
side of the retina remote from the cavity of the eye in the adult,
though this, it must be remembered, is not homologous with the
cavity in the pineal eye. External to the rods lies first a layer
of spherical, nucleated elements, then a molecular layer consisting
of finely punctated material, then another layer of spherical elements,
followed by a layer of cone and spindle-shaped structures, which
again lie directly upon a thin layer of nerve-fibres spreading out
from the pineal stalk. The rods lying in the optic axis are much
elongated and very prominent, a feature common to all eyes which
are still in connection with the optic stalk. This may be taken as
a description of the retina of a typical pineal eye, though it is moro
highly developed in Hatlcria than in many other lizards at the
present day. The remainder of the epiphysis may be divided into
two parts, a solid pineal stalk nearest the eye, and a hollow part
running back to the roof of the brain and overlying, as it nears the
latter, the vascular roof of the third ventricle.
     In many lizards degeneration seems to have set in and the eye
to have become more rudimentary than it is in Hatteria ; in fact, in
the latter, the only sign of its rudimentary nature is its position
deeply buried in the connective tissue within the parietal foramen,
a position which must prevent its functioning as an organ of vision
at the present time. If we take such a lizard as Varanus bengalensis,
sections through the parietal foramen show that the eye is well
developed and placed not far below the surface of the head, whilst
between it and the latter is a marked absence of the pigment cells
which form so prominent a feature in sections of the skin all around.
Further examination however reveals an important point of difference
when compared with Hatleria— the eye has last its connection with the
proximal part of the epiphysis, which has the form of a hollow process

 1887.]                on the Pineal Eye in Lizards.                  25
 running forwards from the roof of the brain within the skull till
 it reaches the parietal foramen ; but the distal vesicle, transformed
 into an eye, has become completely separated off from it. This
 again may be taken as an example of a large number of lizards,
 including such forms as Varanus bengalensis, Anguig fragilis, Seps
 chalcidica and Caloles ophiumaca. In other forms, still further de
 generation seems to have taken place, or, to speak more correctly,
 the epiphysis appears to develop to a certain point, but never, at
 the present time, to reach the stage at which it becomes transformed
 into an eye. If the brain of Cyclodus gigas be examined, the epiphysis
 when cut in section has merely the form' of a hollow dorsal process
 running forward from the brain till it reaches the parietal foramen ;
 within this it expands to form a vesicle, but apparently development
stops at this, which must necessarily be a stage passed through in
the formation of every pineal eye. The pineal stalk never becomes
solid, nor do the walls of the vesicular enlargement become modified
into lens and retina, though there is a slight difference to be noticed
between the anterior and posterior walls, indicating perhaps the
earliest of the series of changes, whereby out of the former is pro
duced the lens, and out of the latter the rods and external-lying
elements of the retina.
     These three examples—Hatteria, Varanus, and Cyclodus—will
serve to illustrate the more important stages of development met with
at the present time in the epiphysis of lizards.
     We may now turn for a minute or two to the consideration of the
question, whether it is possible to connect this single median eye with
any structure in lower forms, whether the latter, in fact, possess any
organ out of which we may suppose the epiphysis of higher forms to
have been gradually evolved. Amongst the lowest forms of Vertebrata
known to us—the Tunicata—wo find that at one stage of their de
velopment they possess a dorsal nerve-cord, whose anterior end
becomes swollen out and thus forms what we may call a brain ; in
fact this homology with the same part in higher forms is further
strengthened by its relationship to the anterior end of the notochord
which, running the whole length beneath the posterior part of the
nerve-cord, stops just before reaching this anterior swollen extremity.
In the adult of most forms of Tunicata the latter is the only persistent
portion of the whole nervous system, and its development alono
enables us to homologise it with the brain of such an animal as a
lizard. Now if this Tunicate brain be examined it is found to possess
a single eye placed not quite but nearly in the median line, but com
pletely within the brain cavity. The Tunicata are, individually, small
and transparent, and thus the light can as easily affect an internal as
an externally-placed eye. The question naturally arises, supposing
the Tunicata to have developed from some ancestor common to them
and the higher Vertebrata, has this single eye anything to do with
the pineal eye ? The latter cannot be directly developed out of the

26                   Professor W. Baldwin Spencer               [Jan. 28,
former, that is, there must have been a stage passed through in which
the internal eye of the Tunicate-like ancestor was undergoing
evagination, and during which period it could not function as an
organ of vision, but it is possible that the internal eye of the small,
transparent form became changed into the externally-placed epiphysis
of the larger and more opaque animal which was gradually evolved
out of the Tunicate-like ancestor. By further and secondary
modification the epiphysis gave rise to a distal vesicle and a proximal
pineal stalk, whilst still later again the former became modified into
the pineal eye.
    Henri de Graaf in his memoir on the development of the epiphysis,
mentions as a curious fact in its formation in Bufo cinerea, that it
originates as a thickening of the brain roof and that there is a small
mass of pigment present for some little time at the inner ends of the
cells forming the thickening ; now this is exactly the development,
according to Kowalevsky, which is passed through in early stages
during the formation of the eye of a larval Tunicate ; in the latter the
eye comes subsequently to lie within the brain, still more pigment
being developed and a lens formed, whilst in Bufo the pigment dis
appears, the thickening forms into an evaginatiou, and the epiphysis,
as present in all higher Vertebrata, is gradually formed. It is quite
possible, however, that this may present us with some of the steps
passed through in the gradual development of the epiphysis out of
the internally placed eye of the Tunicate-like ancestors of living
Vcrtebrtita. We may perhaps go even a step further and find in these
low vertebrate forms the structures which by a similar evagination
have given rise to the optic vesicles out of which by a later modifica
tion were developed the paired eyes. In one form of Tunicata—the
Snips—are found in the brain (that is the persistent anterior ex
tremity of the larval nerve-cord), not one, but three eyes, of which
one is median and two are lateral ; we may perhaps be here presented
with the organs which have gradually given rise, during the change
from a transparent to an opaque animal, to the three vesicles which
in all Vertebrata, save the Tunicata and Amphioxus, now form the
single dorsal epiphysis and the paired, lateral, optic vesicles.
    At the present time the median pineal eye is found only in lizards,
and even here it is but in a rudimentary condition ; it is always
intimately associated with the presence of the parietal foramen ; if the
foramen be present the eye is found in a more or loss highly developed
state, if the foramen be wanting the eye is absent. It is curious to
note that the foramen is a marked characteristic of extinct forms of
vertebrate life—of the Labyrinthodonts of Paleozoic, and the
 Huuriaus of Mesozoic times ; so far as can bo told it is simply formed
to allow the distal extremity of the epiphysis to pass through the
skull roof, and thus to enable the pineal eye to be placed upon the
surface of the head. We are probably right in assuming that the eye
was most largely developed in these extinct forms, and thus it is

1887.]               on the Pineal Eye in Lizards.                     27
peculiarly interesting to note that at the present day it is found most
highly developed in Hatteria, which, sheltered from competition of
surrounding forms in its island home in New Zealand, has retained
this, amongst other archaic features, pointing to its close alliance with
the extinct reptilian fauna of Mesozoic times.
                                                           [W. B. S.]

28                          Mr. E. Freshfield                   [Feb. 4,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 4, 1887.
  I IKNHY POLLOCK, Esq. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
              EDWIN FBESHFIELD, Esq. LL.D. V.P.S.A.
            Some Unpublished Records of the City of London.
IN the records of the 113 parishes within the City of London, and
the 17 out-parishes, there are materials for a parochial and social
history unrivalled in the world.
     These records which, commencing with the 15th century, extend to
the present time in a more or less complete state, consist of books of
records, vestry minutes, and account books and registers. These
books contain lists of the parish property, sanitary orders made by
the various parishes, their regulations for self-government, and
evidences of the great destruction of valuable works of art which took
place in King Edward VI.'s reign, at the Reformation. The particular
books from which extracts have been selected, are those of St.
Margaret's, Lothbury, St. Stephen's, Coleman Street, St. Bartholomew
by the Exchange, and St. Christopher-le-Stocks. The minutes of
the vestries describe accurately the relations of the clergy to the
parishioners during the sixteenth and early part of the seventeenth
century, the causes which led to the complete break between the
clergy and laity which took place at the commencement of the
Great Rebellion in 1642. These also show the working of the
sanitary arrangements during the same period, particularly those
having reference to the various epidemics of the plague. That
which is in some respects the most interesting portion of these books,
is the history of the Great Rebellion, the Commonwealth, the Pro
tectorate, and the Restoration. In order to illustrate this, the history
of the parish of St. Bartholomew by the Exchange, as displayed in
the parish books, has been supplemented by extracts from the books
of the adjoining parishes during a corresponding period.
     At the outhreak of the Great Rebellion, the rector of St. Bar
tholomew's—Dr. Grant—was an easy-going Churchman, who had
rendered himself liable to sequestration for refusing to sign the
" solemn league and covenant." The parishioners, numbering among
them Sir Harbottle Grimstoue, Mr. Justice Peter Pheasant, and
Dr. Zouch, came to an arrangement with him—which is embodied in
the vestry minutes—whereby, in exchange for a pension, he sur
rendered the parsonage house, and the right to officiate in the church
during his life, conferring the right of nominating a locum tenens upon
the parishioners. This right they exercised from the year 1644 until
Dr. Grant's death in 1653. During this period, the living was held

 1887.]             on Unpublished Records of London.                     29
 first by Dr. Lightfoot (a Presbyterian), the celebrated Rabbinical
 scholar, afterwards by Mr. Cawton, another Presbyterian, who was
 imprisoned for praying for King Charles II. after the execution of
 his father, and finally had to leave the country in consequence of his
 association with Mr. Love, the rector of St. Ann and St. Agnes, who
 was executed on Tower Hill for negotiating with the Scotch for
 bringing King Charles II. to England. During the incumbency of
 Dr. Lightfoot and Mr. Cawton, the Presbyterian Church government
 was in full force in the parish, and the nature of it, and the dissatisfac
 tion which it caused to the inhabitants, is clear from the parish books.
 After Mr. Cawton's flight to Holland, the parishioners appointed
 another Presbyterian named Mr. Hall, who continued until the death of
 Dr. Grunt. In 1653, the living then being vacant, and in the gift of the
 Commissioners of the Great Seal, they appointed one Sidrach Simpson,
 a well-known Independent. He died about eighteen months after his
 appointment, having in the meantime been suspended and imprisoned
 by the Protector Oliver, in consequence of his having preached
 against his personal government. On Mr. Sidrach Simpson's death,
 the Protector appointed—without consulting the Commissioners of
 the Groat Seal— by a writing under his own hand, to the living one of
 his chaplains, Mr. Philip Nye, who associated with him another
 Independent minister named Mr. John Loder. The minutes from
 this time to the months immediately preceding the Restoration, give
 an interesting account of the quarrels between Mr. Nye and Mr.
 Loder and the parishioners, on the ground that they refused to
 administer the sacrament and to christen children, except the
parishioners would be joined in communion with their Church, the
parishioners also refusing to pay tithes, on the ground that their church
was taken up and their pews filled with strange congregations. Mr.
 Loder, on behalf of Mr. Nye, offered the parishioners to allow them
to choose a minister to officiate in the afternoons of the Lord's Day
in a manner which was adopted in the adjoining parish of St.
Stephen's, Coleman Street, where Mr. John Godwin, the Independent,
shared the church with Mr. John Taylor, the Presbyterian vicar, but
this the parishioners of St. Bartholomew's refused.
     In January 1659 the Lord General Monk came to London, and on
his demand the secluded members were reinstated in the resuscitated
Long Parliament, then sitting, and fresh Commissioners of the Great
Seal were appointed.
     The parishioners took the opportunity to petition the Com
missioners to declare the living vacant on the ground that the Pro
tector Oliver had improperly presented to the living which was in
their gift. The books show how Mr. Loder had obtained from the
Lord General Monk a letter to the Commissioners in his favour,
which letter the Lord General at a subsequent request of the
parishioners revoked, and how the Commissioners refused to appoint
any of the Independent faction and ultimately appointed Dr. Brideoak,
one of the defenders of Lathom House and a friend of the Speaker

30      Mr. E. Freshfield on Unpublished Records of London.    [Feb. 4,
Lenthall. They illustrate the state of affairs and the Lord
Genera1's own condition of mind at this particular juncture, viz.
in the months of March and April 1659-60. In March he had not
yet broken with the Independent faction and thrown in his lot with
the Royalists. It was probably at this time that the first letter in
favour of Mr. Loder was written. The letter revoking the first letter
was no doubt written at the time when the Lord General had de
termined to throw in his lot with the Royalists. In a minute of the
same vestry in September 1659, the churchwarden mentions an
application to the Grocers' Company to take the balance of the parish
stock upon interest and the fact that the Grocers' Company would
not pay him more than 5 per cent. interest, the minute concluding
" that in regard to the existing great hazard and danger of the times
by reason of public differences and decay of trade in general, the
money aforesaid, viz. 150/., was paid into the hands of the Grocers at
5 per cent."
    The lively interest taken in parochial matters by Speakers of the
House of Commons, Masters of the Rolls, lawyers, merchants, and
people holding high Government appointments, is apparent from
these books and compared favourably with the present apathy. They
also illustrate the extraordinary personal nature of the Protector's
government during the Protectorate, and the important part played
by the City of London at this time, the reason why the citizens threw
in their lot with the Parliament, why they afterwards joined in the
restoration of the King and the Church, which was as plainly written
as if you could converse with the people who had written the
minutes.
                                                             [E. P.]

 1887.]                     General Monthly Meeting.
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, February 7, 1887.
  HENBY POLLOCK, Esq. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                      Gustav Bischof, Esq. F.C.S.
                      James Frederick Barton, Esq.
                      G. Donaldson, Esq.
                     Harry Montague Elder, Esq. B.A.
                      Rev. Alfred William Momcrie, D.D.
                      Mrs. Bloomfiold Moore,
                      John Alexander Radelifie, Esq.
 wore elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      PROM
 The Lorde of the Admiralty—Nautical Almanac for 1890. 8vo. 1886.
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarts : Rendiconti. Vol. II.
      2° Semestre, Fasc. 8, 9, 10, 11. 8vo. 1886.
American Academy of Art* and Sciences—Memoirs, Vol. XI. Part 4, No. 4. 4to.
      1886.
   Proceedings, Vol. XXI. Part 2. 8vo. 1886.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 123. 8vo. 1886.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XIX. Part 1. 8vo. 1887.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLVII. Nos. 1,2. 8vo. 1 886.
 Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. VII. Part 9 ; Vol. VIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1886.
 Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal—Abhandlungen, Band XV. Abtheilung 3.
      4to. 1886.
BirJtett, John, Esq. F.R.C.S. M.R.I.—The Irish Question. By T. E. Webb. 8vo.
      1886.
   Facts and Fictions in Irish History. By Lord Brabourne. 4to. 1886.
Boston Society of Natural History—Memoirs, Vol. III. Nos. 12, 13. 4to. 1886.
   Proceedings, Vol. XXIII. Part 2. 8vo. 1886.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1886-7, Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7. 4to.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. V. Part 6. 8vo. 1886.
Chemical Society—Journal for Dec. 1886, Jan. 1887. 8vo.
Chile, Officina Central Meleorolojica—Annuario, 1886. 8vo. Nos. 3, 4.
Congregational Library— Catalogue. 8vo. 1886.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. Ac. Jtf.R.I. (the Editor)—Journal of the Royal
     Microscopical Society, Series II. Vol. VI. Part 6. 8vo. 1886.
Dax : Sociite de Borda—Bulletins, 2* Serie, Onzieme Anne"e, 4" Trimestre. 8vo.
      1886.
East India Association—Journal, Vol. XIX. No. 1. 8vo. 1887.
Editors—American Journal of Science for December 1886, January 1887. 8vo.
   Analyst for December 1886, January 1887. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for December 1886, January 1887. 4to.
   Chemical News for December 1886, January 1887. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for December 1886, January 1887. 8vo.
   Engineer for December 1886, January 1887. fol.
   Engineering for December 1886, January 1887. fol.
  Horological Journal for December 1886, January 1887. 8vo.

82                          General MontMy Meeting.                        [Fob. 7,
   Industries for December 1880, January 1887. fol.
   Iron for December 1886, January 1887. 4to.
   Nature for December 1886, January 1887. 4to.
   Revue Scientifique for December 1886, January 1887. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for December 1886, January 1887. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for December 1886, January 1887. 4to.
Florence, Biblioteca Nau'onale Centrale—Bolletino, Num. 22, 25. 8vo. 1886.
Franklin Institute—Journal, NOs. 732, 733. 8vo. 1886.
General Medical Council—Third Report of Statistical Committee. 8vo. 1886.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. VIII. No. 12 ;
     Vol. IX. No. 1. 8vo. 1886-7.
Johns Hopkins University —Studies in Historical and Political Science, Fourth
     Series, Nos. 11, 12; Fifth Series, Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1886-7.
   University Circular, Nos. 53, 54. 4to. 1886.
   American Chemical Journal, Vol. VIII. No. 6. 8vo. 1886.
   American Journal of Philology, No. 27. 8vo. 1886.
Kew Observatory—Report, 1886. 8vo.
Klein, Sydney T. Esq. F.R.A.S. (the Author)—Hunting among the Lepidoptera
     and Hymenoptcra of Middlesex. 8vo. 1887.
Lawrence, Edwin, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)— The Progress of a Century. 4to.
      1886.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIX. Part 2. 8vo. 1887.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, 1886, Nos. 3, 4. 8vo.
Medical and Chirurgioal Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, No. 14. 8vo.
      1886.
 Mensbrugghe, M. G. Van der (the Author)—L'Instabilite' do 1'equilibre de la Couche
      Superfioielle d'un Liquide. Partie 1", 2». 8vo. 1886.
Meteorological Office—Hourly Readings, 1884, Part 1. 4to. 1886.
Ministry of Public Works, Rome—Giornale del Genio Civile, Serie Quarta,
     Vol. VI. No. 9. 8vo. And Disegni. fol. 1886.
Murray, John, Esq. (the Editor) —Murray's Magazine, No. 1. 8vo. 1887.
Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1886, Part 3. 8vo.
Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XIX. No. 2. New
      Series. 8vo. 1886.
Pennsylvania, Second Geological Survey of—Annual Report, 1885. With Atlas.
      8vo. 1886.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, Deo. 1886, Jan. 1887. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, New Series, Vol. XL Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1886.
Prince, C. Leeson, Esq. (the Author)—The Climate of Uckfield, Sussex, and its
      Neighbourhood, 1843-1870. 2nd edition. 8vo. 1886.
Richardson, B. W. M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—The Asclepiad, Vol. IV. No. 13.
      8vo. 1887.
Royal Society of Canada—Proceedings and Transactions, Vol. III. 4to. 1886.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 247, 248, 249. 8vo. 1886.
Sanitary Institute of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. VII. 8vo. 1886.
Society of Arts—Journal, Dec. 1886, Jan. 1887. 8yo.
   £ssays on the Street Re-aligninent, Reconstruction, and Sanitation of Central
      London. (Westgarth Essays.) 8vo. 1886.
St. Petenbourg, Academie des Sciences—Me'moires, Tome XXXIV. Nos. 5, 6. 4to.
      1886.
   Bulletin, Tome XXXI. No. 3. 4to. 1886.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 137. 8vo. 1886.
 United Slates Geological Survey—Bulk-tins, Nos. 27-29. 8vo. 1886.
 University of London—Accessions to the Library, 1876-1886. 8vo. 1886.
 Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleistes in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1886 :
      Heft 9, 10. 4to.
 Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 79. 8vo. 1886.

 1887.]       Mr. Edward B. Poullon on Gilded Chrysalides.           33
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 11, 1887.
       SIB WILLIAM BOWMAN, Bart. LL.D. F.R.S. Manager and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
                   EDWABD B. POULTON, Esq., M.A.
                           Gilded Chrysalides.
     Previous Work.—Mr. T. W. Wood in 1867 published the obser
vation that certain pupae (Pieris brassicse, P. rapse, &c.) resemble in
colour the surface on which they are found. Although this was
disputed by some naturalists, it was confirmed by Mr. A. G. Butler
and Prof. Meldola. In 1874 Mrs. M. E. Barber published
some very striking observations on the colours of the pupa of
Papilio nireus (South Africa) confirmation being afterwards afforded
by Mr. Trimen, from the case of Papilio demoleus. Dr. Fritz
Miiller, however, shows that Papilio polydamus is not sensitive to
surrounding colours. The observations were explained by supposing
the moist skin of the freshly formed pupa to be " photographically
sensitive " to the colour of surrounding surfaces ; but Prof. Meldola
pointed out that there can be no real analogy with photography.
Furthermore, many pupae are formed at night when the surrounding
surfaces are dark. The present investigation was undertaken with
the belief that the influence would be found to work upon the larva
as it rests upon some coloured surface before pupation.
     L Experiments upon Vanessa lo.—This pupa appears in two varie
ties, being commonly dark grey and much more rarely yellowish-green.
Six larvae placed in a glass cylinder covered with green tissue paper,
produced six green pupae ; one of these transferred to a black surface
while still moist and fresh, became a green pupa precisely like the
others.
     II. Experiments upon Vanetsa urticse.—The pupae have no green
form, but appear in many shades of dark grey, the lighter ones having
golden spots on them, while the extreme forms are almost covered
with the golden appearance. These latter are very rarely seen in
nature, except when the pupa is diseased. Over 700 pupae were
obtained in the following experiments :—
     1. Effects of Colours.—Green and orange surroundings caused no
effect on the pupal colours ; black produced, as a rule, dark pupae ;
white produced light pupae, many of them being brilliantly golden.
This last result suggested the use of gilt surroundings, which were
found to be more efficient than white, and produced pupae with a
colour which even more resembled gold.
     2. Mutual Proximity.—The larvae being dark, it was found that
when many of them became pupae on a limited (white or gilt) area, the
     VOL. XII. (No. 81.)                                       D

34                        Mr. Edward B. Poulton                 [Feb. 11,
 pupae were darker than when they had heen more isolated. The
 colours of each were in fact affected by that part of the surroundings
 made up by the black skins of its neighbours.
      3. illumination.—Black surroundings produced rather stronger
 effects in darkness than in light, but the pupae were dark in both
 cases.
      i. Time of Susceptibility.—The mature larvse, after ceasing to feed,
 wander (stage i.) until they find a surface on which to pupate ; they
 then rest upon it (stage ii.), and finally hang, head downwards,
 suspended by their last pair of claspers (stage Hi.), in which position
 pupation takes place. Stage i. is variable in length, stnge ii. may be
 estimated at 15 hours (but it is also variable), while stage iii. is
 fairly constant, and lasts about 18 hours ; while the whole period is
 commonly about 36 hours in length. The larvae are probably affected
 by surrounding colours for about 20 hours, before the last 12 hours
 of the whole period, and in this time the pupal colours are determined.
 These facts were discovered by a very largo number of experiments,
in which larvso were placed in surroundings of one colour, and then
 after a variable time were transferred to another colour producing an
 opposite effect. It was thus found that stnge ii. is more sensitive
 than stage iii., although there is some susceptibility during the latter
stage.
     5. The Part of the Larvae which is Sensitive to Colour.
     (a) The Ocelli. —The most obvious suggestion was that the larval
eyes (or ocelli, six on each side of the head) saw the colours, and
being influenced, transmitted an impulse to the nervous centres which
regulate the formation of the pupal colours. When, however, these
organs were covered with black varnish, the pupae resembled sur
rounding surfaces to the same extent as when they were produced from
normal larvae.
     (/?) The Complex Branching Spines.—It seemed possible that these
structures might contain some organ which was influenced by the
colour, but after cutting them off, the larvae remained normally
sensitive.
     (•y) The General Surface of the Skin.—This was tested by conflicting
colour experiments. It had been previously shown that the larvae
were sensitive during stage iii., and therefore they were covered in
this stage with compartmented tubes, so constructed that the head
and anterior part of the body hung in the lower chamber of one
wlour, while the posterior part of the body was in the upper chamber in
another colour. In another method, the larvae were hung upon a vertical
surface, while the head and front part of the body passed through a
hole in a shelf, the vertical surface above the shelf, and the upper
side of the shelf itself being one colour, while the vertical surface
below the shelf and the lower side of the shelf were of the colour
tending to produce the most opposite effects. The result of all
these experiments was to show that the colour influence does act on
some element of the larval skin, and that the larger the area of skin

 1887.]                    on Gilded Chrysalides.                        85
 exposed to any one colour the more does the pupa follow its influence.
 Particoloured pupae were not obtained, thus probably pointing
 towards the action of the nervous system rather than towards the
direct action of light on or through the skin itself.
     6. The Nature of the Effects produced.—The colouring matter of
 the dark pupae is contained in a thin superficial layer of the cuticle ;
 below this is a thicker layer divided into exceedingly delicate lamella
between which fluids are present, and the latter form the thin plates
which, by causing interference of light, produce the brilliant metallic
appearance. The thinner upper layer being dark, acts as a screen in
the dark pup®. Precisely the same metallic appearances are caused
by the films of air between the thin plates of glass which are formed
on the surface of bottles long exposed to earth and moisture. Both have
the same spectroscopic characters and the same transmitted colours
 (complementary to those seen by reflection). The brilliancy of the
cuticle can be preserved in spirit for any length of time; it disappears on
drying, but can be renewed on wetting(this had been previously kno vn),
and the colours are seen to change during the process of drying, and
when the cuticle is pressed, for the films are thus made thinner. The
same lamellated layer exists in non-metallic pupae, and is used as a
reflector for transparent colouring matter contained in its outer
lamellae. Thus the structure which rendered possible the brilliant
effects due to interference, probably existed long before these special
effects were obtained, and was used for a different purpose.
     7. The Biological Value of the Gilded Appearance.—It is probable
that the gilded pupse of Vanessidae resemble glittering minerals such as
mica (which is very common in many places) ; their shape is very angu
lar, and like that of minerals : conversely the grey pupae resemble grey
and weathered rock-surfaces, and the two conditions of rock would them
selves act as a stimulus for the production of pupse of corresponding
colour. The power was probably gained in some dry hot country,
where mineral surfaces do not weather quickly. Once formed it may
be used for other purposes, and in certain species is probably a
warning to the enemies that the insect is inedible. It is interesting
to note how the Vanessidse, primarily coloured BO as to resemble
mineral surroundings, are modified for pupation on plants. Thus
 Vanessa lo has a green form which is produced among leaves ;
 V. atalanla has no green form, and spins together the leaves for
concealment, but both these species commonly pupate freely exposed
on mineral surfaces ; V. urticse has neither the green form nor the
habit, and it has a strong disinclination to pupate on its food-plant,
as many observations concurred in proving.
    III. Experiments upon Vanessa atalanta.—This species was also
made brilliantly golden or dark-coloured by the use of appropriate
surroundings in the larval condition.
    IV. Experiments upon Papilio machaon. —This species, like P. poly-
damus (Fritz Miiller) has no power of being influenced by surrounding
colours. A brown pupa was obtained on the food-plant, and many
                                                                D 2

86            Mr. Edward B. Poulton on Gilded Chrysalides.      [Feb. 11,
green ones upon brown twigs, &c. It is probable that less healthy
and smaller larvae often produce the brown form, just as diseased
Vanessa larvae produce gilded pupae.
            V. Experiments upon Pieris brassicse and P. rapae.
     1. Effects of Colours—Black produced dark pupse, and the greater
the illumination the darker the pnpae (P. rapse), this result being the
reverse of that obtained with V. urticae ; white produced light pnpae,
and the greater the illumination the lighter the pup» ( /'. rapse) ; dark
red (P. brassicse) produced dark pupse ; deep orange, m both species,
produced very light pupae of a green colour ; pale yellow and yellounsh-
 green produced rather darker pupse than the orange ; bluish-green pro
 duced much darker pnpse, while tlnrl; blue produced still darker pupae
 (P. rapse only). Hence there is a remarkable and sudden fall,
 followed by a slow and gradual rise in the amount of pigment formed
 as the light from various parts of the spectrum from red to blue pre
 dominates in the reflected rays which fall on the larval surface.
 But their effects on the formation of superficially placed dark pigment
 are accompanied by changes affecting the formation of greeus and
 yellows, &c., in the deeper subcuticular tissues. Hence the results
  of any given stimulus are exceedingly complicated.
     2. Other Experiments.— It was shown by the method described
 above that the ocelli are not sensitive in this species, and by similar
 transference experiments it was proved that the influence acts on the
 larva and not on the pupa itself.
      "VI. Experiments upon Ephyra pendularia.—In this genus of moths
 the exposed pupae are often green and brown in different individuals,
 but these colours follow the corresponding tints of the larvae, and
 therefore cannot be influenced unless the latter themselves were
 changed, and such susceptibility in the larval state has not been
 proved for this genus. This is the only known instance of a constant
 relation between the larval and pupal colours.
      VII. Experiments upon the Cocoon of Saturnia carpini.—It was
 found that the larvae spin dark cocoons in black surroundings, but
 white ones in lighter surroundings.
                                                             [E. B. P.]

1887.]          Mr. W, Orookes on Genesis of the Elements.            37
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                      Friday, February 18, 1887.
       SIB FBBDEBIOK ABEL, C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S. Manager and
                     Vice-President, in the Chair.
           WILLIAM CBOOKBS, Esq. F.B.S. V.P.C.S. M.R.I.
                          Genesis of the Elements.
IN the very words selected to denote the subject I have the honour of
bringing before you, I have raised a question which may be regarded
 as heretical. At the time when our modern conception of chemistry
first dawned upon the scientific mind, the average chemist as a matter
of course accepted the elements as ultimate facts. He regarded his
 elements as absolutely simple, incapable of transmutation or decom
position, each a kind of barrier behind which we could not penetrate.
 If closely pressed he said that they were self-existent from all
 eternity, or that they had been individually created just as we now
 find them at the present day. Or he might argue that the origin of
 the elements did net in the least concern us, and was, indeed, a
 question lying outside the boundaries of science.
     But in these our times of restless inquiry we cannot help asking
 what are these elements, whence do they come, what is their signifi
 cation ? We cannot but feel that unless some approach to an answer
 to these questions can be found, our chemistry, after all, is something
 profoundly unsatisfactory. These elements perplex us in our
 researches, baffle us in our speculations, and haunt us in our very
 dreams. They stretch like an unknown sea before us—mocking,
 mystifying, and murmuring strange revelations and possibilities.
     If I venture to say that our commonly received elements are not
 simple and primordial, that they have not arisen by chance or have
 not been created in a desultory and mechanical manner but have been
 evolved from simpler matters— or perhaps indeed from one sole kind
 of matter—I do but give formal utterance to an idea which has been,
 so to speak, for some time " in the air " of science. Chemists,
 physicists, philosophers of the highest merit declare explicitly their
 belief that the seventy (or thereabouts) elements of our text-books are
 not the pillars of Hercules which we must never hope to pass.
     Did time allow I might quote utterances of Dalton, of Professor
 Faraday, of Dr. Gladstone, of the late Sir Benjamin Brodie, of
Professor Graham, of Dr. Mills, of Professor Stokes, of Mr. Norman
Lockyer, all pointing in the same direction and all showing that in
the course of their researches these servants of Science have been led
to think that these same elements are not the final outcome— the be-
all and the end-all of chemistry.

38                         Mr. William Crookes               [Feb. 18,
     The law of Front, and still more the better established and far-
reaching periodic law of Newlands (since developed by Professors
Mendeleeff, Meyer, and Carnelley), seem to presuppose the existence
of a genetic relation among the elements.
     Philosophers in the present as in the past,—men who certainly
have not worked in the laboratory,—have reached the same view from
another side. Thus Mr. Herbert Spencer records his conviction that
" the chemical atoms are produced from the true or physical atoms
by processes of evolution under conditions which chemistry has not
yet been able to produce."
     And the poet has forestalled the philosopher. Milton (' Paradise
Lost,' Book V.) makes his Archangel Raphael say to Adam, instinct
with the evolutionary idea, that the Almighty had created
                                   " one first matter all,
                  Indued with various forms, various degrees
                  Of substance."
     If we can show how the so-called chemical elements might have
been generated we shall be able to fill up a formidable gap in our
knowledge of the universe. We have a preponderance of cumulative
evidence to prove that both heavenly bodies and living organisms
have been formed by evolution. We are seeking now to extend this
law to the so-called elements, to the first principles of which stars
and organisms alike consist.
     If we survey the distribution of the chemical elements we find
two very distinct cases. On the one hand we see bodies grouped
in definite proportions with other bodies from which they differ
exceedingly and to which they are held by afiinity, more or less
strong. To obtain either of two such bodies in a separate state, that
 affinity, as every student of chemistry knows, must be overcome.
 Instances of such association are too common and abundant to need
 mention. In such cases each of the bodies grouped together has fairly
 marked properties. One of them, moreover, for the most part has an
 atomic weight very different from that of the other.
     In the second case we find bodies associated with other bodies
more or less closely allied to themselves. They are not held together
by any decided affinity; they are not combined in definite propor
 tions, and their atomic weights are often almost identical. If we
wish to obtain one or more of these bodies in a separate state, the
difficulty encountered lies not in the strength of the affinities to be
 overcome but in the circumstance that whatever reagent we employ
 acts upon one of the substances in nearly the same manner as it does
 upon the other. Hence, to obtain one body of this kind entirely
 separate is an exceedingly tedious and difficult task. Nay, we are
 sometimes at a loss to decide whether we have before us a really
 simple body or a mixture of bodies whose properties are almost
 identical.
      The most striking instance of such association is found in the

  1887.]                  on Genesis of the Elements.                     39
  metals of the so-called rare earths. These bodies form but a very
  trifling portion of the earth's crust. They are chiefly met grouped
  together in a few minerals, snch as famarskite and gadolinite, which,
  so far, have been found in but few localities, and even in those are far
  from common. These earths form a group to themselves ; chemically,
  they are so much alike that it taxes the utmost skill of the chemist to
  effect even a partial separation, and their history is so obscure that we •
  do not yet know the number of them.
      It will not be necessary here to explain in detail the process of
 chemical fractionation adopted for the separation of the rarer earths,
 since it could interest only the chemical specialist ; moreover, it has
 been fully described in a paper I read before the British Association
 at Birmingham.
      Stated in the briefest way the operation consists in fixing upon
 some chemical reaction in which there is the most likelihood of a
 difference in the behaviour of the elements under treatment, even
 though the difference bo slight, and effecting such treatment incom
 pletely, so that only a certain fraction of the total bases present is
 separated : the object being to get part of the material in an insoluble
 and the remainder in a soluble state.
      Let us suppose that wo have in solution two earths almost
 identical in their properties, but differing slightly, almost imper
 ceptibly, in basicity. We add to the solution of the earths, which
 must be very dilute, weak ammonia to such an amount only that it
precipitates one-half of the bases present. The dilution must be so
 great that a considerable time must elapse before the liquid shows a
 turbidity, and several hours will have to pass over before the action
of the ammonia is complete. The liquid is then filtered, by which
process we have the earths divided into two parts, no longer identical
in their composition. We can easily see that there is now a slight
difference in the basic value of the two portions of earths ; the portion
in solution being, though by a scarcely perceptible amount, more
basic than that which the ammonia has precipitated. This minute
difference is made to accumulate systematically until it becomes
perceptible either by chemical or physical tests.
      The accompanying diagram (Fig. 1), illustrates the scheme of
fractionation. Starting from zero at the apex the precipitates all pass
to the left and the filtrates to the right. Each circle represents a
flask containing the solution under treatment, and the two arrows from
each circle show the path pursued respectively by the precipitate and
filtrate.
     Such is the general outline of the process. But, as has been
already intimated, the methods of separation suitable for different
groups of earths vary. Where the constituents of yttrium and
samarium are concerned, nothing seems available but straightforward
fractionation continued month after month and year after year.
     The further question whether an earth we have separated is really
simple or is still a mixture has again to be decided by yet another

40                        Mr. William Crookes                  [Fob. 18,
process, to be effected only in a very high vacuum. To understand
this process it is necessary to make an apparent total digression.
     It seems, perhaps, strange to speak of exhausting the air in hollow
buIbs and tubes until there is left in them only the one-millionth
                                  FIG. 1.
                          THK  YTTRU -PRf-THl'M
        FRACTIONATION                ]S>     OF YTTHI \
                             ^?oes
                             jaua.ja.a.a
                                          './^.AjJ!'**j*xy.xy
                                           A. A »-
                                                                  ^
          II    II III   II      iMil II                II             !t
             SVHPTHA   OK   FIVK COMPONENTS     OK    VTTRM
 part of an atmosphere. It is only in modern times that atmospheric
 air has come to be reparded as matter. To this day a bottle or a jar
 is said to bo " empty " if it contains no liquid or solid body, the air
 with which it is filled being completely ignored. According to the
 same common idea, how empty then must a vessel be when the air it
 contains is reduced to the one-millionth part of its original quantity !
 That something still remains is, however, proved by the fact that I
 have succeeded in reducing the pressure down to one fifty-millionth
 of an atmosphere. What this number represents will be better under
 stood if I say that, given a barometric column ono hundred miles in
 height, the remaining pressure would be equal only to about the tenth
 of an inch. Even this high degree of exhaustion by no means
 represents an absolute vacuum. I have in this glass tube perhaps the
 nearest approach to perfect emptiness yet artificially obtained. Its
 internal capacity is 5 cubic centimetres, and it is exhausted to
 the one fifty-millionth part of an atmosphere. It still contains
 100,000000,000000 molecules. The internal space, therefore, is far,
 very far, from being absolutely void of matter.

1887.]                       on Genesis of the Elements.
     The vacuum most suitable for experiments on these earths is one
of about the millionth of an atmosphere. In a vacuum of this degree
we find under the action of the induction-spark certain substances
phosphorescing or behaving very differently from what they would if
similarly treated at a lower vacuum or at the ordinary pressure of the
atmosphere. When thus treated, the examination of the spectra of
the phosphorescing earths furnishes what I have ventured to call the
radiant matter test.
     After a time, on examining the series of yttrium earths in the
lowest line of flasks, their phosphorescent spectra are found to have
become modified in the relative intensities of some of their lines.
Ultimately different portions of the fractionated yttria give the five-
spectra approximately shown at the foot of the diagram ; whilst
samaria also appears capable of being split up into two or perhaps
three constituents.
     These bodies, it must be clearly understood, are not impurities
which may be removed, yttrium or samarium remaining in a pure
state aft T their elimination. On the contrary, the molecule we
formerly knew as yttrium has undergone a veritable splitting up into
its constituents.
     These constituents I have not as yet formally baptised. For
more convenient reference and discussion I have provisionally
ticketed them, as shown in the following Table.
                                        TABLE I.
                                      Mean
     Position of LincB     Scale of  Wave       i
          in the           Sprctro- length oT      Provisional      Probabllily.
        Spectrum.           siope.   Line or   A»     Name.
                                      Band.
Bright lines in—
 Violet                     8-515      456    4809     S7      New, or ytterbium.
 Deep til no                8-931      482    4304     Ga      New.
 Greenith blue fmean\                                          Now, or the Z0 of M.
    of a close pair) . . /  9 650      545    3367     G/3 |     de Boisbaudran.
 Green                      9-812      564    3144     G7      New.
                                                               New, or the Za of M.
 Citron                     9-890      574    3035     G8 |      de Boisb.iudrun.
 Yellow                    10-050      597    2806     Of      New.
 Orange                    10-129      609    2693     ss      New.
 Red                       10-185      619    2611     Gf      New.
  Deep red                 10-338      647    2389     G.,     New.
     I will rapidly sketch the most salient features of the rare earths
when submitted to the radiant matter test. Some remain unaffected
and thus are referred at once to a distinct group. Others have the
curious property of preventing the induction-spark passing, and so
simulating a non-conducting vacuum, when there is really plenty of
residual gas present. The rare earth thoria po.-sesses in the highest

42                        Mr. William Crookes                  [Feb 18,
degree this obstructive property. Before me I have an exhausted
tube having two sets of poles sealed in it, one set at each end. The
size and distance apart of these poles are exactly the same in each
case. At one end of the tube I have put some thorium sulphate, at
the other end I have put yttrium sulphate. The exhaustion is now
proceeding by aid of the Sprengel pump. I attach the wires of the
induction coil to the poles at the thorium end, and, as yon see, no
current will pass ; rather than pass through the tnbe, the spark prefers
to strike across the spark-gauge in air—a striking distance of 37
millimetres,—showing an electromotive force of 34,040 volts. Now,
without doing anything to affect the degree of exhaustion, I transfer
the wires of the induction coil from the thorium to the yttrium end,
and the spark passes at once. To balance the spark in air I must
push the wires of the gauge together, till they are only 7 millimetres
apart, equivalent to an electromotive force of 6440 volts : the fact of
whether thoria or yttria is under the poles making a difference of
27,600 volts in the conductivity of the tube. The explanation of
this eccentric action of thoria is not yet quite clear. From the great
difference in the phosphorescence of the two earths, it is evident that
the passage of electricity through these tubes is not so much dependent
on the degree of exhaustion as upon the phosphorogenic property of
the body opposite the poles.
    Other earths become very phosphorescent, and their power of
retaining residual phosphorescence differs greatly among themselves.
This property we shall presently see is one of some importance. To
examine this persistence of luminosity I have devised an instrument
similar to Becquere1's phosphoroscope, but acting electrically instead
of by means of direct light. It consists of an opaque disc, 30 inches
in diameter, pierced with six openings near the edge. By means of a
multiplying wheel and pulley the disc can be set in rapid rotation.
At each revolution a stationary object behind one of the apertures is
alternately exposed and hidden six times. A commutator forms part
of the axis of the disc, and by connecting it with the wires from a
battery, rotation of the disc produces alternate makes and breaks in
the current. This primary current is then connected with the induc
tion coil, from which the secondary current passes through the
vacuum tube containing the earth under examination. When a
phosphorescent body such as yttria is examined, if the wheel is
turned slowly no light is seen when looked at from the front, as
the current does not begin till the obscuration of the tnbe by an
 intercepting segment, and ends before the earth comes into view.
 \\hen, however, the wheel is quickly turned, the residual phos
 phorescence lasts long enough to bridge over the brief interval
 between the cessation of the spark and the entry of the phosphor
 escent body into the field of view, and it is seen to glow with a faint
 light which becomes brighter as the speed of the wheel increases.
     I will first put the phosphorescent earth glucina in the phos-
phoroscope. This phosphoresces of a bright blue colour, but the

 1887.]                   on Genesis of the Elements.                 43
residual glow is so short that, with the highest speed of which the
instrument is capable, you see no light whatever. In contrast I now
put in a compound of the earth strontia. This also glows with a rich
blue colour, showing in the spectroscope a continuous spectrum with
a great concentration of light in the blue and violet. In the phos-
phoroscope the colour of the glow is bright green, showing in the
spectroscope a continuous spectrum, with the red and blue ends cut o ft".
      Alumina in the radiant matter tube glows with a rich crimson
light. I will put some rubies—a crystalline form of alumina —in the
phosphoroscope. Here the persistence of luminosity is so great that
the red light is visible with the slowest speed, and with a high
velocity the residual glow is nearly as strong as when the rubies are
out of the instrument. Shakespeare, who is supposed to have
mastered all knowledge, had he seen these rubies could hardly
have described them more precisely than in the lines from ' Julius
Caesar ' :—
                      "... with unnumbered sparks
                   They arc all fire, and every one doth shine."
      Another distinctive phenomenon is that the earths of one group,
yttrium and samarium, when submitted to the induction discharge in
i-iirini, yield discontinuous spectra.
      These spectra are extremely complicated and change in their
details in a puzzling manner. For many years I have persistently
groped on in almost hopeless endeavour to get a clue to the meaning
which I felt convinced was locked up in these systems of bands and
lines. It was impossible to divest myself of the conviction that I was
looking at a series of autograph inscriptions from the molecular world,
evidently of intense interest, but written in a strange and baffling
toiigue. For a long time all attempts to decipher these mysterious
signs were fruitless.
      The meaning of the strongly-marked symbolic lines had first to
be ascertained. After continued efforts I had to be content with
roughly translating one group of coloured symbols as " yttrium " and
another group as " samarium," disregarding the fainter lines, shadows,
and wings frequently common to both. Constant practice in the
decipherment has now given me fuller insight into what I may call
the grammar of these hieroglyphic inscriptions. Every line and
shadow of a line, each faint wing attached to a strong band, and every
variation in intensity of the shadows and wings among themselves,
has now a definite meaning which can be translated into the common
symbolism of chemistry.
      This leads us to what I may call the history of yttrium. Twelve
months ago the name yttrium conveyed to all chemists a perfectly
definite meaning. It was supposed to be an elementary or simple
body, having a fixed atomic weight, 88 • 9, and its principal properties
had been duly determined. Its phosphorescent spectrum gave a
definite system of coloured bauds, such as you see in the drawing

                          Mr. William Crookes                   [Feb. 18,
before you (Fig. 2). Broadly speaking, there is a deep red band, a
very luminous citron-coloured band, a pair of greenish-blue bands,
and a blue band. These bands, it is true, varied slightly in relative
intensities and in sharpness with almost every sample of yttria
  I examined ; yet the general character of the spectrum remained
  unchanged, and I habitually looked upon this spectrum as charac
  teristic of yttrium ; all the bands being visible when the earth was
  present in quantity, whilst only the strongest of all—the citron
  band—was visible when traces, such as millionth*, were present.
  But that the whole system of bands spelled yttrium, and nothing but
  yttrium, I was firmly convinced.
      The differences in the spectra of yttrium prepared from different
  sources are most distinctly seen on comparing the spectrum of
  yttrium from samarskite with that from gadolinite, hielmite, monazite,
  xenotime, fluocerite, euxenite, cerite, arrhenite, &c. Still, in spite of
  these slight differences, the several yttriums are practically all the
  same thing, and, as I have said, every living chemist a year ago
  would have regarded them ns identical. But they have since yielded
  to persistent chemical fractional I on, and I now call them old yttrium.
      One property, above all others, is relied on by chemists as an
  indisputable proof of the identity of any particular chemical element.

1887.]                  on Genesis of the Elements.                     45
When the vapour of an element is rendered incandescent by tho
electric spark, the characteristic system of lines in its spectrum is
regarded as unalterable, and is looked upon as a certain proof that
this special element is under examination. However much chemical
or other tests fail to show the presence of a given element, the
indications of its lines in the spectroscope are regarded as infallible.
Spectrum analysis is the court of final appeal, whose decision no
chemist has yet had the hardihood to dispute.
    By way of illustration I will project on the screen the very
characteristic system of lines given by yttrium when ignited by the
electric spark,—a system, be it remembered, having no connection
whatever with the peculiar phosphorescent spectrum yielded by
yttrium. The coloured diagram gives as accurate a representation
of the spark spectrum of yttrium as can be drawn by hand. Omitting
minor lines you will notice two very strong groups of lines in the red
and orange. These lines have been always regarded as the charac
teristic test for yttrium ; the presence of these groups proves the
presence of yttrium, and their absence proves its absence.
    I now project the electric spark spectrum of GS as pure as I have
been able to prepare it. GS is one of the bodies which by long and
tedious fractionation I have separated from yttrium ; it occurs at one
extreme end of the fractioning, and differs not only from the parent
yttrium in its phosphorescent spectrum, but by virtue of the process
adopted for its isolation, it must likewise differ in chemical properties.
But what tale does the spectrum tell ? It tells us there is absolutely
no difference between this spectrum and that given by old yttrium.
    I now pass to tho other end of the fractionation of yttrium, where
a body, 617, concentrates giving a totally different phosphorescent
spectrum to that given by GS. And it also differs chemically from
old yttrium, and in a more marked manner from its brother, GS, at
the other extremity of the fractionation. Look at its spark spectrum 1
It is perfectly identical both with old yttrium and with GS, and
when I examine these three spectra in my laboratory with all tho
appliances for exact measurement, the whole system of lines is still
identical.
    What inference can be drawn from these results ? Is discredit to
be thrown on spectrum analysis? Is the superstructure which has
been so laboriously raised upon its indications to fall to the ground ?
By no means. Spectrum analysis and its grand generalisations are
on as firm a foundation as ever. I see two possible explanations of
the facts I have brought before you. According to one hypothesis
research has somewhat enlarged the field lying between the indications
given by ordinary coarse chemistry and the searching scrutiny of the
prism. Our notions of a chemical element have expanded. Hitherto
the molecule has been regarded as an aggregate of two or more atoms,
and no account has been taken of the architectural design on which
these atoms have been joined. We may consider that tho structuro
of a chemical clement is more complicated than has hitherto beou

46                           Mr. William Crookes                       [Feb. 18;
supposed. Between the molecules we are accustomed to deal with in
chemical reactions and ultimate atoms as first created, come smaller
molecules or aggregates of physical atoms ; these sub-molecules differ
one from the other, according to the position they occupied in the
yttrium edifice.
     Perhaps this hypothesis can be simplified if we imagine yttrium
to be represented by a five-shilling piece. By chemical fractionation
I have divided it into five separate shillings, and find that these
shillings are not counterparts, but like the carbon atoms in the benzol
ring, have the impress of their position, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, stamped on them.
These are the analogues of my Go, G/J, &c. If I now bring in a
much more powerful and searching agent—if I throw my shillings
into the melting-pot or dissolve them chemically— the mint stamp
disappears and they all turn out to be silver. I submit my yttrium,
or my Go, G/3, &c., to the intense heat of the electric spark, the little
differences of molecular arrangement vanish, and the atoms of which
the molecules of yttrium, Gu and Gj8, are alike composed, reveal
their presence in identical spectra.
     An alternative theory commends itself to chemists, to the effect
that the nine bodies shown in the above table (Table I.), are new
chemical elements differing from yttrium and samarium in basic
powers and several other chemical and physical properties, but not
sufficiently to enable us to effect any but a slight separation. One of
 these bodies, G8, gives the phosphorescent citron line, and also the
 brilliant electric spectrum I have just exhibited. The other eight do
not give electric spectra which can be recognised in the presence of a
 small quantity of GS, whilst the electric spectrum of G& is so sensi
 tive that it shines out in undiminished brilliancy even when the
 quantity present is extremely minute. In the process of fractionation,
 Ga, G/J, GS, &c., are spread out and more or less separated from one
 another, yet the separation is imperfect at the best, and at any part
 there is enough GS to reveal its presence by the sensitive electric
 spark test. The arguments in favour of each theory are strong and
 pretty evenly balanced. Tbe compound molecule explanation is a
 good working hypothesis, which I think may account for the facts,
 while it does not postulate the rather heroic alternative of calling
 into existence eight or nine new elements to explain the phenomena.
 However, I submit it only as an hypothesis. If further research
 shows the new element theory is more reasonable, I shall be the first
 person to accept it.*
     * Neither of these theories agrees with that of my distinguished friend M.
 Lecocq de Boisbaudran, who also has worked on these earths for some time. He
 considers that what I have called old yttrium is a true element, characterised by
 the spark spectrum already exhibited, but not giving a phosphorescent spectrum
 in VQCUO. The bodies giving the phosphorescent spectra he considers to be
 impurities in yttrium. These he says are two in number, and he haa pro
 visionally named them Zo and Z/8. By a method of his own, differing from
 mine, M. de Boisbaudran obtains fluorescent spectra of these bodies; but their

 1887.]                     on Genesis of the Elements.
     I now will introduce to you a substance which has been to me
what the celebrated Rosetta stone was to the interpreters of Egyptian
inscriptions. I received it from M. de Marignac, and it was nothing
more than a small specimen of a new earth which he had obtained
and had named provisionally Ya.
     In the radiant-matter tube this earth gives a bright spectrum as
in the diagram before you (Fig. 3).
     If we compare this spectrum with that ascribed to " old yttrium "
 (Fig. 2) we see that, omitting minor details, Ya is yttrium with the
characteristic citron band left out and the green and orange bands
of samarium added. Now look at the following diagram (Fig. 4),
 which represents the spectrum of a mixture of 61 parts of yttrium and
 39 parts of samarium. It is almost to its minutest details identical
 with the spectrum of Ya, but the citron band is as prominent as any
 other band. Hence Ya is shown to consist of samarium, with the
greenish blue of yttrium and some of the other yttrium bands added
to it. It proves, further, that the citron band which I had hitherto
regarded as one of the essential bands of the yttrium spectrum cau be
entirely removed, whilst another characteristic yttrium group, the
double green band, can remain with heightened brilliancy.
     If now it were possible to remove the citron band-forming body
from this mixture, I should leave Ya behind ; I should, in fact, have
recomposed Ya from its elements. I have no doubt whatever that
this will ultimately be accomplished, but the preliminary work of
fractionation is tedious to the last degree, and for its completion
would occupy a space of time in comparison with which the life of
man is all too brief.
     Whilst I have not yet chemically removed the citron-forming con
stituent, I can physically suppress the citron band and show an
artificial spectrum, imitating in the closest degree the natural spectrum
of Ya.
     By means of the electrical phosphoroscope I am enabled to catch
the spectrum of an earth immediately after it has suffered molecular
bombardment in the vacuum. In this way I get the spectrum of the
residual phosphorescence, and I have found that not all the con
stituents of these earths emit residual phosphorescence for the same
duration of time.
    When a little strontium is added to the yttrium-samarium mixture,
the effect in the phosphoroscope is to suppress the residual phosphor-
fluorescent 1 Kinds nrc extremely hazy and faint, rendering identification difficult.
Some of them fall near lines in the spectra of my G0 and G$. At first sight it
might appear that his and my spectra were due to the same bodies, but,
according to M. de Boisbaudran, the chemical properties of the earths producing
them are widely distinct. Those giving phosphorescent lines by my method
occur at the yttrium extremity of the fractionation, where his fluorescent bands
are scarcely ahown at all : whilst his fluorescent phenomena are at their maximum
quite at the terbium end of the fractionation, where no yttrium can he detected
even by the direct spark, and where my phosphorescent liuce are almost absent.

48                         Mr. William Crookes                 [Feb. 18,
eseence of G8—the citron band— and to enhance the phosphorescence
of ( i/)', the double green band, and the imitation of the Ya spectrum
is complete.
     I must here call attention to the experiments of Prof. A. E.
Nordenskiold, in the Comptes Rendus of the French Academy of
Sciences for November 2nd, 1886. This eminent savant is working in
the same direction as myself, with results which decidedly corroborate
my experiments. He has taken the crude mixture of yttria, erbia,
ytterbia, &c., just as it is precipitated from the minerals containing
these rare earths. This mixture, for brevity's sake, he calls gado-
linia, and he finds that this gadolinia, though palpably a compound
body, has always a constant atomic weight, whatever the mineral
from which it has been extracted. Or, to use Prof. Nordenskiold's
own words, " Oxide of gadolinium, though it is not the oxide of a simple
body, but a mixture of three isomorphous oxides (even when it is derived
from totally different minerals found in localities far apart from each
other) possesses a constant atomic weight." Therefore, as he signi
ficantly observes, " We are in presence of a fact altogether new in
chemistry. For the first time we are confronted with the fact that
three isomorphous substances, of a kind that chemists are still com
pelled to regard as elements, occur in nature not only always together,
but in the same proportions. It seems that chemists here find them
selves face to face with a problem analogous to that presented to
astronomers in the origin of the minor planets."
     These facts throw a new light upon certain important chemical
questions. For the old yttrium passed muster as an element. It
had a definite atomic weight, it entered into combination with other
 elements, and could be again separated from them as a whole. But
now we find that excessive and systematic fractionation has acted the
part of a chemical " sorting Demon," distributing the atoms of
yttrium into groups, with certainly different phosphorescent spectra,
and presumably different atomic weights, though, from the usual
chemical point of view, all these groups behave alike. Here, then? is
a so-called element whose spectrum does not emanate equally from all
 its atoms ; but some atoms furnish some, other atoms others, of the
 lines and bands of the compound spectrum of the element. Heuce
 the atoms of this clement differ probably in weight, and certainly in
the internal motions they undergo.
     This is unlikely to bo an isolated case. We may assume that the
 principle is of general application to all the elements. In some,
 possibly in all elements, the whole spectrum does not emanate from
 all their atoms, but different spectral rays may come from different
atoms, and in the spectrum as wo see it all these partial spectra are
 present together. This may be interpreted to mean that there are
 definite differences in the internal motions of the several groups of
 which the atoms of a chemical element consist. For example, we
must now be prepared for some such events as that the seven series
of bauds in the absorption-spectrum of iodine may prove not all to

1887.]                 on Genesis of the Elements.                   49
emanate from every molecule, but that some of these molecules emit
some of these series, others others, and in the jumble of all these
molecules, to which is given the name " iodine vapour," the whole
seven series are contributors.
     Another important inference to be drawn from the facts is that
yttrium atoms, though differing, do not differ continuously, but per
sailtn HI. We have evidence of this in the fact that the spectroscopio
bands characteristic of each group are distinct from those of other
groups, and do not pass gradually into them. We must accordingly
expect, in the present state of science, that this is probably the case
with the other elements. And the atoms of a chemical element being
known to differ in one respect may differ in other respects, and
presumably do somewhat differ in mass.
     Returning, after this digression, to the idea of heavy and light
atoms, we see how well this hypothesis accords with the new facts
here brought to light. From every chemical point of view the stable
molecular group, yttrium, behaves as an element. To split up yttrium
requires not only enormous time and material, but the existence of a
test by means of which the constituents of yttrium are capable of
recognition. Had we tests as delicate for the constituent molecular
groups of calcium, this element also might be resolved into simpler
groupings. It is one thing, however, to find out means of separating
bodies which we know to be distinct and to have colour or spectrum
reactions to guide us at every step ; it is quite another thing to
separate colourless bodies which are almost identical both in chemical
reaction and atomic weight, especially if we have no suspicion that
the body we examine is a mixture.
     Again, it seems as if bodies we have been accustomed to regard
as absolutely simple and elementary may be split up in different
directions according to the means we bring to bear upon them. Until
very lately our text-books made mention of an element under the
name of didymium. With some trouble it had been separated from
its accompanying bodies lanthanum and cerium. Its properties had
been examined, and no one doubted its distinct and elementary
character. It was viewed according to one of the common definitions
of an element, as " a something to which we can add, but from which
we can take nothing." When, behold! Dr. Aner von Welsbach,
examining this supposed simple body in a novel manner, succeeded
in decomposing it into two simpler bodies, which he called neodymium
and praseodymium ; and later researches, in which I have had a
share, show that even neodymium and praseodymium are not the
simplest bodies into which didymium can be dissected.
     But it may be asked, What is the bearing of all this upon the
great question of the genesis of the elements ? Have we chemists
merely discovered some new " elements," or found out that a body
hitherto held to be simple is in reality complex ? We have, I submit,
done something decidedly different. If a metal which is found to
have a fixed atomic weight is discovered to be a compound or a ~
     VOL. XII. (So. 81.)                                       U

50                            Mr. William Crookes                        [Feb. 18,
mixture, our best test for recognising an element, so-called, has
melted away ! Hitherto it has been considered that if the atomic
weight of a metal, determined by different observers, setting out from
different compounds, was always found to be constant (within, of
course, the limits of experimental error), then such metal must rightly
 take rank among the simple or elementary bodies. We learn from
 Nordenskiold's gadolinium that this is no longer the case. Again, we
 have here wheels within wheels. Gadolinium is not an element, but
 a compound, or rather, perhaps, a mixture of yttrium, erbium, and
ytterbium. We have shown that yttrium is a complex of five or more
 new constituents. And who shall venture to gainsay that each of
these constituents, if attacked in some different manner, and if the
results were submitted to a test more delicate and searching than the
radiant-matter test, might not be still further divisible? Where,
then, is the actual ultimate element ? As we advance it recedes like
the tantalising mirage lakes and groves seen by the tired and thirsty
 traveller in the desert. Are we in our quest for truth to be thus
deluded and baulked / The very idea of an element, as something
absolutely primary and ultimate, seems to be growing less and less
distinct.
       But we have by no means done with the rare earths and their
lessons. How is it that these bodies are found, as we actually find
them, associated in certain rare minerals such as samarskite and
gadolinite, but occurring only in a few localities ? This fact is hard
to account for on the ordinary theories of the origination of the
elements.
       I venture provisionally to conclude that our so-called elements or
simple bodies are, in reality, compound molecules. To form a
conception of their genesis I must beg you to carry your thoughts
back to the time when the visible universe was " without form and
void," and to watch the development of matter in the states known to
us from an antecedent something. What existed anterior to our
elements, before matter as we now have it, I propose to name prolyle.*
      * We require a word, analogous to protoplasm, to express the idea of the
original primul matter existing before the evolution of the chemical elements.
The word I have ventured to use for this purpose is compounded of irpi (earlier
than) and 8\7( (the stuff of which things are made). The word is scarcely a new
coinagp, for in the ' Wisdom of Solomon ' (xi., v. 17) we read :—" Thy almighty
hand, that created the world—if &/ntiptt,ov 8XTJ5—out of formless stuff," the word
here rendered "stuff" being in the original SATJJ, from which I have ventured to
coin the word " protyle." Six hundred years ago Roger Bacon wrote in his
De Arte Chymias, " The elements are made out of S\TJ, and every element is con
verted into the nature of another element." Professor Huxley reminds me that
 J'A?;, in the general sense of material substance, was first used by Aristotle, in
whose works it is of very frequent occurrence. In fact the fundamental distinc
tion in his Physical Philosophy is between 8\ri, or mttter, and tTSos, or form,
which last pretty nearly answers to what we should call the sum total of the
qualities, powers, and tendencies of a thing—or of forces as the cause of these. In
the metaphysics and elsewhere Aristotle distinguishes (1) ripwrrj ;.'A»J. "Materia

1887.]                     on Genesis of the Elements.                           51
     But how can we suppose the protyle, or fire-mist, converted into
the atomic condition ? In amorphous matter we recognise a tendency
to aggregation not to be identified with gravitation, since it is mani
fested among finely-divided matter, whether suspended in a medium
of a specific gravity superior, equal, or inferior to its own. This
agglutinative action is familiar to observers of natural phenomena.
Clouds contracting to that appearance known as a mackerel sky ;
particles of carbon floating in the air, collecting, and ultimately
falling as " blacks " ; chemical precipitates, at first finely amorphous,
but gradually becoming flocky, granular, and crystalline ; vortex
rings, suddenly quickening out of amorphous smoke;— all these, and
many more, exemplify that universal formative principle in nature
which I suggest first made itself manifest in the condensation of
protyle into atomic matter.
     A few weeks ago, in this theatre, Sir William Thomson asked you
to travel back with him an imaginary excursion of about twenty
million years. He pictured to yon the moment immediately before
the birth of our sun, when the Lucretian atoms rushed from all parts
of space with velocities due to mutual gravitation, and, clashing
together, formed in a few hours an incandescent fluid mass, the
nucleus of a solar system with thirty million years of life in it. I
will ask you to accompany me to a period even more remote,-—to the
very beginnings of time, before even the chemical atoms had con
solidated from the original protyle. Let us imagine that at this
primal stage all was in an ultra-gaseous state —a state differing from
anything we can now conceive in the visible universe.
     Now unless the expression " fire-mist " and the supposition that
pristine matter was once in an intensely heated condition * are quite
misleading and baseless, we have to deal with a process analogous to
cooling. This operation, probably internal, reduces the temperature
of the cosmic protyle to a point at which the first step in granulation
takes place ; matter as we know it comes into existence, and atoms
are formed. As soon as an atom is formed out of protyle it is a store
of energy, kinetic (from its internal motions), and potential (from its
tendency to coalesce with other atoms by gravitation or chemically).
To obtain this energy the neighbouring protyle must be laid under
contribution, i. e. must be refrigerated by it, thereby accelerating the
subsequent formation of other atoms. With the birth of gravitating
Prima," or matter undifierentiated into elements, without form, in fact, and
consequently tryruaro;, unknown and unknowable, and (2) iaxarll '''*')• secondary
or formed matter, such as earth, or metal, or water, or any other raw material
with which we are familiar.
    * I am constrained to use words expressive of high temperature; but I
confess I am unable clearly to associate with protyle the idea of hot or cold.
 Temperature, radiation, and free cooling seem to require the periodic motions that
take place in the chemical atoms; and the introduction of centres of periodic
motion into protylo would involve its being so far changed into chemical atoms.
Probably the first operation was more analogous to the formation of vortex ringa
than to a reduction of temperature.
                                                                        x 2

52                         Mr. William Crockes                    [Feb. 18,
matter, rushing suddenly together from every point of space, we thus
get Sir William Thomson's incandescent mass which is presently to
cool down into a solar system. We cannot tell if electricity existed
prior to the origin of the atomic condition of matter, but with the
formation of atomic matter the other forms of energy which require
matter in order to manifest themselves, begin to act, amongst others
that form of energy which has for one of its factors that which we
now speak of as atomic weight.
     We have now to seek how protyle was converted not into one only
kind of matter but into many. If we recognise that it contained
within itself the potentiality of all atomic weights, how did these
potentialities become actual ? We may here call to mind the sug
gestion of Dr. E. J. Milla, that onr elements are the result of suc
cessive polymerisations during the cooling process. We shall also
derive much assistance from a method of illustrating the periodic law
proposed by my friend Professor Emerson Keynolds, of the University
of Dublin.
     I must call your attention to a diagram (Fig. 5) in which I have
slightly modified the original design of Professor Reynolds. I have
represented the pendulum swing as gradually declining in amplitude
according to a mathematical law. I have further interposed between
cerium and lead another half-swing of the pendulum. This renders
the oscillations more symmetrical and brings gold, mercury, thallium,
lead, and bismuth to the side where they are fully in harmony with
members of previous groups.
     The chemical elements are arranged in order, according to their
atomic weights, on the centre vertical line which is divided into equal
parts.
     Following the curve from hydrogen downwards, we see that the
elements forming the eighth group of Mendeleeff's arrangement are
situate near three of the ten nodal points. This eighth group is
divided into the three triplets—iron, nickel, and cobalt ; rhodium,
ruthenium, and palladium ; iridium, osmium, and platinum.
     These bodies are interperiodic because their atomic weights
exclude them from the small periods into which the other elements
fall, and because their chemical relations with some members of the
neighbouring groups show that they are probably interperiodic in the
sense of being in transition stages.
     Notice how accurately the series of like bodies fits into this
scheme. Beginning at the top, run the eye down analogous positions
in each oscillation, taking either the electro-positive or electro-negative
swings. (See Table, p. 54.)
     Notice, also, how orderly the metals discovered by spectrum
analysis fit in their places—gallium, indium, and thallium ; rubidium
and caesinm.
     The symmetry of nearly all this series proclaims at once that we
are working in the right direction. Much also may bo learned from
the anomalies here visible. A few bodies, such as didymium, erbium,

1887.] on Genesis of Ihe Elements. 53
                 FIG. 5.

54                          Mr. WiUiam Crookes                    [Feb. 18,
thulium, and ytterbium, are out of place, and require to have their
atomic weights redetermined.
                                    TABLE II.
                       VERTICAL SERIES OP THE ELEMENTS.
                    ETEN.                              ODD.
iv. iii.   iii.  ii.   ii.   i.   i.         i. • i. ii. ii. iii.   iii. iv.
            v.         vi.       vii.      vii.      vi.      v.
C    B     N Be O           Li   P          Cl    Na S    Mg  P     Al   Si
Ti   So V Ca Cr             K    Mn         Br    Cu Se   Zn  As    Ga   Ge
Zr   Yt Nb Br Mo            Rb   —          I     Ag Te   Od  Sb    In   Sn
Ce   La — Ba Sm             Cs   —          —     —  —    —  —      —    —
—    ————                   —    —          —     An —    Hg Bi     Tl   Pb
     The more I ponder over the arrangement of this zigzag curve, the
more I become convinced that he who fully grasps its meaning holds
the key to unlock some of the deepest mysteries of creation. As
Mr. Browning puts it in his ' Parleyings '—" "Tis Man's to explore
Up and down, inch by inch, with the taper his reason." Let us batter
at the door of the Unknown and do our utmost to get a glimpse of
some few of the secrets so darkly hidden.
     Let us return in imagination to pre-geological ages, before the
 sun himself had beeh aggregated from the original protyle. We
 require two very reasonable postulates; let there be granted an
 antecedent form of energy having periodic cycles of ebb and swell,
 rest and activity. Let there also be granted an internal action akin
 to cooling operating slowly in the protyle. The first-born element
 would, in its simplicity, be most nearly allied to protyle. This is
 hydrogen, of all known bodies the simplest in structure and of the
 lowest atomic weight. For some time hydrogen would be the only
 existing form of matter (in our sense of the term). Between
 hydrogen and the next formed element there would be a gap in
 time, and in the interval the element standing next in order of
 simplicity would gradually be approaching its birth-point. In this
 interval we may suppose that the evolutionary process soon to deter-
 mine the birth of a new element would fix likewise its atomic weight,
 its affinities, and its chemical position.
      In this genesis of the elements the longer the time taken up in
 the cooling-down process, during which the hardening of protyle into
 atoms takes place, the more sharply defined would be the resulting
 elements ; whilst the more rapid and the more irregular the cooling,
 the more closely the resulting bodies would fade into each other by
 almost imperceptible degrees. Thus we may conceive that the
 succession of events which gave rise to such groups as platinum,
 osmium, and indium,—palladium, ruthenium, and rhodium,—iron,
 nickel, and cobalt,—might have produced only one element in each
 of these three groups if the process had been greatly prolonged.
 And conversely, had the rate of cooling been much more rapid,
 elements might have originated still more nearly identical than are

1887.]                    on Oenesis of the Elements.                         55
nickel and cobalt. Thus may have arisen the closely allied elements
of the cerium, yttrium, and similar groups. In fact, we may regard
the collocation of the minerals of the class of samarskite and
gadolinite as a kind of cosmical lumber-room where elements in a
state of arrested development—the unconnected missing links of
inorganic Darwinism—are gathered together.
    Any well-defined element may be likened to a platform of stability,
connected by ladders of unstable bodies. In the first coalescence of
the primitive stuff there would be formed the smallest atoms ; these
would then unite, forming larger groups ; the gaps between the
several stages would gradually be bridged over and the stable
element appropriate to that stage would absorb, so to speak, tho
unstable rungs of the ladder which led up to it. It may be ques
tioned whether there is an absolute uniformity in the mass of every
ultimate atom even of one and the same chemical element. Probably
our atomic weights merely represent a mean value around which the
actual atomic weights of the atoms vary within certain narrow limits.
When, therefore, we say that, e.g. the atomic weight of calcium
is 40, the actual fact may well be, that whilst the majority of the
calcium atoms really have the atomic weight of -Id, some are repre
sented by 39-9 or 40-1, a smaller number by 39 '8 or 40-2, and
so on. The properties which we perceive in any element are thus
the mean of a number of atoms differing among themselves very
slightly, but still not identical.* Is this the true meaning of
Newton's " old worn particles ? "
     That this speculation, hazardous as it may seem, is in some
respects supported by the experimental results above described will,
I think, be admitted. It seems to me that the hypothesis I have just
suggested, if taken in conjunction with the diagram, Fig. 5, enables us
to proceed a step or two further along the track of the evolution of
the elements. We may trace in the undulating curve the action of
two forms of energy, the one acting vertically and the other vibrating
to and fro like a pendulum. Let the vertical line represent tem
perature gradually sinking through an unknown number of degrees
from the dissociation-point of the first-formed element downwards
to the dissociation-point of tho last member of the scale.
     But what form of energy is figured by the oscillating line ? We
see it swinging to and fro to points equidistant from a neutral centre.
We see this divergence from neutrality confer atomicity of one, two,
three, or four degrees as the distance from the centre increases to
one, two, three, or four divisions. We see the approach to or the
retrocession from this same neutral line deciding the electro-negative
    • I venture to suggest that the heavier and lighter atoms formed from the
protyle may have been partially sorted out by a process in nature somewhat
analogous to the fractionation which has been already dtscribed. Such a sorting
out would be effected chiefly whilst atomic matter was condensing from the
primal state ; but it may also have been carried on during geological ages in the
 wet wny by successive solutions and re-precipitutions of the various earths.

56                            Mr. William Crookes                       [Feb. 18,
or electro-positive character of each element ; those on the retreating
half of the swing being positive, and those on the approaching half
negative. In short, we are led to suspect that this oscillating power
must be closely connected with the imponderable matter, essence, or
source of energy we call electricity.
     Let us now return to the period just preceding the birth of the
first element. Before that time matter as it now is manifested did
not exist. We can no more conceive of matter without energy than
of energy without matter ; indeed from one point of view the two are
convertible terms. Let us assume that simultaneously with the
creation of atoms all those attributes which enable us to discriminate
one form of matter from another, start into being endowed with
energy.
     Our pendulum begins its swing from the electro-positive side ;
lithium, next to hydrogen in the simplicity of its atomic weight,
is now formed, followed by plucinum. boron, and carbon. Each
element, at the moment of birth, takes up definite quantities of
electricity, and on these quantities its atomicity depends.* Thus
are fixed the types of the monatomic, diatomic, triatomic, and
tetratomic elements.
      It has been pointed out by Dr. Curnelley that " those elements
belonging to the even series of the periodic classification are always
paramagnetic, whereas the elements belonging to the odd series are
always diamagnetic." Now in our curve the even series to the left,
 so far as has been ascertained, are paramagnetic, whilst, with a few
 exceptions, all to the right are diamagnetic. The strongly magnetic
 group, iron, manganese, nickel, and cobalt, lie close together on the
 proper side. But the interperiodic groups, of which palladium and
 platinum are respectively examples, are supposed to be feebly mag
 netic. If this can be verified they form exceptions which have yet to
 be explained. Oxygen, which weight for weight is even more
 strongly magnetic than iron, lies near the beginning of the curve,
 whilst at the opposite end come the powerfully diamagnetic metals,
 bismuth and thallium.
      We come now to the return or negative part of the swing ;
 n'trogeu appears and shows instructively how position governs the
 mean dominant atomicity. Nitrogen occupies a position immediately
     * "Nature presents us with a single definite quantity of electricity. . . .
 For ench chemical bond which is ruptured within an electrolyte a certain
 quantity of electricity traverses the electrolyte, which is the same in all cases."
 —G. JOHNSTONE STONEY, " On the Physical Units of Nature."— British Associa
 tion Meeting, 1874, Section A. Phil. Mag., May, 1881.
     " The bame definite quantity of either positive or negative electricity moves
 always with each univalent ion, or with every unit of affinity of n multivalent
 ion."—HELMHOLTZ, Faraday Lecture, 1881.
     "Every monad atom has associated with it a certain definite quantity of
 electricity; every dyad has twice this quantity associated with it; every triad
 three times as much, and so on."—O. LOPOE, "On Electrolysis," British Associa
 tion Report, 1885.

                                                                        •v\
                                                 u           " r. .- " !' v\
                                                                           ,'.
 1887.1l                 on Genesis of
                                     ' the .      ^^g£j''l'ft -        ; Jft
 b*-low boron, a triatomic element, and, therefore, nTlrTJgeTT is likewise
 triatomic. But nitrogen also follows upon carbon, a tetratomic body,
 and occupies the fifth position if we count from the place of origin.
 Now these seemingly opposing tendencies are beautifully harmonised
 by the endowment of nitrogen with a/uouble atomicity, its atom being
 capable of acting either as a tri- or as a pentatomic element. With
 oxygen (di- and hexatomic) and fluorine (mon- and heptatomic) the
 same law holds good, and one half-oscillation of the pendulum is
 completed. Passing the neutral line again, we find successively
 formed the electro-positive bodies sodium (monatomic), magnesium
 (diatomic), aluminium (triatomic), and silicon (tetratomic).
     Here we may notice a curious coincidence ; at the beginning of
 this part of the curve stands carbon, the most ubiquitous element in
 the organic world. At the end, in opposition, stands silicon, the
 most commonly occurring element in the inorganic sphere. Further,
 as we move towards the median line, carbon is successively followed
 by nitrogen, oxygen, and fluorine, all entering into organic com
 pounds and all gaseous in the free state. If we work back from
 silicon we find aluminium, magnesium, and sodium, all much less
 disposed to volatility, and all very prominent members of the mineral
kingdom.
     The first complete swing of the pendulum is accomplished by tbo
 birth of the three electro-negative elements, phosphorus, sulphur, and
 chlorine ; all three, like the corresponding elements on the opposite
 homeward swing, having at least a double atomicity, depending on
 position.
     Let us pause and examine the results. We have now formed the
 elements of water, of air, of ammonia, of carbonic acid, of plant and
 animal life; we have phosphorus for the brain, salt for the sea, clay
 and sand for the solid earth; two alkalies, an alkaline earth, an
 earth, along with their carbonates, borates, nitrates, fluorides,
 chlorides, sulphates, phosphates, and silicates, sufficient, it may be
 said, for animal and vegetable life, and for a world not so very
 different from that in which we live and move.
     Again let us follow our pendulum. After the formation of
chlorine this pendulum touches the neutral line, and is in the same
position as in the beginning. Had everything remained as at first
the next element to appear would again have been lithium, and the
original cycle would have been eternally repeated, producing again
and again the same fifteen elements. The conditions, however, are
no longer the same : time has elapsed and the form of energy re
presented by the vertical line has declined ; in other words, the
temperature has sunk, and the first element to come into existence
when the pendulum starts for its second oscillation is not lithium,
but the metal next allied to it in the series, i. e. potassium, which may
be regarded as the lineal descendant of lithium, with the samo
hereditary tendencies, but with less molecular mobility and a higher
atomic weight.

58                          Mr. William Crookes                 [Feb. 18,
    Pass along tie curve and in nearly every case the same law holds
good. Thus the last element of the first complete vibration is
chlorine. In the corresponding place in the second vibration we
have not an exact repetition of chlorine but the very similar body
bromine, and when the same position recurs for the third time we
see iodine. I need not multiply examples. I may, however, point
out that we have here a phenomenon which reminds us of alter
nating or cyclical generation in the organic world, or we may
perhaps say of atavism, a recurrence to ancestral types, somewhat
modified.
     In this evolutionary scheme it cannot be expected that the
potential elements should all be equal to each other. On the con
trary, many degrees of stability will be represented, and if we look
with a scrutinising eye we shall see our old friend the " missing
link," coarse enough to be detected in the groups comprising such
bodies as iron, nickel, and cobalt ; palladium, ruthenium, and
rhodium ; iridium, osmium, and platinum : whilst in a more subtile
form these missing links present themselves as representatives of the
differences which I have suggested between the atoms of the same
chemical element.
     On the even or paramagnetic half of the swing the energy
appears to have acted in a very irregular manner, whilst on the odd,
or diamagnetic half, there is considerable regularity. Thus, be
tween the extreme odd elements, silicon (28), germanium (73),
tin (118), a missing element (163), and lead (208) there is a differ
ence of exactly 45 units, rendering this half of the curve remarkably
symmetrical. On the even side the differences are 36, 42, 51, 39
 and 53 (assuming an atomic weight of 180 for a missing element
between cerium and thorium). At first sight these differences
appear to follow no law, but they gain interest when we see that the
 mean differences of these figures is 44 • 2—almost exactly the same as
 that on the odd side of the curve.
     From this uniformity of difference—actual on the one side and
 average on the other—we may fairly infer that whilst on the odd side
 there has been little or no variation in the force symbolised by the ver
 tical line, minor irregularities have been the rule on the even side.
 Or, in other words, the fall of temperature has been very uniform on
 the odd side—where, accordingly, we see that every original element
 represents a well marked group, sodium, magnesium, aluminium,
 silicon, phosphorus, and chlorine ; whilst on the even side the tem
 perature has fallen with considerable fluctuations, thus preventing
 the formation here of any well-marked groups of elements, excepting
 those of which lithium and glucinum are' the leading types.
     Having thus detected irregularities in the fall of temperature in
 the protyle, we may next ask is there any fluctuation in the force re
presented by the pendulum-movement ? This movement I have
 assumed to be connected with electrical energy. The earliest-formed
 elements are those in which chemical energy is at a maximum ; as

1887.]                    on Genesis of the Elements.                        59
we descend the scale the affinities become feebler and the chemism
grows more and more sluggish. In part this change may be due to
the circumstance that the elements generated at a reduced tempera
ture no longer possess great molecular mobility. But it is also ex
tremely probable that the chemism-forming energy is itself dying
out like the fires of the cosmic furnace. I have attempted to sym
bolise this gradual fading by a decrease in the amplitude of
vibration.
     The figures representing the scale of atomic weights may be sup
posed to represent, inversely, the scale of a gigantic pyrometer
plunged into a cauldron where the elements of suns and worlds are
undergoing formation. As the heat sinks, the elements generated
increase in density and atomic weight. Below the formation-point
of uranium the temperature will probably permit of the earlier-born
elements forming combinations among themselves, and we shall
witness, e. g. the birth of water, and the formation of those known
compounds the dissociation of which is not beyond the powers of our
terrestrial sources of heat.
     Turning to the upper portion of the diagram we see that there is
little room for elements of a lower atomic weight than hydrogen.
But let us pass " through the looking-glass " and cross the zero line.
What shall we find on the other side ? Dr. Carnellcy asks for an
element of negative atomic weight ; and here is ample room and
verge enough for a shadow series of such unsubstantialities, leading,
perhaps, to that "Unseen Universe" which two eminent physicists
have discussed. Helmholtz says that electricity is probably as
atomic as matter ;* is electricity one of the negative elements ? and
the linnin ilrrons ether another? Matter, as we now know it, does
not here exist ; and the forms of energy which are apparent in the
motions of matter are as yet only latent possibilities.
     A genesis of the elements such as is here sketched would not be
confined to our little solar system, but would probably follow the
same general sequence of events in every centre of energy now visible
as a star.
     It may be said that so far I have proved nothing. But I may
submit that at least I have shown the improbability of the per
sistence of the ultimate character, and the eternal self-existence, the
fortuitous origin, and the simultaneous creation of the elements.
The analogy of these elements with the organic radicles, and still
more with living organisms, constrains us to suspect that they are
compound bodies, springing from a process of evolution. We have
drawn corroborative evidence from the distribution and the associa
tion of the rare earths, evidence which seems to be converging to the
    * " If we accept the hypothesis that the elementary substances are composed
of atoms, we cannot avoid concluding that electricity also, positive as well as
negative, is divided into definite elementary portions, which behave like atoms
of electricity."—HELMHOLTZ, Faraday Lecture, 1881.

60             Mr. W. Crookes on Genesis of the Ekments.       [Feb. 18,
point of assuming a direct character. Led by the great law of con
tinuity I have ventured to suggest a process by wbich our elements
may have been originated. I dare not say must have been originated,
for no one can be better aware than I am how much remains to be
done before this great, this fundamental question can be finally
solved. I earnestly hope that others will take up the task, and that
chemistry, like biology, may find its Darwin.
    If we consider the position we occupy with reference to the
primary questions of chemistry, we might compare research to a
game of chess. Man, the investigator, is playing, not with Satan for
his soul, but with Nature for knowledge and power. Each element
has its allotted moves on the great board of the universe ; some of
them dependent solely on themselves, and others on the interaction
of the adjacent elements. Some of our elements may be compared to
pawns, others to knights, bishops, or castles. The game is fearfully
unequal. Our antagonist knows the power and the limitations of
every piece, all the laws of the game, all possible moves, and is
merciless in exacting penalty for errors. We experimentalists know
nothing but what we have learned in countless losing games. But
our knowledge is increasing. Nature no longer gives us foo1's
mate. The struggle becomes more obstinate, more exciting, we come
upon new gambits, new combinations, and though still checkmated
at the hist, we take a few pawns, perhaps even a piece or two. Such
partial successes were achieved when Lavoisier introduced the use of
the balance and developed the theory of combustion ; when Dalton
put forward the atomic theory ; when Davy decomposed the alkalies ;
when Wohler effected the synthesis of urea ; and when Faraday first
liquefied a gas. On such and many similar occasions I can imagine
our antagonist becoming thoughtful.
    But suppose we one day win the game ; that we find out what
these obstinate elements really are, that we learn how they came
into being, and wherefore their number, their properties, and their
mutual relations are such as we find them ? We shall then know,
a priori, what we have now to find out by special experiment ; we
shall foresee the results of every conceivable reaction, and our
theories will legitimate themselves by the power of prediction. To
attain such knowledge seems to me the grand task of the chemistry
of the coming age.
    If you think I have given too free rein to the " scientific imagina
tion " you will, I hope, forgive me as one who at least does not
despair of the future of our Science.
                                                              [W. 0.]

1887.]        Captain W. de W. Abney on Sunlight Colours.            61
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 25, 1887.
  WILLIAM Hcooms, Esq. D.O.L. LL.D. F.R.S. Manager and Vice-
                         President, in the Chair.
              CAPTAIN W. DE W. ABNEY, R.E. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                            Sunlight Colours.
SUNLIGHT is so intimately woven up with our physical enjoyment of
life that it is perhaps not the most uninteresting subject that can be
chosen for what is—perhaps somewhat pedantically—termed a Friday
evening " discourse." Now, no discourse ought to be possible without
a text on which to hang one's words, and I think I found a suitable
one when walking with an artist friend from South Kensington
Museum the other day. The sun appeared like a red disk through
one of those fogs which the east wind had brought, and I happened
to point it out to him. He looked, and said, " Why is it that the sun
appears so red ? " Being near the railway station, whither he was
bound, I had no time to enter into the subject, but said if he would
come to the Royal Institution this evening I would endeavour to
explain the matter. I am going to redeem that promise, and to
devote at all events a portion of the time allotted to me in answering
the question why the sun appears red in a fog. I must first of all
appeal to what every one who frequents this theatre is so accustomed
to, viz. the spectrum ; I am going not to put it in the large and
splendid strjpe of the most gorgeous colours before you with which
you are so well acquainted, but my spectrum will take a more modest
form of purer colours some twelve inches in length.
    I would ask you to notice which colour is most luminous. I
think that no one will dispute that in the yellow we have the most
intense luminosity, and that it fades gradually in the red on the one
side and in the violet on the other. This theu may be called a quali
tative estimate of relative brightnesses ; but I wish now to introduce
to you what was novel last year, a quantitative method of measuring
the brightness of any part.
     Before doing this I must show you the diagram of t'.ie apparatus
which I shall employ in some of my experiments.
     B B are rays (Fig. 1) coming from the arc light, or, if we were
using sunlight, from a heliostat, and a solar image is formed by a lens,
L,,on the nlit st of the collimator o. The parallel rays produced by
the lens L2 are partially refracted and partially reflected. The former
pass through the prisms r,P2, and are focused to form a spectrum by

62                         Captain W. de W. Abney               [Feb. 25,
a lens, r,3, on D, a movable ground-glass screen. The rays are collected
by a lens, r.,, tilted at an angle as shown, to form a white image of the
near surface of the second prism on r.
    Passing a card with a narrow slit S2, cut in it in front of the
spectrum, any colour which I may require can be isolated. The
consequence is that, instead of the white patch upon the screen, I
                                   Fro. 1.
                               Colour Photometer.
have a coloured patch, the colour of which I can alter to any hue
lying between the red and the violet. Thus, then, we are able to get
a real patch of very appropriately homogeneous light to work with,
and it is with these patches of colour that I shall have to deal. Is
there any way of measuring the brightness of these patches ? was a
 question asked by General Festing and myself. After trying various
plans, we hit upon the method I shall now show you, and if any one
 works with it he must become fascinated with it on account of its
almost childish simplicity—a simplicity, I may remark, which it took
us some months to find out. Placing a rod before the screen, it casts
a black shadow surrounded with a coloured background. Now I may

1887.]                    on Sunlight Colours.                         63
cast another shadow from a candle or an incandescence lamp, and the
two shadows are illuminated, one by the light of the coloured patch
and the other by the light from an incandescence lamp which I am
using to-night. [Shown.] Now one stripe is evidently too dark. By
mi arrangement which I have of altering the resistance interposed
between the battery and the lamp, I can diminish or increase the light
from the lamp, first making the shadow it illuminates too light and
then too dark compared with the other shadow which is illuminated
by the coloured light. Evidently there is some position in which
 the shadows are equally luminous. When that point is reached, I can
read off the current which is passing through the lamp, and having
previously standardised it for each increment of current, I know what
amount of light is given out. This value of the incandescence lamp
I can use as an ordinate to a curve, the scale number which marks tho
position of the colour in the spectrum being the abscissa. This can
be done for each part of the spectrum, and so a complete curve can be
constructed which we call the illumination curve of the spectrum of
 the light under consideration.
      Now, when we are working in the laboratory with a steady light,
we may be at ease with this method, but when we come to workmg
with light such as the sun, in which there may be constant variation
owing to passing, and maybe usually imperceptible, mist, we are met
with a difficulty ; and in order to avoid this, General Festing and
myself substituted another method, which I will now show you. We
made the comparison light part of the light we were measuring.
Light which enters the collimating lens partly passes through
the prisms and is partly reflected from the first surface of the
prism ; that we utilise, thus giving a second shadow. The reflected
rays from p, fall on o, a silver-on-glass mirror. They are collected by
J<- , and form a white image of the prism also at F. The method we
can adopt of altering the intensity of the comparison light is by
means of rotating sectors, which can be opened or closed at will, and
the two shadows thus made equally luminous. [Shown.] But
although this is an excellent plan for some purposes, we have found
it better to adopt a different method. You will recollect that the
brightest part of the spectrum is in the yellow, and that it falls off in
brightness on each side, so, instead of opening and closing the sectors,
they are set at fixed intervals, and the slit is moved in front of the
spectrum, just making the shadow cast by the reflected beam too dark
or too light, and oscillating between the two till equality is dis
covered. The scale number is then noted, and the curve con
structed as before. It must be remembered that, on each side of the
yellow, equality can be established.
      This method of securing a comparison light is very much better
for sun work than any other, as any variation in the light whose
spectrum is to be measured affects the comparison light in tho same
degree. Thus, suppose I interpose an artificial cloud before the slit
of the spectroscope, having adjusted the two shadows, it will be seen

 64                      Captain W. de W. Abney                [Fob. 25,
 that the passage of steam in front of the slit does not alter the
 relative intensities ; but this result must be received with caution.
 [The lecturer then proceeded to point out the contrast colours that
the shadow of the rod illuminated by white light assumed.]
     I must now make a digression. It must not be assumed that
 every one has the same sense of colour, otherwise there would be no
colour-blindness. Part of the researches of General Testing and
 myself have been on the subject of colour-blindness, and these I
must briefly refer to. We test all who come by making them match
 the luminosity of colours with white light, as I have now shown you ;
and as a colour-blind person has only two fundamental colour per
ceptions instead of three, his matching of luminosities is even more
accurate than is that made by those whose eyes are normal or nearly
normal. It is curious to note how many people are more or less
deficient in colour-perception. Some have remarked that it is
impossible that they were colour-blind, and would not believe it,
and sometimes we have been staggered at first with the remarkable
manner in which they recognised colour to which they ultimately
proved deficient in perception. For instance, one gentleman when I
asked him the name of a red colour patch, said it was sunset colour ;
he then named green and blue correctly, but when I reverted to the
red patch he said green. On testing further he proved totally defi
cient in the colour-perception of red, and with a brilliant red patch
he matched almost a black shadow. The diagram shows you the
relative perceptions in the spectrum of this gentleman and myself.
There are others who only see three-quarters, others half, and others
a quarter the amount of red that we see, whilst some see none. Others
see less green and others less violet, but I have met with no one that
can see more than myself or General Festiug, whose colour-perceptions
are almost identical. Hence we have called our curve of illumination
the " normal curve."
     We have tested several eminent artists in this manner, and about
one-half of the number have been proved to see only three-quarters
of the amount of red which we see. It might be thought that this
would vitiate their powers of matching colour, but it is not so. They
paint what they see, and although they see less red in a subject, they
see the same deficiency in their pigments ; hence they are correct.
If totally deficient, the case of course would be different.
    Let us carry our experiments a step further, and see what effect
what is known as a turbid medium has upon the illuminating value
of different parts of the spectrum. I have here water which has been
rendered turbid in a very simple manner. In it has been very
cautiously dropped an alcoholic solution of mastic. Now mastic is
practically insoluble in water, and directly the alcoholic solution
comes in contact with the water it separates out in very fine particles,
which, from their very fineness, remain suspended in the water. I
propose now to make an experiment with this turbid water.
    I place a glass cell containing water in front of the slit, and on

1887.]                     on Sunlight Colours.                        65
the screen I throw a patch of blue light. I now change it for turbid
water in a cell. This thickness much dims the blue ; with a still
greater thickness the blue has almost gone. If I measure the
intensity of the light at each operation, I shall find that it diminishes
according to a certain law, which is of the same nature as the law of
absorption. For instance, if one inch diminishes the light one-half,
the next will diminish it half of that again, the next half of that
again, whilst the fourth inch will cause a final diminution of the
total light of one-sixteenth. If the first inch allows only one-quarter
of the light, the next will only allow one-sixteenth, and the fourth
inch will only permit 1/256 part to pass. Let us, however, take a
red patch of light and examine it in the same way. We shall find
that, when the greater thickness of the turbid medium we used
when examining the blue patch of light is placed in front of the slit,
much more of this light is allowed to pass than of the blue. If we
measure the light we shall find that the same law holds good as
before, but that the proportion which passes is invariably greater
with the red than the blue. The question then presents itself: Is
there any connection between the amounts of the red and the blue
which pass? Lord Rayleigh, some years ago, made a theoretical
investigation of the subject ; but, as far as I am aware no definite
experimental proof of the truth of the theory was made till it waa
tested last year by General Festing and myself. His law was that
for any ray, and through the same thickness, the light transmitted
•varied inversely as the fourth power of the wave-length. The wave
length 6000 lies in the red, and the wave-length 4000 in the violet.
Now 6000 is to 4000 as 3 to 2, and the fourth powers of these wave
lengths are as 81 to 16, or as about 5 to 1. If, then, the four inches
of our turbid medium allowed three-quarters of this particular red
 ray to be transmitted, they would only allow (?)5, or rather less than
 one-fourth, of the blue ray to pass. Now this law is not like the law
of absorption for ordinary absorbing media, such as coloured glass for
instance, because here we have an increased loss of light running
from the red to the blue, and it matters not how the medium is made
turbid, whether by varnish, suspended sulphur, or what not. It holds
in every case, so long as the particles which make the medium turbid
are small enough; and please to recollect that it matters not in the
 least whether the medium which is rendered turbid is solid, liquid,
or air. Sulphur is yellow in mass, and mastic varnish is nearly
white, whilst tobacco-smoke when condensed is black, and very minute
 particles of water are colourless : it matters not what the colour is,
 the loss of light is always the same. The result is simply due to the
 scattering of light by fine particles, such particles being small in
dimensions compared with a wave of light. Now, in this trough is
 suspended 1/1000 of a cubic inch of mastic varnish, and the water in
 it measures about 100 cubic inches, or is 100,000 times more in bulk
 than the varnish. Under a microscope of ordinary power it is
 impossible to distinguish any particles of varnish : it looks like a
     VOL. XII. (No. 81.)                                          F

66                      Captain W. de W. Ab*e,y                [Feb. 25,
homogeneous fluid, though we know that mastic will not dissolve in
water. Now a wave-length in the red is about 1/40,000 of an inch,
and a little calculation will show that these particles are well within
the necessary limits. Prof. Tyndall has delighted audiences here
with an exposition of the effect of the scattering of light by small
particles in the formation of artificial skies, and it would be super
fluous for me to enter more into that. Suffice it to say that when
particles are small enough to form the artificial blue sky they are
fully small enough to obey the above law, and that even larger
particles will suffice. We may sum up by saving that very fine
particles scatter more blue light than red light, and that consequently
more red light than blue light passes through a turbid medium, and
that the rays obey the law prescribed by theory. I will exemplify this
once more by using the whole spectrum and placing this cell, which
contains hyposulphite of soda in solution in water, in front of the
slit. By dropping in hydrochloric acid, the sulphur separates out in
minute particles ; and you will see that, as the particles increase in
number, the violet, blue, green, and yellow disappear one by one and
 only red is left, and finally the red disappears itself.
     Now let me revert to the question why the son is red at sunset.
Those who are lovers of landscape will have often seen on some
 bright summer's day that the most beautiful effects are those in
 which the distance is almost of a match to the sky. Distant hills
 which when viewed close to are green or brown, when seen some five
 or ten miles away appear of a delicate and delicious, almost of a
 cobalt, blue colour. Now, what is the cause of this change in colour ?
 It is simply that we have a sky formed between us and the distant
 ranges, the mere outline of which looms through it. The shadows are
 softened so as almost to leave no trace, and we have what artists call an
 atmospheric effect. If we go into another climate, such as Egypt or
 amongst the high Alps, we usually lose this effect. Distant mountains
 Btand out crisp with black shadows, and the want of atmosphere
 is much felt. [Photographs showing these differences were shown.]
 Let as ask to what this is due. In such climates as England there is
 always a certain amount of moisture present in the atmosphere, and
 this moisture may be present as very minute particles of water—so
 minute indeed that they will not sink down in an atmosphere of
 normal density—or as vapour. When present as vapour the air is
 much more transparent, and it is a common expression to use, that
 when distant hills look " so close " rain may bo expected shortly to
 follow, since the water is present in a state to precipitate in larger
 particles ; but when present as small particles of water the hills
 look very distant, owing to what we may call the haze between us and
 them. In recent weeks every one has been able to see very multiplied
 effects of such haze. The ends of long streets, for instance, have
 been scarcely visible though the sun may have been shining, and at
 night the long vistas of gas lamps have shown light having an in
 creasing redness as they became more distant. Every one admits the

1887.]                    on Sunlight Colours.                      67
presence of mist on these occasions, and this mist must be merely a
collection of intangible and very minute particles of suspended water.
In a distant landscape we have simply the same or a smaller quantity
of street-mists occupying, instead of perhaps 1000 yards, ten times
that distance. Now I would ask, What effect would such a mist have
upon the light of the sun which shone through it ?
    It is not in the bounds of present possibility to get outside our
atmosphere and measure by the plan I have described to you the
different illuminating values of the different rays, but this we can
do :—First, we can measure these values at different altitudes of the
Bnn, and this means measuring the effect on each ray after passing
through different thicknesses of the atmosphere, either at different
times of day, or at different times of the year, about the same hour.
Second, by taking the instrument up to some such elevation as that
to which Langley took his bolometer at Mount Whitney, and so to
leave the densest part of the atmosphere below us. Now, I have
adopted both these plans. For more than a year I have taken measure
ments of sunlight in my laboratory at South Kensington, and I have
also taken the instrument up to 8000 feet high in the Alps, and made
observations there, and with a result which is satisfactory in that
both sets of observations show that the law which holds with artifi
cially turbid media is under ordinary circumstances obeyed by sunlight
in passing through our air : which is, you will remember, that more
of the red is transmitted than of the violet, the amount of each de
pending on the wave-length. The luminosity of the spectrum observed
                                  FIG. 2.
                          Relative Luminosities.
at the liiffel I have used as my standard luminosity, and compared
all others with it. The result for four days you see in tho diagram.
                                                           F 2

68                      Captain W. de W. Abney                 [Feb. 25,
    I have diagrammatically shown the amount of different colours
which penetrated on the same days, taking the Riffel as ten. It will
be seen that on December 23 we have really very little violet and less
than half the green, although we have four-fifths of the red.
    The next diagram before you shows the minimum loss of light
which I have observed for different air thicknesses. On the top we
                                    Fio. 3.
                     Proportions of Transmitted Colours.
have the calculated intensities of the different rays outside our
atmosphere. Thus wo have that through one atmosphere, and two,
three, and four ; and you will see what enormous absorption there is
in the blue end at four atmospheres. The areas of these curves,
which give the total luminosity of the light, are 761, 662, 577, 503,
and 439 ; and if observed as astronomers observe the absorption of
light, by means of stellar observations, they would have had the values,
761, 664, 578, 504, and 439—a very close approximation one to the
other.
    Next notice in the diagram that the top of the curve gradually
inclines to go to the red end of the spectrum as you get the light
transmitted through more and more air, and I should like to show
you that this is the case in a laboratory experiment. Taking a slide
with a wide and long slot in it, a portion is occupied by a right-
angled prism, one of the angles of 45° being towards the centre of
the slot. By sliding this prism in front of the spectrum I can deflect
outwards any portion of the spectrum I like, and by a mirror can
reflect it through a second lens, forming a patch of light on the screen
overlapping the patch of light formed by the undeflected rays. If the
two patches b& exactly equal, white light is formed. Now, by placing
a rod as before in front of the patch, I have two coloured stripes in a
white field, and though the background remains of the same intensity
of white, the intensities of the two stripes can be altered by moving

1887.]                      on Sunlight dolours. ^^* - •               69
the right-angled prism through the spectrum. The two stripes are
now apparently equally luminous, and I see the point of equality is
where the edge of the right-angled prism is in the green. Placing a
narrow cell filled with our turbid medium in front of the slit, I find
that the equality is disturbed, and I have to allow more of the yellow
to come into the patch formed by the blue end of the spectrum, and
consequently less of it in the red end. I again establish equality.
Placing a thicker cell in front, equality is again disturbed, and I have
to have less yellow still in the red half, and more in the blue half. I
now remove the cell, and the inequality of luminosity is still more
glaring. This shows, then, that the rays of maximum luminosity must
travel towards the red as the thickness of the turbid medium is
increased.
     The observations at 8000 feet, here recorded, were taken on
September 15 at noon, and of course in latitude 46° the sun could not
be overhead, but had to traverse what would be almost exactly
equivalent to the atmosphere at sea-level. It is much nearer the
calculated intensity for no atmosphere intervening, than it is for one
atmosphere. The explanation of this is easy. The air is denser at
sea-level than at 8000 feet up, and the lower stratum is more likely
 to hold small water particles or dust in suspension than is the higher.
     For, however small the particles may be, they will have a greater
 tendency to sink in a rare air than in a denser one, and less water
 vapour can be held per cubic foot. Looking, then, from my
 laboratory at South Kensington, we have to look through a propor
 tionately larger quantity of suspended particles than we have at a
 high altitude when the air thicknesses are the same ; and consequently
 the absorption is proportionately greater at sea-level than at 8000 feet
 high. This leads us to the fact that the real intensity of illumina
 tion of the different rays outside the atmosphere is greater than it is
 calculated from observations near sea-level. Prof. Langley, in this
 theatre, in a remarkable and interesting lecture, in which he de
 scribed his journey up Mount Whitney to about 12,000 feet, told us
that the sun was really blue outside our atmosphere, and at first blush
the amount of extra blue which he deduced to be present in it wonld,
 he thought, make it so; but though he surmised the result from
 experiments made with rotating disks of coloured paper, he did not,
 I think, try the method of using pure colours, and consequently, I
 believe, slightly exaggerated the blueness which would result. I
have taken Prof. Langley's calculations of the increase of intensity
 for the different rays, which I may say do not quite agree with mine,
and I have prepared a mask which I can place in the spectrum giving
the different proportions of each ray as calculated by him, and this
when placed in front of the spectrum will show you that the real
colour of sunlight outside the atmosphere, as calculated by Langley,
can scarcely be called bluish. Alongside I place a patch of light
which is very closely the colour of sunlight on a July day at noon
in England. This comparison will enable you to gauge the bluoncss,

 70                      Captain W. de W. Abney                 [Feb. 25,
 and you will see that it is not very blue, and, in fact, not bluer per
 ceptibly than that we have at the Riffel, the colour of the Bunlight at
 which place I Bhow in a similar way. I have also prepared some
 screens to show you the value of sunlight after passing through five
 and ten atmospheres. On an ordinary clear day you will see what a
 yellowness there is in the colour. It seems that after a certain
 amount of blue is present in white light the addition of more makes
 but little difference in the tint. But these last patches show that the
 light which passes through the atmosphere when it is feebly charged
 with particles does not induce the red of the sun as seen through
 a fog. It only requires more suspended particles in any thickness
 to induce it.
     In observations made at the Eiffel, and at 14,000 feet, I have
 found that it is possible to sec far into the ultra-violet, and to dis
 tinguish and measure lines in the sun's spectrum which can ordina
 rily only be seen by the aid of a fluorescent eye-piece or by means
 of photography. Circumstantial evidence tends to show that the
burning of the skin, which always takes place in these high altitudes
in sunlight, is due to the great increase in the ultra-violet rays. It
may be remarked that the same kind of burning is effected by the
electric arc light, which is known to be very rich in these rays.
     Again, to use a homely phrase, " You cannot eat your cake and
have it." You cannot have a large quantity of blue rays present in
your direct sunlight, and have a luminous blue sky. The latter must
always be light scattered from the former. Now, in the high Alps
you have, on a clear day, a deep blue-black sky, very different indeed
from the blue sky of Italy or of England ; and as it is the sky which
is the chief agent in lighting up the shadows, not only in those
regions do wo have dark shadows on account of no intervening—what
I will call—mist, but because the sky itself is so little luminous. In
an artistic point of view this is important. The warmth of an English
landscape in sunlight is due to the highest lights being yellowish,
and to the shadows being bluish from the sky-light illuminating them.
In the high Alps the high lights are colder, being bluer, and the
shadows are dark, and chiefly illuminated by reflected direct sunlight.
Those who have travelled abroad will know what the effect is. A
painting in the Alps, at any high elevation, is rarely pleasing,
although it may be true to Nature. It looks cold, and somewhat
harsh and blue.
     In London we are often favoured with easterly winds, and these,
unpleasant in other ways, are also destructive of that portion of the
sunlight which is the most chemically active on living organisms.
The sunlight composition of a July day may, by the prevalence of an
easterly wind, be reduced to that of a November day, as I have proved
by actual measurement. In this case it is not the water particles
which act as scatterers, but the carbon particles from the smoke.
     Knowing, then, the canse of the change in the colour of sunlight,
we can make an artificial sunset, in which we have an imitation light

1887.]                    on Sunlight Colours.                       71
passing through increasing thicknesses of air largely charged with
water particles. [The image of a circular diaphragm placed in front
of the electric light was thrown on the screen in imitation of the sun,
and a cell containing hyposulphite of soda placed in the beam.
Hydrochloric acid was then added : as the fine particles of sulphur
were formed, the disk of light assumed a yellow tint, and as the
decomposition of the hyposulphite progressed, it assumed an orange
and finally a deep red tint.] With this experiment I terminate my
lecture, hoping that in some degree I have answered the question I
propounded at the outset : why the sun is red when seen through
a fog.
                                                     [W. DK W. A.]

72      Mr. V. Horsley on Brain Surgery in the Stone Ages. [March 4,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 4, 1887.
    SIB WILLIAM BOWMAN, Bart. LL.D. F.R.S. Manager and Vice-
                        President, in the Chair.
              VICTOB HORSLEY, Esq. F.R.S. B.S. F.B.CA
                    Brain Surgery in the Stone Ayes.
THE title of this discourse fairly expressed its scope, for the practice
by the people of the neolithic period of resorting to surgery for the
relief of mischief to the brain was fully detailed.
    It seemed scarcely necessary to do more than briefly refer to the
gradual advance of civilisation through the stages of stone, bronze,
and iron ; but it was pointed out that while the Greeks at the time
of their siege of Troy had only half learnt how to use iron, the
northern nations of Europe were still in the stone period. Neither
did it appear necessary to do more than briefly allude to the general
habits of neolithic people, save to draw attention to the fact, that
whatever be its explanation, the instances in which trephining was
practised in the stone age occur more frequently in the centre of
France than anywhere else in Europe. The deliberate nature of
the operation, as exemplified in the skulls hitherto discovered, was
proved by the position of the openings, their being in the majority of
instances healed, and by the extremely interesting discovery of the
fact that the portions of bone cut out were not only preserved as
amulets, but also put back again into such a trephined head at the
time of death. From a comparison of the modes of trephining per
formed by savage and mediaeval nations, it was proved that the stone
age people opened the skull either by drilling, scraping, or sawing,
most probably by the last method. Similarly it was shown from a
study of the seat of operation, that in all probability recourse to
surgery was suggested by the symptoms of depressed fracture, and
notably by the symptoms of traumatic epilepsy.

 1887.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                         73
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, March 7, 1887.
  HENRY POLLOCK, Esq. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                   Gerrard Ansdell, Esq. F.C.S.
                   Alexander Thomas Binny, Esq.
                   Mrs. Amelia Coles,
                   Eugene H. Cowles, Esq.
                   Samuel Fenwick, M.D.
                   Edwin Freshfield, Esq. LL.D. V.P.S.A.
                   Edward Kraftmeier, Esq.
                   Thomas Hayter Lewis, Esq. F.S.A.
                   Captain Andrew Noble, C.B. F.R.S.
                   Charles M. Ronpell, Esq. M.A.
                   Major Ricarde Seaver,
                   Sir Henry Mervyn Vavasour, Bart.
                   Major-General Edmond Walker, £.E.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     A Letter was read to His Grace THK PRESIDENT from SIB
 FREDERICK ABEL, Organising Secretary to the Imperial Institute,
dated February 4, 1887, requesting the co-operation of the Royal
Institution in the promotion of the establishment of the Imperial
Institute.
     The Chairman described the course which the Managers propose
to adopt in effecting this co-operation, and stated that Subscriptions
for the Imperial Institute would be received at the Royal Institution,
and a List of such Subscriptions suspended in the Hall.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FBOM
Academia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Mii, Serie Quarts: Rendiconti. Vol. n.
     2° Semestre, Fasc. 12 ; Vol. III. Fasc. 1, 2. 8vo. 1886-7.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Vol. LV. Part 1, No. 3; Part 2, No. 3. 8vo.
     1886.
  Proceedings, 1886, NOs. 8, 9. 8vo.
Asiatic Society, Royal (Bombay Branch)—Index to the Transactions of the
     Literary Society of Bombay, Vol. I.-III. and to the Journals, Vol. I.-XVIL
     8vo. 1886.
Astranomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLVII. No. 3. 8vo. 1887.
Banlters, Institute of—Journal, Vol. VIII. Part 2. 8vo. 1887.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1886-7, Nos. 8, 9. 4to.
Canada, Geological and Natural History Survey of—Annual Report, 1885.
     With Maps. 8vo. 1886.
Chemical Society—Journal for February, 1887. 8vo.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. LXXXVII. 8vo.
     1886-7.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.8. &e. M.R.I. (the Editor)—Journal of the Royal
     Microscopical Society, 1887, Part 1. 8vo.

74                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [March 7,
Daweon and Sons, Messrs. W.—J. A. Berly's Universal Electrical Directory.
     8vo. 1887.
Despeissis, If. L. H—La Steno-Te'le'graphie. Par M, O. A. Cassagnes. 4to.
      1886.
Editon— American Journal of Science for February, 1887. 8vo.
   Analyst for February, 1887. 8vo.
   Athenraum for February, 1887. 4to.
   Chemical News for February, 1887. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for February, 1887. 8vo.
   Engineer for February, 1887. fol.
   Engineering for February, 1887. fol.
   Horological Journal for February, 1887. 8vo.
   Industries for February, 1887. fol.
   Iron for February, 1887. 4 to.
   Nature for February, 1887. 4to.
   Revne Scientiflque for February, 1887. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for February, 1887. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for February, 1887. 4to.
Florence, Biblioteca Kazionale Centrale—Bolletino, Num. 26. 8vo. 1887.
Franklin Instilule—Journal, No. 734. 8vo. 1887.
Geographical Society, Royal— Proceedings, New Series, Vol. IX. Noa. 2, 3. 8vo.
      1887.
   Supplementary Papers, Vol. II. No. 1. 8vo. 1887.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 169. 8vo. 1887.
Historical Society, Royal—Transactions, New Series, Vol. III. Parts 8 and 4.
      8vo. 1886.
Johnt Hopkins University — Studies in Historical and Political Science, Fifth
      Series, No. 3. 8vo. 1887.
   University Circular, No. 55. 4to. 1887.
Manchester Geological -Society—Transactions, Vol. XIX. Parts 3, 4. 8vo. 1887.
Marks, William D. Esq. (On; Author)—Limitations of the Expansion of Steam.
      8vo. 1887.
Meteorological Office—Monthly Weather Report for July-Aug. 1886. 4to.
   Meteorological Observations at Stations of the Second Order, 1882. 8vo. 1887.
   Hourly Readings, 1883, Part 4 ; 1884, Part 2. 4to. 1886-7.
Minietry of Public Works, Rome—Giornale del Genio Civile, Serie Quarto,
     Vol. VI. Noa. 11, 12. 8vo. And Disegni. fol. 1886.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
     Vol. XXXVI. Part 1. 8vo. 1887.
Nataifiitatir, Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1886, Part 4. 8vo.
Odontological Society of Great .Britain—Transactions, Vol. XIX. No. 3. New
      Series. 8vo. 1887.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, February, 1887. 8vo.
   Calendar. 8vo. 1887.
Photographic Society- Journal, New Series, Vol. XI. No. 4. 8vo. 1887.
Physical Society of London—Proceedings, Vol. VIII. Part 8. 8vo. 1887.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 250. 8vo. 1886.
Royal Society of New South Wales—-Journal and Proceedings, Vol. XIX. 8vo.
      1886.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Reports, Vol. XXII. 8vo. 1886.
Society of Arts—Journal, February, 1887. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XLIX. Part 4. 8vo. 1886.
St. Petersbourg, Acade-mie des Sciences-Memoiree, Tome XXXIV. Nos. 7-11.
      •tin. 1886.
 Vereins tur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandluugen, 1887:
     Heft, 1. 4to.
Wild, Dr. H. (the Director)—Annalen des Physikaliachen Central Obscrva-
     toriums, 1885. 4to. 1886.

1887.] Archd. Farrar on Society in the Fourth Century after Christ. 75
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 11, 1887.
  HENBY POLLOCK, Esq., Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
           The Ven. Archdeacon FABBAB, M.A. D.D. F.R.S.
                 Society in the Fourth Century after Christ.
AFTEB a brief sketch of the fourth century in its varied and strik
ing elements of life, and the great leaders of religious thought whom
it produced, the lecturer proceeded to mention some of its broad
general characteristics.
     1. It -was an age of great calamities, in which men suffered from
war, pestilence, famine, and the incursions of barbarians. The sack
of Home affected the civilised world like the shock of an earthquake.
The news of it fell with stunning force on the mind of St. Jerome,
in his cave at Bethlehem, and if St. Augustine was less deeply
moved by it, and felt chiefly concerned to prove that the catastrophe
was not the consequence of Christianity, the reason was that he was
chiefly interested in the City of God, while the City of Evil was
left to its predestined ruin.
     2. The highest no less than the lowest orders of society were
affected by these calamities. The age was full of " strange stories
of the deaths of kings." There was scarcely a single Emperor or
usurper of the century who did not perish by murder, suicide, or
execution, and the presentiment of Julian was justified, who, on
first putting on the Imperial purple, exclaimed,
                                            rby Si KO.T' &trat
                   t\\a0i iropfyvpios 6dmros ital /ioipa KjitrrtuV
 Or, as Chapman renders it,
          " Death with his purple finger shut, and violent fate his eyes."
     3. Tet the Emperors were surrounded with that elaborate pomp
 and circumstance which we call Byzantinism. Constantino's cruelty,
 and his passion for jewels, suggested the stinging epigram,
                      " Saturni aurea ssecla quis requirat ?
                        Sunt hsec gemmea, sed Neroniana ! "
 The court was filled with pompons ceremonies and slavish officialism.
 The title " Your Eternity " was just beginning to come into fashion,
 when it was scoffed out of court by St. Athanasius. By way of
 illustration, a description was given of one of the splendid summer
 processes of the Emperor Areadius. Yet the Emperors were often
 slaves to their own eunuchs.
     4. This age of calamity was also an age of boundless luxury, of

76 .                       Archdeacon Farrar               [March 11,
which details were'given from the Homilies of St. Chrysostom, and
the History of the Pagan soldier Aimnianus Marcellinns.
     5. The luxury flaunted itself side by side with the most grind
ing poverty. The general misery of the tax-crushed multitude was
illustrated by anecdotes from Palladius, St. Chrysostom, St. Basil,
and St. Ambrose.
     6. The fourth century was also an age of struggling beliefs, in
which many guided their professions exclusively by considerations
of social and political expediency.
    7. The combination of circumstances thus illustrated led to an
ever deepening superstition both among Pagans and Christians.
The Pagan spirit of superstition was illustrated by stories from the
sophist Eunapins, and by the wild outhurst of panic against the
use of sorcery in the days of Valens—a panic which closely
resembled the frantic state of suspicion prevalent in the days of the
Popish plot. The superstitious spirit of Christians was evinced by
the adoration paid to very dubious relics, and by the credulous
acceptance of the most portentous miracles, as shown in the biogra
phies of St. Martin of Tours, St. Gregory Tbaumaturgus, and others.
    8. Yet, amid all these superstitions and catastrophes, the quiet
everyday beautiful life of humanity was going on, as was shown by
peaceful pictures of the sweot Christian homes in which men like
St. Gregory of Nazianzus, St. Basil, and St. Chrysostnm in the
East, and St. Ambrose in the West, were trained to usefulness and
self-devotion.
    9. The lecturer proceeded to furnish various illustrations of the
life of the young. He gave anecdotes of the boyhood of St.
Augustine ; of the pranks played by students in the days of St.
Gregory of Nazianzus in the University of Athens ; of the rite of
mock initiation known as " the Bath " ; of the Professor Proaeresius
and the boy-student Eunapius.
    10. Some account was also given of the varied experiences of
St. Augustine as a Professor of Rhetoric at Carthage, Milan, and
Rorne ; of the turbulent young students known as the Eversores in
Africa ; and of the beautiful assiduity and skill with which Augus
tine trained his young pupils, Licentius and Trygetius, in his
retreat at Cassiciacum. The lecturer gave some curious and
striking anecdotes of the life of a youthful law student at Rorne,
as illustrated in the adventures of Alypius, a friend of St. Augus
tine, who was afterwards baptised with him.
    11. Details were then furnished of the life of eminent heathen
sophists, and eminent Christian bishops; and it was shown from
Ammianus Marcellinus, as well as from Christian writers, that
pomp and prosperity exercised a very unfortunate influence on the
lives and characters of many bishops in the great cities.
    12. The raging party spirit and riotous slander which prevailed
in this century were shown by circumstances in the lives of the
great Fathers, and especially of St. Athanasius. The lecturer

1887,]       on Society in the Fourth Century after Chri3t.       77
strongly enforced the lesson, taught by these narratives, of the
duty of fairness and kindness in judging alike of ancient and
contemporary characters.
    13. The passion for theological disputation which prevailed in
this century was illustrated by remarkable passages from St.
Jerome and St. Augustine.
    14. The lecturer then proceeded to deal with the subject of
Asceticism, its extraordinary growth and strange developments,
together with the disastrous effects which it produced on many
minds. This part of the subject was chiefly illustrated by details
derived from St. Chrysostom, St. Jerome, and Cassianus ; while
from anecdotes of St. Antony (whom the lecturer, however,
regarded as a purely legendary person) and St. Macarius, it was
shown that even the most rigid hermits were sometimes ready to
acknowledge that the ordinary course of Christian virtue might be
a more excellent way than their own.
    In the epilogue to the lecture it was pointed out that there
were many points of resemblance between the fourth century and
our own, and some remarks were made on the elements which
saved the civilisation of the fourth century from total destruction,
and which may still be fruitful in blessings to mankind.

 78                        Mr. George John Romanet                  [March 18,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 18, 1887.
     SIB WILLIAM BOWMAN, Bart. LL.D. F.R.S. Manager and Vice-
                          President in the Chair.
        GEOBOE JOHN ROMANES, Esq. M.A. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
               Mental Differences between Men and Women.*
 AFTER quoting sundry representative opinions upon the subject, from
 Aristotle downwards, the lecturer proceeded to enumerate what
 appeared to him the leading features of the distinction when men
 and women were received as classes or en masse. The inferiority of
 the female mind was displayed most conspicuously in a comparative
 absence of originality, especially in the higher levels of intellectual
 work. In her powers of acquisition the woman stood nearer to the
 man, although even here she was behind him ; for, as soon us the
 age of adolescence was reached, there was a greater power of amassing
 knowledge on the part of the male. As musical executants, however,
 and also as writers of fiction, equality could be fairly asserted.
     With regard to judgment, the female mind was apt to take superfi
 cial views, to be unduly biased from the side of the emotions, and in
 general to display comparative weakness. On the other hand, their
 greater refinement of nervous organisation led to more delicate powers
 of sensuous perception and rapidity of thought on the part of women.
     In this connexion Mr. Romanes gave the results of experiments
 which he had conducted on rapidity of reading, whereby it was shown
 that, as a rule, women could read much faster than men. Passing on
 to the emotions, he remarked that in women these were almost always
less under control of the will than in men, being usually more volatile
and displayed a greater tendency to childishness—the petty forms of
resentment which belonged to a shrew or a scold, caprice, vanity,
 fondness of display, of social excitement, being all more characteristic
of the feminine than of the masculine temperament.
     On the other hand, the meritorious qualities wherein the female
mind stood pre-eminent were affection, sympathy, devotion, modesty,
long-suffering, reverence, religious feeling, and in general the
gentler virtues as distinguished from the heroic. Therefore, when a
woman performed an act of heroism, the prompting motives were
almost sure to be of an unselfish kind. Hence, also, it was women
who first flocked in numbers to the standard of the Cross, and became
followers of the religion which, by changing the whole ideal of ethics
—or assigning the highest place to the gentler aud domestic
    * A full report of the discourse is published in the ' Nineteenth Century '
for May 1887.

1887.]       on Mental Differences between Men and Women.              79
virtues—was destined afterwards so greatly to exalt in the estimation
of man the character which belonged by nature to woman.
    Dealing lastly with the will, Mr. Romanes observed that this was
certainly less powerful in women than in men. We rarely found in
the former that firm tenacity of purpose and determination to overcome
all obstacles which was characteristic of what we called a manly
mind ; and when a woman was urged to any prolonged exercise of
volition, the prompting cause was usually to be found in the emotional
side of her nature. Moreover, even in the lesser displays of
volitional activity required for close reading, studious thought, &c.,
women were usually less able to concentrate their attention ; and
therefore they seldom specialised their pursuits to the extent usual
among men. Their indecision of character often led to timidity and
diffidence in adopting any line of conduct where issues of importance
were concerned, thus leaving them in the painful condition, as they
graphically expressed it, of " not knowing their own minds."
    Coming next to the causes of these mental differences between the
sexes, the lecturer argued that the biological principles of selection
had determined the physical superiority of male animals in general,
and with it the psychological qualities of courage, self-reliance, deter
mination, and, in short, all those mental characters which belonged
to a consciousness of bodily strength ; while, conversely, members of
the opposite sex had acquired the opposite characters. And in the
case of our own species these principles of selection further operated
with a conscious reference to psychical as well as to physical endow
ments, thus acting directly as well as indirectly in severing the
psychological characters of sex.
    Again, the maternal instincts and the prolonged association of
the mother with her children in our own species imparted to her a
fulness of emotional life, the whole quality of which was distinctively
feminine. Thus, in accordance with the law of inheritance as limited
by sex, we could understand how these influences became in successive
generations cumulative ; while in the fondness of little girls for dolls
we might note an interesting example in psychology of the law of
inheritance at earlier periods of life.
    There remained but one other nr.signn.ble cause of the mental
differences in question. This cause was education. From the con
dition of abject slavery to which woman was consigned in the lower
levels of human evolution to her condition at the present time, her
mental culture had been widely different from that of man. It was
not until the middle of the present century that any attempt was any
where made to provide for the higher education of women. But now,
whether we liked it or not, the woman's movement was upon us, and
we must endeavour to guide the flood into the most beneficial channels.
What were these channels ? Assuredly not those which ran straight
athwart all the mental differences between men and women. No
amount of female education could ever make equal this natural
inequality, nor was it desirable that it should. Woman was the

80          JKr. O. J. Romanes on Mental Differences, de. [March 18,
natural complement, not the natural rival of man ; and the qualities
of mind wherein he excels were not, sui generis, the most exalted of
human faculties. Mere strength, whether of mind or of body, was
not the highest criterion of nobility ; the truest grandeur of human
nature was revealed by that nature as a whole, and here there could
be no doubt that the feminine type was fully equal to the masculine.
But while we might hope that social opinion might ever continue to
oppose the woman's movement in its most extreme forms—or those
forms which aimed at setting up an unnatural and therefore impos
sible rivalry in the struggles of practical life—we might also hope
that social opinion would soon become unanimous in its encourage
ment of the higher education of women.
    The lecturer proceeded to enumerate the many advantages to
which this would lead, and to dispose of arguments on the other side.
                                                         [G. J. B.]

1887.]      Lord Rayleigh on the Colours of Thin Plates.             81
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, March 25, 1887.
SIB FBEDBBIOE ABEL, C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S. Manager and Vice-President,
                             in the Chair.
The BIGHT HON. LOBD BATLBIOH, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.B.S. M.B.I.
                    On the Colours of Thin Plates.
THE physical theory, as founded by Young and perfected by his
successors, shows how to ascertain the composition of the light
reflected from a plate of given material and thickness when the
incident light is white ; but it does not, and cannot tell, us, except
very roughly, what the colour of the light of such composition will
be. For this purpose we must call to our aid the theory of compound
colours, and such investigations as were made by Maxwell upon the
chromatic relations of the spectrum colours themselves. Maxwell
found that on Newton's chromatic diagram the curve representative
of the spectrum takes approximately the simple form of two sides of
a triangle, of which the angular points represent a definite red, a
definite green, and a definite violet. The statement implies that
yellow is a compound colour, a mixture of red and green.
    In illustration of this fact, an experiment was shown in which
a compound yellow was produced by absorbing agents. An infu
sion of litmus absorbs the yellow and orange rays ; a thin layer of
bichromate of potash removes the blue. Under the joint operation of
these colouring matters the spectrum is reduced to its red and green
elements, as may be proved by prismatic analysis ; but, if the pro
portions are suitably chosen, the colour of the mixed light is yellow
or orange. When the slit of the usual arrangement is replaced by a
moderately large circular aperture, the prism throws upon the screen
two circles of red and green light, which partially overlap. Where
the lights are separated, the red and green appear ; where they are
combined, the resultant colour is yellow.
    On the basis of Maxwel1's data it is possible to calculate the
colours of thin plates and to exhibit the results in the form of a
curve upon Newton's diagram. The curve starts at a definite point,
corresponding to an infinitely small thickness of the plate. This
point is somewhat upon the blue side of white. As the thickness
increases the curve passes very close to white, a little upon the green
side. It then approaches the side of the triangle, indicating a full
orange ; and BO on. In this way the colours of the various orders
of Newton's scale are exhibited and explained. The principal dis-
    VOL. XII. (No. 81.)                                        o

82        Lord Rayleigh on the Colours of Thin Plates.       [March 25,
crepancy between the curve and the descriptions of previous observers
relates to the precedence of the reds of the first and second orders.
The latter has usually been considered to be the superior, while the
diagram supports the claim of the former. The explanation is to be
found in the inferior brightness (as distinguished from purity) of
the red of the first order and its consequent greater liability to suffer
by contamination with white light. Such white light, foreign to the
true phenomenon, is always present when the thin plate is a plate of
air enclosed between glass lenses. To make the comparison fairly,
a soap film must be used, or recourse may be had to the almost
identical series of colours presented by moderately thin plates of
doubly refracting crystals when traversed by polarised light. Under
these circumstances the red of the first order is seen to be equal or
superior to that of the second order.

 1887.]      Professor Dewar on Light as an AnaTi/tfc Agent. "
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, April 1, 1887.
     SIB FBEDEBIOK ABEL, C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S. Manager and Vice-
                         President, in the Chair.
                 PBOFESSOR DEWAB, M.A. F.R.S. M.B.I.
                       Light as an Analytic Agent.
ANALYTICAL research by means of the agency of light is usually
carried out, by observing the effects produced on light of known
quality by transmission through or reflection from matter; or on the
other hand, by stimulating matter by the agency of heat or electricity
to evolve light, and thereby noting its special qualities.
    In previous lectures I have given an account of the results of a
series of experiments, undertaken in concert with my colleague Prof.
Liveing, with the object of elucidating certain obscure spectroscopic
phenomena, and I propose this evening to extend the record of our
 work.
    Not long since Berthelot published the results of some investiga
tions of the rate of propagation of the explosion of mixtures of oxygen
 with hydrogen and other gases. He found that in a mixture of oxygen
and hydrogen in the proportions in which they occur in water, the ex
plosion progressed along a tube at the rate of 2841 metres per second ;
not far from the velocity of mean square for hydrogen particles, on
the dynamic theory of gases, at a temperature of 2000°.
     This is a velocity which, though very far short of the velocity of
light, bears a ratio to it which cannot be called insensible. It is in
fact about -nrsVinr Part °f **• Hence if the explosion were advancing
towards the eye, the waves of light would proceed from a series of
particles lit up in succession at this rate. This would be equivalent
to a shortening of the wave-length of the light by about -rroVrro part ;
and in the case of the yellow sodium lines- would produce a shift of
the lines towards the more refrangible side of the spectrum by a
distance of about TJy of the space between the two lines. It would
require an instrument of very high dispersive power and sharply
defined lines to make such a displacement appreciable. With lines
of longer wave-length than the yellow sodium lines, the displacement
would be proportionately greater. Further, if a receding explosion
could be observed simultaneously with an advancing explosion, the
relative shift of the line would be doubled, one image of the line
observed being thrown as much towards the less-refrangible side of
its proper position as the other was thrown towards the more-
refrangible side. The two images of the red lino of lithium would in
                                                            G 2

84                          Professor Dewar                    [April 1,
this way be separated by a distance of about ^ of a unit of Angstrom's
scale ; a quantity quite appreciable, though much less than the
distance between the components of l,.(, and about equal to the
distance of the components of the less refrangible of the pair of lines
E. We thought therefore that we might test theory by experiment.
    A preliminary question had, however, to be answered. What
lines could be seen in the flash of the exploding gases ? We were
pretty certain that the hydrogen lines could not be seen, but that
probably we might get sufficient dust of sodium compounds floating
in the gas to make the sodium lines visible. A preliminary observa
tion was made on the flash of mixed hydrogen and oxygen in a
Cavendish's eudiometer, which showed not only the yellow sodium
lines, but the orange and green bands of lime and the indigo line of
calcium all very brightly, as well as other lines not identified. The
flash is very instantaneous, but nevertheless produces a strong im
pression on the eye ; and by admitting the light of a flame into the
spectroscope at the same time as that of the flash, the identity of the
lines was established. That sodium should make itself seen was not
surprising, but that the spectrum of lime should also be so bright
had not been anticipated. At first we thought that some spray of the-
water over which the gases were confined must have found its way
into the eudiometer; but subsequent observations led us rather to
suppose that the lime was derived from the glass of the eudiometer.
The lime-spectrum made its appearance when the eudiometer was
quite clean and dry, and when the gases had been standing over water
for a long time.
    To obtain the high dispersion requisite, as already explained, we
made use of one of Rowland's magnificent gratings, with a ruled
surface of 3£ by 2| inches, and the lines 14,438 to the inch. One
telescope fitted with a collimating eye-piece served both as collimator
and ohserving-telescope ; and by this means we were able to use the
spectra of the third and fourth orders with good effect.
    Observations were made with this instrument on explosions in an
iron tube shown in section in Fig. 1, half an inch in diameter, fitted
at the end with a thick glass plate (a), held on by a screw-cap (c) and
made tight with leaden washers. Small lateral tubes (d, d), at right
angles to the main tube, were brazed into it near the two ends, for
the purpose of connecting it with the air-pump, admitting the gases,
and firing them. For this last purpose a platinum wire (6) fused into
glass was cemented into the small tube, so that an electric spark
could be passed from the wire to the side of the small tube when the
 gases were to be exploded.
     To bring out the lithium lines, a small quantity of lithium
carbonate in fine powder was blown into the tube before the cap with
glass plate was screwed on. Powder was used because we supposed
that it must be loose dust which would be lighted up by the explosion.
The lithium linos came out bright enough, and it was unnecessary to
put in any more lithium for any number of explosions. The tube

 1887.]                on Light as an Analytic Agent.                   85
 was of course quite wet after the first explosion from the water
 formed, hut the lithium lines were none the less strong. Indeed,
 after the tube had been very thoroughly washed out, the lithium
 lines continued to he visible at each explosion, though less brightly
 than at first. A good deal of continuous spectrum accompanies the
 flash which, from the overlapping of spectra of different orders, makes
 observations difficult, so a screen of red glass was used to cut this off
 when the lithium red line was under observation. In any case,
 however, close observation of the flashes is very trying, from the
 suddenness with which the illumination appears, and the briefness of
 its duration. At first we compared the lithium line given by the
 flash of the exploding gases with that produced by the flame of a
 small Bunsen burner in which a bead of fused lithium carbonate was
 held, both being in the field at once. While the flame-line was
 sharply defined, the flash-line had a different character, and was always
 diffuse at the edges ; so that it was not possible in this way to sub
 stantiate the minute difference of wave-length indicated by theory,
 though the flash-line certainly seemed a little the more refrangible
 of the two.
     We then tried taking the explosion in a tube bent round so as to
be returned upon itself, the two parts of the tube being parallel to
each other, and the glass ends side by side (Fig. 2). The axis of the
collimator (T) was made to coincide with that of one limb of the tube,
so that the flash in that limb was seen directly ; and by means of two
reflecting prisms (r, r) the light from the other limb was thrown into
tho slit, and the two images were seen simultaneously one above the
other. As the gas was ignited from one end of the tube, the flash
was seen receding in one limb, approaching in the other, so that the
displacement of the two lines would be doubled. Still we were
unable to substantiate any relative displacement of the lines on
account of their breadth and diffuse character. By washing out the
tube the breadth of the lines was considerably reduced, but they
remained diffuse at the edges, and baffled any observation sufficiently
accurate to establish a displacement. Certainly there appeared to be

86                           Professor Dewar                   [April 1,
a very slight displacement, but it was not so definite that one could
be sure of it.
    These observations, however, led us to some other interesting
results. In the first place, one of the two images of the lithium line
almost always was reversed—that is, showed a dark line down the
middle. This was the line given by the flash approaching the slit.
The receding flash in the other limb of the tube gave as broad a
bright line, but it had no dark line in its middle. This observation
was made a great many times ; and the fact of the reversal established
independently in the case of some other metallic lines by means of
photographs. These reversals show that in the wave of explosion the
temperature of the gases does not reach its maximum all at once;
but the front of the wave is cooler than the part which follows and
absorbs some of its radiation, while the rear of the wave does not
produce the same effect. One would suppose that there must be
cooler lithium-vapour in the rear of the wave as well as in its front ;
but it is possible that the absorption produced by it extends over the
whole width of the line, and not only over a narrow strip in the middle.
For we observed that when a little lithium carbonate was freshly put
into the tube, the red line was so much expanded as to fill the whole
field of view—that is to say, it was some ten or twelve times as wide
as the distance between the two yellow lines of sodium ; but by
washing out the tube with water (that is, by reducing the quantity
of lithium present in the tube), the line could be reduced in width
until it was no wider than one-tenth of the distance between the two
sodium lines. This seems to prove that the breadth of the line is
directly dependent on the amount of lithium present.
    M. Fievez has, in a recent publication (' Bulletins de 1'Academic
royale de Belgique'), concluded, from observations on sodium, that the
widening of the lines is solely due to elevation of temperature. The
flash of the exploding gases cannot be raised in temperature by the
presence of a minute quantity more of a lithium compound ; so that
in our case the widening cannot be ascribed to anything 'but the
increase in the quantity of lithium present, or to some consequence
of that increase. It is not improbable that the amount of lithium
vaporised in the front of the wave of explosion is less than in the
following part, and hence the absorption-line is not so wide as the
bright line behind it, while in the rear of the wave the absorption
extends over the whole width of the bright band, and so is not so
easily noticed. Only twice amongst many observations was any
reversal of the lithium line seen in the receding wave of explosion.
    On observing the flash with a spectroscope of small dispersion
instead of that with the grating, the continuous spectrum was very
bright, but the metallic lines stood out still brighter ; not only the
red line of lithium, but the orange, the green, and the blue lines were
very bright, and continued so when the pressure of the gases before
explosion was reduced from one atmosphere to one-third of an at
mosphere. The violet line was not seen, but it may have been so

  1887.]               on Light as an Analytic Agent.                 87
 much expanded as to be lost in the continuous spectrum ; for it
 showed in a photograph afterwards taken. Other lines were, how
 ever, seen-—the sodium yellow lines, the calcium indigo line, a group
 of other blue lines, and a group of green lines, amongst which
 one line was conspicuous, and this line, by comparison with the
 solar spectrum, was identified with E. We had not expected to
 see any lines of iron, as iron and its compounds give no lines in the
 flame of a Bunsen burner, and we supposed that it would only be
 volatilised at a mnch higher temperature. But the appearance of E
 suggested that other of the green and blue lines might be due to
 iron ; so we proceeded to compare the positions of these lines with
 those of the electric spark between iron electrodes. For this purpose
 one of the spark-lines was first brought carefully on to the pointer,
 or cross wires, in the eye-piece of the observing telescope, and then,
 the passage of the spark being stopped, the flash of the exploding
 gases was observed. It was not difficult to see whether any line was
 on the pointer ; and the observation could be repeated as many times
 as was desired without any shift of the apparatus. Nine of the most
 conspicuous green and yellowish-green lines in the flash were thus
 identified with lines of iron. For the blue and violet we adopted the
 photographic method as much less trying to the eyesight. Eight to
 twelve flashes were taken in succession without any shift of the
 apparatus, so as to accumulate their effects on the photographic plate.
 Eight flashes were found enough in general to produce a good im
pression, and more than twelve could not well be taken without
 turning out the water which accumulated in the tube, and cleaning
 the glass which closed its end. After the flashes had been taken,
but without shifting the photographic plate, the slit of the spectro
 scope was partly covered, and the electric spark between iron points
passed in front of the slit. We had thus on the plate the photograph
of the flash as well as of the spark. Fourteen more lines in the in
digo and violet were thus identified with iron lines ; and on extending
the photographs into the ultra-violet, and substituting quartz lenses
and prisms for the glass ones hitherto used, a much larger number of
lines were identified. There could be no doubt, then, that we had
iron vapour in the flash. We supposed that it must be derived from
dust of oxide shaken by the explosion off the sides of the tube, and
we had the tube bored out clean and bright like a gun-barrel. This
made no diminution in the brightness or number of the lines ; and we
came to the conclusion that the explosion detached particles of iron
from the tube, and converted them into vapour. This was confirmed
by finding that, however carefully the tube had been cleaned, the
glass ends always became clouded with a rusty deposit after ten or
twelve flashes. Altogether 68 lines of iron have been identified in
the flash, of which about 40 lie in the ultra-violet between H and 0.
Only one iron line above O has been definitely identified, and that in
only a few photographs. It is T.
     As iron gave so many lines in the flash it was reasonable to sup -

88                          Professor Dewar                    [April 1,
pose that more volatile metals would give their lines too. Linings
of thin sheet copper, lead, cadmium, zinc, aluminium, and tin were
successively put into the tube, and their effects on the flash observed.
Copper gave one strong line in the green (wave-length 5104 -9), but
no other line in the visible part of the spectrum. In the ultra-violet
two strong lines between Q and It came out in the photographs, fre
quently as reversed lines. Some of the photographs showed also
something of the shaded bands in the blue which are ascribed to the
oxide of copper. The green line of copper had been observed in the
flash before the copper lining was put into the tube ; and we con
cluded that the copper was derived from the brass with which the
small lateral tubes were fastened into the large tube, or that the iron
of the tube contained a little copper. When the leaden lining was
used, only one visible line of lead was developed, and that was the
strong violet line, but two ultra-violet lines between M and N were
 strongly depicted on the photographic plates. The violet line of
 lead had also been observed in many of the photographs taken before
 the leaden lining was introduced. This we ascribed to the leaden
 washers used to make the glass or quartz plates air-tight. The line
 was greatly increased in strength by the leaden lining. The zinc
 lining gave no visible line at all, notwithstanding the easy volatility
 of the metal ; and in the ultra-violet it gave only a very doubtful
 impression of one of the lines near P. The cadmium, aluminium,
 and tin linings gave no lines at all. Zinc dust put into the tube
 gave no zinc lines, merely increased the continuous spectrum, and
 speedily rendered the quartz end opaque.
     A clean wire of magnesium put into the tube gave the b group of
 lines, but no other line. No trace of the blue line, so conspicuous in
 the flame of burning magnesium, nor of the triplets near L and S,
 nor of the very strong lino, the strongest of all in the arc, at wave
 length 2852. bl and b, were well seen ; but as bt is an iron line, as
 well as a magnesium line, and the iron line was visible in the flash
 before the magnesium wire was introduced, we cannot be sure whether
 the magnesium line, as well as the iron line, was present in the flash.
 Magnesia did not develop any line at all; merely augmented the
 continuous spectrum.
      Compounds of sodium, such as the carbonate and chloride, intro
 duced in powder gave the ultra-violet line between P and Q strongly,
 frequently reversed ; but no other line except of course D. Potassium
 compounds developed, often reversed, the pair of violet lines, and also
 the ultra-violet pair near O, but no others.
      A strip of silver developed two ultra-violet lines, one on either
 side of P ; but we could not detect in the flash the well-known green
 lines of that metal. When powder of silver oxalate was introduced,
 the yellowish-green line (w.l. 5464) was seen at the first explosion
 but not afterwards. As silver oxalate is itself an explosive compound,
 decomposing with an evolution of heat, it is reasonable to ascribe the
 appearance of this line at the first explosion to the extra temperature
 so engendered.

1887.]               on Light as an Analytic Agent.                     89
    Strips of copper, electroplated with nickel, brought out almost
all tho strong nickel lines in the ultra-violet between K and Q ; 25
were photographed. When nickel oxalate was put in so as to give a
powder of metallic nickel after the first explosion, the same lines
were developed, and three additional lines in the ultra-violet. Only
one line was seen in the visible part of the spectrum, and that was
the yellowish-green line (w.l. 5476).
    Copper wires electroplated with cobalt gave in the flash 22 lines
in the violet and ultra-violet, between G and P ; no lines beyond
those limits. Cobalt oxalate gave no more.
    No other metal gave anything like so many lines as iron, nickel,
and cobalt ; and it is remarkable that almost all the lines of these
metals developed in the flash lie in the same region between G and P.
    We expected that manganese would have given several lines in
the flash ; but it was not so. Neither metallic manganese, nor any
of several compounds which we tried, gave us any lines of that metal
except the violet triplet, and this was generally given by the iron
tube alone, and was merely stronger for the manganese put in. The
green channellings characteristic of manganese, and ascribed to the
oxide, were, however, well seen when metallic manganese was used.
     Chromium, introduced as bichromate of ammonia, which of course
became chromium oxide at the first flash, gave thrco triplets in the
green, the indigo, and the ultra-violet near N respectively, but no
other lines.
     Bismuth, antimony, and arsenic gave no lines, nor did mercury
 spread over a sheet of copper lining tho tube. Several metals were
tried as amalgams spread over such a piece of copper, but with no
fresh results, except in the case of thallium, which gave the green
line strongly, the strong line between L and M, and two lines between
N and O.
     On the whole it does not appear that the form in which the metal
is introduced into the tube makes much difference. The merest
 traces of those which gave lines were sufficient. Generally when a
 metal had been put into the tube, its lines continued to show after
 the strip or lining had been removed. Thus, after the nickel strips
 had been taken out, and the tube cleaned out as completely as it
 could be mechanically, the nickel lines still came out in the flash,
 and the same was the case with other metals.
     The strongest part of the water-spectrum, from « to near R,
 generally impressed itself more or less on the photographic plate ;
 but, with the exception of T, which was only developed once or
 twice, no lines made their appearance in the region more refrangible
 than «.
     Thus far the experiments had been made with the gases at the
 atmospheric pressure, or nearly so, before ignition. The proportions
 of hydrogen and oxygen were nearly two to one ; but an excess of
 either gas to the extent of one-fifth did not sensibly affect the results.
     Other explosive mixtures were tried. Carbonic oxide with

90                              Professor Dewar                           [April 1,
oxygen, and marsh-gas with oxygen, developed in general the same
lines as the hydrogen mixture, but gave a much brighter continuous
spectrum. Sulphuretted hydrogen, arseniuretted hydrogen, and
antimoniuretted hydrogen, exploded with oxygen, also gave very
bright continuous spectra, but no lines attributable to sulphur,
arsenic, or antimony.
    We have also tried explosions at higher pressures ; mixtures of
hydrogen, carbonic oxide, and marsh-gas respectively, with oxygen,
were compressed into the tube by a condensing syringe until the
pressure reached two and a half atmospheres, and in some cases three
and a half atmospheres. The general effect of increasing the pressure
was to strengthen very much the continuous spectrum, and also to
intensify the bright lines, so that photographs could be taken with a
smaller number of explosions. The lines previously observed to be
reversed were more strongly reversed, but no new lines which we can
attribute to the metals employed were noticed. No iron line more
refrangible than T showed itself in the photographs. But a banded
spectrum, of which traces had been noticed in the flash of the gases
at lower pressure, came out decidedly. This spectrum occupies the
region between P and R ; it is not a regularly channelled spectrum,
though probably under higher dispersion it would resolve itself into
groups of lines like the water-spectrum. In fact it seems to us most
probable that it is a development of the water spectrum, dependent
on the pressure.
    It seems very remarkable that metals so little volatile as iron,
nickel, and cobalt should develop so many lines* in the flash, while
more volatile metals show few or no lines. We do not know that
any lines attributed to the metals, as distinct from their compounds,
which have been observed in the gas-flame cannot be seen also in the
flash of the exploding gases, unless they be the blue lines of zinc
which Lecoq de Boisbaudran has seen faintly in the gas-flame when
zinc chloride was introduced. These are, however, so faint in the
flame, that they might easily escape notice in the much stronger
continuous spectrum of the flash. But iron, nickel, and cobalt show
no lines of those metals in a gas-flame. Mitscherlich (' Ann. de Phys.
u. Chem.' Bd. 121, St. 3), by mixing vapour of ferric chloride with the
hydrogen burnt in an oxyhydrogen-jet, obtained a number of the lines
of iron. These form throe groups—one below D, one near E, and
one near G. The last two groups have a general correspondence
with the lines developed in the explosions in the visible part of the
spectrum ; but exact identification is not possible with his figure.
Of other metals he seems also to have found the same lines in the
oxyhydrogen-jet which we have seen in the explosions, but with
additional lines in several cases. Thus he found three zinc and as
many cadmium lines, two of mercury, four of copper, and so on.
    Gouy (' Comptes Rendus,' Ixxxiv. 1877, p. 232) has observed in
  * For detailed list of these lines see ' Proc. Roy. Soc.' vol. xnvi. pp. 473-5.

 1887.]              on Lii/ht UK an Analytic Agent.                  91
the inner green cone of a modified Bnnsen burner fed with gas mixed
with spray of iron-salts, four green lines of iron which we did not find
in the flash. He saw two of the blue lines, but not the other lines
which we have noticed. In like manner with cobalt, he observed two
feeble blue rays which we did not see in the explosions ; also one zinc,
one cadmium, and one silver line which we did not see ; and he did
not notice the green copper line which we always have seen in the
explosions. In other cases he has noticed the same lines that we
have noticed.
    Comparing the spectrum of the explosions with that of iron wire
burnt in a jet of coal-gas fed with oxygen, they may be called
identical. We find in them generally the same lines and the same
relative strengths of the lines. For instance, in the explosion-
spectrum the strength of the groups of lines on either side of M and
the line at wave-length 3859*2 is decidedly greater as compared
with the other lines than it is in the arc-spectrum of iron. It is the
same in that of iron burnt as above mentioned. T, however, comes
out more strongly in the last-mentioned spectrum than in the ex
plosions.
    German-silver wire burnt in the coal-gas and oxygen jet gave the
same nickel and copper lines as were developed in the explosions.
Silver wire gave in the same jet the two silver lines near P, but no
channelled spectrum. Spray of cobalt chloride gave also the same
lines as in the explosions, with a few additional; while spray of
manganese chloride gave the strong manganese triplet at wave-length
about 2800, more refrangible than anything observed in the explo
sions, besides the usual violet triplet.
    On the whole the spectra produced by the jet of coal-gas and
oxygen are very similar to those of the explosions as far as the
metallic lines go ; they exhibit a few more lines, or it may be these
are more easily observed.
     Of the green and blue lines of iron seen by us in explosions nine
are registered by Watts as occurring in the flame of a Bessemer con
verter ; or at least the lines he gives are so near that we cannot
doubt their identity.
     When we come to make a comparison with the spectrum of the
spark-discharge from a solution of ferric chloride, the differences
become more marked. Not only are there many more lines in the
spark-spectrum, but the relative intensities of those lines which are
common to both spark and explosion are very different, and two of
the iron lines seen in the explosions appear to be absent from the
spark. The differences between the spectrum of the spark taken
from a liquid electrode and that given by solid electrodes has usually
been attributed to the lower temperature of the former ; but the
absence from the former spectrum of the line at wave-length 4132,
and the feebleness of the line at wave-length 4143, both strong lines
in the arc and in the explosions, as well as in the spark between
solid electrodes, seem to indicate that the differences of spark-spectra

 92                          Professor Dewar                     [April 1,
 are not simply due to differences of temperature. In fact we know so
 little about the mechanism, so to speak, of the changes of electric
 energy into heat, and of heat into radiation, that there is no good
 reason for assuming that the energy which takes the form of radiation
 in the electric discharge through a gas must first take the form of
 the motion of translation of the particles on which temperature
 depends. The gas may, for a short time, be intensely luminous at a
 very low temperature ; and if the impulses which give rise to the
 vibratory movements of the particles be of different characters, the
 characters of the vibrations also may differ within certain limits.
     Leaving, however, the realms of speculation, we may mention
 that we have before observed the spectrum of iron at a temperature
 intermediate between that of the oxyhydrogen-jot and that of the
 electric arc.
     Some time since ('Proc. R. S.' xxxiv. p. 119, and ' Proc. Camb.
 Phil. Soc.' iv. p. 256) we described the spectrum proceeding from the
interior of a carbon tube strongly heated by the electric arc playing
 on the outside. This spectrum approaches more nearly to that of the
arc iunsmuf.il as it shows all, or almost all, the iron lines given by
the arc between F and O, and the aluminium pair between IT and E ;
 but it resembles the explosion-spectrum in the relative strength of
 some of the iron lines, and in the absence of almost all iron lines
between O and T. The iron lines seen reversed against the hot walls
 of the carbon-tube correspond with the strongest of the explosion-
 lines ; the strong lines near M and a little below L in the explosions
being those most strongly reversed in the photographs of the carbon-
tube. The greater completeness and extent of the iron spectrum, as
well as the presence of the aluminium lines, which are entirely
wanting in the explosion-spectrum, indicate that the temperature of
the tube was higher than that of the explosion. That iron, nickel,
and cobalt are volatile in some degree at the temperature of the
explosion appears to be proved, and makes the appearance of iron
lines at the very apices of solar prominences, as observed by Young,
less astounding than it seemed to be at first sight. The ascending
current of gas making the prominence may very well carry iron
vapour with it ; or we may not unreasonably suppose that there is
meteoric dust containing iron everywhere in the outer atmosphere of
the sun, which becomes volatilised, and emits the radiation observed,
when it is heated up by the hot current of the prominence. What
the temperature of such a current may be we cannot well gauge, but
it is high enough to give the hydrogen-spectrum, of which no trace
has been observed in the flash of the explosions or in the oxy-hydrogen-
jet. The temperature of the explosions we know with tolerable
accuracy, at least when the gases are at atmospheric pressure to
begin with. Bunsen (' Phil. Mag.' 1867, p. 494) found the pressure
of the explosion was for hydrogen and oxygen 9 • 6 atmospheres,
and for carbonic oxide and oxygen 10'3 atmospheres, and he
calculated the corresponding temperatures to be 2844° and 3033°.

 1887.]               on Light as an Analytic
 Recently published observations by Berthelot and VieiTle {'Comptes
Rendus,' xcviii. 1884, p. 548) put the pressure of explosion of
oxygen and hydrogen at 9 • 8 atmospheres, and of carbonic oxide and
oxygen at 10 • 1, and the corresponding temperatures 3240° and 3334°.
The pressures determined by the two observers agree closely, and the
calculated temperatures are not very discordant. On the whole, we
cannot be wrong in assuming the temperature of the exploding gases
to be about 3000° ; and we see that at this degree such metals as iron,
nickel, and cobalt are vaporous, and emit many characteristic rays,
and that by far the greatest part of these rays lie between narrow
limits of refrangibility, G and P. Even for other metals there is a
predominance of rays in the same part of the spectrum. The lines
of lead, potassium, and manganese, three out of four lines of thallium,
and two-thirds of those of chromium, observed in the explosions, fall
within the same region. It must not be inferred that these facts
indicate the limit of the rate of oscillation which can be set up in
consequence of an elevation of temperature to 3000°, because we know
that the spectrum of the lime-light extends much further. But it
might be possible to establish a sort of spectroscopic scale of tempera
tures if the lines which are successively developed as the temperature
rises were carefully noted. Thus the appearance of the iron line T
seems to synchronise with temperature of about 3000°. The lithium
blue line is invisible in the flame of an ordinary Bunsen burner, but
is just visible at the temperature of the inner green cone formed by
reducing the proportion of gas to air in such a burner, while in the
exploding gas the green line too is seen. It seems to need a tempera
ture above 3000° to get the aluminium lines at H. Probably no line
is ever abruptly brought out at a particular temperature—it will
always be gradually developed as the temperature rises; yet the
development may be rapid enough to give an indication which may
be useful in default of means of more exact measurement. In former
papers treating of spectroscopic problems (' Proc. Roy. Soc.' vol. xxxiv.
p. 130, and xxix. p. 489) we have moro than once adverted to the
necessity of the study of the spectra both of flames and of the electric
discharge under modified conditions of pressure. The projected ex
periments on the arc in lime-crucibles have not yet been carried out ;
but the present is a first instalment of a study of flame-spectra under
such conditions.
                                                              [J. D.]

94                           General Monthly Meeting.                      [April 4,
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, April 4, 1887.
His GBAOE THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. D.C.L. LL.D.
                             President, in the Chair.
      The Managers reported, That at their Meeting on the 7th of
March last the following letter from Dr. Tyndall to the Honorary
Secretary was read :—
                                                            HIXD HEAD, HASLF.MFKE.
MY DEAR SIB FBEDERICK BRAMWELL,                                    March M- l88T-
         The year's holidayao graciously and considerately granted me by the
 Managers will come to an end next month ; and it therefore behoves me to state
 without further delay, for the information of the Managers, how matters stand
 with me.
     A brief conversation with my friend Sir Frederick Pollock, and my own re
 flections thereupon, have convinced me that, instead of making a statement
 myself at the Board Meeting on Monday, it will be more expedient to embody
 what I have to sixy in a letter to you.
      For more than one-third of a century it has been my privilege to enjoy the
 unfailing sympathy and encouragement of the Managers and Members of the
 Royal Institution. It is now my duty to return to their hands the trust which
 they first committed to me in the spring of 1853. I have come to this resolution
 on account of the need I feel of thorough rest, and of freedem from engagements,
 as to lecturing, the non-fulfilment of which would be detrimental to the Institu
  tion, and a cauee of sore distress to myself.
      SVorries connected with building, and other worries inimical to quietude of
 brain, have for the last few years troubled me much. These are now, for the moat
 part, things of the past, so that the freedom I seek will, I doubt not, soon restore
  me to good health.
      I returned from Switzerland in October so refreshed and invigorated that I
  hoped to be able to cope successfully with all the duties then before me. I had
  assured myself of the friendly aid of Mr. Crookes, and had even arranged to go to
  Paris to purchase some instruments necessary for my contemplated work. To
  the end of the year my health continued strong. Then came a long-continued
  spell of withering easterly winds, which chilled me, dried me up, and brought on
  an attack of sleeplessness, intense while it lasted, but which, happily, has in great
 part disappeared with its cause.
      Of my ultimate and complete recovery I entertain little doubt. Still it would
  be obviously unfair to the Members, as it would be intolerable to myself, to allow
   the fortunes of our great Institution to depend in any degree upon such caprices
  of health. It is therefore my desire to make room for a successor whose years
  and vigour will place him beyond all changes and chances of this kind.
      Of the feelings called forth by my separation from the Royal Institution I have
  said nothing. But the Managers will understand that my silence in this res
  pect is due, not to the absence of such feelings, but only to the conviction that on
  the present occasion the less said about them the better.
                                    Believe me,
                                                Most faithfully yours,
                                                                  JOHN TYNDALL.

1887.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                              95
      The Managers further reported, That at their adjourned Meeting
on the 21st of March the following Resolutions were adopted :—
     Resolved, "That the Managers desire to record by this Resolution the
expression of their deep regret that the state of Dr. Tyndal1's health should
have rendered necessary the resignation of his position of Professor of Natural
Philosophy at the Royal Institution, and that it should have compelled the
Managers to accept that resignation—and desire at the same time to record the
expression of their hope that the relief thus obtained from the arduous duties of
the Professorship will conduce to his speedy and complete recovery.
     " The Managers also desire that there should be recorded the expression of
their thorough appreciation of the unremitting and most valuable services which
during the long period of thirty-four years Dr. Tyndall has rendered to the Royal
Institution in carrying out the duties of his office—services which not only have
upheld and have advanced the position of the Royal Institution, but have
benefited science and the world at large."
     "The Managers having ascertained without doubt that Professor Tyndall
altogether declines to receive any pension or pecuniary testimonial in recognition
of his services to the Royal Institution, and that in parting from his long con
nection with it he desires only to carry with him the friendly recollection and
goodwill of the Members,"
     Resolved, " That this generous and disinterested refusal to accept any acknow
ledgment of a pecuniary nature upon the occasion of his retirement cannot fail
to increase the feelings of regard and respect which must be entertained for
Professor Tyndal1's devotion of so much of his life to the important researches
which have been prosecuted by him in the laboratories of the Institution, and for
the delivery of those eloquent lectures in its theatre which has done so much to
support its scientific renown and to increase its prosperity. The Managers,
therefore, under the before-mentioned circumstances of Dr. Tyndal1's refusal to
accept any pension or pecuniary testimonial, resolved that some marked recogni
tion of a permanent character should be given to the opinion entertained of tha
 great value of Professor Tyndal1's labours now about to cease, and the Managers
 trust that it may prove as agreeable to him as it will be honourable to the Institu
 tion, if he would kindly comply with a request which they recommend should
 be made to him, to sit for his bust (in marble), to be placed in the house of the
 Institution in perpetual memory of his relations with it, and the cost of which
 should be defrayed by a vote from the general funds of the Institution, and in
 order further to perpetuate and honour the name of Professor Tyndall in con
 nection with the Institution, the Managers recommend that one of the courses of
 Lectures delivered annually in the Institution shall be called the Tyndall
 Lectures."
      Resolved, " That the Honorary Secretary, in informing Dr. Tyndall of the
 acceptance of his resignation, do send to him a copy of the foregoing Resolutions."
       The Managers further reported, That at their Meeting held this
  day the following letter was read :
  DEAB SIB FBEDERIOK BBAMWELL,                            HraD HEAD- 3rd
          I have halted in my reply to your letter of March 23rd, through sheer
  inability to express the feeling which the action of the Managers, at their
  meeting on the 21st, has called into life.
      And my reply must now be brief ; for I hardly dare trust myself to dwell upon
  the " Resolutions " which you have conveyed to me. Taken in connexion with
  the severance of my life from the Royal Institution, and with the flood of
  memories liberated by the occasion, this plenteous kindness, this bounty of
  friendship, this reward so much in excess of my merits, well-nigh unmans me.
      And, let me add, the noble fullness of style and expression, which I owe to

  96                        General Monthly Meeting.                    [April 4,
 yourself, and in which the goodwill of the Managers takes corporate form, is in
 perfect harmony with the spirit which it enshrines.
      Of the Managers existent when I joined the Institution, one only remains
 upon the present Board. The beneficent work of many of them is for ever
 ended ; but I do not forget the sympathy and support which they extended to
 me during their lives. And now the long line of kindnesses culminates in
 words and deeds so considerate and appreciative —so representative of their origin
 in true gentlemanhood, and warmth of heart, that they have almost succeeded
 in converting into happiness the sadness of my farewell.
     With heartfelt prayers for the long-continued honour and prosperity of the
 Institution which I have served so long, and loved so well,
                                 Believe me, dear Sir Frederick,
                                                 Most faithfully yours,
                                                                JOHN TYNDALL.
      The Managers further reported, That it was Resolved, "That
 having regard to the distinguished services rendered to the Royal
 Institution by Dr. Tyndall, he bo recommended to the Members for
 election as Honorary Professor of Natural Philosophy."
      It was then moved, and
     Resolved, unanimously, " That Dr. Tyndall be nominated for election at the
next General Monthly Meeting on Monday, May 9th, as Honorary Professor of
Natural Philosophy."
             Arthur Gamgee, M.D. F.E.S.
            Edward Bagnall Poulton, Esq. M.A. F.G.S. F.Z.S.
            Miss Frances Harriet Whitehead,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      The Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh, M.A. D.C.L. F.B.S. M.R.I, was
nominated for election as Professor of Natural Philosophy at the next
General Monthly Meeting on May 9.
      The following Arrangements for the Lectures after Easter were
announced :—
      JOHN HOPKINSON, Esq. M.A. D.Sc. F.R.S. B.S. M. Inst. C.E. M.R.I.—Four
Lectures on ELECTRICITY ; on Tuesdays, April 19, 26, May 3, 10.
      VICTOR HORSLEY, Esq. F.R.S. B.S. F.R.C.S.—Three Lectures on THE
MODERN PHYSIOLOGY OP THE BBAIN AND ITS RELATION TO THE MIND; on
Tuesdays, May 17, 24, 81.
      THE REv. J. P. MAHAFPY, D.D. Professor of Ancient History in the
University of Dublin.—Three Lectures on THE HELLENISM OF ALEXANDER'S
EMPIRE : Lecture I. on Tuesday, June 7, MACEDONIA AND GREECE ; Lecture II.
on Thursday, June 9, EGYPT; Lecture III. on Saturday, June 11, SYRIA.
      PROFESSOR DEWAR, M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I. Fullerian Profrssor of Chemistry,
R.I.—Seven Lectures on THE CHEMISTRY OF THE ORGANIC WORLD • on Thursdays,
April 21, 28, Mny 5, 12, 19, 26, June 2.
      R. TON LENDENFKLD, Esq. Ph.D.—Three Lectures on RECENT SCIENTIFIC
RESEARCHES IN AUSTRALASIA ; on Saturdays, April, 23, 30, May 7.
      JOHN W. HALES, Esq. M.A.— Four Lectures on VICTORIAN LITERATURE ; on
Saturdays, May 14, 21, 28, June 4.

1887.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                           97
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The Governor-General of India—Catalogue of Siwalik Vertebrata. By R.
     Lydekker. 2 parts. 8vo. 1885-6.
  Catalogue of Pleistocene and Prehistoric Vertebrati. By E. Lydekker. 8vo. 1886.
   Geological Survey of India. Records, Vol. XX. Purt 1. 8vo. 1887.
  Memoirs : Palsooutologia Indiea. Ser. XII. Vol. IV. Part 2 ; Ser. XIII. Part 1,
     Faso. 6. 4to. 188ti.
The New Zealand Government— Statistics of the Colony of New Zealand, 1885.
     fol. 1886.
The Secretary of State for India—Report on Public Instruction in Bengal,
     1885-6. fol. 1886.
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serin Quarta ; Rendiconti. Vol. III.
     1° Semestre, Fasc. 3. 8vo. 1887.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 124. 8vo. 1886.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLVII. No. 4. 8vo. 1887.
Ateneo Veneto—Revista Mensile, Oct. 1885 to Oct. 1886. 8vo.
Hankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. VIII. Part 3. 8vo. 1887.
British Architects, Royal Institute o/—Proceedings, 1886-7, Nos. 11, 12. 4to.
British Museum, The—Catalogue of Ancient MSS. Part 2, Latin, fol. 1884.
  Introduction to a Catalogue of the Early Italian Prints. By Riohard Fisher.
     8vo. 1886.
  Descriptive and Historical Catalogue of Japanese and Chinese Paintings. By
     W. Anderson. 8vo. 1886.
  Catalogue of Bengali Printed Books. By J. F. Blnmhardt. 4to. 1886.
  Subject Index of Modern Works added to the Library in 1880-5. By G. K.
     Fortescue. 8vo. 1886.
  Catalogue of Books in the Galleries in the Reading Room. 8vo. 1886.
  Medallic Illustrations of the History of Great Britain and Ireland. By E.
     Hawkins. Edited by A. W. Franks and H. A. Grueber. 2vol. 8vo. 1885.
  Catalogue of Indian Coins. 1. Muhammadan States. 2. Sultans of Dehli.
     3. Greek and Scythic Kings. 8vo. 1885-6.
  Catalogue of Greek Coins. Crete arid JEgean Islands. 8vo. 1886.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. VI. Part 1. 8vo. 1887.
  Transactions, Vol. XIV. Part 2. 4to. 1887.
Chemical Society—Journal for March 1887. 8vo.
Dawson, George M. Esq. D.Sc. (the Author) — Certain Borings in Manitoba.
     (Trans. Roy. Soc. of Canada.) 4to. 1887.
Dax: Societe de Borda—Bulletins, 2" Serie, Douzicme Annee, 1* Trimestre.
     8vo. 1887.
East India Association—Journal, Vol. XIX. No. 2. 8vo. 1887.
Editors—American Journal of Science for March 1887. 8vo.
  Analyst for March 1887. 8vo.
  Athenaeum for March 1887. 4to.
  Chemical News for March 1887. 4to.
  Chemist and Druggist for March 1887. 8vo.
  Engineer for Marcu 1887. fol.
  Engineering for March 1887. fol.
  Horological Journal for March 1887. 8vo.
  Industries for March 1887. fol.
  Iron for March 1887. 4to.
  Murray's Magazine for March 1887. 8vo.
  Nature for March 1887. 4to.
  Revue Scientifique for March 1887. 4to.
  Scientiflc News for March 1887. 4to.
  Telegraphic Jonrnul for March 1887. 8TO.
  Zoophilist for March 1887. 4to.
    VOL. XII.      (No. 81.)                                            u

98                           General Monthly Meeting.                  [April 4,
Florence, Biblioteca Nazionale Cenirale—Bolletino, Num. 27, 28, 29. 8vo. 1887.
    Catalogo dei Codici Palatini. Vol. I. Fasc. 1-5. 8vo. 1885-7.
    Catalogo dei Codici Panomtiehiani. Vol. I. Faso. 1. 8vo. 1887.
    Giornali Politic!. 8vo. 1885-6.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 735. 8vo. 1887.
Freshjield, Edwin, Esq. LL.D. V.P.S.A. M.R.I. (the Author)—Discourse on Some
       Unpublished Records of the City of London. [Delivered at the Royal Insti
      tution.] 4to. 1887.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Abhandlungtn, Baud XII. Nog. 1, 2, 3.
       fol. 1886.
    Jahrbuoh, Band XXXVI. Heft 2, 3. 8vo. 1886.
    Verhandlungen, Nos. 6-12. 8vo. 1886.
 Georgnfili Reale Acoademia—Atti, Quarta Serie. Vol. IX. Disp 4. 8vo. 1886.
 Hodden, Ren. R. H.—Account of the Old Registers of St. Botolph, Bishopsgate.
       By Rev. A. W. C. Hallen. 12rno. 1886.
 Harlem, Societf Hollar,daise dee Sciences—Archives Neerlandaisea, Tome XXI.
       Liv. 2, 3. 8vo. 1886-7.
 Iron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1886, No. 2. 8vo.
 Japan, Imperial University of—Memoirs of the Literature College, No. 1. 8vo.
       1887.
 Johns Hopkins University— American Journal of Philology, No. 28. 8vo. 1886.
 Liverpool Literary and Scientific Society—Proceedings, Vols. XXXIX. XL.
       8vo. 1884-6.
 Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIX. Part 5. 8vo. 1887.
 Meteorological (>j|Zee—Quarterly Weather Report, 1878, Part 2. 4to. 1887.
     Monthly Weather Report for September 1886. 4to. 1887.
     Weekly Weather Report, Vol. III. No. 53 ; Vol. IV. Nos. 1-6. 4to. 1886-7.
     Report of Meteorological Council, R.S. to 31st March, 1886. 8vo. 1887.
     Report of the International Meteorological Committee. 3rd Meeting (1885).
        8vo. 1887.
 Meteorological Society, Royal—Quarterly Journal, No. 61. 8vo. 1887.
     Meteorological Record, No. 23. 8vo. 1887.
  Middlesex Hospital—Reports for 1885. 8vo. 1887.
  Odontological Society of Great .Britain—Transactions, VoL XIX. Nos. 4, 5. New
        Series. 8vo. 1887.
  Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, March 1887. 8vo.
  Photographic Society—Journal, New Series, Vol. XI. Nos. 5, 6. 8vo. 1887.
  Preussische Akademie der Wissenscltaften—Sitzungsberichte XL.-LIII. 8vo.
        1886.
  .Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 251, 252. 8vo. 1887.
  Sandeman, David, Esq. (the Autltar)—Progress of Technical Education, with
        special reference to the Glasgow Weaving College. 8vo. 1886.
  Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Mathematisoh-physische Classe: Beriohte,
        1886. Sup. 8vo.
  Society of Arts—Journal, March 1887. 8vo.
  Telegraph Engineers, Society of—Journal, No. 64. 8vo. 1887.
   United States Geological Surrey—bulletins, Nos. 30-33. 8vo. 1886.
   Vereins zur BefHrderwtg dee Gewerbfieisset in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1887 :
         Heft 2. 4to.
   Wild. Dr. H. (Directory—Repertorium fur Meteorologie, Sup. 2, 3, 4. 4to. 1887.
  Yorkshire Archsological and Topographical Association—Journal, Part XXXVII.
         8vo. 1887.


                                                                                           M AP C
   United Kingdom (England, Walei, Scotland,
       Ireland),
                                                                             ^.BRITISH
   German Ocean (Heligoland),
   Mediterranean (Gibraltar, Malta, Cypnul                                    Showing the objects and in
   West Africa (Gambia, Sierra Leone, Gold
       Coast, IJig.*),    ....                  l5.Wl        570,000                          Imperial
   Atlantic Ocean (Attttnuon, St. Helena,
       Falkland Islw),    ....                   5,08l         7,300
   South Africa (Cape, Natal, BaBatolamlX • 273,000        l,748,000                                  of
   Indian Ocean (Aden, I'erim, Mauritiu-,
       Borneo, Btraiui Hvttlementa),                       l,02l,l50        UNITED KINGDOM,
   India, Ceylon, Bunnab, China (Hong Kong),            Sf*,l60,000
   Australasia (Australia, Taamania, New
       ZealaDd, New Guinea), .               3,272, 000    3,SOt,000
                                                                                                   IN
   South Pacific Ocean (F^ti Rotumah),           8,0l4         7,000
   North America (Canada, Newfoundland), . 3,540,000       5,l00,000         And the Area and PopuUtic
   West Indies, UermudM, Trinidud, Hon-
       dur&n, Guiana, etc.,                    l00,035     l,486,000
                                             8,850,586  309,934,450
BO
                1
              l60             l40
                                                          1           1,1                           1€
                                          "0            l00          ao  60     40         'JO

             2»b^_ JSZg@f*
             g^SJrifitt;     x j ff c r i/ c         o c £
             7\"<*'«r                   P""*'             r.a,ij
             9^-t                  ^—. .                rr*
                                       '*N~ V^ Ar                                       T/*^^*/^
                                                                                         J/ s/.. .v     X 1
                                        L/A Y'S I (if yrA\ I '                        A *»m. (             >»
                                         <f4;«^^4^ I/                             . jfft   \\--*KMlf.^* f /,„..
F TH E
                                                                    SUMMARY.
  EMPIRE                                                                                      St. Milu. Population.
                                                                      .                         l2l,100
                                                                                              8,7!9,056      86,000,000
                                                                                                            •••-:), 'Ail.• ..
rerts to be benefited by the                 '"[be. Colonit* >u.l India, '
                                             TvUl of tho But .. h Empln,                     8,850,520     S09,93(.-i5t)
nstitute
36                                                        With > Mutual Trade o( ££90,U9,l«l.
HE COLONIES, AND                             This Map is i,veixa-t!il and i.*suetl iu conneerion with the
                                                Appeal fur «uptwrt to ttie I MII.,M ,•,] | n i •! ;:. of the
 IA
                                                  L'nited Kiu^tlom, the C'olouies, auil India, being
of the Empire in the year of
                                                            THE NATIONAL MEMORIAL
 S     JUBILEE                                                             or THE
                                                        QUEEN'S JUBILEE.
17         I           l                              1


1887.] Sir Frederick Abel on the Work of the Imperial Institute.    99
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, April 22, 1887.
            H.R.H. THE PBIKOB OF WALES, E.G. F.R.S.
                       Vice-Patron, in the Chair.
          SIB FBEDEBIOK ABEL, C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                  The Work of the Imperial Institute.
THE Colonial and Indian Exhibition, which owes not only its con
ception, bnt also its brilliantly successful realisation to your Royal
Highness, will be pre-eminently remarkable in times to come, for
having achieved many results of vital importance and highest benefit
to Her Majesty's subjects in all parts of Her vast Realms.
    The collection of all that is commercially valuable and scientifi
cally interesting of the natural products of the great Indian Empire
nnd of the Colonies in one exhibition, embracing as it also did very
comprehensive illustrations of the development of commerce, of the
arts and of certain industries, in the many countries beyond the seas
which combine with the United Kingdom to constitute an Empire
over nine million square miles in extent, afforded those at home an
opportunity, surpassing all previous conception, of studying and
comparing the natural history and resources of those distant lands,
of which, attached though we might be individually to one or more of
them by ties of friendship or of interest, the knowledge of many of
us was of a very vague or partial character.
    To the Colonists who visited ua last year, the Exhibition has
been of inestimable value, in affording them a most favourable and
appropriate opportunity of becoming acquainted or renewing their
old friendship with the Mother Country, and of examining the pro
gress there made in industrial, educational, and commercial develop
ment ; in leading to the cultivation of intimacy between Colonists
from different sections of the Queen's Dominions; and in affording
them invaluable opportunities of comparing the resources and state of
development of their respective countries with those of other parts
of Europe. No more convincing illustrations than were provided by
this great Exhibition could have been conceived of the importance,
to the Home Country, to each Colony, and to India, of fostering in
timate relationship and unity of action. No more encouraging proof
could have been afforded of the desire of all classes of Her Majesty's
subjects at home to cultivate a knowledge of those far-off countries
which the enterprise and perseverance of the British, and men of
British offspring, have converted into prosperous and important
Dominions, chiefly during the period of the Queen's reign, than was
furnished by the interest which the thousands upon thousands, who
                                                             H 2

100                            Sir Frederick Abel                     [April 22,
came from all parts, displayed in the study of the instructive
collections in the galleries at South Kensington.
     It was the success of the Exhibition which led to the definite
formulation of the suggestion first made by your Royal Highness
in a letter addressed by you in the autumn of 1884 to the Agents-
General of the Colonial Governments, that a permanent representa
tion of the resources of the Colonies and India, and of their continu
ally progressing development, might with great benefit to the Empire
at large, be established in this country. That the realisation of
this idea upon a sufficiently comprehensive basis might constitute
a worthy memorial of the accomplishment of fifty years of a wise
and prosperous reign ; a memorial not personal in its character ex
cepting so far as it constituted an emblem of the love and loyalty
of Her Majesty's subjects, but tending, as she would most desire, to
serve the interests of the entire Empire, had only to be pointed
out by your Royal Highness to be heartily concurred in by the
Official Representatives of the Colonies and India, who were so inti
mately identified with the triumphs of the recent Exhibition.
     The Committee to whom you, Sir, entrusted the elaboration of a
scheme for carrying this conception into effect, became persuaded by
a careful consideration of the subject that such an Institution as your
Royal Highness desired to see spring into life, to be a memorial
really worthy of the Jubilee of Her Majesty's reign and to fulfil the
great purposes which you had in view, must not be confined in its
objects to particular portions of the Queen's Dominions, but must be
made thoroughly representative of the interests and of the unity of
the whole Empire.
     The outline of the scheme for the establishment of an Imperial
Institute for the United Kingdom, the Colonies and India, which met
with the cordial approval of your Royal Highness, was necessarily
concise in dealing with the very wide extent of ground which the
operations of the Institute are intended to cover ; but those who have
carefully considered it and rightly interpreted its proposals, have not
failed to realise that it aims at very much more than the creation
and maintenance of collections, illustrative of the natural resources of
our Colonies and of India, and of the development and present con
dition of the chief industries of different parts of the Empire.
     One of the primary objects of the Institute will certainly be
the establishment of thoroughly well selected, carefully arranged,
and efficiently maintained representations of the natural products
which constitute the treasures, and are emblematic of the im
portant positions in the Empire, of those great Colonial possessions
which, during the fifty years of Her Majesty's reign, have, in many
instances, experienced a marvellous development in extent, in
commercial, social, and even in political importance.* The recent
    * Statittical statements illustrating the development of the Colonies during
the Queen's reign are appended.

  1887.J            on the Work of the Imperial Institute.             101
 Exhibition not only afforded conclusive demonstration of the great
 interest and value to the United Kingdom which must attach to
 such collections if properly organized ; by such illustrations as the
  magnificent collections of valuable woods, from nearly every Colony,
  many quite unknown in England, and the great variety of valuable
  economic products from India, of the existence of which we at home
  had little idea, it also served to convince us that our knowledge of the
  great countries which constitute the chief portion of the Empire is
  very limited and imperfect, and that their resources are in many direc
  tions still in the infancy of development. Our Colonial Brethren
  cannot, on their part, fail to bo greatly benefited by being thoroughly
  represented in a well-selected and carefully organised assemblage of
  illustrations of the sources of prosperity which constitute the sinews
  of their commerce, and upon a continued exploration and cultivation
  of which must depend the maintenance of their influence upon indus
  trial and social progress. Neither can they fail to reap substantial
  advantages by pursuing a friendly rivalry with each other in
  demonstrating the advances made from time to time in the develop
  ment of the resources of the respective portions of the Empire in
  which their lot is cast.
      The hearty co-operation and important material support to
  which the great Colonies, through their representatives in London,
  pledged themselves when the scheme for the proposed Imperial
  Institute was in the first instance limited to this branch of the great
  work which it is now contemplated to accomplish, afforded conclusive
  evidence of their earnest desire to be in all respects thoroughly
• represented in the Mother Country, and to take their places perma
  nently in our midst as fellow-labourers in the advancement of the
  prosperity of the Empire. In furtherance of this important end, a
  notable feature of that building which, in its character, will, it is
  hoped, be worthy of the momentous epoch it is destined to com
  memorate, will be, the attractions and conveniences presented by it
  as a place of resort and a rendezvous for Colonists visiting England,
  and, it is also anticipated, for the important Societies which represent
  the Colonies and Asiatic possessions in this Country, and the
  facilities which it will afford for reference to literature concerning
  the Colonies and India, for conferences on matters of common interest
  and value to the Colonists and those at home, for the interchange of
  information between the British manufacturer and those in the
   Colonies who are directly interested in meeting his requirements, and
  generally, for the cultivation of intimate relations and good fellowship
  between ourselves and our brethren from all parts of the Empire.
      The Institute will, however, not only operate actively under its
  own roof in promoting the cultivation of a better knowledge of the
  geography, natural history, and resources of cur Colonies, and for
  the advancement of the interests of the Colonists in this Country ; it
  is also contemplated that representative collections of the natural
  products of the Colonies and India, carefully identified with the

102                         Sir Frederick Abel                [April 22,
more elaborate collections of the head establishment, shall be
distributed to provincial centres, and that the provinces shall be kept
thoroughly conversant with the current information from the Colonies
and India, bearing upon the interests of the commercial man, the
manufacturer, and the intending emigrant.
     Although tho formation, and maintenance up to date, of collec
tions illustrative of the development and present condition of the
important Industries of the Empire also forms, as I have stated, a
part of the programme of the Institute, the scope of its activity in
relation to industry will be of a much more comprehensive character ;
indeed, it is to be hoped that the work which it will achieve in
furtherance of the development and progress of industries and their
future maintainance in the United Kingdom at least upon a footing
of equality with their conditions in the great Continental States, will
be most prominent in securing to the Imperial Institute the exalted
position which it should occupy as the National Jubilee Memorial
of Her Majesty's reign.
     There is no need for me to recall to the minds of an audience in
the Royal Institution the great strides which have been made during
 the last fifty years in the applications of science to the purposes of
 daily life, to the advancement of commerce, and to the development
 of the arts and manufactures. Nor is it necessary to dwell upon the
 fact that this country is the birth-place of the majority of the great
 scientific and practical achievements which have revolutionised means
 of intercommunication, and have in other ways transformed the con
 ditions under which manufactures, the arts and commerce are pursued.
 These very achievements, of which we as a Nation are BO justly proud,
 have led, however, by many of their results, to our becoming reduced
 to an equality of position with other prominent Nations in regard to
 important advantages we so long derived from the possession in this
 country of great material resources easy of access and application,
 and from the consequent pre-eminence in certain branches of trade
 and industry which wo so long enjoyed.
      In 1852, Sir Lyon Playfair, in one of a course of most interesting
 lectures on some of the results of the preceding year's great Exhibi
 tion, was impelled by the teaching of that great world's display, to
 point out that " the raw material, formerly our capital advantage,
 was gradually being equalised in price and made available to all by
 the improvements in locomotion," and " that industry must in future
 be supported not by a competition of local advantages, but by a com
 petition of intellect." If this was already felt to be the state of the
 case six-and-thirty years ago, how much more must we be convinced
 of the full truth of this at the present day, by the conditions under
  which the British merchant and manufacturer have to compete with
 their rivals on the Continent and in the United States.
      It is still within the recollection of many that almost the whole
  world was in very great measure dependent upon Great Britain for
 its supplies of ordinary cast iron. Even as lately as 1871, the

 1887.]            on the Work of the Imperial Institute.             108
 United States of America received from Great Britain nearly one-
fifth of its total produce of pig iron ; but from 1875 all importation
of British iron ceased for over three years, and it was only in con
sequence of requirements in the States exceeding the capabilities of
production, that some small demands arose in 1879, which were for
Borne time maintained.
     But while, in 1879, the pig iron produced in the United States
amounted to little over 3,000,000 tons, in 1882 the mako had increased
by 70 per cent., viz. to over 5,100,000 tons. Since that time the
actual make has not increased (in 1885 it amounted to 4,529,869 tons
of 2000 Ib.), but the capacity of production, which vitally interests the
iron trade of this country, has risen enormously, the present capacity
of all the American pig-iron works being estimated at over 8,900,000
tons, or nearly 300 per cent. greater than it was in 1879. So much
regarding the United States ; looking nearer home, we find that the
iron of France, Belgium, and Germany not only competes with ours
in tho open market, but that Belgian and German iron is actually
imported into this country to a moderate extent.
     As an instructive illustration of the advance and influence of the
improvements which have been made in intercommunication upon
the value of our natural products and their importance even in our
own industries, I may, on the authority of Sir Lowthian Bell, state
the astounding fact that in the opinion of competent authorities,
the ore (haematite) especially suitable for steel manufacture by the
Bessemer process can be brought over sea a distance of 1000 miles,
landed close to mines furnishing the cheapest made pig iron of Great
Britain, and converted into steel rails at a lower cost than tho native
ironstone of Cleveland can furnish similar rails in iron.
     From time to time the ground which we have lost through the
development of the resources of other countries has been more than
retrieved temporarily by improvements effected through the more
thorough comprehension and consequent better application of the scien
tific principles underlying processes of manufacture. Thus the quantity
of fuel consumed in producing wrought-iron rails has been gradually
reduced by improvements in the construction and working of furnaces,
until less than one-half the amount is now required per ton of such
rails than was employed fifty years ago ; but, remarkable as it may
seem, tho ultimate efl'ect of an advance of this importance is actually
to improve the position, in relation to this manufacture, of other
Nations less favourably circumstanced than Great Britain in the
matter of coal, for, instead of having to multiply any difference in our
favour in the cost of fuel required to produce a ton of rails by twelve,
that difference has now only to be multiplied by three in order to
arrive at the extent of our advantage.
     The history of the development of steel manufacture during the
 last twenty-five years affords a most instructive illustration of the
fluctuations which may ensue in tho value of our natural resources, and
the consequent condition of one or other of our important industries,

104                        Sir Frederick Abel                  [April 22,
arising out of continued advances made in the application of science
to the perfection or transformation of manufacturing processes, and
of the stimulating effects of such fluctuations upon the exertions of
those who are able to bring scientific knowledge to bear upon the
solution of problems in industrial operations which entirely baffle the
ordinary manufacturer. Within that period the inventions of
Bessemer and of Siemens have led to the replacement of iron by
steel in some of its most extensive applications. The Bessemer
converter, by which pig iron is rapidly transformed into steel by the
injection of air into the molten metal, has, so far as this country is
concerned, to a very great extent superseded the puddling furnace, in
which pig iron is transformed by long-continued laborious treatment
into steel or malleable iron. This important change in our national
industry was, ere long, productive of a serious crisis therein, and for
the reason that the pig iron produced from a large proportion of
those ores which, from their abundance and the cheapness of their
treatment, have been largely instrumental in placing Great Britain
in her high position as an iron-producing nation, could not be
applied to the production of marketable steel by means of the
Bessemer converter. In the purification of this pig iron during
its conversion in the puddling furnace into a suitable material for
the production of rails, the elementary constituent phosphorus, which
it had carried with it from the ore as a contaminating ingredient
very detrimental to its strength, was eliminated, and by sufficient
 treatment a malleable iron of good quality was obtained ; but in the
production of steel from the same material in the Bessemer converter,
the phosphorus is almost entirely retained in the metal, rendering it
 unsuitable for manufacture into rails or plates. Hence the applica
tion of this rapid steel-making process had to be chiefly restricted to
 particular kinds of ores, the supplies of which are limited to a few
 districts in this country. These had to be largely supplemented by
 importations from other countries; nevertheless the cheapness of
 production and superiority in point of strength, durability and
 lightness of the steel rails thus sent into the market from the
 Bessemer converter combined to maintain a supremacy of them over
 iron rails, &c., manufactured by the old puddling processes from
 the staple ores of the country.
      The advantages presented by steel over the wrought iron of the
 puddling furnace for constructive purposes speedily became evident ;
 combining as it does nearly double the strength with a more than
proportionate superiority in elasticity and ductility, its value for ship
 building purposes did not long fail to be realised. It was soon found
 more profitable to build a steel steamer, paying a price of nearly 9Z.
 per ton for the material, than to construct one of iron which cost only
 6Z. 5s. per ton. The effect of the rapid displacement of malleable iron
by steel produced from ores of a particular class has been, that at
least 85 to 90 per cent. of the iron ores of Great Britain could no
longer be applied to the production of material for rails and for con

1887.]             en tie Work of the Imperial Institute.              105
structive purposes, being unavailable for steel-making by any method
which could compete with the Bessemer and Siemens processes.
Great has been the apprehension among the owners of those ores,
that the demand for iron which they can furnish could not revive, but
the scientific metallurgist has successfully grappled, from more than
one direction, with the great problem of restoring their commercial
importance.
    Modifications of the mode of working the rival of the Bessemer
process, namely, the open-hearth (Siemens-Martin) process, have
given successful results in the production of serviceable rails con
taining higher proportions of phosphorus than had before been
admissible, and a simple alteration of the method of carrying out
the Bessemer process has, within the last few years, led to really
triumphant results, with the employment of those ores which, before,
could only be dealt with by the searching operation of the old
puddling furnace. By utilising the basic character of lime during
the treatment of the melted pig iron, yielded by phosphoric ores,
with air in the Bessemer converter, the phosphorus is fixed at the
moment of its elimination by oxidation from the metal, and the objec
tionable impurity is held bound in the slag, while a steel is obtained
rivalling in freedom from phosphorus the product furnished by the
pure varieties of English and foreign ore which alone could previously
be successfully dealt with by the Bessemer process. This modified
treatment of iron for the production of steel, called the basic treatment,
was soon applied also to the open-hearth (the Siemens and Siemens-
Martin) processes of steel-making ; thus a new era was established in
steel manufacture by the quick processes, there being now but very few
restrictions to their application to iron produced from all varieties of
ores. Indeed, the treatment is actually being applied profitably to the
recovery of iron from the rich slag forming the refuse-product of the
puddling furnace in the production of malleable iron, which, containing
as it did the phosphorus eliminated from the pig iron by the laborious
purifying treatment, had been condemned to limited usefulness as
a material for road-making, while now it ranks in market value with
some ores of iron. Yet another most interesting and valuable result
has been achieved by this simple application of scientific knowledge.
The slag or refuse-product of the basic treatment of iron contains, in
the form of phosphates of lime and magnesia, the whole of the phos
phorus which it is the main function of that treatment to separate
from the metal; it was soon found that the phosphoric acid which
had been produced by the elimination of the pernicious element in
the conversion of bad iron into good steel, existed in this refuse
slag in a condition as readily susceptible of assimilation by plants aa
it is in the valuable artificial manure known as superphosphate;
the slag, simply ground up, constitutes therefore a manure which
is already of recognised value and commands a ready sale at very
profitable prices.
    The organisation of this latest advance in the development of

106                       Sir Frederick Abel                  [April 22,
steel manufacture dates back only nine years, and already the year's
product of the basic process amounts to over 1,300,000 tons of steel.
But although it is to Englishmen that the owner of iron property
and the steel-maker are again indebted for these important results,
and to English manufacturers that the first practical demonstration
of the success of this process is due, its application has been far
more rapidly elaborated upon the Continent than here ; in Germany
the importance of the subject was at once realised, and it is there
that considerably the largest proportion of steel is produced by the
basic treatment ; it is in Germany also that the value of the slag for
agricultural purposes has been developed ; the first steps in its utilisa
tion here being but just now taken, in Staffordshire.
     I have already referred to the remarkable strides which have
been made in the extension of iron manufacture in the United
States : the development there of steel production has been no less
marvellous. In 1879, 928,000 tons of Bessemer steel were produced ;
in 1885 the make amounted to 1,701,000 tons, while the productive
capacity in that year was estimated at 4,102,000 tons. With other
extensive steel-producing works in course of completion, provision is
being made for increasing the power of production by another
 million tons. Looking to the fact that at the present time the
railway mileage in the United States exceeds that of the whole of
 Europe, there being 1,300,000 miles of railway in operation, while
 at the beginning of 1865 there were only 34,000 miles, the causes of
 this enormous development of the iron and steel manufacture are
 evident; the resources of the country in ore and fuel are gigantic,
 and the systematic technical training of the people has made its
 influence felt upon the development of this as of every other branch
 of industry which our friendly rivals pursue. But it is not only in
 the United States that the development in the production of iron
 and steel has greatly increased of late years ; thus, in Germany the
 increase in the production of pig iron alone, during the last twenty-
 one years, has been 237 per cent., in Austro-Hungary 152 per cent.,
 while the increase in France and Belgium is 64 per cent., and
 therefore not greatly inferior to our own (75 per cent.).
     Although, however, the increase in actual production of iron and
 steel in this country has not kept pace with that of some other
 countries, it is satisfactory to know that our productive power
 has very greatly increased in late years, and there is probably no
 one branch of our industries in which we have maintained our
 position so satisfactorily in regard to quality of product as
 that of iron and steel manufacture, even although, every now and
 then, we have indications that in the struggle with other Nations
 for superiority of product and for pre-eminence in continuity of
 progress, we have to look to our laurels. While this Country
 owes a deep debt of gratitude to such men as Neilson, Mushet,
 Bessemer, Siemens, Thomas and Gilchrist, who by their brilliant
 discoveries and inventions have maintained Great Britain's post

1887.]             on the Work of the Imperial Institute.            107
tion as the leader in the origination of successive eras of advance
in iron and steel manufacture, there is no question that the trade
generally has in recent years derived the greatest assistance and
benefit from the organisation of the Society which, under the name
of the Iron and Steel Institute, has brought the members of the
trade to recognise that they themselves, and the country, reap incal
culable benefit from their free interchange of knowledge and the
results of experience, their candid discussion of successes, failures,
and diversities of views and practice—the combination of friendly
rivalry with hearty co-operation in the advancement of the science
and practice of thoir important calling.
     While we have succeeded in maintaining a foremost position
in iron and steel manufacture, there are some other important
branches of industry, for a time essentially our own, the present
condition of which, in this country, we cannot contemplate with equal
satisfaction. Several instructive illustrations might be quoted, but
I will content myself with a brief examination of one of the most
interesting.
     A glance at the history of the utilisation of some products of the
distillation of coal will present to us an industry created and first
elaborated in England, which has, on the one hand, by its develop
ment effected momentous changes in other industries and in im
portant branches of commerce, while on the other hand it has been
in great measure wrested from us in consequence of the systematic
collaboration of scientific and practical workers on the Continent.
     In discussing the recent advances made in chemical manufactures
as exemplified by the Exhibition of 1851, Playfair, in the lecture to
which reference has already been made, spoke of the great development
of the value of the evil-smelling tar, which was then made to furnish
the solvent liquids benzene and naphtha, and the antiseptic creosote,
the residual material being utilised for pavements and for artificial
fuel. The chemist little dreamt then that between 1851 and the year
of the next great Exhibition, 1862, coal tar would have become a mine
of wealth equally to science, to manufactures and to the arts, in which
fresh workings have ever since continued to be opened up, and still
present themselves for exploration. Hofmann, in his valuable report
on the chemical products and processes elucidated by that Exhibition,
dwells with the enthusiasm of the ardent worker in science upon the
brilliant products obtained from coal tar, which had resulted from
the labours of the scientific chemist and had already acquired an
almost national importance, although this great industry was then
still in its infancy. From the year 1856, when the first colouring
matter known as Mauve, was discovered and manufactured by a
young student at the College of Chemistry, Mr. Perkin, one of
Hofmaim's most promising pupils, to the present time, the produc
tion of new coal-tar colours or of new processes for preparing the
known colours in greater purity, has progressed uninterruptedly, this
industry having long since become one of the most important, and

108                          Sir Frederick Abel                [April 22,
also one of the most remarkable, as illustrating by each stage of its
development the direct application of scientific research to the attain
ment of momentous practical results.
     It is interesting to note that Perkin's discovery of mauve, as a
product of one of the most important derivatives of coal-tar, called
aniline, was arrived at in the course of an investigation, having for
its object the artificial production of the invaluable vegetable alkaloid,
quinine, the synthesis of which has been the aim of many researches
during the past half century, and appears to be at length about to be
achieved, as the result of a long chain of scientific research. The
difficulties to be overcome before mauve could be produced upon a
manufacturing scale were very great, and were only solved by a steady
pursuit of scientific research, side by side with practical experiments
suggested by its results. Aniline—the parent of the first coal-tar
colour, a liquid organic alkali—a most fertile source of interesting
and important discoveries in organic chemistry, which have made the
names of Hofmann and others famous—was produced with difficulty
by various methods in very small quantities, so as to be almost a
chemical curiosity at the time of the discovery of mauve. Among
the substances from which it had been prepared was the volatile
liquid known as benzene, first discovered in the laboratory of this
Institution in 1825 by Faraday, in the liquid products condensed
from oil gas, but afterwards obtained by Mansfield, in the College of
Chemistry, from coal-tar naphtha, which also furnished in his hands a
series of homologous liquids, many of them now of great importance
as the raw materials from which dyes are obtained.
     The conversion of benzene into aniline, which had been effected
on a very small scale in different ways by German and Russian
investigators, was accomplished as a manufacturing process after
 many difficulties by Perkin, and within a year after the discovery of
 mauve by him, it was in the hands of the silk dyer. Perkin's success
 led other chemists at once to pursue researches in the same direction,
 especially in France, where the next important coal-tar colour,
 magenta or fuchsine, was obtained, by M. Verquin, the successful
 manufacture of which in a pure state was, however, first accomplished
 by English chemists, with Mr. E. C. Nicholson at their head, whose
 magnificent specimens in the 1862 Exhibition excited universal
 admiration. In 1861 beautiful violet and blue colours were
 produced, again by French chemists (Girard and De Laire), but
 were manufactured shortly afterwards in a pure state by Nicholson.
 This brought the coal-tar dye industry down to the year 1862, and
 Hofmann, in congratulating his young pupil Perkin (in his Jury
 Report) upon the splendid industrial result achieved, in having first
 manufactured a colour from coal-tar, which had been arrived at by
 purely scientific research, expressed the hope that the commercial
 success of his enterprise might not divert him from the path of
 scientific inquiry—a hope which he has lived to see fully realised, as
 the long scries of fresh contributions, made almost without inter

1887.]            on the Work of the Imperial Institute.               109
raption since that time by Perkin to our knowledge of organic
chemistry have been among the most brilliant and important achieved
by chemists of the present day, and have continued to influence in a
most important manner the branch of industry which he created.
     The six years succeeding those which formed the first period
(1854-1862) of existence of this industry were fruitful, not only of new
colours but also of progress made in England, as well as on the Conti
nent, in the development of the manufacture, and of our knowledge
of the constitution, of the beautiful dyes which outvie each other in
brilliancy. Important researches by Hofmann, which, while establish
ing the correctness of his scientific conceptions of the real nature of
magenta, led to the discovery, by him, of a matchless violet dye, were
followed by the production, at the hands of Perkin and Nicholson in
England, and of several workers on the Continent, of the well-known
gas-light greens, of Bismarck brown, and of some eight or nine other
important dyes ; blue, yellow, orange, and scarlet.
     In the next period of six years (1868-1874) another great stride
was made in the coal-tar colour industry, due to important scientific
researches carried out by two German chemists, Graebe and
Liebermann, which led them, in the first place, to obtain an insight
into the true nature of the colouring matter of one of the most
important staple dye-stufis, namely tho Madder root. They found
that this colouring matter which chemists call Alizarine was related
to Anthracene, one of the most important solid hydrocarbons formed
in the distillation of coal, a discovery which was speedily followed
by the artificial formation of the madder dye, alizarine, from that
constituent of coal-tar. At first, this achievement of Graebe and
Liebermann was simply of high scientific interest, but Perkin, who
was pursuing research in the same direction, soon discovered two
methods by which the conversion of anthracene into the madder dye
could be accomplished on a large scale, and one of these, which was
also arrived at by the German chemists simultaneously with Perkin,
is still used for the manufacture of alizarine, which was for some time
most actively pursued in this country, with very momentous results, as
regards the market value of the madder root. The latter has long been
most extensively cultivated in Holland, South Germany, France, Italy,
Turkey, and India, the consumption of madder in Great Britain having
attained to an annual value of as much as 1,000,000Z. sterling. Play-
fair pointed out in 1852 that important improvements had been attained
in the extraction of the red colour or alizarine from the madder root,
the refuse of which, after removal of the dye in the ordinary way, had
been made, by a simple treatment, to furnish further quantities of the
colouring matter. This result, most valuable at the time of the first
great Exhibition, became insignificant when once the dye was arti
ficially manufactured from anthracene ; the price paid for madder in
1869 was from 5d. to 8d. per pound, but now the equivalent in arti
ficial madder dye, or alizarine, of one pound of the root, can be obtained
for one-halfpenny. The latter is still used by the most conservative

 110                        Sir Frederick Abel                 [April 22,
 section of the dye-trade, the wool-dyers (and in some respects it
 appears to present in this direction a little advantage over the arti
 ficial colour), but the value of its present annual consumption in Great
 Britain has become reduced from one million to about 40,000Z.
 During the development of the artificial alizarine industry within
 this third period of six years, the continued researches of Perkin,
 Schunck, Baeyer, Caro, and others have led to the development of
 further important varieties of coal-tar dyes, the most valuable of
 which, discovered by the two last-named chemists, was a beautiful
cerise colour, called eosine.
     With the discovery of artificial alizarine the truly scientific era
of the coal-tar industry may be said to have commenced, most of the
commercially valuable dye-products, obtained since that time, being
the result of truly theoretical research by the logical pursuit of
definite well understood reactions. The wealth of discovery in this
direction made during tho last thirteen years is a most tempting
subject to pursue, but I am compelled to refrain from entering upon
it, further than to point out that the practical significance of beauti
ful scientific researches of many years previous became developed—•
that one of the results was the production of very permanent and
brilliant scarlet and red dyes, the manufacture of which has greatly
reduced the market value of cochineal—that the careful study of
the original coal-tar colours led to their production in a state of
great purity by new and beautifully simple scientific methods (which
include the extensive employment as an invaluable practical agent
in their production, of the curious gaseous oxychloride of carbon,
until lately a chemical curiosity, produced through the agency of
light, and hence christened phosgene gas, by its discoverer, John
Davy, in 1812); and lastly, that even the well-known vegetable
colouring matter, indigo, one of the staple products of India, now
ranks among the colours synthetically obtained by the systematic
pursuit of scientific research, from compounds which trace their origin
to coal-tar.
     The rapid development of the coal-tar colour industry has not
failed to exercise a very important beneficial influence upon other
chemical manufactures; thus, the distillation of tar, which was a
comparatively very crude process, when, at the period of the first
Exhibition, benzene, naphtha, dead-oil and pitch were the only
products furnished by it, has become a really scientific operation,
involving the employment of comparatively complicated but beautiful
distilling apparatus for the separation of the numerous products
which serve as raw materials for the many distinct families of dyes.
Very strong sulphuric acid became an essential chemical agent to
the alizarine manufacturer, and, as a consequence, the so-called
anhydrous sulphuric acid, the remarkable crystalline body which
was for many years prepared only in small quantities from green-
vitriol, and of which minute specimens carefully sealed up in glass
tubes were preserved as great curiosities in my student's days, is now

1887.]             on the Work of the Imperial Institute.                Ill
made at a low price upon a very large scale by a beautifully simple
process worked out in England, by Squire and Mcssell. The alkali
and kindred chemical trades have been very greatly benefited by
the large consumption of caustic soda, of chlorate of potash and other
materials used in the dye manufactures, and the application of con
structive talent, combined with chemical knowledge, to the production
of efficient apparatus for carrying out on a stupendous scale the
scientific operations developed in the investigator's laboratory, has
greatly contributed to the creation of a distinct profession, that of the
chemical engineer.
      One of the most beneficial results of the rapid development of the
coal-tar colour industry has been its influence upon the ancient art of
 dyeing, which made but very slow advance until the provision of the
 host of brilliant, readily applicable colours completely revolutionised
 both it and the art of calico printing.
      In endeavouring to furnish some idea of the magnitude of the
 coal-tar colour industry, I may state that the total value of the
 coal-tar colours produced in 1885 amounted to about 3,500,000Z.
 The value of the alizarine and its related dyes which are used with it
 for obtaining various shades of colour, now amounts to about one-half
 of the total produce of the coal-tar colour industry. Their manu
 facture in England in considerable quantities still continues, but it is
 a suggestive fact that the value of the artificial alizarine imported
 into this country from the Continent last year, was 259,795Z. Taking
 the average value of madder at 5d. per Ib., and the cost of its equiva
 lent in artificial alizarine at one-halfpenny, the quantity imported, if
 valued at 5d. per Ib., would represent about 2,597,9501.
       I venture to think that it will be interesting at this point, to quote
  some words of prophecy included in Professor Hofmann's important
  ' Report on the Chemical Section of the Exhibition of 1862,' and to
  inquire to what extent they have been verified. In commenting upon
  one of the features of greatest novelty in that world's show, the
  exhibition of the first dye products derived from coal-tar, he says :—
       " If coal be destined sooner or later to supersede, as the primary
  source of colour, all the costly dyewoods hitherto consumed in the
  ornamentation of textile fabrics ; if this singular chemical revolution,
  BO far from being at all remote, is at this moment in the very act and
   process of gradual accomplishment ; are we not on the eve of profound
  modifications in the commercial relations between the great colour-
   consuming and colour-producing regions of the globe ? Eventualities,
   which it would be presumptuous to predict as certain, it may be per
   missible and prudent to forecast as probable ; and there is fair reason
   to believe it probable that, before the period of another decennial
   Exhibition shall arrive, England will have learnt to depend, for the
   materials of the colours she so largely employs, mainly, if not wholly,
   on her own fossil stores. Indeed, to the chemical mind it cannot be
   doubtful, that in the coal beneath her feet lie waiting to be drawn
   forth, even as the statue lies waiting in the quarry, the fossil equiva

 112                        Sir Frederick AM                   [April 22,
 lents of the long series of costly dye materials for which she has
 hitherto remained the tributary of foreign climes. Instead of dis
 bursing her annual millions for these substances, England will,
 beyond question, at no distant day become herself the greatest colour-
 producing country in the world ; nay, by the strangest of revolutions,
 she may ere long send her coal-derived blues to indigo-growing India,
 her tar-distilled crimson to cochineal-producing Mexico, and her fossil
 substitutes for quercitron and safflower to China, Japan, and the other
 countries whence these articles are now derived.
     " Coal and iron, it has been said, are kings of the earth, and
 our latest chemical victories seem destined to add another vast
 province to the dominion of coal, and a fresh element of commercial
 predominance to its already powerful possessors."
     So far as concerns the displacement of madder, cochineal, quer
 citron, safflower, and other natural dyo materials from their positions
 of command in the markets of England and the world, Hofmann's
 predictions have been amply fulfilled, and it appeared, in tho earlier
 days of the coal-tar colour industry, as though he would be an equally
 true prophet in regard to England becoming herself the greatest colour-
 producing country in the world. But, although Germany did little in
 the days of infancy of this industry, beyond producing a few of the
known colours in a somewhat impure condition, many years did not
elapso ere she not only was our equal in regard to the quality of the
dyes produced, but, moreover, had outstripped us in the quantities
manufactured and in the additions made to the varieties of valuable
dyes sent into the market. The following is tho estimated total
value of coal-tar colours manufactured in the several producing
countries as far back as 1878 :—Germany, 2,000,000Z. ; England,
480,000Z. ; France, 850,000Z. ; Switzerland, 350,000Z. These figures
show that the value of the make of colours in England was less than
one-fourth that of Germany, and that even Switzerland, which, in
competing with other countries industrially is at great natural dis
advantages, was not far behind us, ranking equal to France as
producers. The superior position of Germany in re'ferenco to this
industry may be in a measure ascribable to some defects in the
operation of our Patent Laws and to questions of wages and con
ditions of labour ; but the chief cause is to be found in the thorough
realisation, by the German manufacturer, of his dependence for
success and continual progress upon the active prosecution of
scientific research, in the high training received by the chemists
attached to the manufactories, and in the intimate association, in every
direction, of systematic scientific investigation with technical work.
     The young chemists which the German manufacturer attracts to
his works rank much higher than ours in the general scientific
training which is essential to the successful cultivation of the habit
of theoretical and experimental research, and in the consequent
appreciation of, and power of pursuing, original investigations of a
high order. Moreover, the research laboratory constitutes an integral

 1887.]           on the Work of the Imperial Institute.              113
 part of the German factory, and the results of the work carried on
 by and under the eminent professors and teachers at the universities
 and technical colleges are closely followed and studied in their
 possible bearings upou the further development of the industry.
     The importance attached to high and well-organised technical
 education in Germany is demonstrated not only by the munificent
 way in which the scientific branches of the universities and the
 technical colleges are established and maintained, but also by the
 continuity which exists between the different grades of education ; a
 continuity, the lack of which -in England was recently indicated by
 Professor Huxley with great force. Nearly every large town in
 Germany has its "Heal Schule," where the children of the public
 elementary schools have the opportunity, either by means of exhi
 bitions or by payment of small fees, of receiving a higher education,
 qualifying them in due course to enter commercial or industrial life,
or to pass to the universities or to the polytechnic or technical high
schools, which, at great cost to the Nation, have been developed to a
remarkable extent in recent years, and have unquestionably exercised
a most beneficial influence upon the trade and commerce of the
country. A most important feature in the development of these
schools is the subdivision of the work of instruction among a large
number of professors, each one an acknowledged authority in the
particular branch of science with which he deals. Thus, at the
Carlsruhe Polytechnic School—one of the very earliest of its kind
—which was greatly enlarged in 1863—the number of professors
is 41 ; and at Stuttgart the teaching staff of the polytechnic school
amounts to 65 persons, of whom 21 are professors.
     The important part taken by the German universities in the
training of young men for technical pursuits has often been dwelt
upon as constituting a striking feature of contrast to our university
systems. The twenty-four universities in the German Empire, each
with its extensive and well-equipped science departments and ample
professional staff, contribute most importantly to the industrial train
ing of the Nation in co-operating with the purely technical schools. The
facts specified in the Report of the Technical Education Commission
that, in the session 1883—4, there were 400 students working in
the chemical laboratories at Berlin, and that, during the same
session, 50 students were engaged in original research at Munich
(where the traditions of the great school of Liebig are worthily main
tained), illustrate the national appreciation of the opportunities pre
sented for scientific training ; and the expenditure of 30,000Z. upon
the physical laboratory, and 35,000Z. upon the chemical department,
of the New University of Strasbourg, serves to illustrate the unsparing
hand with which the resources of the country are devoted to the pro
vision of those educational facilities which are the very life-spring of
the industrial progress whence those resources are derived.
    In France, advanced education had been allowed to sink to a low
ebb after the provincial universities had been destroyed in the great
    VOL. XII. (No. 81.)                                 "         i

114                         Sir Frederick Abel               [April 22,
^Revolution, and the University of Paris had been constituted by the
first Napoleon the sole seat of high education in the country. Before
the late war, matters educational were in a condition very detrimental
to the position of the country among Nations. There was no lack
of educational establishments, but the systems and sequence of
instruction lacked organisation.
     Since the war, France has made great efforts to replace her
educational resources upon a proper footing. The provincial colleges
have been re-established at a cost of 3,280,000Z., and the annual
budget for their support reaches half-a-million. The organisation
of industrial education has now been greatly developed, though still
not on a footing of equality with that of Germany. The practical
teaching of science commences already in the elementary schools,
 and the groundwork of technical instruction is afterwards securely
 laid by the higher elementary schools, of which so many excellent
 examples are now to be found in different parts of France. Every
 large manufacturing centre has its educational establishment where
 technical instruction is provided, with special reference to local
 requirements ; the Institute Industrie], at Lisle, and the Ecole
 Centrale of Lyons, are examples of these. In order to render
 these colleges accessible to the best talent of France, more than 500
 scholarships have been founded, at an annual cost of 30,000Z. The
 Ecole Centrale des Arts et Manufactures, of Paris, still maintains
 the reputation as the great technical university of the country,
 which it earned many years ago, and receives students from the
 provincial colleges, where they have passed through the essential
 training preliminary to the high technical education which that
 great institution provides.
     Switzerland has often been quoted as a remarkable illustration
 of the benefits secured to a Nation by the thoroughly organised
 education of its people. Far removed from the ocean, girt by
 mountains, poor in the mineral resources of industry, she yet has
 taken one of the highest positions among essentially industrial
 Nations, and has gained victories over countries rich in the possession
 of the greatest natural advantages. Importing cotton from the
 United States, she has sent it back in manufactured forms, so as to
 undersell the products of the American mills. The trade of watch
 making, once most important in this metropolis, passed almost
 entirely to Switzerland years ago ; the old established ribbon trade
 of Coventry has had practically to succumb before the skilled com
 petition of Switzerland, and although she has no coal of her own,
 Switzerland is at least as successful as France in her appropriation
 of the coal-tar colour industry and her rivalry in rate of production
 with England, the place of its birth and development. Comparative
 cheapness of labour will not go very far to account for these great
 successes; they undoubtedly spring mainly from the thoroughly
 organised combination of scientific with practical education of which
 the entire people enjoys the inestimable benefit.

 1887.]           on the Work of the Imperial Institute.             115
     From the age of six to twelve, or thirteen, the children must
attend primary schools, where, as the pupils advance in age, the
instruction becomes more practical. The application of the know
ledge acquired in these primary schools, is cultivated for three
years at the so-called " Improvement Schools," and upon these
follow the Cantonal High Schools, which are divided into trade-
and classical schools, and of which there are sixty-seven in the little
canton of Zurich alone. Above those there are five universities and
the Zurich Technical Institute, which is supported by the Federal
 Government, the Canton itself subscribing liberally to its aid. It
 owns a very numerous staff of professors and teachers, and the
number of students attending is so large that, magnificent as was
 the accommodation which it already afforded, no less than 50,0001.
have recently been spent upon additional chemical laboratories.
 Although the Germans have so many technical colleges and chemical
schools they go in large numbers to the Zurich Institute, and even
a few English appreciate the great advantages which must accrue
 from the thorough training attainable in this world-renowned school
 of technics.
     Holland furnishes another brilliant example of the success with
which a Nation can bring the power of systematic technical education
 to bear in securing and maintaining industrial victories in the face of
most formidable disadvantages, while the United States of America,
so rich in natural resources, have long since realised the immensity
of additional advantages to be gained over European Nations in the
war of industry by a wide diffusion and thorough organisation of
technical education. So long as forty years ago the States already
possessed several excellent educational institutions established upon
the basis of the Continental polytechnic schools, but it was not until
about fifteen years later that the great advances achieved by Ger
many in technical education, made America, like France, anxious con
cerning the progress and development of some of her industries.
     The subject was at once made a thoroughly national one, and it
is now just upon a quarter of a century ago since Congress ordained
that each State should provide at least one college, having for its
leading objects the diffusion of scientific instruction in its relations
to the industry of the country, and decreed that public lands should
be granted to the States and Territories providing such colleges.
In accordance with the system adopted for the regulation of these
grants, the State of New York received close upon a million acres
of land, and out of this grant grew the University of Cornell,
which could be called upon to educate 500 students free of
charge under the conditions of the grant, and which was already
at work in 1867, having in the meantime received most important aid
from an endowment of 100,000Z. by a private citizen, Mr. Cornell.
The combined effect of this State action and of great private munifi
cence, was a remarkably rapid development of scientific and technical
education throughout the country ; besides some fifty colleges, with
                                                       "      i 2

116                        Sir Frederick Abel                [April 22,
eight or nine thousand students, which sprang out of the Land Grant
Act for Industrial Education, there are now in the States about 400
other universities and colleges (with 35,000 students, and between
5000 and 6000 teachers), in a large proportion of which efficient
instruction in applied science is provided.
    Among the more prominent of America's technical schools are
the Stevens Institute of Technology, New Jersey ; the Pennsylvania
Polytechnic College, Philadelphia ; the Lawrence Science School, in
connection with Harvard University ; the Columbia College and
School of Mines, New York ; the Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology, Boston ; the Engineering School of the Michigan University ;
the Lafayette College, Pennsylvania ; the Mechanical College of
Louisiana University ; the Brown University, Rhode Island ; Wash
ington College, Virginia; Union College, Schenectidy; and the
Shipley School, in connection with the Cornell University. To the
useful work accomplished within a few years by these and many other
highly important educational institutions, which have placed the
acquisition of scientific knowledge within the reach of the very
humblest, the enormous strides made by the United States in the
development of home industries must unquestionably be in the main
ascribed.
    While extolling the comprehensive and well-organized systems of
technical education existing in all parts of the Continent and the
United States, let us not undervalue the great progress which has
been made in recent years in Great Britain in the advancement and
extension of technical instruction. The Royal Commission on the
Depression of Trade and Industry state, as the result of evidence
collected by them, that " It would be difficult to estimate the extent
to which our industries have been aided in various ways by the
advance of elementary, scientific, and technical education during the
last twenty years."
     The important influence exercised by the admirable work which
the organisation of the Science and Art Department has accomplished,
upon the intellectual and material progress of the Nation, is now
thoroughly recognised. Professor Huxley, the Dean of the Normal
School of Science, in his recent important letter " On the organisation
of industrial education," has reminded us that " the classes now estab
lished all over the country in connection with that department, not
only provide elementary instruction accessible to all, but offer the
means whereby the pick of the capable students may obtain in the
 schools at South Kensington as good a higher education in Science
and Art as is to be had in the country," and " that it is from this
 source that the supply of science and art teachers is derived, who in
 turn raise the standard of elementary education " provided by the
 School Boards. The extension of facilities for the education of those
 engaged in art-industries is constantly aimed at, as was recently
demonstrated by the creation of free studentships for artizans in
 the Art Schools at South Kensington.

 1887.]            on the Work of the Imperial Institute.            117
     The necessity which has gradually made itself felt iu the manu
 facturing towns of the United Kingdom for encouraging the study of
 science in its application to industries, by those who intend to devote
 themselves to some branch of manufacture or trade, has led to the
 establishment in about twenty-five towns in England and Scotland,
 and in two or three in Ireland, of colleges of science corresponding
 more or less to the Continental polytechnic schools, and accomplishing
 important work in training students in the different branches of
 science in their applications to manufactures and the arts. A number
of these, such as the Owen's College, Manchester, the Yorkshire
 College, at Leeds, the Glasgow and Bradford Technical Colleges, the
 Firth College at Sheffield, and the Mason's College at Birmingham,
have established a high reputation as schools where science in its
applications to productive industries is most efficiently taught and
importantly advanced.
     The wealthier of the City Companies, some of which had long
been identified with important educational establishments, associated
themselves with the Corporation of the City of London nearly ten
years ago to establish an organisation for the advancement of technical
education, which has already carried out most important work. Tho
Society of Arts, which initiated the system of examinations, afterwards
so successfully developed by the Science and Art Department, set on
foot and conducted for several years examinations of artizans in a few
branches of technology. This useful work was relinquished in 1879
to the City and Guilds' Institute, and its extension since that period
has been most satisfactory. The number of candidates then pre
senting themselves was 202, distributed over twenty-three centres
where examinations were held, four years afterwards (1883) the
number presenting themselves for examinations was 2397, and last
year they amounted to 4764. The centres where examinations are
held have been increased to 186, and the number of subjects dealt
with, from thirteen to forty-eight. The beneficial influence exercised
by these examinations upon the development and extension of
technical instruction in the manufacturing districts throughout the
country is already very marked. The adoption of the system,
originated by the Science and Art Department, of contributing to the
payment of teachers in proportion to the successes attained by their
pupils, is operating most succesfully in promoting the establishment
and extension of classes for instruction in technical subjects, in
connexion with Mechanics' Institutes and other educational establish
ments in various centres of industry. In 1884, the number of classes
in different parts of the country and metropolis which are connected
with the examinations of the Institute was 262, having 6395
students, and this year the number of classes has risen to 357, and
that of students to 8500.
    The Technical College at Finsbury was the first great practical
outcome of the efforts made by the (Jity and Guilds' Institute to
supplement existing educational machinery, by the creation of techno

118                         Sir Frederick Abel                 [April 22,
logical and trade schools in the metropolis, and the results, in regard
to number and success of students at the day and evening schools
of that important establishment, have afforded conclusive demonstra
tion of the benefits which it is already conferring upon young
workers who, with scanty means at their command, are earnest in
their desire to train themselves thoroughly for the successful pursuit
of industries and trades. The evening courses of instruction are espe
cially valuable to such members of the artizan classes as desire, at
the close of their daily labour, to devote time to the acquisition of
scientific or artistic knowledge. The system of evening classes, which
was pursued, in the first instanec, at King's College and one or two
other metropolitan schools, was most successfully developed by the
Science and Art Department, and, being now supplemented by the
important work accomplished at Finsbury College, is really, in point
of organisation, in advance of similar work done in other countries.
     Another department of the City and Guilds' Institute, of a some
what different character, but akin to that of the Finsbury College
in the objects desired to be achieved by it, is the South London School
of Technical Art, which is also doing very useful work, while the
chief or eentral Institution for Technical Education, which com
menced its operations about three years ago, if it but continue to be
developed in accordance with tho carefully matured scheme which
received the approval of the City and Guilds' Council, and with that
judicious liberality which has been displayed in the design and
arrangement of the building, bids fair to become the Industrial
University of the Empire.
     As one of the first students of that College of Chemistry which
became part-parent of our present Normal Schools of Science, and
the creation of which (forty-two years ago) constituted not the least
important of the many services rendered towards the advancement of
scientific education in this country by His Royal Highness the Prince
Consort, most vividly I remember the struggling years of early
existence of that half-starved but vigorous offspring of the great school
of Liebig, born in a strangely unsympathetic land in the days when
the student of science in this country still met on all sides that pride
of old England, the practical man, enquiring of him complacently : cus
bono ; quo bono ? That ardent lover of research and instruction, the
enthusiastic and dauntless disciple of Liebig—my old master—
Hofmann, loyally supported through all discouragement, and in the
severest straits, by a small band of believers in the power of scientific
research to make for itself an enduring home in this country, suc
ceeded in very few years in developing a prosperous school of chem
istry which soon made its influence felt upon British industry ; and
it is not credible that less important achievements should be accom
plished, and less speedily, in days when the inseparable connection
of science with practice has become thoroughly recognised, by an Insti
tution created, and launched under most auspicious circumstances, by
those powerful representatives of the commercial and industrial

1887.]            on the Wurk of the Imperial Institute.               119
prosperity of the Empire, who, before all others, must realise the
vital necessity for ceaseless exertions, even for much self-sacrifice in
the immediate present, to recover our lost ground in the Dominions of
Industry.
     It has been already demonstrated by the rapid increase which has
taken place in the number of young men who, qualified by their pre
liminary education for admission as matriculated students, go through
the complete curriculum of the Central Institute, that the combina
 tion of advanced scientific instruction with practical training which
that course of study involves, will be much sought after by young
men whose preliminary education has qualified them for admission,
and whose probable future career will be interwoven with the advance
ment of one or other of the great industries of our country. But, one
of the most important functions of the Central Technical College
should coDsist in the thorough training of teachers of applied science.
The statistics furnished by the technological examinations show that,
 while their successful organisation has led to the establishment of
classes of instruction, supplementary to the general science teaching
in every large manufacturing centre, the increase in the number of
candidates examined has been accompanied by an increase in the per
centage of failures to pass the examinations, and that the supply of
a serious deficiency in competent teachers was essential to a radical
 improvement in technical education. The work of the City and
Guilds' Institute in this direction has already been well begun, and it
is in the furtherance of this, by the organisation of arrangements
for facilitating the attendance of science teachers for sufficient periods
at the Central Institute, or at more accessible provincial technical
colleges, that the Imperial Institute may hope to do good work.
     Without taking any direct part in the duty of education, it is
contemplated that the Imperial Institute will actively assist in the
thorough organisation of technical instruction, and its maintenance
on a footing, at least of equality, with that provided in other
countries, by the system of intercommunication which it will
establish and maintain between technical and science schools ; by
the distribution of information relating to the progress of technical
education abroad, to the progressive development of industries, and
the requirements of those who intend to pursue them ; by the pro
vision of resources in the way of material for experimental work, and
illustrations of new industrial achievements, and by a variety of other
means.
    The provision of facilities to teachers in elementary schools to
improve their knowledge of science and their power of imparting
information of an elementary character to the young, with the aid
of simple practical demonstrations of scientific principles involved
in the proceedings of daily life, constitutes another direction in which
important progress may be made towards establishing that continuity
between elementary and advanced education which is so well
developed on the Continent. The organisation of facilities, combined

120                       Sir Frederick Abel                 [April 22,
with material aid, to bo provided to young artizans who shall afford
some legitimate evidence of superior natural intelligence and a
striving after self-improvement, to enable them to abandon for a
time the duty of bread-winning, and to work at one or other of the
technical schools in London or the provincial centres, will be another
object to which the resources of the Imperial Institute should be
applied very beneficially. Not only will the intelligent workman's
knowledge of the fundamental principles of his craft or trade be
thereby promoted; his association in work and study with others
who are pursuing the acquisition of knowledge in different directions,
which at first seem to him alien to his personal pursuits and tastes,
but come in time to acquire interest or importance in his eyes, will
bring home to him the advantages of a wider and more comprehensive
scope of instruction, and the enlargement of bis views regarding the
value and pleasure of knowledge will, in turn, exercise a favourable
influence in the same direction upon those with whom he afterwards
comes into contact. The cramping influence which the great sub
division of labour, resulting from the development of mechanical,
physical, and chemical science, is calculated to favour, must thus
become counteracted, and the workman will realise, that if he is to
rise above the level of the ordinary skilled labourer, mere dexterity
in the particular branch of that trade which he has made his calling
must be supplemented by an acquaintance with its cognate branches,
by some knowledge of the principles which underlie his work, and
by some familiarity with the trades allied to his calling.
     The importance of bringing technical instruction within the reach
 of the needy scholars of the lower middle class need not be dwelt
 upon, and there can be no question that one of the most powerful
 means of promoting the extension of technical education will be the
 well organised administration of a really comprehensive system of
 scholarships, to be judiciously utilised in connection with the well-
 established colleges and schools of science and technics throughout
 the country, in such proportions as to meet local requirements and
 changing conditions. That a good foundation for such a system of
scholarships is likely ere long to emanate from the resources of the
Royal Commission of 1851, has already been officially indicated in
one of its reports ; may we not also hope that many will be found in
our Empire ready to follow the example of the late Sir Joseph Whit-
worth, and to act in emulation of the patriotism of those men who,
by munificent donations or endowments in aid of the work of bringing
industrial education within the reach of all classes in the United
States, have helped to place our Cousins in the position to hold their
own and aspire to victory, in the war of industry ? The thoroughly
representative character which it is intended to maintain for the
governing body of the Imperial Institute, will secure the wise ad
ministration by it of funds of this kind, dedicated to the extension
and perfection of national establishments for technical education, and
to the encouragement of its pursuit, in the ways above indicated, by

 1887.]            on the Work of the Imperi                          121
 those whose circumstances would otherwise prSveirt-tltem from en
 joying the advantages secured to their fellow-workers in other
 countries. Several other directions readily suggest themselves in
 which the judicious administration of resources in aid of the technical
 training of eligible men of the artizan class could well form part of
 the organised work of the Imperial Institute.
     By the establishment of an Education branch of the Intelligence
 Department, which will form a very prominent section of the Imperial
 Institute, the working of the colleges and schools of applied science
 in all parts of the United Kingdom will be harmonised and assisted,
 and the information continuously collected from all countries relating
 to educational work and the application of the sciences to industrial
 purposes and the arts will be systematically distributed. A well-
 organised Enquiry Department will furnish to students coming to
 Great Britain from the Colonies, Dependencies and India the requisite
 information and advice to aid them in selecting their place of work
 and their temporary home, and in various other ways. The collec
 tions of natural products of the Colonies and India, maintained up
 to the day by additions and renewals at the central establishment
of the Institute, will be of great value to students in the immedi
 ately adjacent educational Institutions, and will moreover be made
 subservient to the purposes of provincial industrial colleges by the
 distribution of thoroughly descriptive reference catalogues, and of
 specimens. Supplies of natural products from the Colonies, India,
 or from other Countries, which are either new or have been but
 imperfectly studied, will be maintained, so that material may be
 readily provided to the worker in science or the manufacturer, either
for scientific investigation or for purposes of technical experiment.
     The existence of those collections and of all information re
lating to them, as well as of the libraries of technology, inventions,
commerce and applied geography, in immediate proximity to tho
Government museums of science and inventions, art, and natural
history, to the Normal School of Science, and to the Central Technical
Institute, present advantages so obvious as to merit some fair con
sideration by those who have declined to recognise any reason in
favour of the establishment of the Imperial Institute at South
Kensington.
     In the powerful public representations which have of late been
made on the imperative necessity for the greater dissemination and
thorough organisation of industrial education, the importance of a
radical improvement in commercial education, as distinguished from
what is comprehended under the head of technical training, has
scarcely received that prominence which it merits. It is true that, in
some of our colleges, there are courses of instruction framed with
more especial reference to the requirements of those who propose to
enter into mercantile houses, or in other ways to devote themselves to
commercial pursuits ; but as a rule the mercantile employes, embraced
under the comprehensive title of clerks, begin their careers in life but

122                         Sir Frederick Abel               [April 22,
ill prepared to bo more than mechanical labourers, and remain
greatly dependent upon accident, or upon their desire for self-
improvement which directs them in time to particular lines of study,
for their prospects of future success in commercial life.
    This impressed itself strongly upon the Royal Commission on the
Depression of Trade and Industry, who state as the result of evidence
collected by them that our deficiency in the matter of education as
compared with some of our foreign competitors relates " not only to
what is usually called technical education, but also to the ordinary
commercial education which is required in mercantile houses." The
ordinary clerk in a merchant's office is too often made to feel his
inferiority to his German colleague, not merely in regard to his
lamentable deficiency in the knowledge of languages, but in respect
to almost every branch of knowledge bearing upon the intelligent
performance of his daily work and upon his prospect of advancement
in one or other branch of a mercantile house. The preliminary
training for commercial life on the Continent is far more compre
hensive, practical and systematic than that which is attainable in this
country, and the student of commerce abroad has, afterwards, oppor
tunities for obtaining a high scientific and practical training at
distinct branches of the polytechnic schools and in establishments
analogous to the technical colleges, such as the High Schools of
Commerce in Paris, Antwerp, and Vienna.
    It will be well within the scope of the Imperial Institute as an
organisation for the advancement of industry and commerce, to pro
mote a systematic improvement and organisation of commercial
education by measures analogous to those which it will bring to bear
upon the advancement of industrial education.
     The very scant recognition which the great cause of technical edu
cation has hitherto received at the hands of our administrators has, at
any rate, the good effect of rousing and stimulating that power of self-
help which has been the foundation of many achievements of greatest
pride to the Nation, and we may look with confidence to the united
exertions of the people of this country, through the medium of the
representative organisation which they are now founding, for the
early development of a comprehensive national system of technical
education, of the nature foreshadowed not long since by Lord
Harfington, in that important address which has raised bright hopes
in the hearts of the Apostles of education.
    In some of the views which have been of late put forward regard
ing the possible scope of the Imperial Institute, the antagonism
which has been raised and fostered against its location in the vicinity
of some of our National Establishments most intimately connected
with the educational advancement of the Empire, has developed a
tendency to circumscribe its future sphere of usefulness, and to place
its functions as a great establishment of reference and resort for the
commercial man in the chief foreground. 1 have endeavoured to
indicate directions in which its relations to the Colonies and India,

1887.]           on the Work of the Imperial Institute.              123
to the great industries of the country, and to the advancement of
technical and commercial education, cannot fail to be at least as im
portant as its immediate connection with the wants of the commercial
section of the community, and those are most certainly quite indepen
dent of the particular locality in which it may be placed, excepting
in so far as the command of ample space, and the advantages to
be derived from juxta-position with the great National establish
ments to which I have referred, is concerned. At the same time,
there is not one of the directions in which the development of
the resources and activity of the Institute has been thus far indicated,
which has not an immediate and important bearing upon the advance
ment of the commerce of the Empire. There are, however, special
functions to be fulfilled by the Institute, which are most immediately
connected alike with the great commercial work of the City of
London and with that of the provincial centres of commerce. The
provision, in very central and readily accessible positions, of com
mercial museums or collections of natural or import products, and of
export products of different nations, combined with comprehensive
sample-rooms and facilities for the business of inspection or of
commercial, chemical or physical examination, is a work in which
the Institute should lend most important aid. The system of corre
spondence with all parts of the Empire which it will develop and
maintain will enable it to collect, and form a central depot of, natural
products from which local commercial museums can be supplied with
complete, thoroughly classified economic collections, and with repre
sentative samples of all that, from time to time, is new in the way
of natural products from the Colonies and Dependencies, from India,
and from other countries. In combination with this organisation, the
distribution, to commercial centres, of information acquired by a
central department of commercial geography will constitute an im
portant feature in the work of the Institute, bearing immediately
upon the interests of the merchant at home, in the Colonies, and in
India.
    The formation of specially commercial institutions, of which
enquiry offices, museums, and sample rooms with their accessories,
will form a leading feature, and which will supply a want long since
provided for by the Nations with whom we compete commercially,
is already in contemplation in the Cities of London and Newcastle ;
other great commercial centres will also doubtless speedily take
steps to provide accommodation for similar offshoots from the central
collections of the Institute. So far as the Indian Empire is con
cerned, the organisation of correspondence by provincial committees
which already exists in connection with economic and geological
museums established in the several Presidencies, affords facilities for
the speedy elaboration of the contemplated system of correspondence
in connection with the Institute, and the establishment of similar
organisations in the different Colonies will, it is hoped, be heartily
entered upon and speedily developed.

124:                        Sir Frederick Abel                [April 22,
     The system of correspondence to which I have more than once
alluded in indicating some of the work of the Institute, in relation
to technical education and industry, and which will form a most
important part of the main groundwork of its organisation, is not in
the least theoretical in its character. Its possible development has
suggested itself to many who have given thought to the future sphere
of action of the Institute in connection with commerce and industry ;
to myself, who for many years have been, from time to time, officially
cognizant of the work performed by what are called the Intelligence
Departments of the Ministries of War abroad and at home, the direct
and valuable bearing of such a system upon the work of the Institute,
suggested itself as soon as I gave thought to the possible future of this
great conception, and to Major Fitzgerald Law belongs the credit of
suggesting that the well-tried machinery of the War Office Intelligence
Department should serve as a guide for the elaboration of a Commercial
Intelligence Department. This Department, which will, it is hoped
ere long commence its operations by establishing relations with the
chief Colonies and India, will be in constant communication with the
Enquiry Offices to be attached to the local commercial establishments
and to other provincial representations of the work of the Institute,
systematically distributing among them the commercial information
and statistics continually collected. It will be equally valuable to the
Colonies and India by bringing their requirements thoroughly to the
knowledge of the business men in the United Kingdom, and by main
taining that close touch and sympathy between them and the people
at home which will tend to a true federation of all parts of the
Empire.
     In no more important direction is this system destined to do use
ful work than in the organisation of emigration, not only of labour,
but also of capital. The establishment of emigration enquiry offices
at provincial centres in connection with a central department at the
Institute, will he of great service to the intending emigrant, by
placing within his reach the power of acquiring indispensable in
formation and advice, and by facilitating his attainment of the special
knowledge or training calculated to advance his prospects in the new
home of his choice. Similarly, the capitalist may be assisted in dis
covering new channels for enterprise in distant portions of the
Empire, the resources of which are awaiting development by the
judicious application of capital and by the particular class of emigra
tion which its devotion to public works or manufacturing enterprise
in the Colonies would carry with it. The extent to which the State
may aid in the organisation of systematic emigration, and the best
 mode in which it may, without burden to the Country, promote the
 execution of such public works in the Colonies as will open up their
Dominions to commerce and at the same time encourage the par
ticular class of emigration most advantageous to the Colonies
 themselves, are subjects of great present interest ; but, in whatever
 way these important questions may bo grappled with, such an or

 1887.]          on the Work of the Imperial Institute.              125
 ganisation as the Institute should supply, cannot fail to accelerate
 the establishment of emigration upon a sound and systematic footing,
and to co-operate very beneficially in directing private enterprise
into the channels best calculated to advance the mutual interests of
the capitalists and the Colonies.
     I have already indicated that it is not only in connection with
 purely commercial matters that the Intelligence Department of tho
 Institute will occupy itself. The prospects of its value to the
 Colonies and to India in promoting the development of their natural
resources and the cultivation of new fields for commercial and in
dustrial activity are well illustrated by tho valuable work which has
been accomplished upon similar lines by the admirably directed
organization at Kew.
     By the systematic collection and distribution of information
relating to industries and to education from all countries which
compete with ourselves in the struggle for supremacy in intellectual
and industrial development, the Institute will most importantly con
tribute to the maintenance of intimate relationship and co-operation
between educational, industrial, and commercial centres, between the
labourer in science and the sources through which his work becomes
instrumental in advancing national prosperity ; between the Colonies
and the Mother-Country, between ourselves and all Races included
in the vast Empire of Her Majesty.
     In conclusion, I venture to express the belief that the
organisation which the Imperial Institute will have the power
of developing, with a wisely constituted governing body at its
hear), may accomplish, and at no distant date, most useful work,
 which has been already publicly indicated as destined to have an
immediate bearing upon the federation of England and her Colonies.
Professor Huxley, in his last Presidential Address to the Royal
Society, uttered most suggestive words, indicative of tho value
and the possibility of a scientific federation of all English speaking
Peoples ; and this subject is now receiving the careful consideration of
that Society. It is firmly believed by leading men of science, that such
a federation of at any rate the Colonies and Dependencies with us will
be brought about, and it is in harmony with that belief that the
Imperial Institute should bo expected, through its organisation, to
afford important aid in tho application of the principle of federation
to the geological and topographical survey of the Colonies, in the
establishment of a system of interchange of meteorological and
scientific observations, and in the promotion, in various ways, of
thorough co-operation between particular Colonies or groups of
Colonies, for applying the results of scientific research to the mutual
development of their natural resources.
    It may be that the programme of which I have given a very im
perfect exposition, as indicative of tho work which the Imperial
Institute may be called upon to accomplish, will be regarded as
almost too ambitious in its scope for practical fulfilment. The outline

 126                          Sir Frederick Abel                [April 22,
 of this programme has been drawn by a combination of abler bands
 than mine ; I bave but ventured to sketch in some of the details as
 they have presented themselves to my mind, and to the minds of
 others who have given thought to this great subject ; but I dare to
 have faith in its realisation, and to believe that, if the work be taken
 in hand systematically and progressively, the nucleus being first
 thoroughly established from which fresh lines of departure will
 successively emanate, the Imperial Institute is destined to become a
 glory of the land. And, as one whose mission it has been, through
 many years of arduous work, to assist in a humble way in the applica
 tion of the resources of some branches of science to the maintenance
 of the country's power to defend its rights and to hold its own, I may
 perhaps be pardoned for my presumption in giving expression to the
 firm belief that, by the secure foundation and careful development of
 this great undertaking, and by its wise direction by a Government
 truly representative of its Founders—all Nations and Classes com
 posing the Empire—there will be secured in it one of the most
 important future Defences of the Queen's Dominions ; one of the
 most powerful instruments for the maintenance of the unity, the
 strength, and the prosperity of Her Realms.
     At the conclusion of the address, the Prince of Wales said :—
     " LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,—Having had the honour of occupying
 the Chair this evening, I think we ought not to separate without my
 expressing, on your part as well as on my own, our deep sense of grati
tude for the interesting and exhaustive lecture which Sir Frederick
 Abel bas just given us. You are well aware of the great interest I
take in this Imperial Institute, as I am anxious 'that it shall be a
memorial of the Jubilee of Her Majesty the Queen, and at the same
time a memorial which shall be of great use to this country, and
cement still further the good feeling which I. trust has always existed
in the Mother Country towards our Colonies and India. Sir Frederick
Abel has, I think, touched on all the salient points with regard to the
Imperial Institute, so that it will be needless for me to say anything
further. But I thank him very much again for having given us this
lecture this evening, and I feel sure that those who have been here
and who did not feel conversant with the subject, will carry away
with them a very clear understanding of what the objects of the
Institute arc." (Cheers.)

1887.]              on the Work of the Imperial Institute.                             127
                  THE BRITISH COLONIES.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF THBIB DETELOPMENT DURING THE QUEEN'S REIGN.
                        IMPORTS AND EXPORTS.
                                                           IMPORTS.           EXPORTS.
                                                              £                   £
                                         C1837     ..    5,200,000           5,000,000
    American Dependencies
                                "    " {1885       ..   25,700,000         21,500,000
                                         £1837     ..     1,500,000          1,300,000
    Australasia
                                "    " (1885       ..   63,500,000         52,000,000
                                         (1887     ..    2,000,000 ' 1,500,000
                                         (1885     ..   10,000,000 12,000,000
   All the Imports and Exports taken together were ELEVEN TIMES larger
in 1885 than they were in 1837.
                                                     (1837     ..    3,700,000 tons.
     British Shipping Trade with Colonies .. Ji885                  56,600,000 ^
                                                     (1837     ..   11,300,000?.
     British Export to Colonies       ......
                                 POPULATION.
                                                            (1837     ..     4,204,700
     Of all the Colonies existing in 1837           ..                     12,753i277,
     Of all the Colonies in 1881 ..............                            15,763,072*
                * These numbers must have considerably increased since 188i.
            RATE OF INCREASE FROM 1837 TO l881.
       In European Colonies                    SLIGHT.
       In Ceylon                               TWICE as large as it was.
       In the Great Asiatic Colonies      ..   About the SAME.
       In the Cape of Good Hope ..        ..   EIGHT TIMES as large as it was.
       In Canada                               THREE TIMES as Inrge as it was.
       In the West Indies                      NOT quite TWICE «s largo as it was.
       In Australia                            Nearly TWELVE times as large as
                                                  it WIIs.

                                                 AREA, POPULATION, TRADE, ETC.,
                                                                        (Compiled in the
                                    How AND WHKN ACQUIRED.                 ABEA.
                                                                       Square .Mil.-.
 British Isles                                              .,                  120,832
 Indian Empire (including
    Burmah)                             tt             1757-1858              1,574,516
 Dominion of Canada :—
    Quebec                ] Conquest, Treaty Cession 1759-63
                                                                 '
    Ontario               J
    New Brunswick           Treaty Cession                1763
    Nova Scotia             Conquest, Treaty Cession 1627-1713               3,470,392
    British Columbia        Transfer to Crown             1858
    Manitoba                Settlement                    1813
    North-Wart Territories  Charter to Company            1670
    Prince Edward's Island  Conquest                    1756-63  ;
 Newfoundland               Settlement.Treaty Cession  1550-1713                  40,200
 Australasia :—
    New South Wales . .     Settlement                    1787     311,098
    Victoria                Settlement                    1834      87,884
    South Australia         Settlement                    1836     903,690
    Queensland              Settlement                    1824     668,497
    Western Australia       Settlement                    18-26  1,060,000
                            Settlement                    1803      26,215
    New Zealand             Purchase                      1840     104,458
    Fiji                    Cession from Natives ..       1874       7,740
    New Guinea              Annexation                    1884      86,360
                                                                             3OKC     QJ.O
oontn Ainca .—
    Cape of Good Hope ..    Treaty Cession 'finally)      1815     219,700                     i
    Beehuanaland ..                                       1885     185.000                    t
    Natal                   Annexation                    1843      18,750                  •
                                                                                iOQ   AK(\
 St. Helena                 Conquest                      1673                         45
Ascension                   Annexation                    1815                         37
Ceylon . .                  Treaty Cession                1801                   25,365
Mauritius                   Conquest and Cession . .    1810-14                       713
Straits Settlements         Treaty Cession             1785-1824                   1,472
Hong Kong                   Treaty Cession                1841                         30
Port Hamilton                                             1881                           5
 British North Borneo ..    Cession to Company            1877                   30,000
Labuan                      Treaty Cfseion                1847                         30
British Guiana              Conquest and Cession . .    1803-14               M09,000
West Indies:—
   Jamaica                  Conquest                      1655       4,362
   Trinidad                 Conquest                      1797       1,754
   Windward Islands         Cession                       1783         784
   Leeward Islands                                                     665
   Bahamas                  Settlement                    1629       5,390
                                                                                 JO q.-,fj
   Bermudas                 Settlement                    1612                         19
   British Honduras         Conquest                      1798                     6,400
West Africa :—
   Sierra Leone             Transfer from Company         1807         468
   Gambia                                                                69
   Gold Coast       .. ..   Conquest and Cession ..    1663-1871    18,784
   Lagos                    CVsaiou                       1861       1,069
                                                                                 of) 390
Gibraltar                   Conquest .                    1704                          2 i
Malta                       Treuty Cession                1814                        119
Cyprus                      Convention with Turkey        1878                     3,584
Heligoland                  Treaty Ctssion                1814                          1
Falkland Islands ..         Treaty Cession    ..   ..     1770                     6,500
                                                                             9,101,899

OP THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Spring of 1886.)
        POPULATION.                   IMPORTS.                                EXPORTS.
                              Total.         From Colonies.           TotaL          To Colonies.
             35,241,482   £390,018,569      £95,812,911 £295.967,583                £88.303,634
                              Total.       From British 1 -!• -.      Total.        To British Isle*.
            253,982,595     68,156,654        49,711,562           89,098,427        36,984,034
               4,324,810    23,917,200         8,921,510           18,782,156          8,986,897
                 179,509     1,682,457            642,528           1,368,153            322,527
    921,268                 22,826,985        11,423,047           18,251,506          7,683,886
    961,276                 19,201,633         9,149,076           16,050,465          7,745,415
    3)2,781                  5,749,353         2,983,296            6,623,704          4,081,864
    309,913    .             6,381,976         2,520,863            4,673,864          1,715,391
     31,700                     521,167           222,940              405,693           279,660
    130,541                  1,656,118            642,102           1 ,475,857           359,708
    564,304                  7,663,888         4,934,493            7,091,667          5,158,078
    128,614                     434,522             ..                 345,344             35,542
    135,000                      tt                                      ti
               3iQK QQ7
  1,249,324                  5,260,697         4,023,819            7,031,744          6,602,193
    424,495                  1,675,850         1,310,452               957,918           72 1', 190
               T RHA Q1O
                    5,024        63,786            27,931                23,406             1,164
                      200
               2,763,984     4,811,451         1,315,345            3,161,262          1,852,829
                 377,373     2,963,152            692,430           3,941,757            508,331
                 540,000    18,676,706         4, 28.', 920        17,200,138          3,845,362
                 160,402     4,000,000         3,218,946            2,000,000          1,052,302
                    2,000         , .               . .                   m t               tm
                 150,000         96,282                                  52,551             ,,
                    6,298        84,809             'i,554               85,741             tt
                 264,061     1,999,448         1,099,504            2,322,032          1,777,376
    585,536                  1,595,262            910,194           1,518,024            643,971
    153,128                  3,083,870            887,011           2,769,727            863,290
    311,413                  1,611,483            670,955           1,834.388            797,194
    119,546                     476,457           207,037              466,759            160,903
     43,521                     181,494            37,329              122,351             35,771
               1 °13 Ml
                  13,948        283,440            75,416                88,622             2,557
                  27,452        237,538           127,602              317,449           205,032
     60,546                     455,424           323,572              377,055           156,730
     14,150                     212,122            87,099              199,483             18,753
    408,070                     537,339           403,788              467,228           330,997
     75,270                     538,221           338,318              672,414           249,794
                 558,036
                  18,381          ..                ,.                   *t                 ..
                 149,782    13,343,789            122,899          12,908,492          3,120,319
                 186,173        304,375             ..                 287,521
                    2,001                           ..                   ..
                    1,553        67,848            60,962              101,338             98,468
            305,337,924   £220,752,916 £111,377,100              £223,134,236       £96,397,528
             VOL. XII. (No. 81.)

130                    Professor H, 8. Hele Shaw              [April 29,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, April 29, 1887.
         HENRY POLLOCK, Esq. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                     PROFESSOR H. 8. HELE SHAW.
                     The Rotting Contact of Bodies.
WHEN two solid bodies roll upon each other, points in the surface of
one successively come into contact with corresponding points in the
surface of the other in a way which differs essentially from that which
occurs in eliding contact, and it is the nature of this rolling-contact
that the lecturer proposed to discuss in an experimental manner.
    In the first place, it is well to understand clearly the nature of
the relative motion of the two points which come into contact when
the surfaces are such that no appreciable distortion of them takes
place, and for this purpose one of the two bodies must be at rest. '
These may respectively be taken as the plane surface of the ground
and a circular disk rolling upon it. An approximate representation
of this motion is given by the end of the spokes of a wheel without
its tyre. In this case it is seen that a point of the rolling body,
when it is just coming into contact with the fixed surface, does so in
a direction at right angles to the surface at rest, and also leaves it in
the same direction. This action is very similar in kind to that which
occurs with the continuous circle formed by the tyre. The path of a
point in the rim can be drawn in a way visible to the audience by
means of a piece of apparatus consisting of two circular glass plates
held together by a hollow brass spindle in which slides an arm carry
ing a brush. The brush traces the well-known cycloid, of which the
only portion now to be considered is that where it directly approaches
the surface beneath. This part is perpendicular to that surface, and
when epicycloids are drawn, by rolling the disk upon the arc of a
circle, the same fact is brought out.
    One body may, however, not merely roll upon another, and a
normal pressure be exerted, but they may exert a tangential force
upon each other. It is convenient to keep these two cases separate ;
examples of them being respectively the wheels of a railway carriage
and those of the locomotive which draws it along. It is to be noted
that the object in the former case is to permit one body to move
relatively to another without permitting sliding contact of their sur
faces, whilst, in the latter case, in addition to this, the object is to
obtain such motion. There are, however, many cases in which it is
 merely the motion of a body about one point which is required, such

  1887.]              on the Roiling Contact of Bodies.               131
 as when motion is transmitted from the edge of one rotating disk to
  another, and then this distinction still more closely holds, as the
 normal pressure is only obtained so as to insure the necessary tangen
 tial resistance. Thus the objects of rolling motion may be classed as
 being—
     (1) To iilloin the relative motion of one body to another with
 which it is in contact without permitting relative motion of that part
 of their surfaces in actual contact.
     (2) To obtain the relative motion of such parts of the surfaces of
 bodies as are not in contact by means of statical contact of the parts
 which are.
     The lecturer then proceeded to consider the practical proofs of the
 smallness of the resistance to rolling in cases where the distortion of
 the surfaces in contact is very small, as illustrated by the small trac
 tive force required for heavy bodies properly mounted on wheels or
 on roller-bearings; mentioning the case of a 12-horse-power engine,
 the shaft of which continued to rotate for three-quarters of an hour
 after the motive power was withdrawn ; and another case, of a turn
 table weighing 14 tons, which was kept in motion by a weight of
 3J pounds acting upon it by means of a cord passing over a pulley.
 The small distortion of such surfaces when transmitting motion
 requiring expenditure of energy to maintain, was next made clear by
 giving certain facts as to the accuracy with which one surface was
 developed or measured out upon another. An account was given of
 experiments made with apparatus specially prepared by the lecturer
 to investigate this point. This apparatus consisted of two accurately
 turned brass disks properly mounted upon a frame, and the relative
 positions of these disks could be interchanged so that any minute
 differences in their peripheries could be detected. The experiments,
 which were very difficult to carry out accurately, showed that under
 the best circumstances, motion with an error of only 1 in 300,000 of
the distance passed over could be obtained. This accurate measuring
out of the surfaces one upon another was employed in various ways
for purposes of measurement, and these, by means of models and
diagrams, were briefly explained.
     Although the foregoing facts prove that, under suitable conditions,
distortion at the points of contact is very small, yet some resistance
at these points always occurs, because no bodies are perfectly hard ;
and the nature of this distortion and consequent resistance was next
discussed.
     The explanation of the resistance opposed by a soft surface to a
hard body rolling upon it, as first given by Prof. Osborne Reynolds,
was applied by the lecturer to account for a very remarkable effect
produced in the disk, globe, and cylinder integrator of Prof. James
Thomson. This effect, which was the turning of the cylinder when
the sphere was rolled along it in a horizontal direction, was repro
duced by means of a large model. The action of a soft body rolling
upon a hard surface was next considered, with the result of showing
                                                             K 2

132 Prof. H. S. H. Shaw on the Roiling Contact of Bodies. [Apiil 29,
that the same reasoning would not account for the turning of the
cylinder in the same direction as before with the above model, and
the lecturer then proceeded, by means of diagrams, to offer an explana
tion of this and other phenomena. The various effects obtained with
bodies of different relative degrees of hardness were discussed at
length, but figures would be needed to make these points clear.
Finally, an explanation was given of the cause of an error which
always appeared in a certain important class of integrators caused by
the slipping of the edge of a disk over a surface on which it rolled in
circumstances nnder which it had apparently never been suspected
that slipping did actually take place. This the lecturer had been
enabled to discover and measure by means of a special piece of appa
ratus, a model of which was exhibited and the effects shown by its
means.
    The facts and reasoning, which were given in the lecture, all
related to the rolling contact of bodies, and the lecturer ventured to
think that, imperfect as the treatment of the subject had been, it was
one of such importance, not merely from the point of view of the
practical applications he had mentioned, but in its scientific aspect,
dealing as it did from a novel point of view with the nature and pro
perties of solid bodies, as to be worthy of being thus brought before
the Royal Institution.

         1887.J                           Annual Meeting.                                133
                                ANNUAL           MEETING,
                                      Monday, May 2, 1887.
            SIB WILLIAM BOWMAN, Bart. LL.D. F.R.S. Manager and Vice-
                                     President, in the Chair.
            The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
        1886, testifying to the continued prosperity and efficient management
        of the Institution, was read and adopted. The Real and Funded
        Property now amounts to above 83,000Z. entirely derived from the
        Contributions and Donations of the Members.
            Forty-eight new Members paid their Admission Fees in 1886.
            Sixty-three Lectures and Nineteen Evening Discourses were
        delivered in 1886.
            The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1886 amounted to about
        288 volumes, making, with 443 volumes (including Periodicals bound)
        purchased by the Managers, a total of 731 volumes added to the
        Library in the year.
            Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and the Honorary
        Secretary, to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the
        Professors, for their valuable services to the Institution during the
        past year.
            The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
        for the ensuing year :
            PBESIDBNT—The Duke of Northumberland, E.G. D.C.L. LL.D.
             TBBASUBER—Henry Pollock, Esq.
             SECBETABY—Sir Frederick Bramwell, D.C.L. F.R.S. M.Inst. C.E.
                  MANAGERS.                                           VISITORS.
Joseph Brown, Esq. Q.C.                            Forster F. Arbuthnot, Esq.
Sir James Crichton Browne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.8.       8helford Bidwell, Esq. M.A. F.R.8.
The Earl of Crawford and Balcarres, F.R.S.         John Bickett, Esq. F.L.8. F.R.C.8.
   F.R.A.8.                                        Michael Carteighe, Esq. F.C.8.
Frank Crisp, Esq. LI,.B. B A. F.L.8.               The Very Rev. Dean Church, M.A.
Warren de la Rue. Esq. M.A. D.C.L. F.R.8.          Edwin Cutler, Esq.
Henry Doulton, Esq.                                James Farmer, Esq.
John Hall Gladstone, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.             Charles Hiuvkslcy, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
Sir William WitheyGull, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.8.   David Edward Hughes, Esq. K.R.8.
William Huggins, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.8.          John W. Miers, Esq.
Alfred Bray Kempe, Esq. M.A. V.R.S.                Frederick Purdy, Ksq. F.8.8.
George Matthey, Esq. F.R.8. Assoc. Inst. C.E.      Lachlan Mackintosh Rate, Esq. M.A.
The Right Hon. Earl Percy.                         William Chandler Roberts-Austen, Esq. F.R.8.
8ir Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A.                  George John Romanes, Esq. M.A. LL D. F.R.8.
William Henry Preece, Esq. F.R.8. M.Inst. C.E.     James Wimshurst, Esq.
Edward Woods, E»q. Pres. Inst. C.E.

 134                    Dr. T. Lander Bntnton                 [May 6
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 6, 1887.
  The Right Hon. EABL PEBOT, Manager and Vice-President, in the
                                 Chair.
                T. LAUDEB BRUNTON, M.D. So.D. F.R.S.
               The Element of Truth in Popular Beliefs.
THE common saying " Seeing is believing " gives a clue to the origin
of many popular delusions, for the evidence of our eyes is by no
means to be trusted, and unless corrected by the observations derived
from other senses will often prove deceptive. Some popular beliefs
are correct in regard to fact, but erroneous in regard to interpreta
tion. Some others, which in their present form are absurd, are the
survivals or modifications of other beliefs which were true.
    In endeavouring to discover the element of truth in any belief
we may be aided by tracing its history backwards in time, or by
comparing it with allied forms of belief in different places.
    As an example of the historical method we may take the belief
that horse-flesh is unfit for food, a delusion which arose from the
circumstance that horse-flesh was unfit for Christian food, inasmuch
as the horse was sacred to Odin, and eating its flesh was a sign of
Paganism.
    As an illustration of the comparative method we may take the
belief that a person cannot die if any door in the house be locked.
Other forms of the belief are that a person cannot die as long as the
doors or windows of the room in which he is lying are closed, and
observation enables us to ascertain that this is due to the fact that
the room is thus kept warm, and life therefore prolonged.
    The belief that disease may be cured by hanging up rags in a
sacred place may be connected by intermediate forms with the fact
that infectious diseases may be conveyed from one to another by
articles of clothing.
    Some omens probably have an historical origin. Others depend
on physical conditions, such as stumbling on leaving the threshold as
an indication of coming misfortune. This may be regarded as simply
an evidence of a deficiency in the motor power of the individual
which may cause him to fail in an emergency.
    Others again may be referred to indistinct sensations or sub
conscious conditions. Dreams are frequently influenced by the
circumstances of the dreamer, either at the time or some days before,

1887.]        on the Element of Truth in Popular Beliefs.          135
and hallucinations as well as visions of ghosts and fairies may be
regarded as forms of waking dreams.
    The signs which wore regarded in the Middle Ages as distinctive
of witchcraft are now looked upon as symptoms of hysteria, and the
condition of hysteria may perhaps be defined to be one in which
impressions originating within the body itself tend to overpower those
transmitted from without by the usual sensory channels.
    The phenomena of thought reading and of the divining rod may
in many cases be explained by the fact that sensory impressions
may be received and may lead to action without rising into complete
consciousness in the individual who receives them.
                                                          [T. L. B.]

136                    General Monthly Meeting.               [May 9,
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                        Monday, May 9, 1887.
The Right Hon. EARL PEBCT, Manager and Vice-President, in the
                                Chair.
    The following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year were
announced :—
        The Earl of Crawford and Balcarres, F.R.8, F.R.A.S.
        Warren de la Rue, Esq. M.A. D.C.L. F.R.S.
        William Huggins, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
        The Right Hon. Earl Percy.
        Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A.
        Edward Woods, Esq. Pres. Inst. C.E.
        Henry Pollock, Esq. Treasurer.
        Sir Frederick Bramwell, D.C.L. F.R.S. M. Inst. C.E.
            Honorary Secretary.
                 John Donaldson, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
                 Miss Mary Augusta Grant,
                 Mrs. Bayne Ranken,
                 Owen Roberts, Esq. M.A.
                 Mrs. Shore Smith,
                 Frederick Meadows White, Esq. Q.C.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.B.S. was elected Honorary
 Professor of Natural Philosophy.
     The Right Hon. LOBD RATLEIOH, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. was
 elected Professor of Natural Philosophy.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
 following donations to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
 Besearch :—
           William Henry Domville, Esq. £20.
           The " Faraday Memorial " \ „„, 0 - , j , • .. . ,
                Committee              / £212 6s' ld~ bemg the balance
 remaining after payment for the statue of Professor Faraday by
 Foley, and its pedestal, and a bust copied from the statue presented
 to the National Portrait Gallery.

                                                        lU-
 1887.1                      General Monthly Meeti
      The PRESENTS received since the last Meet
  table, and the thanks of the Members returned for
       FBOM
 Aocademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Qunrta : Rendiconti. Vol. III.
       Fasc. 4, 5. 8vo. 1887.
    Memorie della Classe di Scionze Morali, Storiche e Filologicbe—Serie •!•',
       Vol. I. 4to. 1885.
    Memorie della Classe di Scienze Fisiche, Matematiche e Natural!—Serie 4*,
       Vol. I. 4to. 1885.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLVII. No. 5. 8vo. 1887.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. VIII. Part 4. 8vo. 1887.
Bernays, Albert J. Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Notes for Students in Chemistry.
       6th Edition. 12mo. 1878.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1886-7, No. 13. 4tp.
British Museum (Natural History)— Catalogue of Lizards. 2nd Edition. Vol.
       III. 8vo. 1887.
    Catalogue of Fossil Mammalia. Part 4. 8vo. 1866.
    Guide to the Galleries of Reptiles and Fishes. 8vo. 1887.
    General Guide to the British Museum (Natural History). 8vo. 1887.
 Chemical Society—Journal for April, 1887. 8vo.
 Churchill, Messrt. J. and A. (the Publishers) — Journal of Laryngology and
      Rhiuology, Nos. 4, 5. 8vo. 1887.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. LXXXVIII. 8vo.
      1886-7.
 Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. &c. M.R.I, (the Editor)—Journal of the Royal
      Microscopical Society, 1886, Part 6a ; 1887, Part 2. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for April, 1887. 8vo.
    Analyst for April, 1887. 8vo.
    Athenseum for April, 1887. 4to.
    Chemical News for April, 1887. 4to.
    Chemist and Druggist for April, 1887. 8vo.
    Engineer for April, 1887. fol.
    Engineering for April, 1887. fol.
    Horological Journal for April, 1887. 8vo.
    Industries for April, 1887. fol.
    Iron for April, 1887. 4to.
    Murray's Magazine for April, 1887. 8vo.
    Nature for April, 1887. 4to.
    Revue Scientifique for April, 1887. 4to.
    Telegraphic Journal for April, 1887. 8vo.
    Zoophiliat for April, 1887. 4to.
Florence, JBMioteca Nazionale Centrale—Bolletino, Num. 30, 31. 8vo. 1887
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 736. 8vp. 1887.
Freshfield, Edwin, Esq. LL.D. V.P.S.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—Some Remarks on
      the Book of Records and History of the Parish of St. Stephen Coleman
      Street. 4to. 1887.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. IX. No. 4 8vb
      1887.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Abhandlungen, Band XII. No 4 4to
      1886.
   Jahrbuch, Band XXXVI. Heft 4. 8vo. 1887.
   Verhandlungen, 1886, Nos. 13-18 ; 1887, No. 1. 8vo. 1886-7.
ITnli and Co. Messrs, (the Publishers)—Sanskrit Vocabulary. 4to. 1885.
Harlem, SocUtf Hollandaise des Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Tome XXI
      Liv. 4. 8vo. 1887.
Hennessy, Henry, Esq. F.R.S. (the Author)—Problems in Mechanism regarding
      Trains of Pulleys, &c. (Royal Society Proc.) 8vo. 1887.

 138                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [May 9,
 Johns Hopkins University—Studies in Historical and Political Science, Fifth
       Series, No. 4. 8vo. 1887.
   University Circular, No. 56. 4to. 1887.
   American Chemical Journal, Vol. IX. No. 1. 8vo. 1887.
 Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 127, 128, 148. 8vo. 1887.
 Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIX. Parts 6, 7. 8vo. 1887.
 Mechanical Engineerf Institution—Proceedings, 1887, No. 1. 8vo.
 Meteorological Office—Monthly Weather Report for Oct. Nov. 1886. 4to.
    Quarterly Weather Reports, 1878, Part 3. 4to. 1887.
    Weekly Weather Reports, Vol. IV. Nos. 7-11. 4to. 1887.
   Synchronous Weather Charts of the North Atlantic (1882-3), Parts 1 and 2,
      fol. 1886.
Miller, W. J. C. Esq. (the Registrar)—The Medical Register. 8vo. 1887.
   The Dentists' Register. 8vo. 1887.
Ministry of Public Works, Rome — Giornale del Qenio Civile, Serie Quiutn,
      Vol. I. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. And Disegni. fol. 1886.
 National Fish Culture Association—Journal. Vol. I. No. 2. 4to. 1887.
North of England Inttitute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
      Vol. XXXVI. Part 2. 8vo. 1887.
Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XIX. No. 6. New
      Series. 8vo. 1887.
Prince, C. Leeson, ESQ. F.R.A.S. (the Author)—Forty Years' Consecutive Observa
      tions mi Storms in Sussex. (Meteorological Society Journal.) 8vo. 1887.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, April, 1887. 8vo.
Scottish Society of Arts—Transactions, Vol. XI. Part 4. 8vo. 1887.
Smithsonian Institution—Annual Report for 1884, Part 2. 8vo. 1885.
Society of Arts—Journal, April, 1887. 8vo.
   Reports of the Colonial Sections of the Colonial and Indian Exhibition 1886.
      Edited by H. T. Wood. 8vo. 1887.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. L. Part 1. 8vo. 1887.
Telegraph Engineers' Society—Journal, No. 65. 8vo. 1887.
Tyndall, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Translation of the Holy Bible from the
      Hebrew. By John Bellamy. Parts 1-7. 4to. 1834.
 United States Geological Surrey—Monograph XI. 4to. 1885.
   Mineral Resources of the United States, 1885. 8vo. 1886.
 Vereins sur BefSrderung des Geieerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhaudlungen, 1887 :
      Heft3. 4to.

1887.] Prof. J. S. Burdon-Sanderson on some Electrical Fishes.            139
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 13, 1887.
         HENRY POLLOCK, Esq. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
       PROFESSOR J. S. BURDON-SANDEBSON, M.D. LL.D. F.R.8.
                          Some Electrical Fishes.
THE lecture was divided into three parts, in the first of which a
general description was given of the three most important electrical
fish, viz. the Torpedo, or electrical ray ; the electrical eel, of the rivers
and lakes of South America ; and the Malapterurus, of the Nile and
Senegal. In the second part the lecturer discussed the anatomical
character and morphological significance of the electrical organ in
torpedo, and in the third its mode of action, with special reference to
the recent investigations of Mr. Francis Gotch, Assistant in the
Physiological Department at Oxford. The description given of the
structure of the organ was also founded on new investigations by
Prof. Ewart, of Edinburgh, who had been good enough to prepare
drawings on glass suitable for projection on the screen, of his
microscopical preparations. The first of these drawings showed a
section of the already active electrical organ of a torpedo just born.
It was seen to consist of a great number of tubular columns which
extended from the upper (dorsal) to the lower (ventral) surface of
the flattened body of the animal, which were as closely packed
together as the cells of a honeycomb, each column being divided
into very narrow compartments by nearly horizontal partitions of
extremely fine membrane. It was next pointed out that although
the whole organ is made up in the common torpedo of as many as
500 such columns (in some species many more), each column is in
structure and in function an electrical organ of itself ; and not only
so, but that each of the fine membranous partitions or plates is an
electromotive structure of which, notwithstanding its almost incon
ceivable tenuity, the two opposite surfaces are, when in activity, in
different electrical states ; so that, in consequence of their pile-like
arrangement and their all acting in the same direction, the electro
motive force excited by the whole column is, as in a voltaic battery,
equal to the sum, of the forces exerted by the many hundreds of
plates of which it is composed.
    It having thus been made evident that everything depended on
the plates, the lecturer proceeded to explain their minute structure, for
the investigation of which it was of course necessary to employ much

140                Professor J. S. Burdon-Sandereon            [Hay 13,
higher powers. The microscopical drawings which were thrown on
the screen showed that each of the fine membranes which had been
described consists of two different structures. Its upper surface
presents a layer of apparent homogeneous material in which nuclei
are distributed at intervals. This may be called the protoplasmic
lamina. The under or ventral layer might be called the nerve
lamina, for it is made up of the arborisations of the innumerable
nervous filaments which spread themselves over the protoplasmic
lamina on its under surface. As these filaments branch repeatedly
as they approach their destination, their ultimate endings are among
the smallest objects which can be distinguished under the microscope.
    The electrical organ offers to the physiologist one of the most
striking examples of that adaptation of structure to function which is
universal among living beings. A single column of the organ of
torpedo resembles in a very remarkable degree a voltaic pile, of
which the plates are the elements, but it is a resemblance with a
difference. The difference lies in this, that the organ is only a
battery when it is waked into activity by a stimulus. This waking
np or (to use the ordinary language of physiology) excitation, is
derived from the anima1's brain, which for the purpose has added to
it a special electric lobe on each aide, from which the enormous
nerves, which are so richly supplied to the electrical organ, emanate.
The use of this lobe is obviously not to produce electricity itself,
but, at the will of the animal to set free the energy of the organ, i. e.
of each of the many thousand plates of which it consists. Thus, of
the two laminae of each plate, the nervous and the protoplasmic, each
represents a distinct function, the protoplasmic that of producing the
required electromotive effect, the nervous, that of receiving from the
brain and communicating to the protoplasm the impulse by which it
is discharged.
    In a former lecture it had been shown that all the ordinary
physiological changes which occur at every moment of our existence
in what Bichat called the organs of animal life, particularly in our
nerves and muscles, are accompanied by electrical changes, and that
although it is not yet possible to give any physical explanation of
these changes, rapid progress is now being made in determining the
laws of their association with the other physical concomitants of
muscular and nervous action. As it is practically much more
important to understand the physiology of muscle and nerve than
that of the electrical organs of a few fish, the latter has been com
paratively insufficiently studied. The purpose of the experiments
made at Arcachon is to bring the phenomena of the electrical
discharge or shock of torpedo and the physiology of its organ, into
line with the already very accurately investigated phenomena of
nerve and muscle. With reference to these last, certain very definite
laws have been established, of which, perhaps, the most fundamental
is that when functionally at rest, these structures exhibit no electro
motive action. The structure must have been previously acted upon

1887.]                  on some Electrical Fishes.                     141
by some external agency capable of exciting it. Another established
fact is that the effect is of limited duration, and that for its develop
ment a certain time must elapse, which under similar conditions is
always the same for the same structure. A third is that all kinds of
excitants act in the same way, the effects differing in intensity, not
in direction. In all these respects, and in others of less importance,
the electrical plate agrees with muscle and nerve. Inasmuch, there
fore, as we have met with a structure, of which the development of
electrical action is the exclusive function, there seems to be good
reason for the hope that by its investigation, a nearer approach may
be made than has hitherto been possible to the central question—
that of the reason why in all animal structures the transition from
the inactive to the active state is, so far as our present knowledge
teaches, always accompanied by electrical change.
     The question why certain fish are endowed with so singular a
means of offence and defence, which others allied to them zoologi
cally do uot possess, and above all, why some fish have electrical
organs so small as to be useless, is as difficult to answer now as
when Mr. Darwin wrote the ' Origin of Species.1 The facts relating
to the development of the organ, which teach us to regard it as, in
some sense, a modified muscle, might suggest that the transition from
muscle to organ was a gradual one determined by external conditions.
 But we are prevented from accepting any such suggestion by the
consideration that an electrical organ only becomes advantageous to
 its possessor when it has acquired sufficient size to be used in the
capture of prey, and that in all previous stages of transition it must
be useless. Natural selection could not therefore determine the
 development of the electrical organ by modification of muscle. It
 is more reasonable to imagine that all fish, or at any rate certain
families of fish, possess an undeveloped element of structure, of
which the electrical organ is the manifestation. So that what we
have to account for is not its presence in some exceptional cases, but
 its absence in the great majority.
     The existence of such a tendency as this hypothesis supposes,
would render it possible for natural selection to operate efficiently in
bringing about the observed result.
                                                              [J. B. 8.]

142                        Mr. Benjamin Baker                  [May 20,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 20, 1887.
   SFB FREDERICK BRAMWELL, D.C.L. F.R.S. M.Inst.C.E. Honorary
               Secretary and Vice-President, in the Uhair.
                BENJAMIN BAKEB, Esq. M.Inst.C.E. M.R.I.
                       Bridging ike Firth of Forth.
DURING the past four years many thousands of visitors from all parts
of the United Kingdom, and, indeed, I may say from all parts of the
world, have more or less carefully inspected the works now in pro
gress under the superintendence of Sir John Fowler, the Engineer-
in-Chief, and myself, for bridging the Firth of Forth. The present
lecture is an imperfect attempt to convey to you, by description and
illustration, some notion of the magnitude of the proportions and
difficulties of construction of what is generally admitted to be one of
the most important engineering works yet undertaken.
    The Forth which " bridled the wild Highlander," and especially
that part of it where the bridge crosses, should be well enough known
to every reader of fiction, for it has been made the scene of many
adventures. Mr. Louis Stevenson's thrilling story, "Kidnapped,"
will have been read by most of you ; the hero of that story was
kidnapped at the very spot where the bridge crosses, so 1 can
describe the point of crossing in David Balfour's own words :—
    " The Firth of Forth (as is very well known) narrows at this
point, which makes a convenient ferry going north, and turns the
upper reach into a land-locked haven for all manner of ships. Right
in the midst of the narrows lies an island with some ruins ; on the
south shore they have built a pier for the service of the ferry, and at
the end of the pier, on the other side of the road, and backed against
a pretty garden of holly trees and hawthorns, I could see the building
which they call the Hawes Inn." Such was the appearance of the
spot 150 years ago. The middle pier of our bridge now rests on the
island referred to, and the Hawes Inn flourishes too well, for being
in the middle of our works its attractions prove irresistible to a large
proportion of our 3500 workmen. The accident ward adjoins the
pretty garden with hawthorns, and many dead and injured men have
been carried there, who would have escaped had it not been for the
whiskey of the Hawes Inn.
    I would wish if possible to impress upon my hearers the excep
tional size of the Forth Bridge, for even those who have visited the
works and noted the enormous gaps to be spanned on each side of
Inch Garvie, may yet have gone away without realising the magnitude
of the Forth Bridge as compared with the largest railway bridges
hitherto built. For the same reason that architects introduce human

1887.]             on Bridging the Firth of Forth.                  143
figures in their drawings to give a scale to the buildings, do we
require something at Queensferry to enable visitors to appreciate the
size of the Forth Bridge. If we coulS transport one of the tubes of
the great Britannia Bridge from the Menai Straits to the Forth, we
should find it would span little more than one-fourth of the space to
be spanned by each of the great Forth Bridge girders. To get an
idea of the magnitude of the latter, stand in Piccadilly and look
towards Buckingham Palace, and then consider that we have to span
the entire distance across the Green Park, with a complicated steel
structure weighing 15,000 tons, and to erect the same without the
possibility of any intermediate pier or support. Consider also that
our rail level will be as high above the sea as the top of the dome of
the AIbert Hall is above street level, and that the structure of our
bridge will soar 200 feet yet above that level, or as high as the top of
St. Pau1's.
    It is not on account of size only, that the Forth Bridge has
excited so much general interest, but also because it is of a previously
little known type. I will not say novel, for there is nothing new
under the sun. It is a cantilever bridge. One of the first questions
asked by the generality of visitors at the Forth is—Why do you call
it a cantilever bridge ? I admit that it is not a satisfactory name,
and that it only expresses half the truth, but it is not easy to find a
short and satisfactory name for the type. A cantilever is pimply
another name for a bracket, but the 1700 feet openings of the Forth
are spanned by a compound structure consisting of two brackets or
cantilevers and one central girder. Owing to the arched form of the
underside of the bridge many persons hold the mistaken notion that
the principle of construction is analogous to that of an arch. In
preparing for this lecture the other day, I had to consider how best
to make a general audience appreciate the true nature and direction
of the stresses on the Forth Bridge, and after consultation with some
of our engineers on the spot a living model of the structure was
arranged as follows :—Two men sitting on chairs extended their arms
and supported the same by grasping sticks butting against the chairs.
This represented the two double cantilevers. The central girder was
represented by a short stick slung from one arm of each man, and the
anchorages by ropes extending from the other arms to a couple of
piles of brick. When stresses are brought on this system by a load
on the central girder, the men's arms and the anchorage ropes come
into tension, and the sticks and chair legs into compression. In the
Forth Bridge you have to imagine the chairs placed a third of a mile
apart and the men's heads to be 360 feet above the ground. Their
arms are represented by huge steel lattice members, and the sticks or
props by steel tubes 12 feet in diameter and 1£ inches thick.
    I have evidence that even savages when bridging in primitive
style a stream of more than ordinary width, have been driven to the
adoption of the cantilever and central girder system as we were
driven to it at the Forth. They would find the two cantilevers in

144                       Mr. Benjamin Baker                   [May 20,
the projecting branches of a couple of trees on opposite sides of the
river, and they would lash by grass ropes a central piece to the ends
of their cantilevers and so form a bridge.
     The best evidence of approval is imitation, and I am pleased to
be able to tell you that since the first publication of the design for
the Forth Bridge, practically every big bridge throughout the world
has been built on the principle of that design and many others are
in progress.
    There are three main piers at the Forth known respectively as
the Fife pier, the Inch Garvie pier, and the Queensferry pier, and upon
each of these there are built huge cantilevers stretching both ways.
The Fife pier stands between high and low-water mark, and is
separated by a span of 1700 ft. from the Inch Garvie pier, which is
partly founded upon a rocky island in mid-stream. Another span of
1700 ft. carries the bridge to tho Queensferry pier, which is at the
edge of the deep channel. The total length of the viaduct is about
1J miles, and this includes two spans of 1700 ft., two of 675 ft.,
being the shoreward euds of the cantilevers, and fifteen of 168 ft.
Including piers, there is thus almost exactly 1 mile covered by the
great cantilever spans and another J mile of viaduct approach. The
clear headway under the centre of the bridge is 152 ft. at high water,
and the highest point of the bridge is 360 ft. above the same datum.
    Each of tho main piers includes four columns of masonry founded
on the rock or boulder clay. Below low water the piers differ some
what in character, according to the local conditions. At Inch Garvie
two wrought-iron caissons, which might be likened to large tubs or
buckets, 70 ft. in diameter and 50 ft. to 60 ft. high, were built on
launching ways on the sloping southern foreshore of the Forth. The
bottom of each caisson was set up 7 ft. above the cutting edge, and
so constituted a chamber 70 ft. in diameter and 7 ft. high, capable of
being filled at the proper time with compressed air to enable men to
work as in a diving bell below the water of the Forth. The caisson,
weighing about 470 tons, was launched and then taken to a berth
alongside the Queensferry jetty, where a certain amount of concrete,
brickwork, and staging was added, bringing the weight up to 2640
tons. A very strong and costly iron staging had previously been
erected, alongside which the caisson was moored in correct position
for sinking. Whilst the work described was proceeding, divers and
labourers were engaged in making a level bed for the caisson to sit
on. The 16 ft. slope in the rock bottom was levelled up by bags
filled with sand or concrete. As soon as the weight of caisson and
filling reached 3270 tons the caisson rested on the sand bags and
floated no more. The high ledge of rock upon which the northern
edge of the caisson rested was blasted away, holes being driven, by
rock drills and otherwise, under the cutting edge, and about 6 in.
beyond for the charges. After the men had gained a little experience
in this work no difficulty was found in under-cutting the hard whin-
stone rock to allow the edge of the caison to sink, and, of course,

1887.]              on Bridging the Firth of Forth.                 145
there was still less difficulty in removing the sand bags temporarily
used to form a level bed. The interior rock was excavated as easily
as on dry land, the whole of the 70 ft. diameter by 7 ft. high
chamber being thoroughly lighted by electricity. Access was
obtained through a vertical tube with an air lock at the top, and
many visitors ventured to pass through this lock into the lighted
chamber below, whore the pressure at times was as high as 35 Ibs.
per square inch.
     At Queensferry all four piers were founded on caissons identical
in principle with those used for the deep Garvie piers. The deepest
was 89 ft. below high water. Instead of a sloping surface of rock
the bed of the Forth was of soft mud to a considerable depth,
through which the caissons had to be sunk into the hard boulder
clay. The process of sinking was as follows : The caisson being
seated on the soft mud which, of course, practically filled the
working chamber, air was blown in and a few men descended the
shaft or tube of access to the working chamber in order to clear away
tbe mud. This was done by diluting it to the necessary extent by
water brought down a pipe under pressure, and by blowing it out in
this liquid state through another pipo by means of the pressure of
air in the chamber. It was found that the mud sealed the caisson,
so that a pressure of air considerably in excess of that of the water
outside could be kept up, and it was unnecessary to vary the pressure
according to the height of the tide. In working through this soft
mnd both intelligence and courage wore called for on the part of the
men, and it is a pleasure and duty for me to say that the Italians and
Belgians engaged on tho work were never found wanting in those
qualifications. There was always a chance of the caisson sinking
suddenly or irregularly, and imprisoning some of the men, and
indeed on one occasion a few men were buried up to their chins in
the mud, and on another tho caisson gave a sudden drop of 7 ft.
    With one of our caissons we unfortunately had an accident and
loss of life, which, although it had nothing to do with tho sinking
of the caisson, was indirectly due to the same cause, viz. the softness
of the mud bottom. OH new year's day, 1885, the S.W. Queensferry
caisson, which had been towed into position, and weighted, with
about 4000 tons of concrete, stuck in the mud, and instead of rising
with the tide remained fixed so that the water flowing over the edge
filled the interior. The 4000 tons of water caused the caisson to
sink further in the mud, especially at the outer edge, and to slide
forward and tilt. The contractors determined to raise the skin of
the caisson until it came above water level, and then pump out and
float the caisson back into position. About three mouths were
occupied in doing this, but when pumping had proceeded a certain
extent tho caisson collapsed owing to tho heavy external pressure
of the water, and two men were killed.
   VOL. XII.     (No. 81.)

146                       Mr. Benjamin Baker                   [May 20,
                            SUPEBSTRTIOTTJRE.
     I must now say a few words respecting the design, manufacture,
and erection of the superstructure.
     Design.—I have already illustrated the principle of the canti
lever bridge, and need only deal with the details. At the Forth,
owing to the unprecedented span and the weight of the structure
itself, the dead load is far in excess of any number of railway trains
which could be brought upon it. Thus the weight of one of the
 1700 feet spans is about 16,000 tons, and the heaviest rolling load
would not be more than a couple of coal trains weighing say 800
tons together, or only 5 per cent. of the dead weight. It is hardly
necessary therefore to say that the bridge will be as stiff as a rock
under the passage of a train. Wind even is a more important element
than train weight, as with the assumed pressure of 56 Ibs. per square
 foot the estimated lateral pressure on each 1700 ft. span is 2000
 tons, or two and a half times as much as the rolling load. To
 resist wind the structure is " straddle legged," that is, the lofty
 columns over the piers are 120 ft. apart at the base, and 33 ft. at
 the top. Similarly, the cantilever bottom members widen out at
the piers. All of the main compression members are tubes, because
 that is the form which with the least weight gives the greatest
 strength. The tube of the cantilever is, at the piers, 12 ft. in
 diameter and 1| in. thick, and it is subject to an end pressure of
 2282 tons from the dead load, 1022 tons from the trains, and 2920
 tons from the wind ; total, 6iJ24 tons, which is the weight of one
 of the largest transatlantic steamers with all her cargo on board.
 The vertical tube is 343 ft. high, 12 ft. in diameter, and about £ in.
 thick, aud is liable to a load of 8279 tons. The tension members
 are of lattice construction, and the heaviest-stressed one is subject
 to a pull of 3794 tons. All of the structure is thoroughly braced
 together by " wind bracing " of lattice girders, so that a hurricane
 or cyclone storm may blow in any direction up or down the Forth
 without affecting the stability of the bridge. Indeed, even if a
 hurricane were blowing up one side of the Forth and down the
 other, tending to rotate the cantilevers on the piers, the bridge has
  the strength to resist such a contingency. We have had wind
  gauges on Inch Garvie since the commencement of the works, and
  know, therefore, the character of the storms the bridge will encounter.
  The two heaviest gales were on December 12th, 1883, and January
  26th, 1884. On the latter occasion much damage was done through
  out the country. At Inch Garvie the small fixed gauge was reported
  to have registered 65 Ibs. per square foot, but I found on inspection
  that the pointer could not travel further, or it might have indicated
  even higher. I did not believe this result, and attributed it to the
 joint action of the momentum of the instrument, and a high local
  pressure of wind too instantaneous in duration to take effect upon

 1887.]              on Bridging the Firth of Forth.                147
a structure of any size or weight. The great board of 300 square
 feet area on the same occasion indicated only 35 Ibs. per square foot,
 and I doubt much if the pressure would have averaged more than
 20 Ibs. on so large a surface as the bridge.
     Manufacture.—The bent plates required for the tubes of the
 Forth Bridge would, if placed end to end, stretch 42 miles. Special
plant had to be devised for preparing these plates. Long furnaces,
heated in some instances by gas producers, and in others by coal, first
heated the plates, which were then hauled between the dies of an
 800 ton hydraulic press, and bent to the proper radius. When cool
the edges were planed all round, and the plates built up into the
 form of a tube in the drilling yard. Here they were dealt with by
eight great travelling machines, having ten traversing drills radiating
to the centre of the tube, and drilling through as much as 4 in. of
solid steel in places.
     The tension members and lattice girders generally are of angle
bars, sawn to length when cold, and of plates planed all round.
 Multiple drills tear through immense thickness of steel at an
astonishing rate. The larger machines have ten drills, which, going
as they do, day and night, at 180 revolutions per minute, perform
work equivalent to boring fin inch hole through 280 ft. thickness of
 solid steel every twenty-four hours.
     Erection.—Facility of erection is one of the most important
desiderata in the case of the Forth Bridge. Owing to 200 ft. depth
of water, scaffolding is impossible, and the bridge has to constitute
its own scaffolding. The principle of erection adopted was therefore
to build first the portion of the superstructure over the main piers,
the great steel towers, as they may be called, although really parts
of the cantilever, and to add successive bays of the cantilever, right
and left of these towers, and therefore balancing each other, until
the whole is complete. This being the general principle a great
deal yet remained to be done in settling the details. What was
finally settled, and is now in progress, is as follows :—
     After the skewbacks, horizontal tubes, and a certain length of the
verticals as high as steam cranes could conveniently reach were
built, a lifting stage was erected. This consisted of two platforms,
one on either side of the bridge, and four hydraulic lifting rams, one
in each 12 ft. tube. To carry these rams cross girders were fitted in
the tubes capable of being raised so as to support the rams and
platform as erection proceeded, and steel pins were slipped in to
hold the cross girders. Travelling cranes are placed on the plat
forms, and these cranes, with the men working aloft, are of course
raised with the platforms when hydraulic pressure is let into the
rams. The mode of procedure is to raise the platform 1 ft. and
slip in the steel pins to carry the load whilst the rams are getting
ready to make another stroke of 1 ft. When a 16 ft. lift has been so
made, which is a matter of a few hours, a pause of some two or three
days occurs to allow the riveting to be completed. The advance at
                                                            L 2

   148                        Mr. Benjamin Baker                     [May 20,
   times has been at the rate of three lifts, or 48 ft. in height, in a
   week.
       The system of erection by overhanging offers great advantages
   as regards safety, as each successive part of the superstructure is
   riveted up and completed before a further portion is added. In the
   case of an ordinary bridge the whole superstructure must first be
   temporarily bolted up on scaffolding, and in that condition is liable
   to be swept away by flood or hurricane at any moment.
       There is nothing new under the sun, and therefore you will not
   be surprised to hear that in 1810, a certain Mr. Pope proposed to
   construct a cantilever bridge, of 1800 ft. span, across the East River,
   in New York, and, indeed, exhibited a 50 ft. model at the same time.
       I have described the process of erecting the Forth Bridge in
   sober prose, if I had thought of doing it in verse I should have
   appropriated bodily Mr. Pope's lyrical version of his intended opera
   tions at the East River, of which the following is a sample :—
                  " Each semi-arc is built from off the top,
                    Without the aid of scaffold, pier, or prop ;
                    By skids and cranes each part is lowered down,
                    And on the timber's end grain rests so sound.
                    Sure all the bridges that were ever built,
                    Reposed their weight on centre, pier, or stilt ;
                    Not so the bridge the author has to lioast,
                    His plan is sure to save such needless cost ;
                    A ladder on each side is lowered down,
                    And shifted from the fulcrum to the crown."
       To carry out the work at the Forth Bridge there is an army of
   3600 workmen officered by a proportionate number of engineers.
   Everything except the rolling of the steel plates is done on the spot,
   and consequently there are literally hundreds of steam and hydraulic
   engines and other machines and appliances too numerous to mention,
   many of them being of an entirely original character.
       It is, of course, impossible to carry out a gigantic work of the
   kind I have had the honour of bringing before the Institution without
   paying for it, not merely in money, but in men's lives. I shall
   have failed in my task if yon do not, to some extent, realise the risks
   to which zealous and plucky workmen will be sure to expose them
   selves in pushing on with the work of erecting the Forth Bridge.
   Speaking on behalf of the engineers, I may say that we never ask a
   workman to do a thing which we are not prepared to do ourselves,
   but of course men will, on their own initiative, occasionally do rash
   things. Thus, not long ago a man trusted himself at a great height
   to the simple grasp of a rope, and his hand getting numbed with cold
    he unconsciously relaxed his hold and fell backwards a descent of
    120 ft., happily into the water, from which he was fished out little
    the worse after sinking twice. Another man, going up in a hoist the
   other day, having that familiarity with danger which breeds contempt,
   did not trouble to close the rail, and stumbling backward, fell a
*.

1887.]               on Bridging the Firth of Forth.               149
distance of 180 ft., carrying away a dozen rungs of a ladder with
which he came in contact, us if they had been straws. These are
instances of rashness, but the best men run risks from their fellow
workmen. Thus a splendid fellow, active as a cat, who would run
hand over hand along a rope at any height, was knocked over by a
man dropping a wedge on him from above and killed by a fall of
between one and two hundred feet. There are about 500 men at
work at each main pier and something is always dropping from aloft.
1 saw a hole 1 in. in diameter made through the 4 in. timber of the
staging by a spanner which fell about 300 ft. and took off a man's
cap in its course. On another occasion a dropped spanner entered a
man's waistcoat and came out at his ankle tearing open the whole of
his clothes, but not injuring the man himself in any way.
    Happily there is no lack of pluck amongst British workmen ; if
one man falls another steps into his place. Difficulties and accidents
necessarily occur, but like a disciplmed regiment in action we close
up the ranks, push on, and step by step we intend to carry on the
work to a victorious conclusion.
                                                            [B. R]

 150                             Dr. Klein                    [May 27,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 27, 1887.
     THE RIGHT HON. EABL PERCY, Manager and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                     EDWARD E. KLMN, M.D. F.R.8.
                         Etiology of Scarlet Fever.
AMONG the infectious or zymotic diseases there are two at any
rate — namely, scarlet fever and diphtheria — of which it may be
said that their spread is to a lesser extent dependent on defective
domestic sanitation than is the case with some of the other zymotic
diseases, as, for instance, typhoid fever. Indeed, it is maintained by
competent authorities that scarlet fever and diphtheria do not invade
houses of faulty sanitation with greater frequency or severity than
those of perfect sanitary arrangements. This view is based on the
important experience gained during the past twenty years—viz. that
epidemics of scarlet fever and diphtheria have been brought about by
milk. I may here state by way of explanation that a fact well estab
lished and needing no further comment is that scarlet fever and diph
theria are, like smallpox, measles, whooping cough, and typhus fever,
communicable directly from person to person. This mode of infection,
doubtless an important one, and coming into operation in single cases
wherever the elementary rules of isolation and disinfection are trans
gressed, altogether sinks into insignificance when compared with the
infection produced on a large scale, if a common article of diet like
milk should become in some way or another the vehicle of contagium,
as has been proved to be the case in a number of epidemic outhreaks.
These epidemics, known as milk scarlatina, milk diphtheria, and I
may also add milk typhoid, have this in common, that almost simul
taneously, or at any rate within a short time, in a number of houses
having no direct communication by person or otherwise with one
another, there occur, sometimes singly, sometimes in batches as it
were, cases of illness—scarlet fever, diphtheria, or typhoid fever as
the case may be ; and it was this peculiar character which pointed to
a condition which must have been common to all these households.
On closer examination it was indeed found that all these households
had this, and only this, in common, that they were all supplied with
milk coming from the same source —that is to say, from the same
dairyman. Other houses, supplied with milk from a different source,
escaped ; and, further, it was shown that, as soon as the consumption
of the suspected milk ceased, the epidemic, as such, came to an end,
except, of course, the cases due to secondary infection from person to
person.
    The Medical Department of tho Local Government Board have

1887.j                on Etiology of Scarlet Fe
had for years past their attention fixed on these
in the Reports of the Medical Officer many of these are described
with great detail ; amongst these Dr. Ballard's Report in 1870 on
Enteric Fever in Islington, Dr. Buchanan's on Scarlet Fever in South
Kensington in 1875, and Mr. Power's on Scarlet Fever in St. Giles's
and St. Pancras in 1882, are especially to bo referred to. Mr. Ernest
Hart has tabulated all tho outhreaks of milk epidemics which were
investigated before 1881 in vol. iv. of the Transactions of the Inter
national Medical Congress for 1881. Now, analysing these out
breaks as far as they refer to scarlet fever, there are several of them
 where the assumption that the milk consumed acquired the power of
infection by contamination from a human source cannot be excluded.
This infection, if proven, would stand on the same footing as if due
to contagion from person to person ; for it is clear, whether the con-
tagium is conveyed from one person to another by air, food, drink, or
otherwise, it always remains contagion from person to person. Now, in
many of the cases of epidemics tabulated by Mr. Hart, and recorded by
 subsequent observers—i. e. after 1881—this mode of milk contamina
tion cannot be excluded, as I said before ; but, comparing the dates
 when the milk was supposed to have become so contaminated with
 the dates when the milk has actually produced infection, it will be
found that a certain discrepancy exists, and, as will be shown later,
another mode of infection—viz. from a person affected with scarlatina
 to the cow and through the cow to the milk and then to human beings
 —cannot be excluded either. There are other epidemics recorded in
these tables in which the mode of infection of the milk is not ascer
 tained, and in a third set the milk acquired infective power in some
 way or another, but certainly not from a human source.
     As an illustration of the first group of epidemics—i. e. probable
contamination from a human source—I will refer to a case recorded
by Dr. Robertson, of Keswick, in which a dairy closely adjoined a
house where scarlet fever had existed for several weeks. The cows
were milked, every night and morning, into an open tin can, which was
carried across an open yard, past the affected house. The children
who first caught scarlet fever in the locality played about the yard
while in a state of desquamatiou. On one particular day a general
epidemic of scarlet fever broke out in tho town, between thirty and
forty families being invaded. All those suffering from the disease
received their milk supply from this particular dairy-farm. Some
member of every family supplied had either a scarlatinal sore throat
or scarlet fever on this day. Other families supplied from a different
source escaped the disease. A lodger had the milk raw for supper
and was attacked. His landlady boiled her milk the same night and
escaped. We must here observe that a large number of fresh cases
of scarlatina occurred on the same day, and tho inference from this
fact is that on some other day, shortly before, when the children who
were peeling from recent scarlet fever were playing in the yard, they
conveyed infection to the milk which was in their neighbourhood.

152                            Dr. Klein                      [May 27,
    As an illustration of the second kind (viz. not probably from a
human source) I will refer to the outhreak of scarlet fever in Oxford
in the spring of 1882, recorded by Dr. Darbishire : in the St. Bartho
lomew's Hospital Eeports, vol. xx. The substance of Dr. Darbishire's
 Eeport is this :—Three cows were kept by those who sold the milk,
and nine houses, containing 85 persons in all, were supplied morning
and evening ; the milk was never stored, as there was generally barely
enough at each milking for all the customers. In the house to which
the cows and paddock belonged there was a case of diphtheria in a
young lady; she was removed to the infirmary on March 1. The
cowman had a child ill with scarlet fever in his cottage from
February 27 till March 3. On March 3 Dr. Darbishire had this
child removed to the hospital and the cowman's cottage thoroughly
disinfected ; the cowman left his cottage to sleep in lodgings near,
the care of the cows having been handed over to another man, en
gaged for that purpose. Now, if the milk had become infected from
either of these two cases (one diphtheria and the other scarlet fever)
this must have occurred for the first before March 1, for the other
before March 3 ; and as the period of incubation of scarlet fever is
known to be as a rule less than seven days, it follows that March 8
being the last day on which the milk could have received the con-
tagium from a human being, March 10 would be the last day on which
scarlet fever could have been produced by that milk, the majority of
cases of scarlet fever must have occurred before that day, as one
cannot assume that in all these cases the period of incubation was
protracted to such length as seven days. But mark what really did
happen. Dr. Darbishire states that no case occurred till March 10,
on which day two cases of sore throat and one case of scarlet fever
occurred; on March 11, one case of sore throat; on March 12, two
cases of sore throat and one of scarlet fever ; on March 13, four cases
of sore throat and two of scarlet fever ; on March 15, one case of sore
throat and one of scarlet fever ; on March 16, two cases of sore throat
and one of diphtheria ; on March 17, one case of sore throat ; on
March 18, one case of sore throat. Now, all these cases were proved
by Dr. Darbishire to have been caused by that milk. There occurred
subsequently other cases, but these were traced to have been due to
secondary infection from person to person. This is a good illustra
tion of a milk epidemic in which the milk most probably was not
fouled by human agency ; and there are other milk epidemics which
on analysis of dates lead to the same conclusion. The infection of
this milk was probably brought about, as I shall show you hereafter,
in some other way.
    As an instance of the third kind—viz. where milk has clearly not
been infected from a human source—I will refer to Mr. Power's
 Report in 1882 on an epidemic outhreak of scarlet fever in St. Giles's
and St. Pancras. " The disease was distributed with a milk service
derived from a Surrey farm. In this case two facts could be
affirmed . the one that a cow recently come into milk at this farm

1887.]                on Etiology of Scarlet Fever.                  153
had been suffering from some ailment, seemingly from the time of
her calving, of which loss of hair in patches was the most conspicuous
manifestation ; the other that there existed no discoverable means by
which the milk which had coincided with scarlatina in its distribu
tion could have received infective quality from the human subject." *
     The Medical Department of the Local Government Board have from
these facts drawn the conclusion that " distrust must be placed on the
universally accepted explanation that milk receives infective properties
directly by human agencies," and further that " the question of risk
from specific fouling of milk by particular cows suffering, whether
recognised or not, from specific disease was seen to be arising."
This view received striking confirmation and proof by a report of an
outhreak of scarlet fever that occurred at the end of 1885 and the
beginning of 1886 in the north of London, which was investigated by
 Mr. Power. His report is published in extenso in the Report of the
 Medical Officer of the Local Government Board for 1886 ; and I will
 here give you the substance of it. Mr. Wynter Blyth, Medical
 Officer of Health for Marylebone, had last December observed a
 sudden outhreak of scarlatina in his district to be associated with the
 distribution of milk coming from a farm at Hendou, and had found
 reason for believing that the disease had prevailed exclusively among
 customers furnished with milk from that source. Mr. Power, on a
 more extended inquiry, found that a similar prevalence of scarlatina
 had occurred about the same time in other parishes in and near the
 metropolis that were furnished with milk from the same farm. By
 careful inquiry Mr. Power could with certainty exclude any contami
 nation of the milk from a human source, or that anything of the kind
 known as " sanitary " conditions could have had any concern with the
 infectivity of the milk. Mr. Power showed conclusively that only
 certain sections of the milk supplies of this farm, and finally only
 certain cows from which these sections of milk were derived, had any
 relation to the observed results. " In the end," says the Medical
Officer, " he has demonstrated, beyond reasonable doubt, the depen
 dence of the milk-scarlatina of December on a diseased condition of
 certain milch cows at the farm, a condition first introduced there in
 the previous month by some animals newly arrived from Derbyshire ;
 and he finds strong circumstantial evidence for believing that the
 latter phenomena of this dependence were brought about through the
 extension of the diseased condition of one set of animals to another
 set, after the fashion of an infection." Now, this disease as it pre
 sented itself in some of these Hendon cows consisted in the presence
 of sores and scurfiness in different parts of the skin with loss of hair
 in patches, ulcerations on the udder and teats, and a visceral disease,
notably of the lungs, liver, kidney, and spleen, which, although milder
 in character, very much resembled the visceral lesions occurring in
 cases of human scarlet fever. By experiment it was shown that the
              * Medical Officer's Report for 1885-86, pp. v. and vi.

154                              Dr. Klein                     [May 27,
matter of the ulcers of the udder is possessed of infective power,
inasmuch as on inoculation into the skin of calves the same ulcers
are reproduced ; further it was shown that in the ulcers of the cow
there existed in largo numbers a species of micrococcus which on
being planted on artificial nutritive media, such as are used for the
study of bacteria, produces in a few days a crop of micrococci,
possessed of very distinct characters by which they are distinguish
able from other bacteria. When calves are inoculated from a cultiva
tion of this micrococcus they become after an incubation period
affected with a cutaneous and visceral disease the same as the disease
of the Hendon cows. To sum up, then, it has been shown that at this
Hendon farm there existed certain cows affected with a communicable
disease which, in many points of its pathology, bears a great resem
blance to human scarlatina; further, that the milk of these cows
gave scarlet fever to human beings ; and, lastly, that a particular
microbe was obtained from these cows which in calves produced a
similar disease to the disease of those cows.
    In order to complete the evidence thus far obtained, it was neces
sary to prove that scarlet fever in man is due to the presence and
multiplication in the blood and tissues of the same micrococcus, and
that this microbe, if obtained from human scarlet fever, produces in
the cow the same disease as is produced by the micrococcus of the
Hendon cows. Now, this proof has been satisfactorily given. In
the first place, it has been shown that in the blood and tissues of
persons affected with scarlet fever there occurs the same micrococcus
as was present in the cow, both being identical in microscopical and
in cultural characters. In the second place it was found that the
action of this microbe on animals is exactly the same as the micro-
coccus found in the Hendon cows. Calves and mice after inocula
tion or feeding with a trace of the growth of both sets of micrococci
become affected with cutaneous and visceral disease similar to human
scarlet fever ; in calves the disease is of the same mild type as in the
Hendon cows. Further it was shown that from the blood and the
tissues of these animals infected with one or the other set of cultiva
tions, the same micrococcus was recovered. I will remind you that
in all infectious diseases which have been proved definitely to be
associated with a particular species of microbes this microbe intro
duced into a susceptible body thrives and multiplies and thus sets up
the diseased condition, differing, of course, with the different species
of microbes. I think I may after this say that this microbe, micro-
coccus scarlatinse, is the cause of human scarlet fever ; further that it
produces in bovine animals a disease identical with the Hendon
disease and human scarlet fever, and that consequently while the cow
is susceptible to infection with human scarlet fever, it can in its turn
be the source of contagium for the human species, as was no doubt
the case in that milk epidemic from the Hendon farm.
    I shall now give you a striking piece of evidence well in harmony
with what I have mentioned hitherto. In October 1886, Professor

1887.]                   on Etioloyg of Scarlet Fever.                       155
Corfield forwarded to me certain tins of condensed milk, sold under
the name of Rose brand. This milk was under suspicion of having
produced scarlet fever in a number of persons who had partaken of
it. From one out of three tins of this condensed milk I have obtained
by cultivation a microbe which in every respect, morphologically and
in cultures, is the same as the microbe obtained from the Hendon
cows and from human scarlet fever. The action of the microbe of
the condensed milk was also tested on animals, calves, and mice, and
it was found that it produced the identical disease which was pro
duced by the microbe of human scarlet fever and of the Hendon
cows. I may add that this Rose brand of condensed milk is, like all
condensed milk, obtained from cows' milk ; the Rose brand is a cheap
article, and meant for the poorer classes ; probably it has not been
sufficiently heated in the tins before sealing the latter ; that this is
probably the case can be deduced from the fact that every tin of this
brand which I opened contained some organisms ; thus, for instance,
I find that one tin contained the scarlet fever microbe, and another
species of micrococcus ; another tin contained a harmless species of
micrococcus only, and a third tin opened contained a micrococcus and
a species of bacillus.*
     Another piece of interesting evidence concerning the micrococcus
scarlatinse is this. There occurred during the beginning of this year
a severe epidemic of scarlet fever in Wimbledon. This epidemic was
also traced to milk coming from a particular farm. In one of the
 houses supplied with this milk there occurred cases of scarlet fever
among human beings, and at the same time a pet monkey who also
consumed a good deal of the milk became ill ; it died after five days.
I had the opportunity to make a post mortem examination of this
animal, and there could be no doubt about its having died of scarlet
fever. From the blood of this monkey I obtained by cultivation the
same micrococcus as was obtained from human scarlet fever, from the
Hendon cows, and from the condensed milk. Experiments made on
animals with this micrococcus of the Wimbledon monkey showed that
the same disease is produced both by inoculation and by feeding. It
having been proved, then, that the cow is susceptible to infection
with scarlet fever from man, the next important question is this.
How does the milk of such infected cows assume infective power ?
Clearly in one of two ways—First, either the milk becomes infected
by the milker during the process of milking, particles of contagium
being rubbed off the ulcers of the udder or teat ; or, the milk per se
is possessed of infective power—that is, it being a secretion of a con
stitutionally diseased animal. From previous and from more recent
observations I am inclined to think that both views hold good.
     I now come to the question—How is the spread of scarlet fever by
   * It ia well known that no species of micrococci hitherto known are capable of
surviving a temperature of 212° Fah., i. e. of boiling water ; many of them are
killed by an exposure to 180-190° Fah.

156                               Dr. Klein                    [May 27,
milk to bo controlled and checked ? This question resolves itself into
three parts. First, prevention of infection of the cow by man,
directly or indirectly ; second, prevention of infection of the cow by
the cow ; and, third, destruction of the contagium of the milk of
such cows.
     As regards the first, all those rules which have been laid down to
prevent infection of one human being from another, of milk or any
dairy utensil by contact or otherwise with a person suffering from
scarlet fever or coming from an infected house, also apply here ; and
this part of the subject comes under the general aspect of the proper
sanitary management of dairies which is acted upon in all well-
managed dairies.
     As regards the second—viz. prevention of infection of the cow by
the cow—this is obviously more important and more difficult of
carrying out. I say obviously, because one cow affected with the
disease is capable of communicating it to others in the same farm,
and when moved to another farm also to the cows there. The disease
in the cow being of a mild character is easily overlooked. The
disease in the skin of the cow may be present and slight, or may be
absent in its more conspicuous manifestation, whereas the visceral
disease is of so mild a character that it requires an expert to diagnose
it. When a cow shows the disease of the skin and on the udder well
pronounced, such an animal will have to bo carefully examined for
visceral disease. I need hardly say that among the many cutaneous
diseases of the cow known and unknown there may be one or the
other which bears a resemblance to the cutaneous disorder occurring
in scarlatina. Such cutaneous disease must be carefully excluded
before an animal is condemned ; but if visceral disease should bo
diagnosed as well, the animal should be carefully isolated and its
milk should not be used. And it must be clear from this that every
dairy should be permanently under the supervision of an expert, and
in this the veterinary profession should be as eager for the work as
the medical sanitary officers are and for some time past have been.
But, judging from the attitude assumed by the veterinary authorities,
I am afraid the veterinary profession has not yet grasped the full
responsibility that rests on them, both towards the general public and
the dairy farmers. Instances are on record when on the milk from a
particular farm having been proved or even suspected to bear any
relation to a scarlet fever epidemic, the business of such farm became
temporarily or even permanently suspended, and the pecuniary loss
of the owner of such farm irrevocable. That the disease in the cow
which I have described to you as scarlet fever is as yet unknown to
tin: veterinary profession does not do away with the existence of such
disease, and I venture to say that being as yet unknown to and
unrecognised by them should be so much more stimulus for their
trying to recognise it.
     Now the third question, as to the destruction of the contagium in
the milk. This, I am glad to say, is very easily carried out. I have

1887.]                 on Etiology of Scarlet Fever.                   157
found that heating milkup to 85°C., or 185° Fah.—that is, considerably
under the boiling point, is perfectly sufficient to completely destroy
the vitality of the microbe of scarlet fever. In support of this state
ment I can quote, besides the observation given above by Dr. Robertson ,
the following observations recorded by Dr. Jacob, Medical Officer of
Health of High Ashurst and Headley, and reported in 1878, to this
effect :—Between June 1 and 7 there were fifteen cases of scarlet fever
in three distant houses, the inmates of which had had no communication
with infected persons, but had all been supplied with milk from a
farm where a certain cowman worked. This cowman had in his
family several children ill with scarlet fever. The cowman continued
milking the cows during the illness of his children, though he did
not himself have the fever and the milk wus not taken into his cottage,
but the point which I wish to bring out is this, that other houses
besides those in which scarlet fever had broken out had been supplied
tvith the same milk, but no scarlet fever occurred in them, and why ?
Because all these have consumed only the scalded milk. I should
therefore strongly urge that all milk should have been boiled, at any
rate heated to at least 85° C. (that is, 185° Fah.) before being consumed.
 And, judging by the largo number of cases of scarlet fever recorded in
 these milk epidemics, one is justified in saying that a considerable
 percentage of the total number of cases of scarlet fever would have
 been avoided thereby. Not all, because unfortunately the rules of
 isolation of patients suffering from scarlet fever are not always
 rigorously carried out, and therefore infection from person to person
 will occur. Nor would prevention of scarlatina by milk exclude
 scarlatina by cream. Cream cannot bo subjected to heat, and in the
 epidemic of scarlet fever that occurred in South Kensington in 1875,
 and that was investigated by Dr. Buchanan, cream was the vehicle of
 contagium. But, considering the prominent position that milk
 occupies in every household with children, the possibility of infection
 with scarlet fever by raw milk deserves careful attention.
     The lecture was illustrated by demonstrations of the micrococcus
 scarlaiinse, in microscopic specimens and in culture tubes obtained from
 the several sources indicated.

 158                             Mr. David Gill                    [June 3,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, June 3, 1887.
 EDWABD WOODS, Esq. Pres. Inst. C.E. Manager and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                       DATID GILL, LL.D. F.R.S.
                HER MAJESTY'S ASTRONOMER AT THE CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.
             The Applications of Photography in Astronomy.
LITTLE more than a year ago Mr. Ainslio Common delivered a lecture
in this place on the subject of " Photography as an aid to Astronomy."
Given by one who is a consummate master of the art of celestial
photography, that lecture (complete as to history and full of sugges
tion as it was) would, under ordinary circumstances, have precluded
further reference to the subject in these Friday evening lectures for
some years to come.
    But the past year has witnessed such developments of the subject,
and the importance of photography in astronomy has been so much
advanced by the conclusions of the recent Astro-photographic Congress,
as to afford a reasonable apology for the present lecture.
    On the 16th of April last there was held at Paris a Congress
attended by upwards of fifty astronomers and physicists, representing
nearly every civilised nation in the world. It was convened for the
purpose of considering a scheme of international co-operation in the
work of charting the sky on a large scale. Or, rather, its object was
to obtain a series of pictures, which, taken within a comparatively
limited period of time, and with the necessary precautions, would
euable astronomers of the present day to hand down to future genera
tions a complete record of the positions and magnitudes of all the
stars in the heavens to a given order of magnitude. The labours of
that Conference are now concluded, certain important resolutions have
been adopted, and the way has been so far cleared for giving these
resolutions practical effect.
    It seems of importance therefore to lay before the members of tho
Royal Institution some account of the history of this remarkable
Congress, to illustrate and explain tho grounds of the conclusions
which it has arrived at, and otherwise to bring the history of photo
graphic astronomy up to tho present dato. I pass over the already well
told early history of celestial photography, except in so far as it relates
to star charting. It was Warren do la Huo who first called attention
to the moans furnished by photography for charting groups of stars.
In his Report to tho British Association at Manchester in 1861 on
tho progress of cclest;al photography, ho indicates a photographic

1887.]      on the Applications of Photography in Astronomy.        159
object-glass of short focns as the instrument best suited for the
purpose, and he states that, by mounting such a lens and camera on
an equatorial stand provided with clockwork, he has photographed
such groups of stars as the Pleiades, the chief difficulty being not to
fix the images of the stars, but to distinguish them from the specks
which are found on the plates or rather in the collodion.
     In 1864 Rutherford of New York completed a telescope of 11 J
inches aperture and 14 feet focal length, specially constructed for
celestial photography, and obtained fine photographs of stars to the
9th order of magnitude. His remarks, although quoted in Mr.
Common's lecture last year, have such importance on the present
subject that I venture to repeat them,
    " The power to obain imagest of the 9th magnitude stars with so
moderate an aperture promises to develop and increase the application
of photography to the mapping of the sidereal heavens and in some
manner to realise the hopes which have so long been deferred and
disappointed.
     " It would not be difficult to arrange a camera-box, capable of
exposing a surface sufficient to obtain a map of two degrees square,
and with instruments of large aperture we may hope to reach much
smaller stars than I have yet taken. There is also every probability
that the chemistry of photography will be very much improved and
more sensitive methods devised."
     Mr. Common well remarks that in the light of recent work these
words are almost prophetic.
     But Rutherford did not stop here. In the eyes of an astronomer
 a picture of stars is of comparatively little importance unless it is
capable of accurate measurement. Recognising this important feature
of the case, Rutherford devised a suitable apparatus, which he ap
plied to the measurement of two of his photographs of the Pleiades.
These measures having been put into the hands of Dr. Gould, that
astronomer compared them with those of the same group of stars
made by Bessel with his celebrated heliometer, and found a satis
factory accordance.*
     Encouraged by these results, Dr. Gould, when he went to the
Argentine Republic in 1870 to found the Cordoba Observatory, which
has since been rendered so famous by his labours, took Rutherford's
telescope with him. Unfortunately one of the lenses was broken in
transport, and such delay was incurred in replacing it, that the pro
 posed work could not be begun till 1875. But thanks to the clear
 skies of Cordoba, and the marvellous activity of the observatory under
 Dr. Gould's direction, 1350 photographs were obtained in course of a
few years, containing representations of all the principal star-clusters
 of the southern hemisphere, besides a special series of plates taken
 for the purpose of determining the parallax (or distance) of several
 of the more remarkable stars in the southern hemisphere.
                 * Astron. Nach. No. 162, vol. xlviii. Dec. 1866.

160                          Mr. David Gill                    [June 3,
    This fine series of pictures is now being submitted to measurement
by Dr. Gould, and the results are awaited with the greatest interest
by all astronomers.
    The first of Dr. Gould's plates were taken with the old wet
collodion process, but the work was afterwards greatly facilitated by
employment of the more sensitive modern dry plates.
    It was, in fact, the introduction of the gelatine dry plate process
in 1876, which really paved the way for the rapid development of
celestial photography. The convenience of the manipulation and the
groat increase of sensitiveness of the plates at once placed a new
power in the hands of astronomers. Draper photographed the nebula
of Orion in 1880 ; and after trials, commencing in 1879, Common
succeeded in obtaining the exquisite photographs of that object which
have been exhibited more than once in this theatre.
    In 1882 appeared the splendid comet of that year. At the
Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope, we were not at the time
engaged in photographic operations. Several photographers in
the Cape Colony found it possible to obtain impressions of the
comet, but they were unable to secure pictures of scientific value,
because they were unprovided with means to follow the diurnal
motion. I had no available camera belonging to the observatory,
and no experience in the development of modern dry plates. In
these circumstances, I applied to Mr. Allis, a skilful photographer
in my neighbourhood, who eagerly consented to co-operate with me
in the work. I arranged means to attach his camera to the stand of
an equatorial telescope, and the telescope itself was employed to
follow the nucleus of the comet accurately during the whole time of
exposure by the aid of the driving clock and with small corrections
given by hand. The lens employed had an aperture of only 1 inches,
and a focal length of 11 inches ; but the result was a series of
pictures, one of which, obtained after an exposure of two hours, is
now on the screen.
    The photograph shows a very satisfactory delineation of the tail
and envelope of the comet.
    Important and useful as these results were, there was another
feature of the pictures which seemed to me still more so. In
forwarding copies of these photographs to the Royal Astronomical
Society of London and to the Paris Academy of Sciences, I drew
particular attention to the large number of stars shown upon the
plate, and insisted upon the importance of the means thus offered to
photograph comparatively large areas of the sky and thus rapidly
make charts of the entire heavens.
    The one step wanting was now provided, and the new and more
sensitive dry plate rendered the former suggestions of de la Ruo
and Rutherford now valuable and practicable.
    Formerly the old collodion wet plates required large instruments
(with small field) and long exposure to depict stars even to the 9th
magnitude, and astronomers trusted entirely to the accuracy of their

1887.]       on the Application of Photography in Astronomy.              161
driving clocks, which could not follow a star with perfect accuracy
during a long exposure. Now the modern rapid dry plates in con
junction with the large fields of the photographic objective overcame
the first of these difficulties, and the plan of employing a guiding
telescope overcame the second.
     The use of a guiding telescope was not even a new device, for it
had been employed long before by Hartnup and others, who, in their
early attempts to photograph the moon, kept the image of a lunar
spot by hand upon the cross wires of the finder of the telescope during
the long exposures then necessary.
     There was thus nothing really new either in my suggestion or in
the modus operandi, only the result was a fortunate one, for Mr.
Common says that " these photographs came to him as a revelation of
the power of photography for the purpose of star-charting," * and
Admiral Mouchez tells me that these Gape photographs and my sug
gestions first directed his attention and that of the brothers Henry
to the application of photography to the work of star-charting, which
had for many years been carried on at Paris by the older methods of
astronomy.
     Common was amongst the first to take up the work in England,
and here on the screen is one of his photographs with a 4-inch
lens, executed in December 1883. But being engaged in other
researches, Common made no attempt to commence a systematic
survey of the heavens.
     Isaac Roberts, of Liverpool, was also early at work in the same
field, and after preliminary experiments he acquired a powerful
telescope, with which he began a systematic survey of the northern
heavens.
     It required some time to find the necessary means and apparatus
to begin the realisation of my ideas at the Cape, but at last the work
was started in the beginning of 1885 on the following definite plan,
viz. to complete the cartography of the heavens from 20° south of
the Equator to the South Pole, and so as certainly to include all
stars to the 9th magnitude.
     The reasons for the adoption of this plan were the following :—
     The celebrated astronomer Argelander charted the heavens on
this scale from the North Pole to the Equator, and tho work has
recently been extended to 20° south of the Equator by Schonfeld, the
pupil and successor of Argelander.
     Argelander's Durchmusterung, as it is called, has furnished, ever
since the date of its publication, the nomenclature of all the fainter
stars employed in the daily operations of astronomy ; it has furnished
the working catalogues which are essential for the more exact deter
mination of the places of all these stars ; it has given us the first
accurate data for determining the distribution of the stars according
to magnitude and apparent position in the heavens, and is tho first
              * ' Proc. Royal Institution,' vol. xii. part iii. p. 734.
    VOL. XII. (No. 81.)                                                 M

162                           Mr. David QiU                      [June 3,
solid existing basis for founding any theory as to the constitution of
the stellar universe. To complete the Durchmusterung for the re
maining portion of the heavens was therefore the most pressing need
of modern astronomy. I commenced the work in 1885 by the aid of
photography. I hope in two or three years, if I have the honour of
lecturing again in this theatre, I shall then be able to tell you that the
work in question is finished.
     I should here explain that mere pictures of the stars are of com
paratively little value, or rather of about the same value to an astro
nomer as a series of charts of parts of the world would be to a sailor if
 there were no lines of latitude or longitude marked upon them.
     The every-day useful part of the Uurchmusterung is the catalogue
 giving the positions and magnitude of all the stars. That work is
 rapidly advancing in the hands of my able and enthusiastic friend,
 Professor Eapteyn of Groningen, who, with the aid of three
 assistants, has undertaken to devote five or six years of his life to the
 measurement of the Cape photographs and the computation of the
results.
     When this has been done, as I venture to think it will be within
 five years, astronomers will be in possession of that preliminary
 survey of the whole heavens which is necessary for. the more refined
 and elaborate researches which must follow as results of the Paris
 Congress.
      But to return to the work that was meanwhile being done in Paris
 by the brothers Paul and Prosper Henry.
      These astronomers had been engaged since 1871 in the construc
 tion of charts of the Ecliptic by the older processes of observation,
 but when they reached that portion of the heavens where the Milky
 Way crosses the Ecliptic, the number of stars became so overwhelming
 that the task of charting seemed almost too great for human patience
 and skill. But fortunately the time had come when dry plate photo
 graphy could be called in to aid, and this aid was in the hands of men
 singularly competent to develop such an opportunity to the fullest
 extent. The brothers Henry had long aspired to be not only dis
 tinguished practical astronomers, but, following the traditions of
 Huyghens and the Herschels, they desired also to be the artists of
 their own optical means. Bound together by strong brotherly affection
 and common tastes, gifted alike with practical talents of a high order,
 and with an energy and determination of character that permit no
 obstacle to success, these men thus happily united have devoted the
 spare hours of their busy astronomical duties at the Paris Observatory,
 first to the study of optics, and afterwards to the grinding and polish
 ing of lenses and specula, which have won for them a now world-wide
 reputation as opticians of the highest rank.
      I had the pleasure, a few weeks ago, of visiting the modest work
 shop attached to their house at Montrougc, and I shall not soon
 forget that visit, nor the many lessons moral as well as practical
 which I learned.

1887.]       on the Applications of Photography in Astronomy.      163
    Every detail of their process of working has been evolved by
themselves ; they employ no assistant, and their every appliance is
simple and practical in a degree which I can only compare with the
simple and practical character of the men who designed it.
    Sucli were the men above all others to develop the application of
photography to the charting of the heavens. They had high appre
ciation of the value of the work which they were about to undertake,
they had the fullest knowledge of the requirements of the case, and
they had the practical skill which enabled them to perfect the neces
sary apparatus. Their first attempts were made with a telescope of
six inches aperture (the object-glass being specially ground for
photographic work), and the tube was temporarily adapted to an
existing equatorial stand.
    With an exposure of forty-five minutes, pictures of stars were
obtained to the 12th magnitude, in which the star discs were quite
round and sharply defined.
    Fully appreciating the beauty of this result, and seeing its
importance, Admiral Mouchez boldly faced many administrative
difficulties, and accepted without delay the proposals of the brothers
Henry to construct an object-glass of thirteen inches aperture and
about eleven feet focal length, as well as the offer of M. Gautier to
mount the same on a suitable stand. The new instrument was
mounted in May 1885. A photograph of the complete instrument is
now on the screen.
    Both from an optical as well as a mechanical point of view, the
new instrument was admirably adapted for its intended work, and
the results obtained by the brothers Henry, and rapidly published
and circulated by Admiral Mouchez, at once astonished and de
lighted the astronomical world.
    I now show a few of the more remarkable of these star pictures
on the screen.
    After such results as these there was no longer room for doubt
or delay. The exquisite precision of these pictures, the sharpness
and roundness of the images of the stars, and the results of actual
measurement on the plates, proved that all necessary accuracy had
been attained.
    The means of rapidly obtaining the data for an accurate survey
of the heavens on a very large scale were now within the reach of
astronomers, and the time for decisive action had arrived.
     The work, however, was too extensive to be undertaken at a
single observatory, or even by a single country, and it was agreed
on all hands that international co-operation was essential for its
execution in a sufficiently short space of time.
    I need not enter into the details of preliminary consultation or
correspondence, but at last a time was fixed, and invitations were
issued by Admiral Mouchez, Director of the Paris Observatory, under
the auspices of the Paris Academy of Sciences, for an International
Congress of Astronomers to be held at Paris.
                                                            H 2

164                           Mr. David Oill                    [June 8,
    A preliminary committee having arranged the general order of
business, the Congress was opened on the 16th April, and its
thoroughly representative character will be understood from the
following statement of the nationalities of the members present.
France       .. .. 20    Austria ....    .    2   Spain                1
England and Colonies 8    Sweden ..               Switzerland .. ..    1
Germany      .. .. 6      Denmark                 Portugal    .. ..    1
Russia               3    Belgium..               Brazil               1
Holland              8    Italy                   Argentine Republic   1
U.S. America     .. 3
    Before the Conference, a great many people, I will not say
astronomers, held that the chief object was to photograph as many
stars as possible, and simply preserve these plates or issue photo
graphic copies of them, so that astronomers of the future, by merely
comparing one of these originals or copies with a similar photograph
of the same part of the sky taken 50 or 100 years hence, would find
out what stars had changed in position or magnitude, or whether any
new star had appeared.
    There is no doubt this was the view of the popular writers—it is
very easily understood, and it appeals very directly to the imagina
tion. Such a project alone would no doubt have had great impor
tance and would probably in the future have brought to light a great
many very interesting isolated facts.
    But for the brouder and more refined purposes of astronomy, for
the discussion of such great questions as the motion of the solar
system in space, the common movement of large groups of stars,
the accurate determination of precession, and the general refinement
of astronomy of precision, these mere pictures would have no value.
    It was essential for these larger and more permanently important
ends that all data should be provided for the most refined deter
mination of the absolute position of any star upon any plate. This
view was endorsed by the Congress.
    The objects of the survey of the heavens to be carried out were
defined ultimately thus :— " To make a photographic chart of the sky
for the present epoch, and to obtain the data for determining the
positions and magnitudes of all the stars to the 14th magnitude," as
that magnitude is at present defined in France.
    At present there are no exact determinations of stellar magnitude
to that order of faintness, and the considerations which really guided
the Conference were, that stars which are called 14th magnitude are
photographed by the Henrys with an exposure of about 15 minutes of
time. With such an exposure the time required for the work con
templated by the Congress would not be too great, but to demand
long exposures would lead to the loss of many plates by interruptions
from clouds, &c., and would unduly prolong the time required for
completion of the whole work. As it is, the number of stars photo
graphed to 14th magnitude will number about 20 millions.
    It was seriously urged that stars to the 15th or even 16th

1887.]      on the Applications of Photography in Astronomy.           165
magnitude and higher should be photographed, but it was felt that
there was real danger of failure in an attempt to do too much.
    It no doubt produces a strong effect on the imagination to be told
that astronomers are to be engaged on making charts of the sky
which will contain 60 or 100 millions of stars, or photographing
stars on their plates which cannot be seen at all in the most powerful
telescopes. There is thus a strong temptation to yield to this demand
for sensation, to produce a few astonishing plates with the loss of
much precious time, and to sacrifice the real progress of astronomy
to the love of the marvellous. Besides, what are you to do with
pictures of 100 millions of stars when you have got them ? What
would be the use of pictures of all these stars, unless at some
future time a sufficient number of astronomers were to arise to
compare similar photographs, taken, say one hundred years
hence, with the photographs taken in our day ? I am happy
to think that the number of men who devote themselves to the
pursuit of astronomy is on the increase, but I have no desire that
the number of men in Great Britain who occupy themselves exclu
sively with astronomy will ever correspond with that in the floating
island of Laputa, as described by Dean Swift, where all the men
were exclusively occupied with astronomy, and had to be flapped on
the head with little bladders containing parched peas to arouse them
from their abstract occupations. And yet, unless something of this
sort happens, I see no adequate prospect of the utilisation of pictures
of 100 millions of stars.
    The Congress, therefore, very wisely limited their chart plates to
the 14th magnitude. But, as was well said by M. Bouquet de
la Grye, it was not necessary to summon fifty or sixty astronomers to
a Congress to arrange for taking mere photographs of stars—a number
of photographers provided with instruments like the Henrys could
have done all that without a congress. It was very strongly felt that
the true raison d'Htre of the Conference was to secure astronomical
data, precise and exact as the operations of astronomers should be.
    Accordingly they resolved that—
    " In addition to the duplicate series of plates giving all the stars
to the 14th magnitude, there should be a series of plates of shorter
exposure to insure a greater accuracy in the micrometric measure
ment of the standard stars, and to render the construction of a cata
logue possible. The plates intended for the formation of the cata
logue shall contain all the stars to the llth magnitude inclusive."
That is to say, it was determined to catalogue the absolute places of
stars to the llth magnitude.
    But no photographic plate of itself gives us any information about
the absolute places of stars, though it gives the means to determine
the relative positions of the stars on the limited area of each plate ;
you must trust to the old-fashioned meridian observations to determine
the absolute places of the brighter stars on each plate, and then mea
sure the position of the fainter stars relative to these standard stars.

166                           Mr. David Gill                     [June 3,
    Now if a plate is exposed long enough to get satisfactory pictures
of stars to the 14th magnitude, the images of the standard stars of the
7th, 8th and 9th magnitude will not have the highest perfection, and
consequently the places of the fainter stars cannot be measured relative
to the ill-defined standard stars with the highest precision.
    This will be evident if we examine actual photographs.
    One illustrates a short exposure, the other a long exposure. The
short exposure gives sharp definition of the brighter stars, the long
exposure brings into view a much greater number of stars, but the
sharp definition of the brighter stars is completely lost. Therefore,
if we wish to have determinations of absolute positions, we cannot
have long exposures.
    The meaning of the series of plates of short exposure, and show
ing stars only to the llth magnitude, is thus explained :
    Of stars to llth magnitude there are about 1.', millions in the
sky, and a catalogue containing all these stars may be considered
complete for the practical purposes of astronomy, because that magni
tude is the faintest which can be measured with accuracy in the larger
class of equatorials usually employed in working observatories.
    I need not enter into detail about the technical means which are
to be taken for eliminating the various sources of error, such as con
traction of the photographic film in course of development, and so
forth. All these points have been considered by the Congress,
or put into the hands of specialists when it appeared that any
particular point required further special study, and they are
too technical to be entered upon here. The chart of stars to
the 14th magnitude will be of importance for many purposes,
such as the search for minor planets, and the trans - Neptunian
planet, for variable stars, and for data as to the law of distribution of
stars of the higher order of magnitude. But I do not hesitate to say
that the work which astronomers of future generations will be most
grateful for, and which will most powerfully conduce to the progress
of astronomy, will not be the chart but the catalogue.
     And now, Ladies and Gentlemen, I have dragged you through
what I fear has so far been a weary account, to bring you to an
apparently very uninteresting conclusion.
     Catalogues and figures are not matters of much popular interest,
 and yet from such uninviting material has been built up the fair
 structure of the exact astronomy of the present day ; and out of such
 materials have been evolved the facts which appeal so strongly to
 the minds of men, and most strongly so because men know that
 the conclusions rest not on mere imaginings alone, but on solid facts
 and figures also.
     But now as to the practical execution of this useful work. After
 all the preliminary details of the operations have been fully dis
 cussed—when the instruments have been designed and made, and
 the mode of working and the methods of measurement and reduction
 have been devised, the practical execution of the work becomes one

 1887.]     on the Applications of Photography in Astronomy.           167
 long ronnd of routine labour, requiring skilled and careful superin
tendence it is true, but still routine work of a very trying character.
    Such work never has been, and never will be, the occupation of
the amateur or single-handed astronomer. Essential as such work is
to the progress of astronomy, it can only be executed at regular
 Government establishments, and therefore the conclusions of the
Conference will have to be submitted to the various Governments, and
the necessary votes of money must be secured. France has already
definitely sanctioned the funds for four photographic telescopes of the
kind which the Conference has decided to adopt for the work. And
we cannot doubt that the modest claims which will be made on
England's treasury for her share in this great work will be liberally
responded to.
    But there are other applications of photography to astronomy
which have a daily growing importance. It was desirable that the
 Conference should recognise this work, and establish relations with
 those engaged upon it.
    Accordingly the following resolution was passed :—
    " The Congress expresses the desirability of there being a special
committee which shall occupy itself with the applications of photo
 graphy to astronomy, other than the construction of the chart. It
recognises the importance of these applications and the relations
which it is desirable to establish between different kinds of work.
The Congress request Messrs. Common and Janssen to undertake the
realisation of this proposition."
    At first sight this may appear a somewhat barren resolution—but
indeed it is not so. It must be remembered that the Congress was
convened for the purpose of discussing a special object, it had
arrived at definite conclusions and recommendations in connection
with that object, and it was felt that to go beyond that object might
imperil the adoption of its recommendations by the various Govern
ments.
    But in the hands of men like Common and Janssen the resolution
of the Conference is not likely to be a barren one, indeed it is cer
tain that it will not be so, for they are already taking steps to unite
fellow-workers in this field.
    Their Committee will associate itself with those who are engaged
upon the Charts, and will follow up in detail and with special instru
ments and methods the subjects of interest which from time to time
will be encountered by the routine workers.
    So remarkable has been the progress of the miscellaneous appli
cation of photography to astronomy within the past year, that some
account of it is essential to bring the history of the subject up to date.
    For example, we have the recent work of Professor Pritchard, of
Oxford.
    He has applied photography during the past year to the most
refined and difficult problem of practical astronomy, viz. the deter
mination of the annual parallax (i. e. the distance) of the fixed stars.

168                          Mr. David Oill                      [June 3,
He has selected for experiment the interesting double star 61 Cygni.
One of the original negatives of the series is now on the screen. This
star, as is well known, was selected by Bessel, on account of its large
proper motion, as the most suitable star for his first experiment. It
was probable, because its large apparent motion among the stars was
BO great, its real distance from us would be less than that of stars of
less apparent motion. Besse1's observations with the Konigsberg
heliometer proved this to be the case, and his discussion of these
observations first convinced astronomers that the measurement of
interstellar spaces was a problem not entirely beyond their reach.
    Prof. Pritchard has now photographed the star during a whole
year, and within a few days he promises that we shall have the results
of his measurement of the plates. It will be of great interest to
compare his results with previous independent determinations of the
parallax of the same star made by other astronomers with different
means, but it will be still more interesting for the future of astronomy
to compare the amount of accuracy which the photographic method
affords, as compared with the older existing methods. From pre
liminary results published by Prof. Pritchard we are led to expect
a very high accuracy from the new process.
    So far, however, as present experience goes, we shall not be able
to apply this new method to the measurement of the parallax of very
bright stars, because, when the plates have been exposed long enough
to obtain pictures of the faint comparison stars, the discs of the
brighter stars become too large and ill-defined for exact measurement.
It may be that this obstacle will yet be overcome, but at present it
has still to be faced.
    On the question of the comparative merits of refractors and re
flectors as the proper instruments for photographic use, very elaborate
comparison has been instituted, and much discussion has been
held.
    From the simple facts, that the best work yet done has been done
in stellar photography by refractors, and that they are in many ways
more convenient and simple in nse than reflecting telescopes, the
Paris Congress unanimously adopted the refractor as the instrument
to be adopted for the international star charts. But here is a very
remarkable picture taken with the Oxford reflector, which shows star
discs very sharp and very round over a very large field of view, viz.
eighty minutes of radius.
     In the photography of special objects, such as star clusters and
nebulae, much has been done.
    Common's exquisite photograph of the great nebula of Orion you
have seen before in this theatre, and for exquisite beauty of detail it
has never been excelled. But of this we may be sure that, if
Mr. Common is spared in health and strength to complete the great
reflector of five feet aperture upon which he is now engaged, that
photograph, beautiful as it is, will be far surpassed. Here is
another photograph of the same object by Mr. Roberts. So short is

1887.]       on the Application* of Photography in Astronomy.         169
the focus of his telescope, so sensitive are the plates he has employed,
 that the detail of the brighter parts has been completely burnt out,
 but a great deal of new found detail is brought to light.
     Here is another photograph of the same object by Professor
 Pickering, taken with a four lens objective of eight inches aperture
 and very short focus, and including a field of 5 degrees square.
 Exposure 82 min. This shows what can be done with such a com
 bination.
     In 1885 the brothers Henry, photographing the Pleiades on Novem
 ber 16th, discovered a new nebula, near the bright star Maia in the
 group. Here on the screen is a copy of the original negative by
•which the discovery was made. You observe the nebula like a filmy
projection from one of the stars.
    After the nebula had been discovered by photography it was found
to be visible in the great telescope of 30 inches aperture at Pulkowa.
But to discover is one thing, to see after discovery is another.
    Strangely enough this new nebula was really photographed a
fortnight before its discovery at Paris, by Professor Pickering at
Cambridge in America. In exhibiting the photograph to the National
Academy of Sciences five days before Henry's discovery, Professor
Pickering pointed out the "wing" attached to the star, but there was
only one plate shown, the impression was that the mark was due to a
defect in the gelatine film.
    Here, however, is another picture of the Pleiades taken at Cam-
bridge with the same instrument and an exposure of eighty-two
minutes, which shows nebulosity about more than one star of the
group.
    And here is a copy of a negative by Mr. Roberts, of Liverpool,
with an exposure of three hours. The star discs are of course large
and ill defined ; but the quantity of nebula, invisible to the eye in the
largest telescopes, is quite surprising.
    These photographs appear to prove conclusively that the nebula
and the stars in this group are one system ; the doctrine of chances
renders it almost an impossibility to suppose that such a symmetrical
arrangement of nebulous matter with respect to the stars could exist
by chance, if the stars were projected in front of a far distant back
ground of nebulous matter.
    Here is a photograph of the stars surrounding the celebrated
variable star rI Argus, taken at the Cape with the telescope of 9 inches
aperture, generously presented to me for such work by Mr. James
Nasmyth. The nebula surrounding this star is very faint compared
with the Orion nebula, and it seems to be deficient in actinic rays, and
besides, the telescope is intended for stellar photography by its long
focal length, and not for nebulae, which require a shorter proportional
focus—i. e. more intrinsically brilliant image.
    Still there is the nebula, and I believe this is the only existing
photograph of the object. The exposure was 2| hours, and yet
although the original negative has been enlarged four diameters the

170                           Mr. David Gill                    [June 3,
star discs remain well defined. The corresponding region of the sky
is less than the moon's apparent diameter, and of the many thousands
of stars visible on the photograph not a single one is visible to the
naked eye. The star r; Argus was in 1843 nearly the brightest star
in the heavens ; in fact, second only to Sirius. It is now between
the 7th and 8th magnitude.
     Here is a star-cluster in Argus. The star discs are not so sharply
defined, but the original negative has been much magnified to bring
out the star discs.
     Here is a photograph, also taken at the Cape, of the wonderful
star cluster ui Centauri. It is the finest globular cluster in the
heavens, and I do not know that I have ever seen the separation of
the central stars so distinctly with the eye as they are shown in this
photograph. Perhaps by photographing we shall learn what motions
occur in each cluster. This negative has been enlarged four dia
meters from the original.
     Here is a photograph of the well-known cluster in Hercules,
taken by Mr. Roberts, of Liverpool, and a still more wonderful one
by the Henrys, of Paris. They must be magnified more highly to
give any idea of their quality.
     When the objects are bright, such as bright double stars, or
planets, or the moon, we can enlarge the image produced by the
telescope, by aid of a secondary magnifier.
     Because of the greater size of the original pictures thus produced,
the granulation of the photographic film interferes to a less extent
with the detail of the picture. Of course, this advantage is pur
chased at the cost of a longer exposure, because the same amount of
light is spread over a larger area of the sensitive plate, and con
 sequently the same area of the film receives less intense light. With
 very bright objects, such as the sun, moon, and planets, this is of
 little consequence, and may be an advantage, as permitting more
 accurate regulation of the exposure.
     Here is a picture of the sun photographed by M. Janssen at
 Meudon, near Paris. The exposure is less than l/1000th of a second
 of time. And here is an enlarged photograph of the same spot,
 showing an amount of detail which no artist could convey by hand
 and eye, nor could he emulate the absolute accuracy of the photo
 graph.
      Here are some photographs of the planet Jupiter, taken at Paris,
 the original image being magnified 18 times.
      Here is another showing the remarkable red spot—you even have
 before your eyes evidence of the rotation of Jupiter on its axis by the
 change in the position of the spot during the same evening.
      This spot appeared in 1878 and measured about 80,000 miles in
 length by 7000 miles in breadth. It became of a deep red colour in
 1879, and for the three following years was a most striking feature
 in the planet. It almost faded entirely in 1883, but has again
 become nearly as bright as it was in 1882.

1887.]     on the Applications of Photography
    Miss Clerke tells the story most admirably
the last edition of her ' History of Astronomy,' to which work I
would refer those of my hearers in whom these beautiful photographs
may excite a sufficient interest.
    To enter fully into the matter would demand a lecture to itself—
and the minute hand of that inexorable clock warns me that I must
move on.
    Here are some photographs of Saturn, which illustrate the remark
able progress of celestial photography.
    Here are some photographs of double stars : one of these, a photo
graph of y Virginia, taken at Greenwich, is probably the finest
photograph of a double star in existence. The star discs measure
less than 1" in diameter.
    Last of all I come to the most recent revelations of the power of
photography as an aid to astronomy. Dr. Henry Draper, in 1872,
was the first to photograph the lines in the spectrum of a star, but his
admirable investigations were interrupted by death in 1882. In
1886, his widow placed in the hands of Professor Pickering, of
Harvard College Observatory, in America, not only an ample sum of
money for the purchase of costly apparatus, but also made a liberal
provision for carrying on the work of photographic spectroscopy as a
memorial to her husband. So noble a gift, and the execution of
so pious a purpose, could not have been placed in abler or more
active hands.
    Within the past few weeks we have received the first-fruits of tho
Henry Draper Memorial Fund.
    When I began preparation of this lecture, I cabled to Professor
Pickering a request for some glass copies of his original negatives.
He kindly complied, and they arrived this morning. Time only
permits me to show them rapidly, but those who remember Dr.
Huggins's lectures on stellar spectra in this theatre, will recognise
the enormous importance of such pictures as these.
    The ingenuity of the adopted methods, the extraordinary success
attained, the promise of rich harvest, exceeding our highest previous
expectations, which the results afford, are themes upon which one
could dilate for hours.
    Here we have the spectra of the distant stars whose actual discs
we can never hope to see, registering in these rhythmical lines the
story of their constitution and temperature, with an accuracy and
precision which not many years ago we should have been glad to
obtain in the records of the spectrum of our own sun.
    And this is not all ; not only have we such results for a few stars,
but we are promised " that the complete work will include a catalogue
of the spectra of all the stars of the 6th magnitude and brighter, a
more extensive catalogue of spectra of stars brighter than the 8th
magnitude, and a detailed study of the spectra of the bright stars."
These are Prof. Pickering's own words.
    What Prof. Pickering promises, we know from long experience,

172     Mr. D. Oill on the Applications of Photography, &c.     [June 3,
that he will perform. We may also well say with him, that " a field of
work and promise is open, and there seems to be an opportunity to
erect to the name of Dr. Henry Draper a memorial such as heretofore
no astronomer has received."
    There is in England wealth enongh and to spare. Many a rich
man dies puzzled how to dispose of his money ; and there is many a
living man who would gladly give for such an object if he know how
to do so. There is field enough in astronomy, and there are men
enough in England to do the work. Let us hope they will receive
aid such as Prof. Pickering has received ; and having done so, they
will give an equally good account of their stewardship.
    The miscellaneous applications of photography to astronomy offer
a field so full of promise, so certain of immediate reward to those who
are possessed of the necessary originality and the means to carry out
their ideas, that there is more hope of private enterprise in that
direction than in the more routine work of star-charting.
    But tempting as these fields are, brilliant and interesting as are
the discoveries to be found in them, there is in the work insti
tuted by the Paris Congress an element that cannot be overlooked
and which compels attention—it is this: the question of the lapse
of time. Every year which passes after that work has been carried
out, increases its value and importance ; every year that we neglect
in doing it will be a reproach to the astronomers of the day. Into
all the great problems which that work is destined to solve, the
element of time enters—and time lost now in such work can never be
recalled.
    Of the Congress itself I would say a few last words. Its pro
ceedings were characterised by an earnest spirit of work and entire
absence of international jealousy. Our reception by the French was
cordial and hospitable in the highest degree, the decisions of the
Congress were almost unanimous, and were marked by a moderation
and judgment which must render them acceptable to the responsible
authorities of the various Governments.
    Lastly, I would add that the good will which pervaded the
meetings, the general success of the Congress as a whole, were in no
email degree due to the genial influence of the single-hearted, earnest-
minded man who convened it—Admiral Mouchez.
                                                              [D. G.]

1887.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                           173
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, June 6, 1887.
  HENRY POLLOOK, Esq. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                John Mowlem Bart, Esq.
                 James Staats Forbes, Esq.
                Hugh Gordon, Esq. B.A. Oxon.
                 Douglas Hankey, Esq.
                 John Isaac Thornycroft, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      The following Address to the Queen was read and approved,
and authorised to be signed by His Grace The President on behalf of
the Members :—
To HBB MOST GBACIOTJS MAJESTY THE QUEEN, Patron of the Royal Institution
                                   of Great Britain.
MADAM,
         We, the President and Members of the Royal Institution of Great Britain,
in General Meeting assembled, humbly beg that your Majesty will be pleased to
accept this our tribute of homage and congratulation on the occasiou of the
Jubilee of the commencement of your Majesty's reign—a reign signalised by so
many blessings and distinguished for the encouragement and advancement of the
Sciences for the promotion of which this our Institution was founded.
     Further, it is our earnest desire and fervent prayer that your Majesty's reign
in health, happiness, and prosperity may be prolonged for many years to come—
a prayer echoed throughout the wide realms which own allegiance to your
Majesty's Sceptre.
      The PBESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. : —
      FBOU
 Government of Madras—Madras Meridian Circle Observations, 1862, 1863, 1864.
       4to. 1887.
 The French Government—Documents Inedits sur 1'Histoire de France :
   Comptes des Bailments du Roi. Par J. Guiffrey. Tome II. 4to. 1887.
   Lettres du Cardinal Mazarin. Par A. Cheruel. Tome IV. 4to. 1887.
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1886, Part 3. 8vo.
 Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarts ; Rendiconti. Vol. III.
       Fasc. 6, 7. 8vo. 1886-7.
 Agricultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XXIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1887.
 Antiquaries, Society of—Archseologia, Vol. L. Part 1. 4to. 1887.
 Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Vol. LIU. Part 2, No. 4; Vol. LV. Part 2,
       No. 4. 8vo. 1884-6.
   Proceedings, 1886, No. 10 ; 1887, No. 1. 8vo.
 Asiatic Society, Royal (China Branch)—Journal, Vol. XXI. Nos. 3,4. 8vo. 1886.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLV1I. No. 6. 8vo. 1887.
 Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. VIII. Part 5. 8vo. 1887.
 Batavia Observatory—Rainfall in the East Indian Archipelago, 1885. 8vo. 1886.
    Magnetical and Meteorological Observations, Vol. VI. Sup. and Vol. VII.
       fol. 1886.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1886-7, Nos. 14, 15. 4to.

174                         General Monthly Meeting.                       [June 6,
Chemical Society—Journal for May, 1887. 8vo.
Dawson, O. M. Esq. F.O.S. (the Author)—Note on the Occurrence of Jade in
       British Columbia. 8vo. 1887.
Dove, P. Edward, Etq. (the Author)—Public Rights in Navigable Rivers. 8vo.
       1887.
East India Association—Journal, Vol. XIX. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. 1887.
Editors—American Journal of Science for May, 1887. 8vo.
   Analyst for May, 1887. 8vo.
   Atheneum for May, 1887. 4to.
   Chemical News for May, 1887. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for May, 1887. 8vo.
   Engineer for May, 1887. fol.
   Engineering for May, 1887. fol.
   Horological Journal for May, 1887. 8vo.
   Industries for May, 1887. fol.
   Iron for May, 1887. 4to.
   Nature for May, 1887. 4to.
   Revue Soientiflque for May, 1887. 4to.
   Scientific News for May, 1887. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for May, 1887. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for May, 1887. 4to.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 737. 8vo. 1887.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. IX. No. 5. 8vo.
       1887.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 170. 8vo. 1887.
Gordon, Surgeon-General C. A. M.D. C.B. (the Author)—Inoculation for Rabies
      and Hydrophobia. 8vo. 1887.
Hospitals Association—Proceedings, Vol. III. 8vo. 1887.
.Itihitf Hopkins University—American Chemical Journal, Vol. IX. No. 2. 8vo. 1887.
   Studies in Historical and Political Science, Fifth Series, Nos. 5, 6. 8vo. 1887.
   University Circular, No. 57. 4to. 1887.
Madrid Royal Academy of Sciences—Memorias, Tome XI. 4to. 1887.
   Revista : Tome XXII. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1887.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 15. 8vo. 1887.
   Catalogue of Library, 1885, Supplement V. 8vo. 1887.
Meteorological Office—Hourly Readings, 1884, Part 3. 4to. 1886-7.
National Life-boat Institution, Royal—Annual Report, 1887. 8vo.
Norwegian North Atlantic Expedition, Editorial Committee—Danielssen, D. C.
      Alcyonida. fol. Christiania, 1887.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, May, 1887. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, New Scries, Vol. XI. No. 7. 8vo. 1887.
Preusfische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Sitzungsberichte I.-XVIIL 8vo. 1887.
Richardson. B. W. M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—The Asclepiad, Vol. IV. No. 14.
       8vo. 1887.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 253. 8vp. 1887.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—PhUoIogisoh-historische Classe: Abhandlnngen,
       Band X. No. 3. 4to. 1887.
   Berichte, 1886, No. 2. 8vo. 1887.
Seismological Society of Japan—Transactions, Vol. X. 8vo. 1887.
Society of Arts—Journal, May, 1887. 8vo.
St. Pftersbourg, Acade~mie des Sciences—Memoires, Tome XXXIV. NOs. 12, 13 ;
       Tome XXXV. No. 1. 4to. 1886-7.
Telegraph Engineers, Society of—Journal, No. 66. 8vo. 1887.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 138. 8vo. 1887.
University of London—Calendar, 1887. 8vo.
Upsal University—Bulletin Mensuel, Vol. XVIII. 1886. 8vo. 1886-7.
Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfteisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1887:
       Heft 4. 4to.
 Victoria Institute— Journal, No. 80. 8vo. 1887.

1887.] Mr. T. Hodgkin on Aquileia, the Precursor of Venice.           175
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, June 10, 1887.
  HENUY POLLOCK, Esq. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                    THOMAS HODGKIN, Esq. D.C.L.
                   Aquileia, the Precursor of Venice.
AQUILEI A, or Aglar, is now a little village, or rather a cluster of little
villages, at the head of the Adriatic, just within the Austrian frontier,
and with a population of about 2000. But it was at the time of the
Christian era one of the chief cities of the Empire, covering an area
of not less than 16 square miles, and with a population which cannot
have been less than 100,000, and may have greatly exceeded that
figure.
    It was founded as a Roman colony 181 B.C., in order to keep the
Gaulish tribes upon the north-east frontier of Italy in check and to
prevent the danger of an alliance between them and the hostile king
of Macedonia. The three Commissioners (Triumviri) for the settle
ment of the colony were Publius Scipio Nasica, Caius Flaminius, and
Lucius Manlius Acidinus. The territory allotted to the new Colonia
was 180 square miles in extent and it was occupied by 3000 foot-
soldiers and some cavalry whose numbers are not stated. The place
chosen for the city was about seven miles from the sea, on the banks
of the river Natiso, which has, however, since changed its course and
does not now flow near to the ruins of the city.
    The name of the new city was derived either from the north wind
(Aquilo), or according to another account, from an eagle, which on
the day of the inauguration of the colony was seen suddenly to fly
past the right hand of the statue of Jupiter, a most auspicious omen.
    Somewhere about fifty years from the foundation of the colony its
prosperity was enormously increased by the discovery of gold mines
in the country of the Taurisci, a short distance to the north of it.
Aquileia may thus 1m considered as, in a sense, the MeIbourne of the
Roman State. Seated too in the centre of a vast net-work of roads,
 she was admirably adapted to be the entrepot of the commerce of
Italy and Illyricum, of the Adriatic, and the rivers which flow into
the Danube. On the west she was connected with Verona and Padua.
 On the north the two passes of the Pontebba and the Predil com
municated with the Tyrol and Carinthia. Eastward the great roads
to Laybach and to Trieste went forth to the long valley of the Save
and the palace-bordered peninsula of Istria.
    Aquileia was honoured in the year 11 B.C. by a visit from the

176                        Mr. Thomas Hodgltin                 [June 10,
Emperor Augustus. His step-eons were waging war in the still
half-civilised province of Pannonia, and the Emperor took up his
head-quarters in the great city by the Natiso in order to guard their
lines of communication and quicken the supply of provisions and
munitions of war to their legions. He was accompanied by his wife
Livia, who seems to have been extremely partial to this part of Italy,
and who attributed her long life to her habitual use of the full-bodied
"Pucine" wine which was produced from the vineyard of the
Timavus.
     At this visit of Augustus to Aquileia he was met by Herod the
Great, who desired to obtain the Imperial sanction to the execution
of Alexander and Aristobulus, his sons by the Asmodean princess
Mariamne. They defended themselves, however, successfully, from
the charge of conspiring against their father's life, and the domestic
feud was for a time, but only for a time, composed by the influence of
Augustus.
    Under the Empire, Aquileia was chiefly famous for the number of
sieges which it underwent, and (until the last of the series was
reached) which it successfully resisted. The Marcomanni were
repulsed from before its walls about the year 167. Maximin, the
barbarian Emperor of Rome, who had been deposed by the Senate,
blockaded the city for some time, but was slain by his mutinous
soldiers (~:,S) before he had succeeded in its capture. During this
siege the ladies of Aquileia cut oil' their hair in order to supply the
deficient stores of ropes for working the military engines. Their
patriotism was commemorated after the close of the siege by the
dedication of a temple " to the bald-headed Venus."
    In 361, Julian besieged the city, which was defended by the
troops of Constantius. The death of the latter emperor, which
occurred while the siege was still pending, ended the war.
     In 388, Theodosius pursued his defeated rival Maximns to the
gates of Aquileia. The city was practically undefended, and Maxi-
n nis, dragged forth to the camp of the conqueror at the third milestone
from the city, was there put to death.
     Lastly, . in the year 452, Attila, with his terrible horde of Huns,
dragging the chief Teutonic nations of Europe in their train, crossed
the Julian Alps, and made his appearance before Aquileia. The
inhabitants resisted with the energy of despair, and Attila, after a
long blockade, was about to abandon the siege, when (according to
a well-known legend) he looked up and saw the storks preparing to
abandon the doomed city. Skilfully turning the natural omen to
account, he rallied his soldiers for another and a desperate assault,
which was successful. In his barbarous fury at the tenacity of the
defence he put all the inhabitants, men, women, and children, to the
sword, and then gave their city to the flames. According to a local
legend, a great mound at the neighbouring city of Udine was raised
by the Huns in order that their king might from the top of it the
better behold the burning of Aquileia.

1887.]            on Aquileia, the Precursor of Venice.              177
     The barbarous destruction of Aquileia was the cause of the
foundation of Venice. From Ooncordia, Altinnm, Patavium, and all
the towns and villages along the Adriatic shore the inhabitants fled
in panic to the lugunes, and there between sea and sky, upon the little
islands which cluster round the Rialto, they founded their new .settle
ment which was one day to
                               " hold the gorgeous east in fee,
                     And be the safeguard of the west."
     Aquileia never regained either her commercial or political import
ance. Ecclesiastically, however, she was still held in honour, and
her Patriarch was for centuries one of the most powerful spiritual
rulers in the north of Italy. A kind of rival patriarchate was
indeed established at Grado on the sea coast, under the protection of
the Byzantine Emperors, while the Lombards on the mainland
protected the Patriarch of Aquileia, but in the end Aquileia prevailed.
The cathedral of Aquileia, which was raised in the tenth century, is a
noble building in the Romanesque style, with some classical columns,
probably taken from a heathen temple, with a grouping of seats for
bishops and presbyters round the Patriarch, something like that
which is seen at Torcello, with a crypt in which is the tomb of St.
Hermagoras, the first bishop of Aquileia and alleged contemporary of
 the Apostles, and with a high gable-crowned campanile detached from
 the main body of the church.
     The village, or to speak more accurately, the three villages which
 lurk among the ruins of Aquileia, are of a mean and squalid appear
 ance, and as was said at the beginning of this paper, contain probably
 little more than a hundredth of the population of the ancient city.
                                                                [T.H.]
      VOL. XII. (No. 81.)

 178                        General Monthly Meeting.                       [July 4,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, July 4, 1887.
  HBNBY POLLOCK, Esq. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                     Henry Davey, Esq.
                     Harry Robert Graham, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The following Letter was read :—
„ «,                                                   " WHITEHALL, 28tA June, l881.
     "I have had the Honor to lay before The Queen the loyal and dutiful
"Address of the President and Members of the Royal Institution of Great
"Britain on the occasion of Her Majesty attaining the Fiftieth Year of Her
" Reign ;—And I have to inform you that Her Majesty was pleased to receive
" the same very graciously.
                                " I have the Honor to be, Sir,
                                             " Your obedient Servant,
                                                            "HENRY MATTHEWS.
" To the HON. SECRETARY OF THB
       " ROYAL INSTITUTION OP GREAT BRITAIN."
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the fol
lowing Donation to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
Research :—
                           Ludwig Mwd, Esq. £100.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The Governor-General of India—Geological Survey of India : Records, Vol. XX.
     Part 2. 8vo. 1887.
TJie Secretary of State for India— Great Trigonometrical Survey of India,
     Vol. IV. A. 4to. 1886.
Accadtmia dei Lincei, ReaU, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. Vol. III.
     Fasc. 8. 8vo. 1887.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Memoirs, Vol. XI. Part 4, No. 5. 4to.
     1886.
   Proceedings, Vol. XXII. Part 1. 8vo. 1887.
American Associationfor the Advancement of Science—Proceedings, Vols. XXXIV.
     XXXV. 8vo. 1880-7.
Asiatic Society, Royal (Bombay Branch)—Journal, Vol. XVIII. Extra Number,
     1884-6. 8vo. 1887.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLVII. No. 7. 8vo. 1887.
Australian Museum— Report for 1886, Supplement, fol. 1887.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. VIII. Part 6. 8vo. 1887.
Bennett's Intelligence Association—Intelligence Quarterly for London and Suburbs,
     No. 1. 4to. 1887.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1886-7, No. 16. 4to.

1887.]                      General MonMy Meeting.                        179
British Association for the Advancement of Science—Report, 1886, Birmingham.
     8vo. 1887.
Chemical Society—Journal for June, 1887. 8vo.
Chief Signal Officer, U.S. Army—Annual Report for 1885, Parts 1 and 2. 8vo.
     1885.
Chile, Officina Central Meteorolojica—Anuario, 1886, No. 5. 8vo. 1887.
Churchill, Meei™. J. and A. (the Publishers)—Journal of Laryngology and
     Rhinology, No. 6. 8vo. 1887.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. &e. M.R.I, (the Editor}—Journal of the Royal
     Microscopical Society, 1887, Part 3. 8vo.
Dax, Societe de Borda—Bulletin, 2° Serie, Douzieme Annee, Trimestre 2". 8vo.
     1887.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Jane, 1887. 8vo.
   Analyst for June, 1887. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for June, 1887. 4to.
   Chemical News for June, 1887. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for June, 1887. 8vo.
   Engineer for June, 1887. fol.
   Engineering for June, 1887. fol.
   Horologieal Journal for June, 1887. 8vo.
   Industries for June, 1887. fol.
   Iron for June, 1887. 4to.
   Murray's Magazine for June, 1887. 8vo.
   Nature for June, 1887. 4to.
   Revue Scientifique for June, 1887. 4to.
   Scientific News for June, 1887. 4to.
    Telegraphic Journal for June, 1887. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for June, 1887. 4to.
 Engineering, Editor of—Cable or Rope Traction. By J. B. Smith. 4to. 1887.
 Florence, Biblioteca ffazionale Centrale—Bolletino, Num. 84, 35. 8vo. 1887.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 738. 8vo. 1887.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. IX. No. 6. 8vo.
      1887.
 Harlem, Societe Hollandaise des SciencetrAnihivea Neerlandaises, Tome XXI.
      Liv. 5. 8TO. 1887.
   Natuurkundige Verhandelingen, 3de Verz, Deel IV. 4de Stuk. 4to. 1887.
 Johns Hopkins University —American Journal of Philology, Vol. VIII. No. 1.
      8vo. 1887.
 Minixtry of Public Works, Home—Giornale del Genio Civile, Serie Quinta,
      Vol. I. No. 3. 8vo. And Disegni. fol. 1887.
 Norwegixchen Commission der Europaischen Gradmessung—Goodatische Arbeiten,
      Heft 5. 4to. 1887.
    Vandstandsobservationer. Heft 4. 4to. 1887.
 Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XIX. No. 7. New
      Series. 8vo. 1887.
 Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, June, 1887. 8TO.
 Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XI. No. 8. 8vo. 1887.
 Physical Society of London—Proceedings, Vol. VIII. Part 4. 8vo. 1887.
 Royal Society of London—Proceedings, NOs. 254, 255. 8vo. 1887.
 Royal Dublin Society—Transactions, Vol. III. Nos. 11-13. 4to. 1886-7.
    Proceedings, Vol. V. Parts 3-6. 8vo. 1886-7.
 St. Petersbourg, Academie Imperiale des Sciences—Bulletin, Tome XXXI. No. 4.
      4to. 1887.
 Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Philologisch-historische Classe : Abhandlun-
      gen, Band X. No. 4. 8vo. 1887.
    Mathematisch-physische Classe : Abhandlungen, Band XIII. NOs. 8, 9. 8vo.
      1887.
 Smithsonian Institution—Fourth Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, 1882-3.
      4to. 1886.

180                        General Monthly Meeting.                  [July 4,
Society of Arts—Journal, Jane, 1887. 8vo.
Tasmania, Royal Society of—Papers and Proceedings for 1886. 8vo. 1887.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 139. 8vo. 1887.
United States Geological Survey—Monograph X. 4to. 1886.
Vereins sur Beforderung det Gevxrbfleitses in Preussen—Verhandlnngen, 1887:
     HeftS. 4to.
Victoria Institute—Journal of Transactions, No. 81. 8vo. 1887.
Yale University, New Haven, U.S.—Transactions of the Astronomical Observatory,
     Vol. I. Part 1. 4to. 1887.
Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1887, Part 1. 8vo.

 1887.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                             181
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, November 7, 1887.
 WABBEN DE LA RUB, Esq. D.O.L. F.R.S. Manager and Vice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
                            Edmund Gosse, Esq. M.A.
                            F. H. Lewis, Esq.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Managers reported that they had admitted Mr. Herbert
 Taylor as an Annual Subscriber of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Mr.
 W. Resbury Few for his present of a large Photograph of the
 Nebulse of Orion, the property of his Lite father, Mr. Charles
 Few, M.E.L
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Mr.
William Anderson, M.R.I. for his present of a Double Acting High
Vacuum Pump.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to the Rev.
John Macnaught, M.R.I, for his present of £50 for improvements in
the Lecture Theatre.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
The Lords of the A dmirolty—Greenwich Observations for 1885. 4to. 1887.
   Greenwich Spectroscopic and Photographic Results, 1885. !to. 1887.
   Numerical Lunar Theory. By Sir G. B. Airy. 4to. 1886.
   Report on Observations of the Transit of Venus, 1882. fol. 1887.
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1887, Part 1. 8vo.
Accademia dei Lined, Reale, Roma—Atti della Classe di Scienze Morali, Storiche
     e Filologiohe—Serie 4«, Vol. II. Parte 2°. 4to. 1886-7.
   Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. Vol. III. 1° Semestre, Fasc. 10-13 ; 2" Semestre,
     Fasc. 1, 2, 3. 8vo. 1887.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 125. 8vo. 1887.
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. XI. No. 3. 8vo. 1887.
Ashburner, diaries A. Esq. (the Author)—The Geologic Distribution of Natural
     Gas in the United States. 8vo. 1886.
  The Geologic Relations of the Nantichoke Disaster. 8vo. 1887.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XIX. Part 4. 8vo. 1887.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Vol. LVI. Part 1. No. 1. 8vo. 1887.
  Proceedings, 1887, Nos. 2-5. 8vo.
Asiatic Society, Royal (China Branch)—Journal, Vol. XXI. Nos. 5, 6. 8vo. 1886.
Astronomical Society, Uoyal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLVII. No. 8. 8vo. 1887.

182                          Oenercd Monthly Meeting.                   [Nov. 7,
Australian Museum—Eeport for 1887. fol. 1887.
Baker, Benjamin, Esq. M. Inst. C.E. M.R.I, (the Author)—Bridging the Firth of
     Forth. With Illustrations. [Lecture delivered at the Royal Institution.]
     4to. 1887.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. VIII. Part 7. 8vo. 1887.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Abhandlungen, Band XVI. Abtheilung 1. 4to.
      1887.
  Sitzungsberichte, 1886, Heft 1-3; 1887, Heft 1; Inhaltaverzeiclmiss, 1871-85.
     8vo. 1886-7.
  Gedachtnisrede auf J. von Fraunhofer. 4to. 1887.
Belgique, Academic dee Sciences, &c.—Me'moires, Tome XLVI. 4to. 1886.
  Mcmoires Couronnees, Tomes XLVII. XLVIH. 4to. 1886. Tomes XXXVI.
     XXXVIII. XXXIX. 8vo. 1886.
   Bulletins, 3* Serie, Tomes IX.-XIII. 8vo. 1885-7.
  Annuaires, 1886 and 1887. 16to.
  Notices Biographiques, &c. 1886. 16to. 1887.
  Catalogue des Livres de la Hibliotheque, Partie 1, 2. 8vo. 1881-7.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1886-7, Nos. 17, 18; 1887-8.
     No. 1. 4to.
  Kalendar, 1887-8. 8vo.
Brymner, Douglas, Esq. (Archivist)—Report on Canadian Archives, 1886. 8vo.
      1887.
Canada Meteorological Service—Report, 1884. 8vo. 1887.
Chemical Society—Journal for July-Oet. 1887. 8vo.
Churchill, Messrs. J. and A. (the Publishers)—Journal of Laryngology and
     Rhinology, Nos. 7-10. 8vo. 1887.
City of London College—Calendar, 1887-8. 8vo. 1887.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vols. LXXXIX, XC. 8vo.
      1886-7.
  List of Members. 8vo. 1887.
Clinical Society— Transactions, Vol. XX. 8vo. 1887.
Cornwall Polytechnic Society, Royal—Annual Ropnrt, 1886. 8vo. 1887.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. ttc. M.R.I, (the Editor) —Journal of the Royal
     Microscopical Societv, 1887, Parts 4, 5. 8vo.
Dax, Sociite" de Borda—Bulletin, 2e Serie, Douzieme Annee, Trimcstre 3*. 8vo.
     1887.
East India Association—Journal, Vol. XIX. Nos. 5, 6, 7. 8vo. 1887.
Editors—American Journal of Science for July-Oct. 1887. 8vo.
  Analyst for July-Oct. 1887. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for July-Oct. 1887. 4to.
   Chemical News for July-Oct. 1887. 4to.
  Chemist and Druggist for July-Oct. 1887. 8vo.
   Engineer for July-Oct. 1887. fol.
  Engineering for July-Oct. 1887- fol.
  Horological Journal for July-Oct. 1887. 8vo.
   Industries for July-Oct. 1887. fol.
   Iron for July-Oct. 1887. 4to.
   Murray's Magazine for July-Oct. 1887. 8vo.
  Nature for July-Oct. 1887. 4to.
   Revue Scientifique for July-Oct. 1887. 4to.
   Scientific News for July-Oct. 1887. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for July-Oct. 1887. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for July-Oct. 1887. 4to.
" Engineering," Editor of—The Metallurgy of Silver, Gold, and Mercury in the
      United States. By T. Egleston. Vol. I. 8vo. 1887.
Florence, Biblioteca Nationale Centrale—Bolletino, Num. 36-42. 8vo. 1887.
   Codici Ptilatini, Vol. I. Fasc. 6. 8vo. 1887.
Foreign Office—Catalogue of Printed Books in the Library, 31 Dec. 1885. 4to.
      1887.

1887.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                           183
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 739-742. 8vo. 1887.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. IX. Nos. 7-10. 8vo.
     1887.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, Band XXXVII. Heft 1. 8vo.
     1887.
  Verhandlungen, 1887, Nos. 2-8. 8vo. 1887.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 171. 8vo. 1887.
Georgofili, Reale Academia—Aiti, Vol. IX. Sup. ; Vol. X. Disp. 1, 2. 8vo. 1886-7.
Harlem, Societe Hollandaise des Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Tome XXII.
     Liv. 1. 8vo. 1887.
Iron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1887, No. 1. 8vo.
Johns Hopkins University—American Journal of Philology, Vol. VIII. No. 2.
     8vo. 1887.
   American Chemical Journal, Vol. IX. Nos. 3, 4, 5. 8vo. 1887.
   Studies in Historical and Political Science, Fifth Series, Nos. 8, 9. 8vo. 1887.
   University Circular, NOs. 58, 59. 4to. 1887.
Lea, M. Carey, Esq. (the Author)—Photochemistry of the Silver Haloids. 8vo.
     1887.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 117, 129, 149, 158, 159. 8vo. 1887.
   Transactions, Zoology Vol. IV. Parts I and 2 ; Botany Vol. II. Parts 9-14.
     4to. 1886-7.
   Proceedings, Nov. 1883 to June 1887. 8vo. 1886-7.
Lisbon, Royal Academy of Sciences—Memorias, Nova Serie, Tomo V. Parte 2 ;
     Tomo VI. Parte 1. 4to. 1882-5.
   Jornal, Num. XXX.-XLIV. 8vo. 1881-7.
   Curso de Silviculture, Tomo I. 8vo. 1886.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIX. Parts 8-10. 8vo. 1887.
Manila, Vniversidad de Sto. Tomas—Discurso por R. P. F. R. Velazquez y Conde.
     4to. 1887.
Maryland Medical and Chirurgical Faculty—Transactions, 1887. 8vo.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution— Proceedings, 1887, No. 2. 8vo.
Medital and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 16. 8vo. 1887.
  Transactions, Vol. LXX. 8vo. 1887.
Meteorological Office—Hourly Headings, 1884, Part 4. 4to. 1887.
  Monthly Weather Report for Dec. 1886. 4to.
  Quarterly Weather Reports, 1878, Part 4 ; 1879, Part 1. 4to. 1887.
  Weekly Weather Reports, Vol. IV, Nos. 12-33. 4to. 1887.
Meteorological Society, Royal—Quarterly Journal, Nos. 62, 63. 8vo. 1887.
  Meteorological Record, Nos. 24-26. 8vo. 1887.
   Hints to Meteorological Observers. By W. Marriott. 8vo. 1887.
Ministry of Public Works, Rorne —Giornale del Genio Civile, Serie Quinta,
     VoL I. Nos. 4-8. 8vo. And Disegni. fol. 1887.
National Fish Culture Association—Journal, Vol. I. No. 3. 4to. 1887.
New South Wales Government—Year Book of New South Wales, 1887. 8vo.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
     Vol. XXXVI. Parts 3, 4. 8vo. 1887.
Numismatic. Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1887, Parts 1, 2. 8vo. 1887.
Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XIX. No. 8. New
     Series. 8vo. 1887.
Pern/, Rev. S. J. F.R.S. (the Author)—Results of Meteorological and Magnetical
     Observations, 1886. 12mo. 1887.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, July-Oct. 1887. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XI. No. 9 ; Vol. XII. No. 1. 8vo. 1887.
Preuxsische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Sitzungsberichte XIX.-XXXIX. 8vn.
     1887.
Radelife Observatory—Radeliffe Observations for 1884. 8vo. 1887.
Richardson, B. W. M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—The Asclepiad, Vol. IV. No. 15.
     8vo. 1887.
Rio de Janeiro Observatory—Reviate, Nos. 5, 6, 8, 9. 8vo. 1887.

184                     General Monthly Meeting.                [Nov. 7, 1887.
Royal College of Surgeons of England—Calendar, 1887. 8vo.
Royal Society of Canada—Proceedings and Transactions, Vol. IV. 4to. 1887.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 256, 257, 258. 8vo. 1887.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Philologisch-hifltorische Classe: Abnandlun-
     gen, Band X. No. 5. 8vo. 1887.
   Berichte, 1887, Nos. 1-3. 8vo. 1887.
   Mathematisch-physische Classe: Abbandlungen, Band XIV. Nos. 1-4. 8vo.
     1887.
Smith, Basil Woodd, Esq. N.R.I.—Middlesex County Records, Vol. II. Edited
     by J. C. Jeaffreson. 8vo. 1887.
Smithsonian Institution—Scientific Writings of Joseph Henry. 2 vols. 4to. 1886.
   A mm. 1 1 Report for 1885, Part 1. 8vo. 1886.
   Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vols. XXVIII. XXIX. XXX. 8vo.
      1887.
Society of Arts—Journal, July-Oct. 1887. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. L. Part 3. 8vo. 1887.
 Telegraph Engineers, Society of—Journal, No. 67. 8vo. 1887.
 Tidy, Charles ifeymott, Esq. M.B. F.C.S. M.R.I. (the Author)—Handbook of
      Modern Chemistry. Inorganic and Organic. 2nd ed. 8vo. 1887.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 140. 8vo. 1887.
 United States Geological Surrey—Bulletins, NOs. 34-39. 8vo. 1886-7.
 Venezuela, Consul for— Correspondence between the Venezuelan Government and
      H.B.M.'s Government. fol. 1887.
 Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preusen—Verhandlungen, 1887:
      Heft 6, 7. 4to.
 Victoria Institute—Journal of Transactions, No. 82. 8vo. 1887.
 Wagner Free Institute of Science, Philadelphia—Transactions, Vol. I. 8vo. 1887.
 Yorkshire Archaeological and Topographical Association—Journal, Part 38. 8vo.
      1887.
 Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1887, Parts 2, 3. 8vo.

                                    >
                                        --
                                         OP THF.
                                     fj^
                         finsrautton of iTrteat           Britain.
                      GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, December 5, 1887.
       WABBEN DE LA RUE, Esq. M.A. D.O.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
              Victor Horsloy, Esq. F.E.S. F.R.C.S.
               Mrs. Victor Horsley,
              George Lindsay Johnson, Esq. M.B. M.A. F.R.C.S.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
       The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Sir HENRY
 DOTJLTON, M.R.I, for his present of Two " Doulton " Fireplaces.
      The following Lecture Arrangements were announced : —
     SIB ROBERT STAWELL BALL, LL.D. F.R.S. Royal Astronomer of Ireland. —
 Six Lectures (adapted to a Juvenile Auditory) on ASTRONOMY : The Sun,
 Moon, Planets, Comets, and Stars. On Deo. 27 (Tuesday), Deo. 29, 31, 1887:
  Jan. 3, 5, 7, 1888.
     GEOBOE JOHN ROMANES, Esq. M.A. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Ten Lectures,
 " BEFORE ANT AFTEB DABWIN." On Tuesdays, Jan. 17 to March 20.
     HUBERT HEBKOMER, Esq. M.A. A.R.A. Slade Professor of Fine Art in the
 University of Oxford.—Three Lectures on Thursdays, Jan. 19, THE WALKER
 SCHOOL ; Jan. 26, MY VISITS TO AMERICA ; Feb. 2, ART EDUCATION.
     0. HUBEBT H. PARRY, Esq. M.A. Professor of Musical History and Com
 position at the Royal College of Music.—Four Lectures on EABLY SECULAR
 CHOBAL Music, from the Thirteenth Century till the beginning of the Seventeenth.
 (With Illustrations.) On Thursdays, Feb. 9, 16, 23, March 1.
     THE RET. W. H. DALLINGER, LL.D. F.R.S.—Three Lectures on MICROSCOPICAL
 WORK -WITH RECENT LENSES ON THE LEAST AND SIMPLEST FORMS OF Line.            On
 Thursdaye, March 8, 15, 22.
     THE RIGHT HON. LORD RAYLEIOH, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Seven
 Lectures on EXPERIMENTAL OPTICS (Illustrated by Electric Light). On
Saturdays, Jan. 21 to March 3.
     WILLIAM ARCHER, Esq.—Three Lectures on THE MODERN DRAMA : French,
Scandinavian, and English. On Saturdays, March 10, 17, 24.
      THE PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      FROM
The Governor-General of India—Geological Survey of India : Records, Vol. XX.
      Parts. 8vo. 1887.
The New Zealand Government—Results of a Census of the Colony of New Zealand,
      28 March, 1886. foL 1887.
Accademia dei Lineei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendioonti. Vol. III.
      2° Semestre, Fasc. 4, 5. 8vo. 1887.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Second Series, Vol. XXIII.
      Part 2. 8vo. 1887.
Antiquaries, Society of—Archseologia, VoL L. Part 2. 4to. 1887.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLVII. No. 9. 8vo. 1887.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. VIII. Part 8. 8vo. 1887.
     VOL. XII.        (No. 82.)                                        o

186                          General Monthly Meeting.                        [Dec. 5,
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1887-8, NOs. 2, 3. 4to.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. VI. Part 2. 8vo. 1887.
Chemical Society—Journal for November, lf<87. 8vo.
Churchill, Messrs. J. and A. (the Publisltere)—Journal of Laryngology and
      Rhinology, No. 11. 8vo. 1887.
Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Science, Literature, and Art —
       Report and Transaction!), Vol. XIX. 8vo. 1887.
   The Devonshire Domesday, Part 4. 8vo. 1887.
Editors—American Journal of Science for November, 1 887. 4to.
   Analyst for November, 1887. 8To.
   Architects' Register. 8vo. 1887.
   Athenaeum for November, 1887. 4to.
   Chemical News for November, 1887. 4to.
    Chemist and Druggist for November, 1887. 8vo.
    Engineer for November, 1887. fol.
   Engineering for November, 1887. fol.
    Horological Journal for November, 1887. 8vo.
    Industries for November, 1887. fol.
    Iron for November, 1887. 4to.
   Murray's Magazine for November, 1887. 8vo.
    Nature for November, 1887. 4to.
    Revue Scientifique for November, 1887. 4to.
    Scientific News for November, 1887. 4to.
    Telegraphic Journal for November, 1887. 8vo.
    Zoophilist for November, 1887. 4to.
Florence, Eiblioteca Nazionale Centrale—Bolletino, Num. 44, 45. 8vo. 1887.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 743. 8vo. 1887.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Scries, Vol. IX. No. 11. 8vo. 1887.
Glasgow Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XVIII. 8vo. 1887.
Historical Society, Royal—England and Napoleon in 1803: Despatches of Lord
       Whitworth and others. Edited by Oscar Browning. 8vo. 1887.
Lee, Henry, Esq. M.R.I, (the Anthor)—On the Tapetum Lucidum and the Func
       tion of the Fourth Pair of Nerves. 8vo. 1887.
Madras Government Central Museum—Report, 1886-7. fol.
Meteorological Office—Hourly Readings, 1885, Part 1. 4to.
    Quarterly Weather Report, 1879, Part 2. 4to.
 Middlesex Natural History and Science Society—Transactions, 1886-7. 8vo. 1887.
Ministry of Public Works, Home —Giornale del Genio Civile, Serie Quinta,
       Vol. I. Nos. 9, 10. 8vo. And Disegni. fol. 1887.
Pharmaceuticul Society of Great Britain—Journal, November, 1887. 8vo.
Radeliffe Liltrary, Oxford—Catalogue of the Transactions of Societies, Periodicals,
       and Memoirs. 4th Ed. 8vo. 1887.
Richardson. B. W. M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—The Asclepiad, Vol. IV. No. 16.
       8vo. 1887.
 Rio de Janeiro Observatory—Revista, No. 10. 8vo. 1887.
 St. Petersbourg, Acailemie Impfriaie det Sciences—Memoires, Tome XXXV.
       Nos. 2, 3. 4to. 1887.
 Saxon Society of Sciences, Hoydl—Philologisch-historische Classe : Abhandlun-
       gen, Band X. No. 6. 8vo. 1887.
Socitty of Arts—Journal, November. 1887. 8vo.
 Teylfr Museum, Haarlem—Archives Ser. II. Vol. III. I" Partie. 4to. 1887.
    Catalogue de In Bibliothcque, Liv. 5, 6. 4to. 1886.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 141. 8vo. 1887.
    Index to Journal, Vols. XXI.-XXX. 8vo. 1887.
    lirief History of the Institution. By Capt. B. Burgess. 8vo. 1887.
 United States Geological Survey—First Annual Report. 4to. 1880.
 V}isal, Royal Society of Sciences -Nova Acta, Ser. III. Vol. XIII. Fasc. 2. 4to. 1887.
  VKreins zur Beforderung des (lewerbjteisses in Preuesen—Verhandlungen, 1887 :
       Heft 8. 4to.

1887.]          Lord ify^igji.oq.fii/rqctiffii of Sound.            187
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, January 20, 1888.
    WILLIAM HUGGINS, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. P.R.8. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
The Right Hon. LORD RATLEIOH, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.8. M.R.I.
                     PROFESSOR OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHT, K.I.
                           Diffraction of Sound.
THE interest of the subject which I propose to bring before you this
evening turns principally upon the connection or analogy between
light and sound. It has been known for a very long time that sound
is a vibration ; and every one here knows that light is a vibration
also. The last piece of knowledge, however, was not arrived at so
easily as the first; and one of the difficulties which retarded the
acceptance of the view that light is a vibration was that in some
respects the analogy between light and sound seemed to be less
perfect than it should be. At the present time many of the students
at our schools and universities can tell glibly all about it ; yet this
difficulty is one not to be despised, for it exercised a determining
influence over the great mind of Newton. Newton, it would seem,
definitely rejected the wave theory of light on the ground that
according to such a theory light would turn round the corners of
obstacles, and so abolish shadows, in the way that sound is generally
supposed to do. The fact that this difficulty seemed to Newton to be
insuperable is, from the point of view of the advancement of science,
very encouraging. The difficulty which stopped Newton two cen
turies ago is no difficulty now. It is well known that the question
depends upon the relative wave-lengths in the two cases. Light-
shadows are sharp under ordinary circumstances, because the wave
 length of light is so small : sound-shadows are usually of a diffused
character, because the wave-leugth of sound is so great. The gap
 between the two is enormous. I need hardly remind you that the
 wave-length of C in the middle of the musical scale is about 4 feet.
 The wave-length of the light with which we are usually concerned,
 the light towards the middle of the spectrum, is about the forty-
 thousandth of an inch. The result is that an obstacle which is
 immensely large for light may be very small for sound, and will
 therefore behave in a different manner,
     That light-shadows are sharp is a familiar fact, but as I can prove
 it in a moment I will do so. We have here light from the electric
arc thrown on the screen ; and if I hold up my hand thus we have a
 sharp shadow at any moderate distance, which shadow can be made
                                                              o 2

188                          Lord Rayleigl                     [Jan. 20,
sharper still by diminishing the source of light. Sound-shadows, as
I have said, are not often sharp ; but I believe that they are sharper
than is usually supposed, the reason being that when we pass into a
sound-shadow—when, for example, wo pass into the shade of a large
obstacle, such as a building—it requires some little time to effect the
transition, and the consequence is that we cannot make a very ready
comparison between the intensity of the sound before we enter and its
diminution afterwards. When the comparison is made under more
favourable conditions, the result is often better than would have been
expected. It is, of course, impossible to perform experiments with
such obstacles before an audience, and the shadows which I propose
to show you to-night are on a much smaller scale. I shall take
advantage of the sensitiveness of a flame such as Professor Tyndall
has often used hero—a flame sensitive to the waves produced by notes
so exceedingly high as to be inaudible to the human ear. In fact,
all the sounds with which I shall deal to-night will be inaudible to
the audience. I hope that no quibbler will object that they are there
fore not sounds : they are in every respect analogous to the vibrations
which produce the ordinary sensations of hearing.
     I will now start the sensitive flame. We must adjust it to a
 reasonable degree of sensitiveness. I need scarcely explain the
 mechanism of these flames, which you know are fed from a special
 gasholder supplying gas at a high pressure. When the pressure is
 too high, the flame flares on its own account (as this one is doing
 now), independently of external sound. When the pressure is some
 what diminished, but not too much so—when the flame " stands on
 the brink of the precipice," were, I think, Tyndal1's words—the
 sound pushes it over, and causes it to flare ; whereas, in the absence
 of such sound, it would remain erect and unaffected. Now, I believe,
 the flame is flaring under the action of a very high note that I am
 producing here. That can be tested in a moment by stopping the
 sound, and seeing whether the flame recovers or not. It recovers now.
 What I want to show you, however, is that the sound shadows may
 be very sharp. I will put my hand between the flame and the source
 of sound, and you will see the difference. The flame is at present
 flaring ; if I put my hand here, the flame recovers. When the adjust
 ment is correct, my hand is a sufficient obstacle to throw a most
 conspicuous shadow. The flame is now in the shadow of my hand,
 and it recovers its steadiness : I move my hand up, the sound comes
 to the flame again, and it flares. When the conditions are at their
 best, a very small obstacle is sufficient to make the entire difference,
 and a sound shadow may be thrown across several feet from an
 obstacle as small as the hand. The reason of the divergence from
 ordinary experience here met with is, that while the hand is a fairly
 large obstacle in comparison with the wave-length of the sound I am
 here using, it would not be a sufficiently large obstacle in comparison
 with the wave-lengths with which we have to do in ordinary fife and
 in music.

1888.]                   on Diffraction of Sound.                  189
    Everything then turns upon the question of the wave-length.
The wave-length of the sound that I am using now is about half an
inch. That is its complete length, and it corresponds to a note that
would be very high indeed on the musical scale. The wave-length
of middle C being four feet, the C one octave above that is two feet ;
two octaves above, one foot ; three octaves above, six inches ; four
octaves, three inches ; five octaves, one and a half inch ; six
octaves, three-quarters of an inch ; between that and the next octave,
that is to say, between six and seven octaves above middle C, is the
pitch of the note that I was just now using. There is no difficulty
in determining what the wave-length is. The method depends upon
the properties of what are known as stationary sonorous waves as
opposed to progressive waves. If a train of progressive waves are
caused to impinge upon a reflecting wall, there will be sent back or
reflected in the reverse direction a second set of waves, and the
co-operation of these two sets of waves produces one set or system of
stationary waves, the distinction being that, whereas in the one set
the places of greatest condensation are continually changing and
passing through every point, in the stationary waves there are
definite points for the places of greatest condensation (nodes), and
other distinct and definite (loops) for the places of greatest motion.
The places of greatest variation of density are the places of no
motion : the places of greatest motion are places of no variation of
density. By the operation of a reflector, such as this board, we
obtain a system of stationary waves, in which the nodes and loops
occupy given positions relatively to the board.
    You will observe that as I hold the board at different distances
behind, the flame rises and falls—I can hardly hold it still enough.
In one position the flame rises, further off it falls again ; and as I
move the board back the flame passes continually from the position
of the node—the place of no motion—to the loop or place of greatest
motion and no variation of pressure. As I move back the aspect of
the flame changes ; and all these changes are due to the reflection of
the sound-waves by the reflector which I am holding. The flame
alternately ducks and rises, its behaviour depending upon the
different action of the nodes and loops. The nodes occur at distances
from the reflecting wall, which are even multiples of the quarter
of a wave-length; the loops are, on the other hand, at distances
from the reflector which are odd multiples, bisecting therefore the
positions between the loops. I will now show you that a very slight
body is capable of acting as a reflector. This is a screen of tissue
paper, and the effect will be apparent when it is held behind the
flame and the distances are caused to vary. The flame goes up and
down, showing that a considerable proportion of the sonorous intensity
incident upon the paper screen is reflected back upon the flame ;
otherwise the exact position of the reflector would be of no moment.
I have here, however, a different sort of reflector. This is a glass
plate—I use glass so that those behind may see through it—and it

 190                          Lord Rayleigh                      [Jan. 20,
 will slide upon a stand here arranged for it. When put in this
 position the flame is very little affected ; the plnco is what I call a
 node—a place where there is great pressure variation, but no vibra
 tory velocity. If I move the glass back, the flame becomes vigorously
 excited ; that position is a loop. Move it back still more and the
 flame becomes fairly quiet ; but you see that as the plate travels gradu
 ally along, the flame goes through these evolutions as it occupies in
 succession the position of a node or the position of a loop. The
 interest of this experiment for our present purpose depends upon this
 —that the distances through which the glass plate, acting as a
 reflector, must be successively moved in order to pass the flame from
 a loop to the next loop, or from a node to the consecutive node, is in
 each case half the wave length ; so that by measuring the space
 through which the plate is thus withdrawn one has at once a measure
 ment of the wave length, and consequently of the pitch of the sound,
though one cannot hear it.
     The question of whether the flame is excited at the nodes or at
 the loops,—whether at the places where the pressure varies most or
at those where there is no variation of pressure, but considerable
motion of air—is one of considerable interest from the point of view
of the theory of these flames. The experiment could be made well
enough with such a source of sound as I am now using ; but it is made
rather better by using sounds of a lower pitch and therefore of greater
wave-length, the discrimination being then more easy. Here is a
table of the distances which the screen must be from the flame in
order to give the maximum and the minimum effect, the minimum
being practically nothing at all.
                      TABLE OF MAXIMA AND MINIMA.
                             Max.         Mln.
                              1-1
                                           3-0
                              4-5
                                           5-9
                              7-5
                                           8-9
                             10-3
                                          11-7
                             13-0
                                          H-7
                             15-9
     The distance between successive maxima or successive minima is
very nearly 3 (centims), and this is accordingly half the length of the
wave.
     But there is a further question behind. Is it at the loops or is
it at the nodes that the flame is most excited ? The table shows
what the answer must be, because the nodes occur at distances from
the screen which are even multiples, and the loops at distances
which are odd multiples ; and the numbers in the table can be
explained in only one way—that the flame is excited at the loops

1888.]                   on Di/raction of Sound.                      191
corresponding to the odd multiples, and remains quiescent at the
nodes corresponding to the even multiples. This result is especially
remarkable, because the ear, when substituted for the flame, behaves
in the exactly opposite manner, being excited at the nodes and
not at the loops. The experiment may bo tried with the aid of a
tube, one end of which is placed in the ear, while the other is
held close to the burner. It is then found the ear is excited the
mcst when the flame is excited least, and vice versa. The result of
 tht experiment shows, moreover, that the manner in which the flame
 is disintegrated under the action of sound is not, as might be expected,
 synmetrical in regard to the axis of the flame. If it were symmetrical,
 it vould be most affected by the symmetrical cause, namely, the varia
 tion of pressure. The fact being that it is most excited at the loop,
where there is the greatest vibratory velocity, shows that the method
of disintegration is unsymmetrical, the velocity being a directed quan
tity. In that respect the theory of these flames is different from the
theory of the water-jets investigated by Savart, which resolve them
selves into detached drops under the influence of sonorous vibration.
The analogy fails at this point, and it has been pressed too far by
some experimenters on the subject. Another simple proof of the
correctness of the result of our experiment is that it makes all the
difference which way the burner is turned in respect of tho direction
in which the sound-waves are impinging upon it. If the phenomenon
were symmetrical, it would make no difference if the flame were
turned round upon its vertical axis. But we find that it does make
a difference. This is the way in which I was using the flame, and
you see that it is flaring strongly. If I now turn the burner round
through a right angle, the flame stops flaring. I have done nothing
more than turn the burner round and the flame with it, showing that
the sound-waves may impinge in one direction with great effect, and
in another direction with no effect. The sensitiveness occurs again
when the burner is turned through another right angle ; after three
right angles there is another place of no effect ; and after a complete
revolution of the flame the original sensitiveness recurs. So that if
the flame were stationary, and the sound-waves came, say, from the
north or south, the phenomena would be exhibited ; but if they came
from the east or west, the flame would make no response.
     This is of convenience in experimenting, because, by turning the
burner round, I make the flame almost insensitive to a sound, and I
am now free to show tho effect of any sound that may be brought to
it in the perpendicular direction. I am going to use a very small
reflector—a small piece of looking-glass. Wood would do as well ;
but looking-glass facilitates the adjustment, because my assistant, by
seeing the reflection, will be able to tell me when I am holding it in
the best position. Now, the sound is being reflected from the bit of
glass, and is causing the flame to flare, though tho same sound, travel
ling a shorter distance and impinging in another direction, is incom
petent to produce tho result (Fig- 1).

192                           Lord Rayleigh.                     [Jan. 20,
     I am now going to move the reflector to and fro along the lire
perpendicular to that joining the source and the burner, all the while
maintaining the adjustment, so that from the position of the source of
sound the image of the flame is seen in the centre of the mirror.
Seen from the source, it is still as central as before, but it has lost iis
effect, and as I move it to and fro I produce cycles of effect and 10
                                  FIG. l.
                 BURNER
 effect. What is the cause of this? The question depends upon
 something different from what I have been speaking of hitherto ;
 and the explanation is, that wo are here dealing with a diffraction
 phenomenon. The mirror is a small one, and the sound-waves which
 it reflects are not big enough to act in the normal manner. We are
 really dealing with the same sort of phenomena as arise in optics when
 we use small pin-holes for the entrance of our light. It is not very
 easy to make the experiment in the present form quite simple, because
 the mirror would have to be withdrawn, all the while maintaining a
 somewhat complicated adjustment. In order to raise the question of
 diffraction in its simplest shape, we must have a direct course for the
 sound between its origin and the place of observation, and interpose
 in the path a screen perforated with such holes as we desire to try.
      The screen I propose to use is of glass. It is a practically
 perfect obstacle for such sounds as we are dealing with ; but it is
 perforated here with a hole (20 em. diameter), rendered more evident
 to those at a distance by means of a circle of paper pasted round it.
 The edge of the hole corresponds to the inner circumference of the
 paper. We shall thus be able to try the effect of different sized aper
 tures, all the other circumstances remaining unchanged. The experi

1888.]                  on Diffraction of Sound.                       193
ment is rather a difficult one before an audience, because everything
turns on getting the exact adjustment of distances relatively to the wave
length. At present the sound is passing through this comparatively
large hole in the glass screen, and is producing, as yon see, scarcely
any effect upon the flame situated opposite to its centre. But if
(Fig. 2) I diminish the size of the hole by holding this circle of zinc
(perforated with a hole 14 em. in diameter) in front of it, it is seen
that, although the hole is smaller, we get a far greater effect. That
                                  Fio. 2.
   SOURCE                                                           O
                                                                 BURNER
     O
is a fundamental phenomenon in diffraction. Now I reopen the larger
hole, and the flame becomes quiet. So that it is evident that in this
case the sound produces a greater effect in passing through a email
hole than in passing through a larger one. The experiment may be
made in another way, by obstructing the central in place of the mar
ginal part of the aperture in the glass. When I hold this unperforated
disc of zinc (14 cm. in diameter) centrically in front, we get a greater
effect than when the sound is allowed to pass through both parts of
the aperture. The flame is now flaring vigorously under the action
of the sonorous waves passing the marginal part of the aperture,
whereas it will scarcely flare at all under the action of waves passing
through both the marginal and the central hole.
    This is a point which I should like to dwell upon a little, for it
lies at the root of the whole matter. The principle upon which it
depends is one that was first formulated by Huygens, one of the
leading names in the development of the undulatory theory of light.
In this diagram (Fig. 3) is represented in section the different parts
of the obstacle. C represents the source of sound, B represents the

194                           Lord Rayleiyh                     [Jan. 20,
flame, and A P Q is the screen. If we choose a point P on this screen,
so that the whole distance from B to C, reckoned through P, viz.
B P C, exceeds the shortest distance B A C by exactly half the wave
length of the sound, then the circular area, whose radius is A P, is the
first zone. We take next another point, Q, so the whole distance B Q C
exceeds the previous one by half a wave-length. Thus we get the
                                  FIG. 3.
 second zone represented by P Q. In like manner, by taking different
 points in succession such that the last distance taken exceeds the
previous one every time by half a wave-length, we may map out the
 whole of the obstructing screen into a series of zones called Huygens'
 zones. I have here a material embodiment of that notion, in which
 the zones are actually cut out of a piece of zinc. It is easy to prove
that the effects of the parts of the wave traversing the alternate zones
 are opposed, that whatever may be the effect of the first zone, A P, the
exact opposite will be the effect of P Q, and so on. Thus, if
 A P and P Q are both allowed to operate, while all beyond Q is cut
 off, the waves will neutralise one another, and the effect will be
 immensely less than if A P or P Q operated alone. And that is what
you saw just now. When I used the inner aperture only, a com
paratively loud sound acted upon the flame. When I added to that
inner aperture the additional aperture P Q, the sound disappeared,
showing that the effect of the latter was equal and opposite to that
of A P, and that the two neutralised each other.
     [If A C = a, A B = b, A P = x, wave-length = A, the value of x
 for the external radius of the nth zone is
                                 = » A\     _
                                          ao
 or, if a = b,
                               x2 = J n \ a.

1888.]                    on Diffraction of Sound.                  195
    With the apertures used above, a2 = 49 for n = 1 ; x2 = 100, for
» = 2 ; so that
                                 A. a = 100,
the measurements being in centimetres. This gives the suitable
distances, when X is known. In the present case A. = 1 • 2, a = 83.]
    Closely connected with this there is another very interesting
experiment, which can easily be tried, and which has also an im
portant optical analogy. I mean the experiment of the shadow
thrown by a circular disc. If a very small source of light be taken
—such a source as would be produced by perforating a thin plate
in the shutter of the window of a dark room with a pin and causing
the rays of the sun to enter horizontally—and if we interpose in
the path of the light a small circular obstacle and then observe
the shadow thrown in the rear of that obstacle, a very remarkable
peculiarity manifests itself. It is found that in the centre of
the shadow of the obstacle, where the darkness might be expected
to be greatest, there is, on the contrary, no darkness at all, but a
bright spot, a spot as bright as if no obstacle intervened in the
course of the light. The history of this subject is curious. The
fact was first observed by Delisle in the early part of the eighteenth
century, but the observation fell into oblivion. When Fresnel
began his important investigations, his memoir on diffraction was
communicated to the French Academy and was reported on by the
great mathematician Poisson. Poisson was not favourably impressed
by Fresne1's theoretical views. Like most mathematicians of the
day, he did not take kindly to the wave theory ; and in his report on
Fresne1's memoir, he made the objection that if the method were
applied, as Fresnel had not then done, to investigate what should
 happen in the shadow of a circular obstacle, it brought out this para
 doxical result, that in the centre there would be a bright point. This
 was regarded as a reductio ad dbsurdum of the theory. All the time,
 as I have mentioned, the record of Delisle's observations was in exist
 ence. The remarks of Poisson were brought to the notice of Fresnel,
 the experiment was tried, and the bright point was rediscovered, to
 the gratification of Fresnel and the confirmation of his theoretical
 views. I don't propose to attempt the optical experiment now»
 but it can easily be tried in one's own laboratory. A long room
 or passage must be darkened: a fourpenny bit may be used as
the obstacle, strung up by three hairs attached by sealing-wax.
When the shadow of the obstacle is received on a piece of ground
glass, and examined from behind with a magnifying lens, the
bright spot will be seen without much difficulty. But what
I propose to show you is the corresponding phenomenon in the
case of sound. Fresne1's reasoning is applicable, word for word,
to the phenomena we are considering just as much as to that which
he, or rather Poisson, had in view. The disc (Fig. 4), which I shall
hang up now between the source of sound and the flame, is of glass.

196                           Lord Rayleigh                          [Jan. 20,
It is about 15 inches in diameter. I believe the flame is flaring now
from being in the bright spot. If I make a small motion of the disc
I shall move the bright spot and the effect will disappear. I am
pushing the disc away now, and the flaring has stopped. The flame
                                   FIG. 4.
                            Disc
           . O—
          CLAME
                                                             —-o
                                                              SOURCE
is still in the shadow of the disc, but not at the centre. I bring the
disc back again, and when the flame comes into the centre it flares
again vigorously. That is the phenomenon which was discovered by
Delisle and confirmed by Arago and Fresnel, but mathematically it
was suggested by Poinson.
     Poisson's calculation related only to the very central point in the
axis of the disc. More recently the theory of this experiment has been
very thoroughly examined by a German mathematician, Lommel ; and
I have exhibited here one of the curves given by him embodying the
results of his calculations on the subject (Fig. 5).
     The abscissas, measured horizontally, represent distances drawn
outwards from the centre of the shadow 0 ; the ordinates measure the
intensity of the light at the various points. The maximum intensity
O A is at the centre. A little way outwards at B the intensity falls
almost, but not quite, to zero. At C there is a revival of intensity,
indicating a bright ring ; and further out there is a succession of
subordinate fluctuations. The curve on the other side of 0 A would
of course be similar. This curve corresponds to the distances and
proportions indicated, a is the distance between the source of sound
and the disc ; b is the distance between the disc and the flame, tho
place where the intensity is observed. The numbers given are taken
from the notes of an experiment which went well. If we can get our
flame to the right point of sensitiveness wo may succeed in bringing
into view not only the central spot, but the revived sound which
occurs after you have got away from the central point and have passed
through the ring of silence. There is the loud central point. If I
push the disc a little we enter the ring of silence B ;* a little further,
and the flame flares again, being now at C.
    * With the data given above the diameter of the silent ring is two-thirds of
ail inch.

1888.]                     on Diffraction of Sound.                   197
     Although we have thus imitated the optical experiment, I must
not leave you under the idea that we are working under the same
conditions that prevail in optics. You see the diameter of my disc
is 15 inches, and the length of my sound-wave is about half an inch.
                                    Fm. 5.
                      r,' S3 INCHES
                      J = l0  >»
                    B
 My disc is therefore about 30 wave-lengths in diameter, whereas the
 diameter of a disc representing 30 wave-lengths of light would be only
 about -[,,',,,,- inch. Still the conditions are sufficiently alike to get
 corresponding effects, and to obtain this bright point in the centre of
 the shadow conspicuously developed.
      I will now make an experiment illustrating still further the prin
 ciple of Huygens' zones, which I have already roughly sketched. I
 indicated that the effect of contiguous zones was equal and opposite,
 so that the effect of each of the odd zones is one thing, and of the
 even zones the opposite thing. If we can succeed in so preparing a
 screen as to fit the system of zones, allowing the one set to pass, and
 at the same time intercepting the other set, then we shall get a great
  effect at the central point, because we shall have removed those parts
  which, if they remained, would have neutralised the remaining parts.

198             Lord Rayleigh on Diffraction of Sound.                 [Jan. 20,
Such a system has been cut out of zinc, and ia now hanging before
you. When the adjustments are correct there will be produced, under
the action of that circular grating, an effect much greater than would
result if the sound-waves were allowed to pass on without any obstruc
tion. The only point difficult of explanation is as to what happens
when the system of zones is complete, and extends to infinity,
viz. when there is no obstruction at all. In that case it may be
proved that the aggregate effect of all the zones is, in ordinary
cases, half the effect that would be produced by any one zone
alone, whereas if we succeed in stopping out a number of the
alternate zones, we may expect a large multiple of the effect of one
zone. The grating is now in the right position, and you see the flame
flaring strongly, under the action of the sound-waves transmitted
through these alternate zones, the action of the other zones being
stopped by the interposition of the zinc. But the interest of the
experiment is principally in this, that the flame is flaring more than
it would do if the grating were removed altogether. There is now,
without the grating, a very trivial flaring ;* but when the grating is
in position again—though a great part of the sound is thereby
stopped out—the effect is far more powerful than when no obstruc
tion intervened. The grating acts, in fact, the part of a lens. It
concentrates the sound upon the flame, and so produces the intense
magnification of effect which we have seen.
     [The exterior radius of the wth zone being x, we have, from the
 formula given above :
                                 1     1 _ nA.
                                 at**8'
 so that if a and b be the distances of the source and image from the
 grating, the relation required to maintain the focus is as usual,
 where /, the focal length is given by :
 In the actual grating, eight zones (the first, third, fifth, &c.) are
 occupied by metal. The radius of the first zone, or central circle, is
 3 inches, so that x2 | n = 9. The focal length is necessarily a func
 tion of X. In the present case A. = ^ inch nearly, and therefore
/ = 18 inches. If a and b are the same, each must be made equal to
 36 inches.]
                                                                 [RAYLEIGH.]
          * Under the best conditions the flame is absolutely unaffected.

1888.]     Mr. J. Thomson on the Exploration of Masai-Land.                199
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, January 27, 1888.
          EDWARD WOODS, Esq. M. Inst. C.E. Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                     JOSEPH THOMSON, Esq. F.R.G.S.
                GOLD MEDALLIST OF THE ROTAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY.
                     The Exploration of Masai-Land.
THE speaker, in a few introductory remarks, explained that he only
proposed to try and conjure up a reflection of a few characteristic
features of African scenery and to give his hearers some flavour of
travel in savage lands. For this purpose he would draw upon his
experiences in Masai-Land while in command of the Royal Geographical
Society's expedition to Victoria Nyanza in 1883-4.*
     He commenced his sketches by a description of his first momentous
 experience—the start from the coast, when, standing on the heights
of Rabai, he took his last look around before setting forth inland
towards the unknown. Between the coast and the borderland of the
Masai lay 200 dreary, uninhabited miles. To embody the experiences
of the expedition over this zone and give his audience some idea of
the nature of the country, Mr. Thomson sketched in some detail the
routine of a typical day in their progress through this wilderness—
the scene in the camp at daybreak, the order of march, the nature of
the sterile waste through which they passed ; the effects of the broiling
sun, the burning sands, and the absence of water on the fatigued
porters, resulting in the transformation of their leaders from eager,
 enthusiastic explorers into harassed and disgusted slave-drivers—all
 these aspects of the march were sketched, as well as the travellers'
 delight and relief when, with the declining sun, they arrived at a
 horrid, liquid mud hole.
     At length the neighbourhood of Eilima Njaro was reached, when,
with marvellous abruptness, they exchanged glaring sands and desulate
 wastes for cool shades and leafy labyrinths. The effect upon the
travellers was as if they had passed from a purgatory to a paradise.
     Through the little African Arcadia of Taveta the speaker now
 personally conducted his hearers, pointing out the characteristic
 aspects of its luxuriant vegetation, leading them by shady pathways
 to bosky glades, or calling here and there at the cosily ensconced
beehived-shaped hut of a native. He drew a tempting picture of
Taveta at night, when millions of cicadas piped forth their melodious
notes, and myriad fireflies flashed meteor-like athwart the gloom, and
 * Mr. Thomson's work, entitled ' Through Masfti-Land,' was published in 1885.

200      Mr. J. Thomson on the Exploration of Masfti-Land.      [Jan. 27,
stitrry glowworms gleamed with mellow light, and turned the dull
earth to a second firmament.
    After sketching their first glimpse of Eilima Njaro the speaker
rapidly conveyed his hearers round the southern and western aspects
of this great mountain to the borderland of the Masai. He told how
 they crossed the threshold with their hopes at the highest, and how,
two days later, they found it necessary to run away and return to
Taveta. There the expedition was camped while its commander
 returned to the coast for additional men and goods, doing on one
occasion without a halt nearly seventy miles, without a drop of water
or bit of food—an unprecedented feat of African pedestrianism.
     On his return to Taveta the expedition once more set forth towards
Masai-land with unabated enthusiasm. The various characteristic
 incidents of the march were touched upon—such as how they stalked
a donkey in mistake for a rhinoceros ; the scattering of the caravan by
furious rhinoceroses ; men and donkeys pitched into the air by a mad
buffalo bull running amuck through the camp ; a grass fire threatening
the expedition with destruction, and other incidents. Helped along
by such piquant variations in the daily routine of the march, Masai-
laud was once more reached, and they then embarked on a course of
romance and adventure sufficient to sate the most ardent of modern
knights-errant.
    To illustrate the life of an explorer among a people with whom
murder is a pastime and robbery an amusement, Mr. Thomson sketched
the events of a typical afternoon in camp, in which also he took
occasion to touch upon the strange customs of the Masai. He ended
his narrative by indicating the route taken by the expedition to
Victoria Nyanza, the exploration of the beautiful plateaux of Masai-
land and the curious meridional trough which divides them, the visit
to the snow-clad Kenia, the arrival at Baringo, and subsequent march
to Victoria Nyanza, with all the attendant adventures.
    A few words sufficed to tell the tale of the return, how the speaker
was tossed and nearly killed by a buffalo, and had to be carried back
to Baringo on a stretcher ; how his troubles did not end there, for the
penalty of drinking poisonous water, eating diseased meat, flour half
mixed with grit, and buffalo beef as tough as old boots, had to be
paid in the usual way. He was attacked by dysentery, and reached
Lake Naivasha at the point of death. Here for two months he lay
in a most critical condition, till, despairing of improvement, he con
cluded that if he was doomed to die he had better do so trying to
reach the coast. To his surprise he began to improve, in spite of
the terrible jolting in the hammock. Taking a new route they passed
through a desert country, where the men suffered greatly from famine.
Sixteen months after the departure from the coast the expedition once
more found itself among the palm groves of Rabai, with the cares and
anxieties of travel lifted from their minds.

1888.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                   201
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, February 2, 1888.
  EDWABD WOODS, Esq. M. Inst. C.E. Vice-President, in the Chair.
      FBANK CRISP, Esq. LL.B. B.A. V.P. and Treas. Linn. Soc.
                              Sec. E.M.8. M.R.I.
                              Ancient Microscopes.
                                (Abstract deferred.)
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, February 6, 1888.
   EDWARD WOODS, Esq. M. Inst. C.E. Vice-President, in the Chair.
            The Hon. Dudley Campbell,
            Mrs. Dewar,
            Joseph Emerson Dowson, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
            The Right Hon. Sir Edward Fry, Lord Justice of Appeal,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Special Thanks of the Members wore returned to Mr. P. F.
Campbell-Johnston for his present of a Terra Cotta Bust of Sir
Humphry Davy.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Mr. James
Wimshurst, M.R.I, for his present of a large Electrical Influence
Machine.
    The Managers reported, That at their Meeting held on January 1 1th
last, they appointed Mr. George John Romanes, M.A. LL.D. F.R.S.
Fnllerian Professor of Physiology for three years.
    THE PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     PROM
The Lords of the Admiralty—Nautical Almanac for 1891. 8vo. 1887.
The Secretary of State for India—Great Trigonometrical Survey of India-
     Synoptical, Vol. Vila. 4to. 1887.
The New Zealand Government—Statistics of the Colony of New Zealand, 1886
     fol. 1887.
Accademia dei Ltneei, Reak, Roma—Atti, Scrie Quarta : Rendiconti. Vol. III.
     2° Semestre, Fasc. 6, 7. 8vo. 1887.
American Academy of Arte and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XXII. Part 2. 8vo.
     1887.
    VOL. XII. (No. 82.)                                           P

202                          General Monthly Meeting.                    [Feb. 6,
Antiquaries, Society o/—Proceedings, Vol. XI. No. 4. 8vo. 1887.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Vol. LIV. Part 2, No. 4 ; VoL LV. Part 2,
      No. 5 ; Vol. LVI. Part 2, No. 1. 8vo. 1885-7.
    Proceedings, 1887, Nos. 6-8. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, lioyal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLVIII. NOs. 1, 2. 8vo.
      1887.
Ateneo Veneto—Revista Mensile, Serie XI. Vol. I. NOs. 1-6; Vol. II. Nos. 1, 2, 5,
      6. 8vo. 1887.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. VIII. Part 9; Vol. IX. Parti. 8vo. 1887-8.
Basel Naturforschende GeseKtcAa/i! —Verhandlungen, 8te Thiel, Heft 2. 8vo.
      1887.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences— Sitzungsberichte, 1887, Heft 2. 8vo. 1887.
Birmingham Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. V. Part 2. 8vo. 1886-7.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1887-8, Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7. 4to.
Bureau of Education, U.S.—Circulars of Information, No. 1. 8vo. 1887.
   The Study of History in American Colleges and Universities. By H. B. Adams.
      Svo. 1887.
California, University of—Biennial Report, 1886. 8vo.
   Register, 1886-7. 8vo.
Chemical Society—Journal for Dec. 1887, Jan. 1888. 8vo.
Churchill, Messrs. J. and A. (the Publishers)—Journal of Laryngology and
      Rhinology, No. 12. 8vo. 1887.
 Corfield, W. H. M.D. and Louis C. Parkes, M.D. (the Authors)—The Treatment
      and Utilization of Sewage. 3rd Edition. 8vo. 1887.
 Cowles, Eugene H. Esq. M.R.I.—Aluminum Bronze for Heavy Guns. By A. H.
      Cowles. 8vo. 1887.
 Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. *c. M.R.I, (the Editor)—Journal of the Royal
      Microscopical Society, 1887, Part 6. 8vo.
    The Microscope in Theory and Practice. Translated from the German of Carl
      Naegeli and S. Schwendener. 8vo. 1887.
 Dawson, Sir William, F.R.S. (the Author)—Note on Fossil Woods and other
       Plant Remains of W. Canada. 4to. (Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada.) 1887.
 Dax, Sotitte de Borda—Bulletin, 2° Serie, Douziemo Annce, Trimestre 4'. 8vo.
       1887.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for Dec. 1887 and Jan. 1888. 8vo.
    Analyst for Dec. 1887 and Jan. 1888. 8vo.
    Athenseum for Dec. 1887 and Jan. 1888. 4to.
    Chemical News for Dec. 1887 and Jan. 1888. 4to.
    Chemist and Druggist for Dec. 1887 and Jan. 1888. 8vo.
    Engineer for Dec. 1887 and Jan. 1888. fol.
    Engineering for Dec. 1887 and Jan. 1888. fol.
    Horological Journal for Dec. 1887 and Jan. 1888. 8vo.
    Industries for Deo. 1887 and Jan. 1888. fol.
    Iron for Dec. 1887 and Jan. 1888. 4to.
    Murray's Magazine for Dec. 1887 and Jan. 1888. 8vo.
    Nature for Dec. 1887 and Jan. 1888. 4to.
    Revue Scientiflque for Deo. 1887 and Jan. 1888. 4to.
    Scientific News for Dec. 1887 and Jan. 1888. 4to.
    Telegraphic Journal for Doc. 1887 and Jan. 1888. 8vo.
    Zoophilist for Dec. 1887 and Jan. 1888. 4to.
 Florence, Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale—Bolletino, Num. 47-49. 8vo. 1887.
    Codici Palatini, Vol. I. Fasc. 6. 8vo. 1887.
  Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 744, 745. 8vo. 1887.
 Freshfield, Edwin, Esq. LL.D. F.S.A. M.R.I. (the Editor)—The Vestry Minute-
       Book of the Parish of St. Margaret Lothbury, 1571-1677. 4to. 1887.
       (Privately Printed).
  Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. IX. No. 12 ; Vol. X.
       No. 1. 8vo. 1887-8.
  Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 172. 8vo. 1887.

 1888.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                             203
 Geological Society of Ireland, Royal—Journal, Vol. XVIII. Part 2. 8vo. 1887.
 Gordon, Surgeon-General C. A. M.D. C.B. M.R.I, (the Author)—Comments upon
      Report of Committee on Rabies and Hydrophobia. 8vo. 1888.
 Harlem, Soeiete Bottandaise des Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Tome XXII.
      Liv. 2, 3. 8vo. 1887.
   Verhandelingen, 3d8 Veiz, Deel V. 1"° stuk. 4tp. 1887.
 Historical Society, Royal—The Teaching of History in Schools. By Oscar
      Browning. 8vo. 1887.
 Holmes-Forbes, A. W. Esq. M.A. M.R.I. (the Author) -Practical Essay Writing.
      12mo. 1887.
 Iron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1887, No. 2. 8vo.
Johns Hopkins University —American Journal of Philology, Vol. VIII. No. 3.
      8vo. 1887.
   American Chemical Journal, Vol. IX. No. 6; Vol. X. No. 1. 8vo. 1887-8.
   Studies in Historical and Political Science, Fifth Series, Nos. 10, 11. 8vo. 1887.
   University Circular, NOs. 60, 61,62. 4to. 1887.
Ken Observatory—Keport for 1887. 8vo. 1887.
JAnnean Society —Journal, Nos. 118, 136, 152-4, 160, 161. 8vo. 1887.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIX. Parts 11, 12. 8vo. 1887.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, 1887, Nos. 3, 4. 8vo.
   Library Catalogue and Index of Proceedings, 1847-87. 8vo. 1887.
Meteorological Office—Weekly Weather Reports, Vol. IV. Nos. 34-45. 4to. 1887.
 Meteorological Society, Royal—Quarterly Journal, No. 64. 8vo. 1887.
 Middlesex Hospital—Reports for 1886. 8vo. 1887.
 Ministry of Public Works, Rome—Giornale del Genio Civile, Sorie Quinta,
      Vol. I. No. 11. 8vo. And Disegni. fol. 1887.
New South Wales Royal Society—Journal and Proceedings, Vol. XX. 1886. 8vo.
      1887.
New York Academy of Sciences—Transactions, Vol. IV. 8vo. 1884-5.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
     Vol. XXXVII. Part 1. 8vo. 1887.
Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1887, Part 3. 8vo. 1887.
Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XX. Nos. 1, 2, 3.
     New Series. 8vo. 1887.
Perigal, Frederick, Esq. (the Author)—Some Account of the Perigal Family. 8vo.
      1887.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, Dec. 1887, Jan. 1888. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XII. No. 2. 8vo. 1887.
Rio de Janeiro Observatory—Revista, Nos. 11, 12. 8vo. 1887.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 259, 260. 8vo. 1887.
   Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CLXXVII. Part 2. 4to. 1887.
Sanitary Institute of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. VIII. 8vo. 1887.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Philologisch-historische Classe: Abuandlun-
     gen, Band X. No. 7. 8vo. 1887.
   Mathematisch-physische Classe : Abhandlungen, Band XIV. NOs. 5, 6. 8vo.
     1887.
Seismological Society of Japan—Transactions, Vol. XI. 8vo. 1887.
Society of Arts—Journal, Dec. 1887, Jan. 1888. 8vo.
St. Petersbourg Academie Imperiale des Sciences—Memoires, Tome XXXV.
     Nos. 4-7. 4to. 1887.
Telegraph Engineers, Society of—Journal, No. 68. 8vo. 1887.
Thurston, Edgar, Esq. (the Author)—Marine Fauna of Rnmeswaram (Madras).
     8vo. 1887.
Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleises in Preussen—Verhandluugen, 1887:
     Heft 9, 10. 4to.
Victoria Institute—Journal of Transactions, No. 83. 8vo. 1887.
Wild, Dr. H. (the Director)—Annaleu der Physikalischen Central-Observatoriums,
     1886, Theil I. 4to. 1887.
   Repertorium fur Meteorologie, Band X. 4to. 1887. Supp. V. and Atlas. 1887.
                                                                         p 2

204                     Mr. William Henry Preece                     [Feb. 10,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 10, 1888.
   His Grace tho DUKE OP NORTHDMBJSBLAND, E.G. D.C.L. LL.D.
                           President, in the Chair.
              WILLIAM HBNBY PBEEOB, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                        Safety Lamps in Collieries.
ON a fine summer's day tho snn expends an average of one horse
power on every 30 square feet of the earth's surface in this latitude,
or 1450 horse-power per acre. This great gift of energy is neither
utilised nor stored by man at present, though Nature presents us
with some of it in waterfalls and flowing streams. The sun itself
has been more generous. Ages upon ages ago it shone with resplen
dent glory on a grand luxuriant flora of a uniform but flowerless
character in a climate warm and damp. England formed part of a
tropical jungle or swamp, where grasses, mosses, ferns, and sedges,
coniferse, araucarise, equisetacese, sigillarise grow and flourished, perished
and fell in situ, to be covered up by the following geological forma
tions and compressed into those grand seams of coal that form now
the principal source of England's greatness and wealth. If language
be fossil poetry and words condensed history, then coal may be
derived from coelum or »toiXos (koilos), and imply a Heaven-sent gift.
    The first authentic account of coal digging dates from the reign
of Henry III., when Newcastle sent its first cargoes by sea to London,
and thus gave the mineral the name of sea-coal. Early records of
the output of coal are wanting.
              In 1700 it was 2,614,000 tons.
              In 1800 it was 10,000,000 tons.
              In 1850 it reached 42,000,000 tons.
              In 1886 it reached 157,518,482 tons.
    A ton of coal occupies very nearly a cubic yard of space. Hence
this quantity of coal, if placed in Hyde Park, would form a mountain
as high as Snowdon, and if erected as a wall around the coast-line of
 Great Britain, it would be 6 ft. wide and 30 ft. high. It would form
a girdle round the world 3 ft. wide and 12 ft. high. We extract from
the earth twenty times more energy than the sun can possibly restore
to it by tho growth of forest, and we are gradually but surely tending
 towards the time when this store of power, heat, and light, will bo
 exhausted, when our busy hives of industry must seek other shores,
 and when England will perhaps become a summer resort for a wealthy
 Anglo-Saxon race occupying other quarters of tho globe.

1888.]               on Safety Lamps in Collieries.                 205
     Coal is not only, liko knowledge, power, but, like the precious
metals, it is wealth. The average price of coal at the pit's mouth in
1886 was 5s. per ton, and thus its total value was 40,000,000Z., but
when we consider the average price paid for it, we must double, if
not treble, this lump sum. The number of collieries open was about
3500, and since it costs 100,000Z. to open a colliery 2000 ft. deep,
when we think of the railways, the canals, the ships, the shops, the
marts employed for its transit and its distribution, we can only con
clude that the capital embarked in this industry must equal, if not
exceed, the National Debt.
    The hewing and raising of coal is unquestionably a dangerous
occupation. " The price of coal is pit-men's lives," said an old collier
to George Stcphonson. 520,000 persons are employed in our col
lieries, and the output per person is 308 tons. 953 persons met
their deaths in 1886 ; but it is satisfactory to know that a miner's
life is more than twice as safe now as it was thirty years ago.
    The number of persons employed per death was—
         In 1856                                            242
        In 1886                                             545
     The number of tons raised per life lost was—
        In 1856                           ..      ..     64,700
        In 1886                                         188,800
    Most people, if asked what was the principal cause of this loss of
nearly 1000 lives, would answer explosion of fire-damp, but this
would not be true. The principal cause of accident is falls of roof
and sides. In 1886 there were from—
        Falls of roof and sides ..     ..      ..    461 deaths
        Explosions       ..     ..     ..      ..    129 „
         Trams and tubs         ..     ..      ..     81     „
         Miscellaneous ..       ..     ..      ..    282 „
Thus falls of roof form 41 per cent. of the whole, and explosions
23 per cent.
    Explosions attract immense attention, from their publicity and
their appalling suddenness and magnitude. It is dreadful to take up
a morning paper and read of 268 fellow creatures engulfed, as at
Abercarne in 1878, or 164 at Seaham in 1880 ; but the daily and
steady loss of life by ones and by twos fails to get chronicled, and
passes unheeded by with the very great majority of the 20,000 violent
deaths that occur in these islands every year.
     In order that you may see how coal is won, and hewed, and raised,
how dangers are incurred and surmounted, I will take you into a coal
mine—one of the Cannock Chase collieries of Staffordshire—by aid
of a beautiful series of photographs, taken by means of magnesium
light by my friend, Mr. Arthur Sopwith, the eminent manager of
those mines.

206                     Mr. William Henry Preece               [Feb. 10,
     1. We commence with a map of Great Britain, showing in shaded
lines the distribution of the various coal-fields.
     2. A view on the surface of the pit's mouth, showing the engine-
house, the pulleys, frames and ropes, with their motion up and down
their respective shafts, the banking shed for tipping the raised coal
into railway waggons and carts, the waggons laden with coal, the
trucks laden with wood for "cogging," and timber for treeing,
 supporting, and strengthening. This particular pit raises about
 1000 tons in eight hours, and it employs from 500 to 600 men.
     3. This is the top of the shaft, with the cage in position ready to
descend with an empty tub. Every pit has two shafts, the up-cast
 and the down-cast, for working and ventilation. They vary from
 10 feet to 20 feet in diameter. This particular pit is 360 feet deep,
 but there are several in England over 2000 feet. The rate of descent
 is 18 feet per second, or about 20 miles an hour.
      4. This is the bottom of the shaft ; the tub, laden with coal, just
 brought from the working face, the man in the act of running it on to
 the cage, and his hand in the act of signalling to the surface.
      5. An overman's cabin hewn out of the coal, the nnderviewer
 making his report of the condition of the mine after his morning
 inspection.
      6. The engine-plane or level, which is 2000 yards long. A
 hewer, pike in hand, meets the underviewer with his " Clanny," and
 learns the state of the mine. The truck is worked by an endless
 rope, it has a double way, the laden tubs drawn towards the shaft,
 and the empty tubs towards the workings. It will be seen that
 the roof is strengthened by iron bars instead of the timbers generally
 used.
      7. Clipping a tube to the rope by means of a shackle and
 coupling. The ordinary cross timbers or bars are here shown sup
 porting the roof.
      8. A level branch off the engine-plane. Horses or ponies now
 take up the work and draw the empty tub through a " gob " road—a
  road through the whole working—to the working face or long wall.
  Though a horse in the pit does scarcely one-half of the work of a
  horse on the surface, it lives as long. There are horses that have
  never seen daylight for 16 years.
       9. A road near the face; men resting from their work—taking
  their lunch or "jack bit."
       10. The end of the road, the tub taken off the rails and dragged
  to the face.
       11 and 12. The working face. Undercutting; taking away the
  hard under-clay preparatory to blowing or wedging down the super
  incumbent coal.
       13. Punching a hole for blasting with powder. The mode of
  supporting a "gob" road by cogging is very well shown in this
  slide.
       14. A way end, showing the result of a blast.

 1888.J              on Safety Lamps in Collieries.                 207
     15. "Bannocking" or holing the top; the reverse to under-
catting, the charge being put in at the bottom and the explosion
acting upwards.
     16. Drilling a hole for a lime cartridge. The anomaly of using
gunpowder and safety lamps in the samo place is destroyed by the
nse of caustic lime, which forces out the coal by the expansive action
 of water on the lime.
     17. The act of watering the lime by pumping.
     18. The result, the fallen coal.
     19. Building a cog-wall—a strong boundary to the "goaf" or
gob, which consists of the refuse of the old working and the subsident
roof.
     20. Rock " ripping," clearing a roof which has subsided and re
ducing the height of the way, so as to leave room for the horses to go
through the old working. This is the most dangerous operation
connected with coal mining.
     21. Setting trees or upright timbers to support the roof. Each
tree or stanchion has a cap or lid, and they are placed 6 feet
apart.
     22. Drawing timber by means of a chain for use again, so as to
allow the roof to fall or subside uniformly, and not to break up in
pieces.
     23. Examining a waste for gas. This is done two or three times
a day by special firemen with the ordinary safety lamp.
     24. Tapping old working for water ; a source of great trouble in
collieries.
    25. Trying the roof.
    26. A surveying party. A fault in the seam is shown in this
slide.
    27. The furnace used for ventilation. This has now been
abandoned for more perfect and less wasteful mechanical contri
vances.
    I have shown you most of the operations connected with the win
ning and working of coal ; some of the risks the miner incurs ; some
of the troubles arising from gas, water, and falling roofs ; and one of
the modes of producing ventilation—the chief prevention of accident.
What our mines could have been in days gone by it is impossible to
conceive ; now mechanical appliances are so admirable that many
mines are as perfectly ventilated as our homes. The temperature
below ground is so uniform—50° F. at 50 feet, and rising 1° for each
55 feet—the formations arc so dry that I have actually heard it pro
posed to establish a sanatorium for consumptive patients underground,
lighted by electricity, and supplied with every luxury.
    All mines are required to have two shafts—one the intake or down
cast, tho other the return or up-cast, and the workings are so inter
laced with ways and roads, doors are inserted here and there to direct
the current, anemometers are used to measure its rate of flow, that
any ordinary inroad of gas is swiftly swept away. Fire-damp, or pit

208                     Mr. William Henry Preecc                 [Feb. 10,
gas, is marsh gas (G H4). It oozos out gently from the exposed seam,
or sometimes it bursts out through some fissure with groat force, forming
what are called " blowers." If it bo mixed with air, in the propor
tion of from 5 to 9 per cent. of gas, it becomes highly explosive, and
is the prime cause of those fearful disasters that have made coal
mining so terrible.
     In gasless mines candles always have been and still are used, but
in early days, in foul places, men had frequently to work in the dark,
or to bo content with the feeble illumination of the phosphorescence
of decaying fish. It is remarkable how the eye adapts itself to feeble
light, and in the Cimmerian darkness of a coal-mine oven phospho
rescence has a useful illuminating effect. In many places they used
the steel mill, a disc of steel rotated rapidly against flint, giving light
by the shower of sparks thrown down. It is most remarkable that no
scientific thought was devoted to this subject until 1815. In 1813
 Dr. Clanny, of Newcastle, had devised a very poor lamp, the air to
 support which was driven by bellows through water ; but in 1815
 Sir Humphry Davy devoted his powerful mind and skilful hands to
solve the question, and speedily invented in this very Institution his
 immortal safety lamp. It is a remarkable coincidence that in the
 same month another powerful but untutored mind, by strong observant
 powers and pure mechanical reasoning, had arrived at very nearly the
 same result ; and even to this day the affectionate remembrance and
 name of the eminent Northumbrian brakesman, George Stephenson,
 is maintained by the use of tho " Geordie," in his old homo, the Kil-
 lingworth Colliery.
      Davy's classical paper was read before the Royal Society, on
 November 11, 1815, and was entitled " On the Fire Damp of Coal
 Mines; and on Methods of Lighting the Mine so as to Prevent
  Explosion." He showed that flame would not pass through small
 tubes and apertures, and how in comparatively still air, however
 charged with gas, a wire gauze surrounding the flame so reduced the
 temperature by radiation that explosion was impossible. Ingress of
 air and egress of products of combustion are resisted. He showed that
 a flame BO protected gave immediate intimation of tho presence of gas
 by burning dimly, and by becoming capped with a blue flame, or
 aureole, that though the wire gauze became redhot, it still radiated
  away the heat sufficiently to prevent its reaching the temperature
  point of explosion. He also pointed out, which has been strangely
  neglected, until enforced recently by the Royal Commissioners on
  Accidents in Mines, that it failed to act in a current of air, but that
  this effect of currents could bo diminished by shielding or protecting
 the inlet of air.
      The main principle discovered by Davy is the basis of all safety
  lamps burning oil or spirit, but several departures in form have been
   proposed at different times. Tho " Geordie " is in reality a Davy
   lamp with a glass shield. The " Jack " lamp is a Davy in a tin can.
   The " Clanny " is a Davy lamp with the flame portion surrounded

1888.]               on Safety Lamps in Collieries.                 209
by a thick glass cylinder to increase the emission of light, and now
•with a bonnet or shield to protect it .from currents of air. The
" Mueseler," or Belgian type, is a " Olanny " with a central metallic
cone acting as a funnel to increase the draught, and therefore the
light. The " Marsaut," or the French type, is a bonneted or pro
tected " Clanny," with two and three gauzes added to increase tho
security. The number of lamps is legion. A new intake here, a
fresh egress there, a new direction to the currents of air feeding the
flame, a change in the form or character of the wick, a lock, a
different form of pricker, a shut-off or extinguisher (automatic or
manual), is quite sufficient to justify a new patent and a now name.
The Royal Commission experimented upon 250 different kinds of
lamps.
    Since the commencement of the year a new Act has come into
force rendering it unlawful to use the plain " Davy," " Stephenson,"
or " Clanny " lamp in mines where safety lamps are necessary.
They must bo shielded, and great numbers are being converted into
bonneted " Marsauts " and " Muesolers." They are also being con
structed to burn the best vegetable oil (rape or colza), to which one-
third mineral oil is added, as recommended by the Royal Commission,
to enhance the light-giving power of the lamp. These converted
lamps have baffled all attempts to explode them in currents of
explosive gases of very high velocity, and under the most rigid tests.
    There are several objections to these oil lamps. They go out, or
are put out when danger exists ; they render that most important
and essential duty, examination of the roof, difficult and insufficient.
If they become extinguished by accident or design, much time is
necessarily wasted in getting them relighted, an operation that must
be done at or near the shaft, perhaps two miles away from the work
ing face, and which therefore reduces the output of coal and the
earnings of the collier. The light they give, even at the best, is
very small—about one-third to half of a candle.
    There are several dangers present. The Royal Commission
said :—" Tho source of light within the lamp should be unable under
any circumstance, at all likely to occur in working coal to causo tho
ignition of an inflammable mixture of fire-damp and air, even when
this is passing at a high velocity." But glasses break by water,
heat, falling coal, and accident. Joints get loose and bad even when
protected by asbestos washers.
    They prove a constant temptation to tho thoughtless and callous
to get a light. The perfect light does not exist at present, but while
these mechanical lamps are very excellent in their way, electricity
seems likely to step in and supply their deficiencies and fill a
decided want. An electric lamp can be mado to give any desired
amount of light, but anything between half a candle and a candle
 seems easily attainable, and such a light can be maintained steady
and bright in explosive gases and in strong currents of air. They
arc simple in construction, easy of inspection ; they are not likely

210                    Mr. William Henry Preece               [Feb. 10,
to be extinguished in handling like the Mueseler ; but they do not
act as detector of the presence of gas, and they might explode gas if
their protecting glass shield were accidentally broken.
    It is remarkable that Davy himself in 1815 experimented with an
arc lamp in a closed vessel of glass, but it was not until 1865 that a
practical lamp was proposed for collieries. Dumas and Benoit used
a small Geissler tube illuminated by sparks from an induction coil
and excited by a primary battery ; but it was heavy—it was a kind
of knapsack to be carried on the back, and it met with no success.
    Mr. Swan has been more successful. The great success of the
glow lamp, in the introduction of which he has played so prominent
a part, and the perfection of the secondary battery have enabled him
to produce a lamp that compares in weight and size and light with
the best mechanical lamp. Eight hundred of these lamps are in
constant use in the National Colliery in the Rhondda Valley in
South Wales, and 1600 more are on order for the Risca and Aber-
carne Collieries belonging to Messrs. Watts, Ward, and Co. They
are giving great satisfaction. A collier told me that the electric
light was " as good as the moon." The lamp batteries are charged
a great number at a time in blocks at the pit bank.
    Mr. Pitkin has also been very successful in making light portable
lamps, and they have been practically used in Caunock Chase and at
the Tyldesley Collieries in Lancashire.
    The " Sun " lamp is another very promising form, worked by
secondary battery. It is light—3 Ib. 12 oz. ; it gives 1j candle, and
this is maintained for ten hours. Secondary cells usually require
about twelve hours' charge to emit a ten hour discharge, but this cell
will give a ten-hour discharge with four hours' charge. It is fitted
with a safety appliance—a plan patented by Mr. Sennett in 1882 —
by which the lamp is automatically switched out the instant that tho
outer protecting glass is broken or cracked, so that contact between
the hot filament of the lamp and the explosive gas is prevented.
 This safety appliance has been tested by Mr. Rhodes at the Aldwarcke
 Colliery in actual explosive mixtures.
     Many efforts have been made to introduce primary batteries for
the same purpose, but up to the present moment I have seen only
one—the Schanschieff—which, in efficiency, lightness, and economy
comes up to the requirements of a safety lamp. A primary has this
advantage over a secondary battery—that it is charged at once by an
operation as simple as that of trimming a Davy. To trim a Davy
means thorough cleaning, inserting a fresh wick, pouring in new
oil. A primary battery means pouring out old, and pouring in fresh
solution.
     Occasionally zincs require renewal, but all these operations are
within the intelligence of the collier, and the lamps need not go to
the surface. The simplicity of the operation has distinct merits of
its own that compensate for the extra cost of the materials used.
    The chief charm of the electric lamp is not the greater light that

1888.]                on Safety Lamps in Collieries.                 211
it gives, but the power it gives the viewer to examine the roofs of the
ways and workings ; it is so extremely portable and handy ; it can bo
pat anywhere ; the battery can be placed on the ground or suspended
by a spike to a tree, and the lamp can be fixed in the cap or around
the waist ; it can bo put anywhere and used anyhow.
     Mr. Sopwith, at Cannock Chase, has been taking heavy batteries
to the working face, and using bright 5-candle lamps in reflectors,
so as to illuminate the working face with a light which in that
region is comparable to daylight. The men are charmed with it.
     The chief defects of the electric lamps are their fragility, the
liability of the carbon filament to break, the weight of the battery,
and the absence of gas detection ; and these defects have been very
much enhanced by imperfect construction and injudicious details.
Electricians have not spent sufficient time in the lower regions, and
practical colliers have no time to go to the laboratory. When the two
professions are properly amalgamated wo shall very likely obtain the
true safety lamp.
     The electric lamp is not a fire-damp detector, but an electrical
 appliance for this purpose is easily added. Liveing and Swan havo
done this ; but it is doubtful whether a more efficient detector than the
 Davy exists, and whether an apparatus that is so thoroughly under
 stood, and so thoroughly practical, will be superseded for a purpose
for which it seems so eminently adapted.
     I cannot conclude, especially in this place, with more pregnant
 words than Davy's own :—" The gratification of the love of knowledge
 is delightful to every refined mind; but a much higher motive is
 oflered in indulging in it when that knowledge is felt to be practical
 power, and when that power may be applied to lessen the miseries or
 increase the comforts of our fellow creatures."
                                                           [W. H. P.]

212                         Sir Henry Doulton                  [Feb. 17,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 17, 1888.
   WILLIAM HDOGINS, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                              in tho Chair.
                      SIB HENBY DOULTON, M.R.I.
    Some Developmentt of English Pottery during the last fifty years.
THE opportunity for tho efforts of the potters of each succeeding age
lies in tho fact that tho manufacture is based on conditions which are
constantly varying, and sometimes even startling in their unexpected
results. Tho material with which the potter deals is as varied as aro
the localities from whence it is taken, and as infinitely diversified as
are the workers' tastes and ingenuity. And further, the final and
essential process, the subjection to fire, " which tries every man's
work of what sort it is," and especially tries the potter's work, is
hidden from view, and under this condition the List stages of the
work may be heightened in effect or hopelessly marred.
    The progress of the art of pottery affords many striking instances
of tho laws of growth, perfection, and decay. As schools of philosophy,
poetry, and painting are subject to rise, culmination, decline and fall,
so is thn potter's art. It is, however, a striking fact, that, with
hardly any exception, only those potters have been able to maintain a
long-lived career who have relied for their staple manufacture on
utilitarian rather than decorative wares. A proportion of tho useful
seems to be an essential condition of any degree of permanence.
    A school of artistic pottery is short-lived, firstly, because it is
dependent npon individual taste and culture, and, secondly, because
it is not remunerative. Wedgwood, Worcester, and Minton have
undoubtedly maintained their continuous production through so long
a period by careful attention to the requirements of domestic as well
as ornamental pottery.
    I propose, in the limited time at my disposal this evening, to
indicate the progress of tho last fifty years in both useful and
artistic pottery, and the happy blending of both qualities in some
directions.
    Professor Church, in his masterly work on English pottery, says,
" About the year 1790, the careful, elegant, and rich wares which had
held their own for nearly half a century, were gradually displaced by
more gorgeous productions, covered with gilding, and possessing even
less freedom and spontaneity than tho works of Chelsea and Etruria,

1888.]          on Some Developments of English Pottery.               213
in fact, vulgar when not merely feeble." The decadence which
then set in continued until the commencement of the now renaissance
with the reign of Her Majesty.
     From its purity and durability, pottery, embracing the finest
porcelain and the roughest earthenware, has been a useful adjunct—
I might almost say an absolute necessity—for the sanitarian, the
chemist, the architect, the agriculturist, and the electrician.
     The rapid advance of chemical and other scientific discoveries, and
the application to manufactures of scientific processes, has also led to
a vastly increased demand for pottery suited to such operations;
while the gigantic development of telephone and telegraph has had
its proportionate effect on pottery production. The impetus given
to metallurgy has brought about a greatly extended use of crucibles,
and the rapid advance of sanitary science has given a distinct
impulse to pottery manufacture. Indeed, pottery has in no small
degree conduced to the satisfactory solution of the great sanitary
problems of the present age. The application of tcrra-cotta, too, has
led to the most successful results.
     The same advances in scientific research which have multiplied the
demand for pottery wares have had an equal influence in improving
their quality and efficiency, as well as reducing the cost of their
production.
     In 1846, anticipating an extensive use of stoneware for street and
house drainage, I began a special factory for its production, and since
that time the manufacture has increased till it may now bo considered
a great national industry.
     The introduction of baths, sinks, lavatories, glazed bricks, ventilat
ing and syphon traps, irrigation pipes, and many other inventions
have in late years provided the moans of greatly reducing tho death-
rate of large communities, and it is not too much to say that sanitary
science has advanced pari passu with the use of pottery.
     The increasing demand for chemical vessels of stoneware capable of
resisting acids may be regarded as giving the first important impulse to
the Lambeth Potteries. At the present time, care and experience, to
gether with bettor machinery for the preparation of the material, makes
it practicable to produce vessels of four or five hundred gallons capacity.
     Under tho category of things both useful and beautiful in pottery,
are earthenware tiles. In 1840, R. Prosser, of Birmingham, obtained
a patent for the manufacture of buttons by reducing the material of
porcelain to a dry powder, and subjecting it to strong pressure between
steel dies. Prosser disposed of part of his interest in this patent to
 Minion, who then made some very beautiful buttons and studs. In
 1841 Blashfield conceived that this process might bo extended to tho
 manufacture of small tiles and tesserse. In 1843, the process of
 manufacture was exhibited by Prosser and Blashfiold at a meeting of
 the Royal Society, when the late Princc Consort took groat interest in
 the making of tessera, and desired an account of the whole subject
 to be sent him.

214                         Sir Henry Doulton                   [Feb. 17,
    To those best able to appreciate the obstacles to be overcome, the
results achieved in this direction by Mm ton, and later on by Maw,
stand out as triumphs of patient technical research.
    I cannot here refrain from rendering my tribute of admiration to
the beautifnl lustre pottery of De Morgan, which has had its principal
application to tiles. Of all the adaptations of Persian and Hispano-
Moresque art, his has been the most successful. Maw & Co. have,
however, lately almost rivalled in their ordinary productions the
exquisite work of this school.
    Nor must we fail to notice the constructive faience or glazed terra
cotta so successfully produced during the last few years by Messrs.
Minton, Wilcock, Cliff, and Doulton, which has lately become a
recognised method of embellishment for many of our large hotels.
    Of late years the gradual introduction of fireclay into open fire
places in the shape of slabs for back and sides has directed attention
to the desirability of its introduction in England in the form of closed
stoves.
    Decorative Pottery.—Looking back over the last half-century, it is
apparent that progress rather than discovery has marked the age so
far as pottery is concerned. The 18th century is filled with the
names of pioneers in the potter's art in this country, whose patient
research has enabled their followers to improve and perfect the
results. But it is difficult to recall during the Victorian age many
discoverers in plastic manufacture which can be named on the same
lines as those of Elers and Ashbury, who introduced ground flint ;
Sadler of Liverpool, and Dr. Watt of Worcester, who introduced
pottery printing ; Cooksworthy, kaolin ; and Wedgwood, jasper ware ;
and other important discoverers.
    The introduction of lead-glaze and of the process of transfer-
printing had completely displaced the demand for salt-glazed stone
ware, which virtually ceased at the end of the last century.
    The discovery by Joseph Spode of opaque china was followed by
the perfecting of parian. This success was greatly due to Copeland,
but there is little doubt that Minton's experiments in the same direc
tion were simultaneous. During the past fifty years there has been
continuous development of Messrs. Mmton's productions, and their
name, together with those of Worcester and Wedgwood, occupy a
position of honour among potters in later times.
    The masterly executions of Bolt in enamel painting on dark-blue,
or " Limoges Worcester," together with the later introduction by
Mr. Binns of ivory porcelain at the Royal Porcelain Works, are
achievements of which the present era may justly feel proud.
    Salt-glazed Stoneware.—In examining the various English wares
of early date, stoneware arrests attention as a great advance on all
that has gone before. That advance was due, not so much to any
patient insight into quality or admixture of material, as to a distinctly
novel principle of manufacture, viz. the glazing of ware by vaporous
flux while approaching the vitrifying point, common salt being thrown

1888.]          on Some Developments of English Pottery.            215
into the kiln when at full white heat. The decomposed fames of soda
combine with the minute particles of silica in the surface of the ware,
and form a thin glassy coating of intense hardness. Experience soon
showed the discoverers that the full qualities of the glazing by this
method could not be reached except as the ware approached the vitri
fying point, so that those means adopted to give brilliancy to the
glaze also of necessity produced excellence of body and strength and
durability.
     Though talented decorators were certainly employed on Delft
ware in Lambeth at the early part of the present century, no attempt
was made to apply this talent and experience to the embellishment of
the salt-glazed ware, which was allowed to sink into a manufacture
devoid of all pretence to beauty. Such was the condition of the
stoneware manufacture at this time, and such it continued until 1867,
when the first efforts were made at Lambeth.
     It is somewhat remarkable that the latest introduction of the last
half century should consist of an art-ware which, instead of gathering
up all the resources and experience of the past, sprang, as it were,
from an altogether independent stock, and though in some respects
apparently a revival of old traditions, and rising up from the selfsame
spot as the Delft potteries, the Doulton stoneware received no inspira
 tion from its predecessors. It has been successful in starting out a
 path for itself both original and progressive.
      In 1868 the idea was conceived of attempting to raise salt-glazed
 stoneware into an art material. The first attempts at decoration were
 confined to form and relief with simple coloured bands and runners.
 To this, " sgraffito " or incised outline filled in with blue, was soon
 added. A small collection of vases and jugs was exhibited at the
 International Exhibition of Paris, 1867, and from this time till 1871
 no further progress was made. Early in 1871 it was determined to
 mako every effort at Lambeth Pottery to originate examples of
  decorated stoneware. The result distinctly aimed at was successfully
 attained, and the greater portion were eagerly purchased for the
 museums throughout Europe. It is satisfactory to know that the
  strenuous efforts made during the last fifteen years to maintain
  the unique and original characteristics of the ware have been appre
  ciated.
       The later months of 1873 also brought about the introduction of
  an entirely new branch of works, viz. Lambeth Faience, a ware
  painted under the glaze on a soft biscuit of warm tone and glazed
  with a lead glaze.
       Each International Exhibition called forth renewed effort, and
  that of Paris in 1878 was still more varied and important. In the
  following year another new ware was introduced called " Impasto,"
  the decoration being executed on the soft clay by means of coloured
  slips. In the year 1880 the so-called " Silicon " ware was introduced.
  It consists of a vitrified stoneware impregnated with metallic oxides
  throughout its mass and coated with a " smear " or semi-glaze.

216     Sir H. DovMon on Developments of English Pottery.        [Feb. 17,
    It is much to be feared that the taste and intelligence of purchasers
has not advanced concurrently with the production of really beautiful
and artistic works. There is with the public of the present time a
morbid craving after novelties, irrespective of their intrinsic excel
lence, and this craving leaves neither designer nor manufacturer time
to develop the full capabilities of his productions before the passing
day of public appreciation has gone by.
    I might here refer to two original workers whose early training
was accomplished at the Lambeth School of Art, viz. Miss Barlow
and Mr. Tinworth. Mr. Tinworth undoubtedly owes the recognition
and early development of his powers to this School, and opportunities
of more advanced study to the Royal Academy. (Lantern views
were hero shown of some of Mr. Tinworth's works.)
     The last fifty years has seen development rather than initiative in
pottery treatments, and science even more than art will probably have
the greatest influence on this manufacture in the immediate future. I
would fain indulge the hope that a large proportion of the works of
this period, surviving the ravages of time, will testify in the distant
future to the combined beauty and utility of the production of the
English potter in the Victorian age.
                                                                [H.D.]
     (The lecture was illustrated by a series of specimens, and in the
 library was exhibited a collection of the productions of Doulton,
 Minton, Worcester, Maw, and De Morgan, including some examples
 of Messrs. Doulton's Burslem ware.)

1888.]    The Very Rev. 0. G. Bradley on Westminster Abbey.        217
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                      Friday, February 24, 1888.
  EDWARD WOODS, Esq. M. Inst. C.E. Vice-President, in the Chair.
            The Very Rev. G. GBANTILLE BRADLEY, D.D.
                         Dean of Westminster.
                           Westminster Abbey.
THE lecturer, who spoke merely from a few notes, began by dwell
ing almost in despair on the extraordinary range and multifarious
aspects of his subject. He gave a sketch of three or four lines of
thought to which he or others speaking on such a subject might
have confined themselves. He might have found a rich field of
interest in tracing the history of the mere fabric, from the day when
the Norman builders of Edward the Confessor reared the structure
which covered nearly or quite the same ground as that on which its
more stately successor stands to-day. He might, avoiding technical
and architectural details, have described the work of Henry III., and
its slow and gradual completion, till at last, after five centuries of
active work and of long pauses, its western towers stood up new and
glistening in Hogarth's picture of St. James's Park now on view.
Or he, or one more competent, might have called their attention to
the Abbey as a museum of priceless value, from the merely artistic
side of its contents, including as they do a continuous series of
English and foreign sculpture from the thirteenth century down to
yesterday. Or, again, he might have tried to put before them some
thing of the inner life and outward history of the great Benedictine
monastery of which this historic church formed but a part. How
few of the thousands of visitors to the Abbey thought of the genera
tions of monks who for 500 years paced those cloisters, slept in that
dormitory, and sang and knelt in that choir, whose abbots were tho
treasurers, or counsellors, or secretaries, or ambassadors, or gaolers
of kings, whose domains and manors comprised Hyde Park and
St. James's, much or all of Kensington Gardens, and such districts as
Chelsea, Paddington, Belgravia, and Covent Garden. Or, fourthly,
he might have put before them, by the aid of photography, illustra
tions of the tombs, and spoken of the historic memories which they
awake, alike in themselves and in their often touching juxtaposition.
    But he would turn from these and other inviting vistas of thought,
and content himself with putting before them a few hints as to the
various influences whose combined action had given the Abbey such
a hold on the affections of all who speak our language, and which
    VOL. XII. (No. 82.)                                       Q

218                The Very Rev. G. Granville Bradley        [Feb. 24,
gave a hundred-fold force in the present day to the striking words
of Edward IV., who in a letter to the Pope, written over four cen
turies ago, spoke of it as dear to the orbis Anglicanus—the " whole
English world."
     What were then, what are now, the claims to so unique a position
of a church whose legal title is " the Collegiate Church of St. Peter,
 Westminster " ? (1) It was no doubt a great monastic church, as its
very name of Abbey implied. Its very legends, such as that of the
consecration of the first rude church by St. Peter himself, were
closely intertwined with its real history, and had aided its abbots
in their pertinacious and successful efforts to assert their entire
independence of the English Episcopate. But had this been all,
its interest might have grown pale when its days as an abbey church
came to an end under Henry VIII., when for a short time it became
what Shakespeare calls it—a " Cathedral Church "—and reappeared
with its present constitution. It owed its singular position to excep
tional causes. For (2) it was the great monument raised by the last
of the English Kings who were heirs of Alfred ; it was reared by
Edward the Confessor as his own burial-place. And as such the
new and foreign dynasty of the Conqueror claimed a share in it as
his heirs, assumed their crowns one after another by his graveside,
till at last the fusion between Norman and Englishman was marked
by the erection of the most important part of the new church by
Henry III., who chose his own place of sepulture by the side of the
Shrine in which he placed the body of the sainted King. Round
that shrine, with some interesting exceptions, slept his sons and
successors, and it became more and more what Edward III. expressly
calls it, the colossal " Royal Chapel " of the Kings of England, and
its history became in every generation more and more intertwined
with the history of England as shadowed forth in those Kings—in
their accessions, their marriages, their wars, and their deaths. (3)
To the people of England also it had become dear—first, as contain
ing the relics of the native King to whose reign they looked back as
the golden age of the liberties of England ; and later on as the scene
not only of great religious ceremonies, but of great pageants held in
memory of national triumphs. There, too, in its splendid Chapter
house was the meeting place of the Commons of England, of the
Parliament that was to become the mother of Parliaments. And (4)
from the awakening time of the Reformation its influence grew and
widened. There was not merely the splendid addition made to it
on the very eve of that epoch by the chapel of Henry VII., but there
was the recognition of other forms of greatness than that of kings
and warriors and statesmen and abbots and ecclesiastics, that dated
from the erection of the monument to Chaucer and the burial of
Spenser. The tide of interest spread and deepened with every
generation, till its crowd of monuments touched the memories and
affections of Englishmen, Scotsmen, Welsh, and Irish —alike of
citizens of the American Republic, of members of our own colonial

1888.]                   on Westminster Abbey.                      219
empire, and of natives of India—alike of Churchmen and of Noncon
formists. The very "jumble and chaos" of monuments of which
visitors sometimes spoke had its interest. In the nave, in which all
was comparatively modern, Pitt, with outstretched arm, looked over
a Jacobite Dean's grave on his right, and his rival Pox's monument
on his left. Before him were the gravestones of an Irish Archbishop
and a Nonconformist missionary, of sailors, soldiers, engineers, and
architects, of Newton, and of Darwin. Par to the east lay in the
same vault the first of our Welsh and the first of our Scottish Kings.
By a fortuitous juxtaposition Darnley's effigy knelt with its face fixed
on the tomb of his wife, Mary Queen of Scots. Behind him knelt
his brother, gazing with folded hands on the vault that holds the
ashes of his daughter Arabella Stuart. So again, by an ill-considered
removal, the tablet of Major Creed, who fell at Blenheim, had been
taken from the spot where his mother had placed it, next to the
memorial of two gallant officers who faced death in Lord Sandwich's
flag-ship, and by which he had so . often stood to read their inspiring
story.
    The lecturer said a few words of the periods of danger as well
as of growth through which the actual fabric had passed. It was
at this moment once more in peril. He had entire faith that a
monument of national history which stood alone in the world would
not be suffered to decay and falL
                                                             Q 2

220                        Dr. G. Meymott Tidy                   [March 2,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 2, 1888.
 EDWABD WOODS, Esq. M. Inst. C.E. Vice-President, in the Chair.
               C. MEYMOTT TIDY, Esq. M.B. M.S. M.R.I.
(Professor of Chemistry and of Forensic Medicine at the London
                               Hospital, &c.).
                          Poisons and Poisoning.
TOXICOLOGY is the science of " poisons and poisoning." How comes
" toxicology " to mean " the science of poisons " ? The Greek word
TO£OV (derived perhaps from Tvyxtivta) signified primarily that specially
oriental weapon which we call " a bow." In the very earliest authors,
however, it included within its meaning " the arrow shot from the
bow."
    In the first century A.D. in the reign of Nero (a poisoner and a
cremationist), Dioscorides, a Greek writer on Materia Medica, uses
the expression TO ro^inov to signify " the poison for smearing arrows
with." Thus by giving an enlarged sense to the word—for words
ever strive to keep pace, if possible, with a scientific progress—we
get our modern and significant expression " Toxicology," the science
of poisons and poisoning.
    And there, in that little piece of philology (TO£OV and TO£IKOV—a bow
and a poison), you have not only the derivation of the word, but the
early history of my subject.
    A certain grim historical interest gathers around the story of
poisons and poisoning. It is a history worth studying, for poisons
have played their part in history.
    The " subtil serpent " taught men the power of a poisoned fang.
History presents poisoning in its first aspect in a far less repulsive
form than it has assumed in latter days—(for a world may grow wiser
and wickeder withal). Poison was in the first instance a simple
instrument of " open warfare." For this purpose our savage ancestors
tipped their arrows with poison in order that they might inflict
certain death on a hostile foe. It can scarcely be questioned that
the poison of the snake was the first material employed for this
object. The use of vegetable extracts (such as curarine, the active
principle of which is strychnine, and is employed at the present
time by certain uncivilised communities) belongs to a later period.
    And so the first use of poison was for an " open fight." It was
reserved for later times to mix the cup of kinship with a treacherous,
diabolical venom !

1888.]                    on Poisons and Poisoning.                    221
     " An open fight ! " Is the suggestion (think you) too wild, sup
posing " war chemists " with their powders, their gun-cotton, and
their explosives never to have been invented, that nations would have
turned for their " instrumenta belli " to lexicologists and their poisons.
I claim, however (notwithstanding that in this we missed our chance),
no more for my subject than its due, if I attempt to localise the very
cradlo-room of science as the laboratory of the toxicological worker.
     Besides snake-poison, the use of animal fluids, either alone or
mixed with snake-poison, with which to charge arrows, is pre-historic.
Thus in old Greek legend we read how Hercules dipped his arrows
in the gall of the Lernsean Hydra to render the wounds they inflicted
incurable and mortal, and how at last Hercules himself was poisoned
by his wife's present, the tunic of the Centaur Nessus stained with
his poisonous blood, which she vainly hoped might restore her
 husband's affection, but which only procured for him the frightful
 agonies and tortures of which he died.
     The use of putrid blood as a poisonous agent and the admixture
 of the snake-poison with blood constitutes a curious history, when
 regarded in connection with our present views on septicsemia. The
 toxic activity of putrid animal fluids seems to have been recognised
 in very early times. And I suppose these early observations on the
 effects of putrid blood explain the view almost universally adopted,
 that blood itself was a poison. Thus the deaths of Psammenitus, king
 of Egypt (as recorded by Herodotus), and of Themistocles (as re
 corded by Plutarch), were said to have been effected by the adminis
 tration of bullock's blood. Even Blumenbach, so lately as the middle
 of the last century, persuaded one of his class (by way of settling
 the question) to drink seven ounces of warm bullock's blood. The
 young man (good as were his intentions) did not die a martyr to
 science.
      The history of poisons and poisoning, the contents of the first
 chapter of which I have thus briefly indicated (viz. the toxicity of the
 snake-poison and of blood), down to the final chapter, which com
 mences with the properties and reactions of arsenic, forms a tempting
 subject for my lecture to-night. The histories of Circe and Medea—
 of Livia Drusilla and Locusta—of Tiberius and Nero—of the Borgias
 —of Hieronyma Spara, Tofana, Catherine de Medicis, St. Croix, and a
 host of other worthies, have proved charming topics for the marvellous-
 monger. And it would not have been an unworthy subject to bare
 tho truths underlying the stories of generations of story-tellers,
 obscured as they have become by the demand of ignorant sensa
  tionalism and the terrors of a mean superstition. But this is not the
  subject I have proposed to myself for the discourse to-night.
                          "WHAT IS A POISON?"
      Two difficulties present themselves in answering this question:—
      1. '/'/<.• law has not defined a poison, notwithstanding that the law
 at times demands of science the definition of a poison.

222                         Dr. C. Meymott Tidy                  [March 2,
     I know a case, for example, where a prisoner, indicted for the
administration of a poison, escaped, because the scientific witness
declined to say that the drug administered by the prisoner was a
poison.
     2. The popular definition of a poison is far from being a sound,
much less a scientific definition. Generally speaking, it comes to this,
that " A poison is a drug that kills rapidly when administered in
a small quantity."
     The phrase " a small quantity " as regards weight, and the word
" rapidly " as regards time, are as indefinite as the classical piece of
chalk as regards size.
     I define a poison as—
     " Any substance which otherwise than by the agency of heat or
electricity is capable of destroying life either by chemical action on
the tissues of the living body, or by physiological action after absorp
tion into the living system."
     (A) It will be convenient to consider first, What a poison is not.
     it is not an agent that destroys life by physical influences, such as
heat and electricity.
     It is not an agent that destroys life by any purely mechanical act
(e. g. pins are not poison, although fairly included in the phrase
" destructive things ").
     It is not an agent that destroys life by the mere blocking out of
that which is necessary to maintain life (i. e. the action of a substance
to be a poison must be more than mechanical).
     This latter point requires further consideration :—
     Both nitrogen and carbonic acid destroy life as certainly as they
extinguish a burning taper. Yet nitrogen is not a poison, whilst
carbonic acid is.
     Nitrogen simply destroys life by blocking out oxygen. Given
the presence of 20 per cent. of oxygen, the 80 per cent. of nitrogen
possesses no toxic effect.
    The carbonic acid, on the contrary, is specifically toxic. The
admixture of 20 per cent. or of 80 per cent. of oxygen does
not materially alter the case. Oxygen or no oxygen, C02 is a
poison.
     (B) Consider next, What a poison is.
     It is an agent capable of destroying life.
     The use of the phrase deadly poison, is surplusage. If a body bo
a poison, it is deadly ; if it be not deadly, it is not a poison.
     My definition limits the mechanism whereby the toxic effect is
induced, to chemical and physiological actions. I am conscious that
this definition suggests classification. Certain is it, that Nature
hates classification as truly as she declines definitions.
     Let us trace some of these mechanisms of toxic activity. I select
three illustrations of poisons belonging to different classes.
     (1) Sulphuric Acid.—If a person swallows sulphuric acid, the tissues
with which the acid comes into contact are more or less charred :—

1888.]                  on Poisons and Poisoning.                     228
" more or less," that is, according to the strength of the acid and the
time of contact.
     Charred :—This implies a chemical act, dependent on the power
of sulphuric acid to combine with water.
     The portion of the body thus charred dies. We call this mole
cular death. (This does not imply that the person is dead. Health
is disturbed. Health is derived from the old Saxon word " Wholth,"
signifying entirety. Health implies the perfect rhythmicity of the
bodily functions. It is that condition expressed with charming sim
plicity by Suffolk folk, who describe being " quite well " by the phrase,
" they feel att over alike." The charring process (molecular death)
has disturbed rhythmicity.) Before long all the members suffer with
the charred stomach. The death, localised in the first instance,
becomes general, the death of the entire body, i.e. of the person,
eventually taking place. We call that somatic death. This is
poisoning by sulphuric acid. But the primary act of disturbance—
the first interference with the rhythmicity of health—resulted from
the chemical power of sulphuric acid to combine with water.            It
will be evident tbat the chemical action of a poison depends on the
chemical relationships of that poison.
     (2) Carbonic Oxide.—Carbonic oxide is a true poison. It is a
gas that may often be seen burning with a blue flame on the top of a
bright fire in the open fire-stove.
     Its importance amongst poisonous bodies depends on the cir
cumstance that it is evolved in many manufacturing operations
(e. g. lime and brick kilns, iron blast furnaces, copper-refining
furnaces, &c.), and that it is always present in small quantity in
coal gas, constituting its true toxic constituent.
     What then is the mechanism whereby carbonic oxide destroys
life?—The active agent of the blood is its red colouring matter
(Hsemoglobin). To the chemist this substance abounds in wonder.
     Wo have reason to believe that haemoglobin is formed from the
aIbumenoids, the synthesis of which aIbumenoids is limited to the
vegetable. Essential as the aIbumenoids are to animal life, the animal
is dependent for their formation on the synthetical processes taking
place in the plant laboratory. The animal, however, can transmute
one aIbnmenoid into another (e. g. he can change aIbumen into a
peptone), whilst he can also form from them bodies of less com
plicated constitution (e. g. fat) :—in other words, he can lower them
 in the scale. But, save with one exception, he cannot use them to
 effect higher synthetical formations. This single exception is haemo-
globin.
     It is no matter for surprise that a body like haemoglobin—one of
 the chief actors, so to speak, in the curious drama of life and living
—which comes on the scene through a stage opening, of which we
neither know construction nor whereabouts—should possess unique
chemical properties and relationships. I shall only Uaujjle you this
evening with one of these relationships. , " -<_/:

224                        Dr. C. Meymott Tidy               [March 2,
    As a general rule, a substance that combines with oxygen with
difficulty, parts from it with ease, and vice versa. It is difficult to
make gold combine with oxygen, but it is easy to decompose oxide
of gold. Potassium easily combines with oxygen, but it required
the genius of a Davy, and the resources of the Royal Institution,
to separate potassium and oxygen.
    In haemoglobin, however, we have a substance that combines
with, and delivers up, its oxygen (i. e. is oxidized and reduced) with
almost equal facility under similar conditions. Upon this and other
chemical characteristics of haemoglobin—as the oxygen-receiver, the
oxygen-carrier, the oxygen-deliverer, the carbonic-acid receiver,
carrier, and deliverer—the act of living depends. In other words,
life depends on (lie integrity of the haemoglobin—on the rhythmicity
of those chemical processes, in effecting which haemoglobin is the
primary worker.
    With these facts before us, let us turn to the toxic action of
carbonic oxide.
    The haemoglobin at once seizes upon and combines with the
carbonic oxide, carbonic-oxide-haemoglobin being formed.
    Two difficulties arise :
    1. The haemoglobin, saturated with carbonic oxide, cannot combine
with oxygen. Regarding hsemoglobin as a common carrier, the car
riage is full.
    2. The haemoglobin, being saturated with carbonic oxide, cannot
get rid of the carbonic oxide under the ordinary conditions of respira
tion and circulation. Again, regarding the hsemoglobm as a common
carrier, the vehicle, full up, cannot be unloaded.
    To put all this in scientific phraseology, carbonic-oxide-haemo-
globin is a comparatively stable compound, being neither decomposed
by the presence of an excess of oxygen (as in the lungs) nor by
carbonic acid. What must happen ? The man dies because the
integrity of the haemoglobin has been disturbed—because the normal
sequence of its oxidation and reduction has been interrupted by the
formation of carbonic oxide haemoglobin.
    We call the result of all these chemical actions and interferences,
poisoning by carbonic oxide.
    3. Strychnine (the poison derived from St. Ignatius' Bean).
    How does strychnine act ? We know sadly little about it—so
little that we use the phrase " physiological action " to express our
want of knowledge. But we know something.
    A marked chemical characteristic of strychnine is its power to com
bine with oxygen when the oxygen is presented to it in a nascent form.
    Note then the conditions. Strychnine is in the body. There is
also present in the blood, haemoglobin loosely combined with oxygen,
which oxygen the haemoglobin is always ready to give up on first
demand. We are able to trace this action, and to see that the period
of the primary strychnine fit coincides with the reduction of the
haemoglobin.

 1888.)                 on Poisons and Poisoning.                     225
     Why (you ask) docs that kill ? I cannot tell you. It is the highest
form of knowledge to see tho limits of positive knowledge, and to
make that the starting-point for fresh inquiry.
     From what I have said, it will be evident that my object has been
to trace toxic energy to the chemical action of poisons on living
 tissues or fluids. The phrase " physiological action " must not be
 understood as implying any theory re modus cperandi. There is a
 danger lest the phrase " physiological action " should be employed, or
 regarded, as explanatory. It no more explains (be it remembered) the
 action of certain drugs on the living body than tho word catalysis
 explains fermentation.
     There naturally follows on what I have said respecting this
chemical action of poisons, the following important question :—
     Given knowledge of certain properties of tho elements, such as
their atomic weights, their relative position according to the periodic
law, their spectroscopic characters, &c. ;—or given knowledge of
the chemical composition, the molecular constitution, together with
the general chemical and physical properties of compounds, in other
 words, given such knowledge of the element or compound as may be
learnt in a laboratory—does such knowledge afford any clue whereby
we may predicate the probable action of the element or of the com
pound respectively, on tho living body ?
     1st. Let us limit our attention to the elements.
     Tho starting-point of this inquiry was the toxic properties of the
metals. The work of Blake (1841) in this direction was afterwards
extended by Rabuteau (1867). Their observations led them to the
general conclusion, that "the physiological activity of the metals
increased with their atomic weight." This broad general statement
was modified at a later period by noting that the reverse was the case
with certain groups of metals. Thus potassium (39) is more poisonous
than sodium (23), and barium (137) more poisonous than calcium
(41). These facts led Rabuteau to the conclusion, that any com
parisons of toxicity must be limited to the metals belonging to tho
same group. Husemann and Richet, however, pointed out that
even this rule did not hold good, seeing that lithium having an atomic
weight of 7, was far more poisonous than either sodium or potassium.
     Experiments on the metals were further conducted by Richet with
the metallic chlorides. Grain by grain, at intervals of forty-eight
hours, he added the chlorides to water in which he kept fish of a given
kind. He then recorded the maximum strength of the solution of the
metallic chloride in which these said fish would live for forty-eight
hours. The conclusion at which he arrived was that the limits of
the toxicity of a metal bore no relationship cither to its atomic
weight, or to any other chemical or physical characteristic of the metal.
    Bouchardat and Stewart Cooper, in a similar manner, experimented
with tho non-metals. Selecting the haloid group of elements, they

226                        Dr. C. Meymott Tidy                 [March 2,
noted that their toxicity -was inversely to their atomic weight,
fluorine (19) being the most poisonous, and iodine (127) the least
poisonous of the group, chlorine (35 • 5) and bromine (80) occupying
their proper intermediate positions. But here again the group
theory was inevitable. What was true of monad elements was not
true of the elements of higher atomicity, the toxicity of selenium (79)
being far greater than that of sulphur (32).
    With these facts before us there arises this question, Was a
relationship to be expected between physiological action and atomic
weight ? One poison acts on muscles—a second on nerves and nerve-
centres—a third on the blood :—Is it likely, even supposing a relation
ship to exist between a certain group of elements and a given organ
or a given structure, that the relationship would be the same in the
case of all organs and all structures? These researches (the outline
of which I have briefly indicated) suggest this much to future observers,
viz. : First of all group your poisons according to their methods of
operation, and then see how far the degree of toxicity of the terms of
any one group show relationship to the atomic weights of such group.
    But the difficulties of comparison thicken, when we consider the
physiological action of certain allotropic modifications of the
elements.
    Thus compare yellow phosphorus, a body readily inflammable,
soluble in bisulphide of carbon, firing by contact with iodine, with
red phosphorus, a body at variance with the yellow variety in the
three respects named. Nor is this all. For yellow phosphorus is an
active poison, two grains being a certainly toxic dose, whilst red
phosphorus is an absolutely inert body.
    Take a second illustration. In its ordinary form oxygen plays
the part of a life sustainer. But oxygen is only a life sustainer in its
common form and at ordinary pressure.
    On this latter point I have no time to dwell, save to mention that
if an animal be exposed to oxygen at three pressures, the resulting
symptoms are not unlike those induced by strychnine.
    There is, however, an allotropic form of oxygen called ozone.
The physiological action of ozone was the subject of a communication
to the Royal Society of Edinburgh by Dewar and McKendrick (1873).
Their experiments were made on both cold and warm-blooded animals,
including amongst the latter themselves and their assistants.
     The results are remarkable, more particularly when we remember
that the air with which they operated, at most only contained 10 per
cent. of ozone.
    Placing a large frog in a jar of air, and then ozonizing the air,
the frog in about half a minute closed its eyes, the respirations fell
from 96 to 8 per minute, and the body temperature was lowered 4° or
5° C. The animal recovered in about 8 minutes, when pure air was
admitted into the receiver. Death resulted if the animal was exposed
for any lengthened period to the action of the ozonized air.
     As regards the action of ozone on warm-blooded animals, Dewar

  1888.]                  on Poisons and Poisoning.                   227
  records certain personal experiences, chief amongst which were a
  tendency to breathe slowly, an enfeebled pulse, and fits of sneezing.
       But now comes the curious part of the story, viz. that at the post
  mortem on the animals that died under the influence of ozone, the
  blood was found to be venous. (The results were similar when pure
  ozonized oxygen was employed.) It is most remarkable that the
  post-mortem appearances of death from an intensified oxygen should
  resemble those of death from carbonic acid.
       I give these illustrations to show why there should be reason to
  doubt whether the physical or chemical properties of an element can
  ever suggest either toxic activity or physiological action.
       2nd. Compounds.
       Is there any relationship between the chemical composition or
 constitution of a compound body and its physiological action ?
       The first series of researches on this question was directed to
 determining whether, in the case of a salt, the acid or the base was,
 physiologically, the most important ingredient (Blake 1841).
      No doubt most often the active agent of a salt is the base, but
 this is by no means uniformly the case. Probably the solubility of
 a compound and the different proportions of acid to base in the salt
 (i. e. whether the compound in question be an acid or a basic salt) arc
 agencies which also help to determine the toxicity of the body and
 its physiological action.
      A second series of experiments was made by Blake for the purpose
 of showing that, given a series of isomorphic salts, the intensity of
physiological action increased with the molecular weight. Ho further
 contended that salts crystallising in different forms had different
physiological actions. On this basis he constructed a series of nine
groups of salts, each group being characterised by special physiological
actions, insisting with much reason that we possess in living matter
a reagent (so to speak) capable of aiding us in our investigations
into the molecular properties of chemical compounds. If from
molecular constitution you can determine physiological action,
probably from physiological action, conversely, you may determine
molecular constitution.
      Another series of experiments in a similar direction were made
by Schoff on the Continent, and by Fraser and Crum Brown in this
country.
     Of these experiments the most important are those indicating how
from bodies of vastly different physiological action you may obtain
derivatives having similar properties.
     For example, the physiological action of strychnine is primarily
exerted on the spinal cord. As a result, convulsions occur as a
prominent symptom. But if we introduce into the strychnine
molecule a methyl group (forming methyl-strychnine), the action of
the drug is altered—methyl-strychnine paralysing (strychnine stimu
lating) the motor nerves.
     But here comes a curious fact. If we take morphine, or nicotine,

228                        Dr. C. Meymott Tidy                [March 2,
or atropine, or quinine, or veratrine (none of which bodies are com
parable in their physiological action to strychnine), and convert
them into their methyl derivatives, the methyl compounds formed
(viz. methyl-morphine, methyl-nicotine, &c.) are comparable in their
physiological action to methyl-strychnine.
     We must admit these experiments to be striking. One treasures
any experiment suggestive of the chemical constitution of a body
indicating physiological action.
      But again:—The true physiological action of a drug is not so
 much its general as its selective action, this selective action being
 largely dependent on the dose administered and the mode of
 administration.
      For example : Inject into the circulation of a frog a small dose
 of veratrine, great muscular stiffness results, a large dose similarly
 administered not producing this effect. And now change the method
 of administration : Apply the small dose directly to the muscle, you
 get no symptom ; but apply the large dose directly, and great muscular
 stiffness results. Here see the modifying influence of dose and of the
 mode of administration.
      Again, tho difficulty of " allotropism " in the case of elements,
 finds its counterpart in " isomerism " in the case of compounds.
 Thus cyanogen and paracyanogen are bodies of identical percentage
 composition, and yet cyanogen is one of the most poisonous of gases,
 whilst paracyanogen is one of the most inert of solids.
      Or, again, take piperin and morphine. These bodies are of identical
 percentage and molecular composition. They agree (it is true) in
  being poisons. But how vastly different their physiological action !
  —the one an extreme irritant, the other a powerful narcotic.
      I fear we must admit that, as no a priori reasoning could predict
 that by combining copper and sulphuric acid a blue salt would be
 formed, so no a priori reasoning, no knowledge of chemical constitu
  tion, can predicate what will be the special organ on which any
  given poison will act, nor, even supposing that the organ upon which
  the chemical activity of the drug will be exerted be known, what will
  be the nature of such chemical action. The science of drugs, like
  the science of chemistry, is, and must ever remain, an experimental
  science.
      And, be it remembered, the poisons of the toxicologist are the
  medicines of the physician. Physiological action is a subject-matter
  for experiment. Let the guard be jealously set and as rigidly
  maintained to prevent cruelty to animals ; but ask yourselves, whether
  to rob the higher creation of life and health rather than that one of
  the lower creation should suffer, be not a refinement of cruelty—the
  cruelty of cruelties ? " Are ye not of much greater value than they ? "
  speaks a still small voice amidst the noisy babble of well-intentioned
  enthusiasts.
       Two general observations are suggested. And this first : The
  later ago history of poisoning is the history of a profession. This

 1888.]                on Poisons and Poisoning.                     229
profession we find closely associated, not only with the profession of
medicine (the art of healing), but with witchcraft, incantation, and
charms. The threefold arts of poisoning, witchcraft, and medicine,
moreover, became so closely allied to religion, as to claim, each and
all, the shield of a sacred sanction and the protection of a Divine
voice. Even that very word i^dp/xa/as, the Greek for ' a dispenser of
medicines' is the same word used to imply ' a witch ' and ' a poisoner.'
The modern scientist has once and for ever shattered the bond that
united science with superstition. It was a special ministry of science
to teach men that in the preparation of medicines the pharmacist
required no stuffed crocodile to preside over the mysteries of his
laboratory, nor incantation to give virtue to his drugs !
    And this secondly : The villanies of the early poisoners can
never again be practised in the light of the science of the nineteenth
century. Science can and has done what legislation could never
do. The Hebrew Scriptures speak of a time when " the sucking
child shall play on the hole of the asp, and the weaned child shall
put his hands on the basilisk's den " (Is. xi. 8, Rev. Ver.). Is not
science working out some such consummation as this? I claim
that a science which, like a blood-hound, can track with cunning
scent the minutest atom of a poison in the body, is helping forward
the day when poison shall cease to be the instrument of a secret
treachery, because there are eyes it cannot hope to evade, and a
science whose investigations it will not dare to defy.
                                                          [C. M. T.]

230                        General MonMy Meeting.                   [March 5,
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, March 5, 1888.
   EDWARD WOODS, Esq. M. Inst. C.E. Vice-President, in the Chair.
           Frederick Beer, Esq.
           Thomas Buckney, Esq. F.R.A.S.
           The Hon. Justice Day,
           J. E. Drower, Esq.
           George Beloc Ellis, Esq.
           David Charles Guthrie, Esq.
           Robert George Hobbes, Esq.
           Graham Hutchison, Esq. J.P.
           Mrs. William Moir,
           Percival Arthur L. Pryor, Esq.
           Vincent Joseph Robinson, Esq.
           Alfred Richard Sennett, Esq.
           Louis Sterne, Esq.
           George Philip Willoughby, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
following Donation to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
Research :—
                            Professor Dewar, £100.
     The following Arrangements for the Lectures after Easter were
announced :—
    CHARLES WALDSTEIN, Esq. M.A. Ph.D.—Three Lectures on JOHN RUSKIN ;
on Tuesdays, April 10, 17, 24.
    WALTER GARDINER, Esq. M.A.—Three Lectures on THE PLANT IN THE WAR
OP NATURE; on Tuesdays, May 1, 8, 15.
    SIDNEY COLTIN, Esq. M.A.—Three Lectures on CONTENTIONS AND CONTEN
TIONALITY IN ART ; on Tuesdays, May 22, 29, June 5.
    PHOFESSOR DEWAR, M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I. Fullerian Professor of Chemistry, R.I.
—Six Lectures on THE CHEMICAL ARTS ; on Thursdays, April 12, 19, 26, May 3,
10,17.
    PROFESSOR T. G. BONNET, D.So. LL.D. F.R.S.—Three Lectures on THE
GROWTH AND SCCLPTUBE OF THE ALPS (The Tyndall Lectures) ; on Thursdays,
May 24, 31, June 7.
    CARL ARMBRFSTEH, Esq.—Seven Lectures on THE LATER WORKS OF RICHARD
WAGNER (With Vocal and Instrumental Illustrations); on Saturdays, April 14,
21, 28, May 5, 12, 19, 26.
    PROFESSOR C. E. TURNER, of the University of St. Petersburg.—Three Lectures
on COUNT TOLSTOI AS NOTELIST AND THINKER ; on Saturdays, June 2, 9, 16.

 1888.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                         231
      The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz :—
      FROM
 The Governor-General of India—Geological Survey of India : Palamtologia Indica,
      Ser. X. Vol. IV. Part 3. 4to. 1887.
   Records, Vol. XX. Part 4. 8vo. 1887.
   Memoirs, Vol. XXIV. Part 1. 8vo. 1887.
    Manual of the Geology of India, Part IV. Mineralogy. By F. R. Mallet. 8vo.
      1887.
 The French Government—Documents Incdits sur 1'Histoire de France : Lettri-s
      de Catherine de Medicia. Par Cte. Hector de la Ferriere. Tome III.
      1567-70. 4to. 1887.
 Abel, Sir Frederick, C.S. D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Accidents in Mines.
      (Proc. Inst.Civil Kng. 1886-8.) 8vo. 1888.
 Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1887, Part 2. 8vo.
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. Vol. III.
      2" Semestre, Fasc. 8, 9. 8vo. 1887.
 American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Memoirs, Vol. XI. Part V. No. 6. 4to.
      1887.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLV1II. No. 3. 8vo. 1888.
Australian Museum, Sydney—Descriptive Catalogue of the Medusa of the Austra
      lian Seas. By R. von Lendenfeld. 8vo. 1887.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. IX. Part 2. 8vo. 1888.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1887-8, Nos. 8, 9. 4to.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. VI. Part 3. 8vo. 1888.
Canada Geological and Natural History Survey—Catalogue of Canadian Plants,
      Part III. Apetalro. By J. Macoun. 8vo. 1886.
Chemical Society— Journal for February, 1888. 8vo.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.8. Ac. M.R.I, (the Editor)—Journal of the Royal
      Microscopical Society, 1887, Part 6a; 1888, Part 1. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for February, 1888. 4to.
   Analyst for February, 1888. 8vo.
   Athensenm for February, 1888. 4to.
   Chemical News for February, 1888. 8vo.
   Chemist and Druggist for February, 1888. 8vo.
   Engineer for February, 1888. fol.
   Engineering for February, 1888. fol.
   Horolngical Journal for February, 1888. 8vo.
   Industries for February, 1888. fol.
   Iron for February, 1888. 4to.
   Murray's Magazine for February, 1888. 8vo.
   Nature for February, 1888. 4to.
   Revue Scientifique for February, 1888. 4to.
   Scientific News for February, 1888. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for Fubruary, 1888. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for February, 1888. 4to.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 746. 8vo. 1888.
Geographical Society, Royul—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. X. No. 2. 8vo. 1888.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 173. 8vo. 1888.
Harden, Edicard B. Esa. (the Author)—The Construction of Maps in Relief. 8vo
     1887.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 130, 137, 138. 8vo. 1887.
ifanchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIX. Part 13. 8vo. 1887.
Ministry of Public Works, Rome—Giornale del Genio Civile, Serie Quinta,
     Vol. I. No. 12. 8vo. And Disegni. fol. 1887.
Montpellier Academic des Sciences et Lettres—Memoires, Tome XI. Fasc. 1
     (1885-6). 4to. 1887.

232                        General Monthly Meeting.                 [March 5,
New York Academy of Sciences—Transactions, Vols. I. II. and V. 8vo. 1881-6.
Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1887, Part 4. 8vo. 1887.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, February, 1888. 8vo.
   Calendar for 1888. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XII. No. 4. 8vo. 1887.
Rio de Janeiro Observatory— Revista, No. 1. 8vo. 1888.
   Annuario, 1885, 1880, 1887. 16to.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XXX. Part 4 ; Vol. XXXII.
     Parts 2-4; Vol. XXXIII. Part 1. 4to. 1883-7.
   Proceedings, Nos. 121-123. 8vo. 1885-6.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings. Nos. 261,262. 8vo. 1887-8.
   Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CLXXVIII. 4to. 1888.
Science anil Education Library, South Kensington Museum—Catalogue of Scientific
     Periodicals. 8vo. 1886.
St. Petersbnurg, Acndemie Impfriale des Sciences—Memoires, Tome XXXV.
     Nos. 8, 9. 4lo. 1887.
Society of Artt—Journal, February, 1888. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. L. Part 4. 8vo. 1887.
 Telegraph Engineert, Society of—Journal, No. 69. 8vo. 1887.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 142. 8vo. 1888.
 United States Geological Survey—Mineral Resources of the L'nited States for
     1886. 8vo. 18'87.
 Vereins tur BefSrderung det Gewerbfleiesee in Preussen—Vcrhandlnngen, 1888:
     Heft 1. 4to.
 Wild, Dr. H. (the Director)—Annalcn der Physikalischen Central-Observatoriums,
     1886, Theil 2. 1887.
 Wright and Co. Messrs. John (the runlisheni)—The Medical Annual, 1888. 8vo.
 Yorkshire Archnnlogical and Topographical Association—Journal, Part 39. 8vo.
     1888.

1888.]             Mr. Leslie Stephen on S. T. Coleridge.                   233
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, March 9, 1888.
   EDWABD WOODS, Esq. M. Inst. C.E. Vice-PresideHt, in the Chair.
                        LESLIE STEPHEN, Esq. M. A .
                               8. T. Coleridge.*
IN the period which intervened between the Great War and the first
Reform Bill, there were two centres of intellectual light in England.
Jeremy Bentham, in his cheerful old age, reached his eightieth
birthday in 1828, still, as he phrased it, codifying like any dragon,
solving all problems by the application of his famous formula about
the greatest happiness of the greatest number, and adding day by day
to the vast piles of manuscript which were to embody the principles
of all future legislation. To his hermitage in Westminster were
admitted a little group of chosen disciples, the stern political econo
mists, rigid utilitarians, and energetic reformers, some of whom were
in the coming years to assume the title of philosophical radicals.
Another band of enthusiasts sought a different shrine. They listened
to an oracle which taught them that utilitarianism was " moral
anarchy," political economy a "solemn humbug," radicalism the
 direct road to ruin, and true wisdom only to be found in regions of
contemplation which Bentham could never enter—for a reason
analogous to that which forbids pachydermatous quadrupeds to soar
 into the empyrean. We know pretty well what was the manner of
 man at whose feet these disciples sat. The keenest of contemporary
 observers has left a picture which must be laid under contribution for
 every description of Coleridge. Carlyle saw an old man—though in
 point of actual years he was Bentham's junior by nearly a quarter of
a century—with the brow of a philosopher and the eye of a poet, but
with the irresolute flabby mouth of a sensuous dreamer of dreams,
 consuming cups of tea, lukewarm but bettor than he deserved, or
 strolling, corkscrew fashion, along both sides of a garden path, un
able to make up his mind to either. You put him a question ; he re
 plied by accumulating " formidable apparatus, logical swim-bladders,
    * It seems desirable to say that some of the statements in the Lecture rest
upon an examination of original documents, many of which have not hitherto
been accessible to biographers. I owe my knowledge of them chiefly to Mr.
Dykes Campbell, whose knowledge of the subject is most minute and exhaus
tive. A complete biography still remains to be written ; it may be expected from
Mr. Ernest Coleridge, who is in possession of bis grandfather's MSS.—LESLIE
STEPHEN.
     VOL. XII.     (No. 82.)                                           u

234                          Mr. Leslie Stephen                 [March 9,
transcendental life-preservers, and other precautionary and vehiculatory
gear for setting out ; " but rambled into the universe at large, treated
you " as a mere passive bucket, to be pumped into " (fancy a Carlyle for
a passive bucket !), and finally left you " swimming and fluttering in the
mistiest wide unintelligible deluge of things, for the most part in a
rather profitless uncomfortable manner." Yet, at times, we are told,
" balmy sunny islets, islets of the blest and intelligible," would rise out
of the haze ; and upon these islets the enthusiastic Sterling and others
would try to cast anchor. Had they reached the solid foundation of
creation, or had they, like Milton's pilot of the small night-foundered
 skill', mistaken some metaphysical Eraken for the permanent frame
 work of things ?
       That question may be answered dogmatically by any one who
 pleases. Immovable limits of time and capacity forbid me from
 attempting to answer it now. My excuse for venturing to say some
 thing of Coleridge—certainly one of the most fascinating and most
 perplexing figures in our literary history—is simply this : I have been
 forced to investigate with some care the details of his career ; and I
 ought to be able not only to answer the question but to provide a little
 " vehiculatory gear " towards answering it. Coleridge's philosophy
 must of course be judged by considerations extraneous to his personal
 history. Yet I think, as a professional biographer is in duty bound
 to think, that philosophy is, more often than philosophers admit, the
 outcome of personal experience ; and Coleridge's singular history may
 throw some light upon his teaching. Here we meet the hagiologist
 and the iconoclast, the twin plagues of the humble biographer.
 The hagiologist burns incense before his idol till it is difficult to
 distinguish any fixed outline through the clouds of gorgeously-
 tinted vapour. Coleridge thought himself to have certain failings.
 His relations fully agreed with him. His worshippers regard these
 meek confessions as mere illustrations of the good man's humility,
 and even manage to endow the poet and philosopher with all the
 homely virtues of the respectable and the solvent. To put forward
 such claims is to challenge the iconoclast. He, a person endowed
 by nature with a fine stock of virtuous indignation, has very little
 trouble in picturing the poet-philosopher as a shambling, unreliable,
  indolent voluptuary, to whom an action became impossible so soon as
  it presented itself as a duty, and who, even as a man of genius, must
 be condemned as unfaithful to his high calling. And so we raise the
  usual edifying discussion as to the privileges of genius. Do they
  include superiority to the Ten Commandments ? Can you expect a
 poet to confine himself to one wife ? May a man neglect his children
 because he has written the ' Ancient Mariner ' and ' Christabel ' ?—
 points of casuistry, of which, with your leave, I will postpone the
 consideration to a future occasion.
       For my purpose, it is enough to ascertain the facts. I have not
 to decide whether Coleridge should receive excommunication or
 canonisation ; whether he deserved to go straight to heaven or to

1888.]                      on S. T. Coleridge.                      235
pass a period—and, if so, how long a period—in purgatory. It is
difficult to settle such questions satisfactorily. I desiderate an accu
rate diagnosis, not a judicial sentence. Coleridge sinned and repented.
I take note of sin and of repentance as indications of character. I do
not pretend to say whether in the eye of Heaven the repentance would
be an adequate set-off for the sin. But I premise one apology for
anything that may sound iconoclastic, and which I think is worth
the consideration of the amiable persons who undertake to rehabili
tate soiled reputations. A man's weakness can rarely be overlooked
without underestimating his strength. If Coleridge's intellect were,
as De Quincey said in his magniloquent way, " the greatest and most
spacious, the subtlest and most comprehensive, that has yet existed
among men " (what a philosopher one must be to pronounce such a
judgment ! ), why were the results so small ? Because the ethereal
soul was chained to a fleshly carcase. To deny this is to force us to
assume that what he did was all that he could do. Yon must either
exaggerate his actual achievements beyond all possible limits, or save
your belief in his potential achievements, by admitting that his intel
lect never had fair play.
    Let us consider the antecedents of the prophet of Highgate Hill.
Was there ever a young man fuller of intellectual promise or of per
sonal charm than the youth of twenty-five, who, in 1797, rambled
through the Quantocks discussing and composing poetry with Words
worth ? Circumstances apparently unfavourable had only served to
stimulate his intellectual growth. Separated from his family in
infancy, to become one of the victims of our public school system—
ill-fed, ill-nursed, and ill-taught at Christ's Hospital ; urged upon
the treadmill of a sound classical education by a rigid schoolmaster,
he had assimilated with singular aptitude whatever intellectual food
had drifted within his reach. He had caught glimpses of high meta
physical secrets ; he had peered into the mysteries of medical
practice ; he had bolted a miscellaneous library whole ; he had been
infected with poetical enthusiasm by the study of that minute day-
star, W. L. Bowles ; and he had completed his training by falling
desperately in love with the inevitable sister of a schoolfellow. It
is a comfort to reflect that the best regulated systems of education
break down somewhere. Coleridge, it would have seemed, ran every
risk of being driven sheep-like along the dull highroad of Latin
grammar. Nature had prompted him to leap the fences, to expatiate
in the wide fields of intellectual and imaginative pasture, and to
derive a keener zest for his nourishment from the knowledge that the
indulgence was illegitimate. Cambridge, the mother of poets, received
him with the kindness she has so often shown to her children. We
—I speak as a Cambridge man—we flogged (or nearly flogged)
Milton into republicanism ; we disgusted Dryden into an anomalous
and monstrous preference for Oxford ; we bored Gray till, half stifled
with academic dnlness, ho sought more cheerful surroundings in a
country churchyard ; we left Byron to the congenial society of his
                                                             B 2

236                         Mr. Leslie Stephen                  [March 9,
bear; we did nothing for Wordsworth, except, indeed, that we took
him to Milton's rooms, and there for once (it must really havo done
him some good) induced him to take a glass too much ; and we, as
nearly as possible, converted Coleridge into a heavy dragoon. We
ordered him to bow the knee to Euclid, and to Newton's Principin,
the only idols whose merits were altogether beyond his powers of
appreciation, and by snch kindness in disguise induced him to plunge
into a precocious breach with the proprieties. A fellowship might
have converted him into a solid Church and State don, an oracle of
 the Combination Room, and a sound judge of port wine. We sternly
withheld the temptation. A reformer has to start in life as a rebel.
Coleridge sympathised with the rebellious William Frend, who was
being banished from Cambridge for excessive liberalism. He offered
his youthful incense to Priestley, the " patriot and saint and sage "—
so the young enthusiast called him—who was soon to be expelled by
 the exuberant loyalty of Birmingham from an ungrateful country.
 Though never a Jacobin, he became what, in some form or other, a
young man ought to become—an enthusiast for the newest lights, a
 partisan of the ideas struggling to remould the ancient order and
 raise the aspirations of mankmd. The Master of the College shook
 his reverend head, kindly enough at times, at the lad's vagaries, and
 forgave him even for that preposterous attempt to become a trooper
 which never enabled him, with all his subtlety of distinction, to form
 any clear conception of the difference between a horse's head and its
 tail. But he could not run in the regular track. He was thrown
into the chaotic world to sink or swim by his unassisted abilities.
 No man had, in some ways, a better floating apparatus. The poetic
vein, soon to manifest itself in his best work, was indeed still turbid
with the alloy of didactic twaddle. But already he had the versatility,
the inherent vitality of intellect, the power of embodying philosophic
 thoughts in poetic imagery, which made him unrivalled in monologue.
 He talked better, I am apt to think, with his chum, Charles Lamb,
at the " Cat and Salutation," than he ever talked to his worshippers
at Highgate Hill. A man is at his best before he is recognised.
 Coleridge's early letters and essays show the fulness and intellectual
vigour, without the too elaborate and slightly sanctimonious circum
 gyrations, of his later effusions. And his genius was such as
 implied a double portion of the power of making friends, which, with
 most of us, wanes so lamentably as the years go by. Lamb, his
 earliest and latest friend, was already devoted to this brilliant school
 fellow ; and if Lamb was an easy conquest, men of less conspicuously
 tender nature were equally attracted. He had only to meet Southey
 at Oxford to swear at once an eternal friendship—a friendship to be
cemented by a regeneration of the world.
      Coleridge was to be the Plato of a new society to be founded in
the wilds of America. There a short and healthy space of daily toil
was to provide all that was necessary for a band of poets and philo
sophers, too benevolent to caro for separate property, and worthy

1888.]                     on S. T. Coleridge.                      237
founders of an Arcadia of perfect simplicity, refinement, and equality.
As for the Eves of the Paradise, were there not three Miss Flickers ?
Coleridge^repelled for a time the too obvious foreboding that Pan-
tisocracy was but a province of dreamland. Dreamland was his
reality. For the demands of butchers and bakers he had still a
lordly indifference. He had the voice which could charm even a
publisher. The prim and priggish Cottle was at once annexed by
Coleridge, and all the natural caution of a tradesman did not with
hold him from promising a guinea for every hundred lines to be pro
duced by a still untried uew poet. What were one hundred lines to
the genius which conld turn off an act of a tragedy in a morning,
and which soon afterwards could build the shady palace of Kubla
Khan in a dream? Coleridge was justified, in point of bare pru
dence, in marrying at once on the prospect. Somehow the poetry
did not come so fast as the bills. But Coleridge had other strings to
his bow. He set up as a lecturer and journalist. His marvellous
eloquence condescended for the nonce to wile promises of subscrip
tion even from dealers in tallow ; and the philosopher—not without a
humorous sense of his own absurdity—became a successful commercial
traveller. The newspaper of course collapsed almost on the spot. All
the arrangements were absurd, and Coleridge's eloquence proved to be
somehow uncongenial to the tallow-dealing interest. But meanwhile,
in the co:irse of his journey, Coleridge had incidentally and, as it
were, by the mere side glance of his eye, swept up Charles Lloyd, son
of a rich banker, who, fascinated and enthralled, left the bank to
become an inmate of his teacher's house, and, no doubt, a contributor
to its expenses. Poole, a most public-spirited and intelligent man,
offered him an asylum at Nether Stowey. The Unitarians, to whom
he more or less belonged, were ready to open their pulpit to a preacher
whose eloquence promised to rival even the most splendid traditions
of the refined age of Leighton and Jeremy Taylor.
    Hazlitt, not yet soured and savage, heard Coleridge preach in
1798 ; and tells us in true Hazlittian style how his voice rose like a
storm of rich distilled perfumes ; how he launched into his subject
like an eagle dallying with the wind ; how, in brief, poetry and
philosophy had met together, truth and genius had embraced under
the eye and with the sanction of reason. The Unitarian firmament
was too cramped for this brilliant meteor ; the philosophy expounded
from the pulpits seemed to him meagre and rigid ; and, while hesi
tating, he received an offer from the generous Wedgwoods, anxious to
spend some part of their wealth in the patronage of genius.
    Rumours had reached England by this time that a great intellec
tual light had arisen in Germany. The Wedgwoods gave Coleridge
a modest annuity, unfettered (as I can now say) by any condition
whatever, a fact which makes the subsequent withdrawal a harsher
measure than has been supposed. Coleridge resolved to go to
Germany, catch the sacred fire of the Kantian philosophy, and return
to England to regenerate the mind of his countrymen. He started

238                         Mr. Leslie Stephen                  [March 9,
in September, 1798, when ho was just twenty-six, in company with
the friend who alone could be compared to him in intellectual power.
Wordsworth had been attracted, as Lamb and Southey had been
attracted before him. Coleridge and Wordsworth had discussed the
principles of their common art ; and Coleridge had applied them in
those wonderful poems, the ' Ancient Mariner ' and ' Christabel '
(the first part), which were to be but the prologue to a fuller utter
ance; a wonderful prologue, for, though followed by nothing, it
remained unique and inimitable. Coleridge was not yet deterre, as
Pope said of Johnson ; the ordinary critics had only a passing smilo
or sneer for the little clique which published its obscure utterances
in a provincial town. Monthly and critical reviewers—the arbiters
of taste— would have been astonished to hear that Coleridge and
Wordsworth and Lamb and Southey would soon stand in the very
front ranks of English literature ; and he must have a clearer con
science than I who would cast a stone at critics for not at once detecting
the first germs of rising genius. But, as ex post facto prophets, we
are able to see that Coleridge already had not only given proofs of
astonishing power, but had won what was even more valuable, the
true sympathy and cordial affection of young men who were the dis
tinct leaders of the next generation. Even material support was not
wanting from such men as Poole and Wedgwood sufficient to ensure
a fair start for the little band of prophets. We should have been
justified in foretelling, with unusual confidence, a career of surpassing
brilliancy for the youth, of whom it seemed only questionable whether
he would choose to be a second Bacon or a second Milton.
     And if, at that time, any one could have shown us the same
Coleridge at a distance of eighteen years, the worn, depressed, pre
maturely aged man who took up his abode with Gillman in 1816, we
should have been shocked, and yet, perhaps, have been able to utter
our complacent " I told you so." What so far had been the achieve
ments of the most brilliant genius of the generation : a man not only
 of surpassing ability, but of surpassing facility of utterance ; a man
whom to set going at any moment was to unlock a perpetually
flowing fountain of abounding eloquence ? A few newspaper articles
 and some courses of lectures, he said in 1817, constituted his whole
 publicity. It may be added that he had jotted down on the margins
 of books enough detached thoughts to have made some volumes of
 admirable reflections. But he had achieved nothing to suggest
 concentrated thought or sustained labour. In a shorter period
 Scott poured out the whole of the Waverley novels, besides dis
 charging official duties, and writing a number of reviews and
 miscellaneous works. I say nothing as to the quality. I am simply
 thinking of the amount of work; and Coleridge's work cost little
 labour, for his power of improvisation was among his most mar
 vellous faculties. Why, then, was the work so limited in quantity ?
  The internal facts are sufficiently significant. After his return from
  Germany in the autumn of 1799, he wrote Borne articles which

  1888.]                    on S. T. Coleridge.                    239
 certainly proved that his intellect was in full vigour, translated
 ' Wallenstein," and then, in 1800, retired with his family to
 Keswick. Here at once ominous symptoms begin to show them
 selves. A strange disquiet is betrayed in his letters ; there are
 painful complaints of ill-health ; his poetic inspiration breathes its
 last in the 'Ode to Dejection.' He sought in vain to distract
 painful thought by metaphysical abstractions; he rambled off in
  1804 to spend two years and a half in Malta and Italy. Returning
 to England, he tried lecturing at the Royal Institution, and then
 settled at Grasmere—fifteen miles of mountain roads from his wife—
 and repeated his ' Watchman ' experiment by writing the ' Friend."
 The youthful buoyancy, even flippancy, has departed, though it
 shows far riper thought and richer intellectual stores. But weari
 ness of spirit marks every page ; the long sentences somehow suggest
 a succession of stifled groans ; as the enterprise proceeds, it can
 only be kept up by introducing any irrelevant matter that may
 be on hand—such as old letters from Germany which happened to
 be in his portfolio, and an extravagant panegyric upon his patron at
 Malta, Sir Alexander Ball.
     The ' Friend ' soon falls dead, and Coleridge drifts back to
 London. There ho makes efforts, pathetic in their impotence, to
 keep his head abovo water. He tries journalism again, but without
 the occasional triumphs which had formerly atoned for his irregu
 larity. He lectures, and is heard with an interest which shows that,
 in spite of all impediments, his marvellous powers have at least
 roused the curiosity of all who claim to have an intellectual taste.
He has a gleam of success, too, from the production of his old
 tragedy, ' Remorse,' written in the days of early vigour. But some
 undertow seems to be sucking him back, so that he can never get
his feet planted on dry land. He retires to Bristol, and thence to
Calne, where he seems to be sinking into utter obscurity. He has
almost passed out of the knowledge of his friends, when a last
despairing effort lands him at Highgate, and there a rather singular
transformation, it may seem at first sight, enables him to become the
oracle of youthful aspiration, wisdom, and virtue. Painfully, and
imperfectly with their aid, he gathers together some fragments of
actual achievement—enough to justify a great, but a most tantalising
reputation.
     What was the secret of this painful history ? Briefly, it was
opium. Coleridge said so himself, and all his biographers have
stated the facts. Without this statement the whole story would be
unintelligible, and we could have done justice neither to Coleridge's
intellectual powers nor even to some of his virtues. To tell the
story of Coleridge without the opium is to tell the story of Hamlet
without mentioning the ghost. The tragedy of a life would become
a mere string of incoherent accidents. Nor are the facts doubtful.
Coleridge, I fear, composed, or invented, for the benefit of Gillman,
a certain picturesque " Eoudal black drop "—a treacherous nostrum,

240                         Mr. Leslie Stephen                [March 9,
it ia suggested, which gave him relief in his sufferings at Keswick,
and overpowered his will before he had recognised its nature. The
truth is, as can be abundantly proved by his letters at the time, that
he was taking laudanum in large quantities in 1796, that is when he
was just twenty-four, under the pressure of illness, but certainly
well knowing what he was taking. It was at Eeswick, not that he
first indulged, but that he first became aware of his almost hopeless
enslavement.
     After reading many painfully conclusive proofs of this passion,
I confess that I think it less remarkable that his demoralisation in
this respect seemed to be complete about 1814, than that he suc
ceeded, under Gillman's care, in so far breaking off the habit as to
make a certain salvage from the wreck. I simply take note of these
facts, and leave anybody who pleases to do the moralising ; but I am
forced to add a few words upon another topic, to which his apologists
have resorted in order to extenuate the opium-eating. Briefly, it
has been attempted to save his character by abusing his wife.
Undoubtedly, as the recently published Coleorton papers prove,
there was a complete want of sympathy. The same documents
show that it was not, as had been generally supposed, a case of
gradual drifting apart. Proposals for a regular separation had been
made by the time of Coleridge's return from Malta. Coleridge's
apologists have said that Mrs. Coleridge was one of lago's women,
born " to suckle fools and chronicle small beer," and quite unable to
appreciate Kantian metaphysics, or even ' Christabel.' A very
doubtful legend has been put about, that she once said, " Get oop,
Coleridge " (a remark for which one can conceive a sufficient justifi
cation), and no man can be expected to care for a woman who says
" Get oop," or for her children. Prom letters of hers which I have
seen, I am inclined to think that Mrs. Coleridge must really have
been a very sensible woman, who worked hard to educate her own
children, and the children of her Bister, Mrs. Southey, in French and
 Italian, and who could express herself in remarkably good English.
 She was no doubt inappreciative of a genius which could not be set
to bread-winning. And moreover, when a man has an ecstatic
 admiration for another woman, it is not likely to make his relations
 to his wife more pleasant. To speak of all this as a moral excuse
 for Ooleridge is to my mind unmanly. If a man of genius con
 descends to marry a woman, and be the father of her children, he
 must incur responsibilities. The fact that he leaves her, as Cole
 ridge did, his small fixed income, the balance of her expenses to bo
 made up by his brother-in-law and other connections, is so far to his
 credit, but does not excuse him for a neglect of those duties, not to
 be measured in pounds, shillings, and pence, which a husband and
 father owes to an innocent woman and three small children. Cole
 ridge's position was no doubt difficult, but the mode in which ho
 solved the difficulty is a proof that opium-eating is inconsistent with
 certain homely duties.

1888.]                     on S. T. Coleridge.                       241
    An experienced person ha^ said, " Do not marry a man of gonitis."
I Lave no personal interest in that question, nor will I express any
opinion upon it. but one is inclined to say, Don't be his brother-in-
law, or his publisher, or his editor, or anything that is his if you care
twopence—it is probably an excessive valuation—for the opinion of
posthumous critics.
     But, again, I would avoid moralising. I only ask what is tho
true inference as to Coleridge's character. And that consideration
may bring us back to less painful reflections. It is preposterous to
maintain the thesis that Coleridge was the kind of person to bo held
up as a pattern to young men about to marry. Opium had ruined
the power of will, never very strong, and any capacity he may have
liad—and his versatility was perhaps incompatible with any great
capacity—for concentration on a great task. The consequences of
such indulgence had ruined his homo life, and all but ruined his
intellectual career. Bat there is also this to be said, that at his
worst Coleridge was both loved and eminently lovable. His failings
excited far more compassion than indignation. The " pity of it "
expresses the sentiment of all eye-witnesses. He was always full of
 kindly feelings, never soured into cynicism. The strange power of
 fascination which he had shown in his poetic youth never deserted
 him. As De Quincey has said : " Beyond all men who ever perhaps
 have lived, he found means to engage a constant succession of most
 faithful friends. He received the services of sisters, brothers,
 daughters, sons, from the hands of strangers, attracted to him by no
 possible impulses but those of reverence for his intellect and love for
 his gracious nature. Perpetual relays were laid along his path in
 life of zealous and judicious supporters." Whenever Coleridge was
 at his lowest, some one was ready to help him. Poole, and Lloyd,
 and Wedgwood, and De Quincey, had come forward in their turn.
 Through the dismal years of degradation which preceded his final
 refuge at Gillman's, tho faithful Morgans had made him a home ;
 tried to break off his bad habits, and enabled him to carry on tho
 almost hopeless struggle. When Morgan himself became bankrupt,
 it is pleasant to know that Coleridge, among whose faults pecuniary
 meanness had i o place, gave what he could—and far more than he
 could really spnie— to help his t Id friend. When he delivered his
 lectures or poured out a i amazing monologue at Lamb's suppers, or
 in Godwin's shop, young men, at the age of hero-worship, were already
 prepared not only to wonder at the intellectual display, but to feel
 their hearts warreed by the real goodness shining through the shattered
 and imperfectly transparent vessel. Coleridge's letters may reveal
 some part of this charm, though some part, too, of the drawback.
 His long involved sentences, compared by himself to a Surinam toad
 with a brood of little toads escaping from his back, wind about in
 something between a spoken reverie and a sympathetic effusion of
 confidential confessions. When they touch the practical, e. g.
 publishers' accounts, they are apt to become hopelessly unintelligible.

 242                         Mr. Leslie Stephen                [March 9,
 When they expound a vast scheme for a magnum opus, or one of the
 various magna opera which at any timo for thirty years were just
ready to issue from the press, as soon as a few pages were transcribed,
 we perceive, after a moment, that they are not the fictions of the
 begging-letter writer, but a kind of secretion, spontaneously and un
 consciously evolved to pacify the stings of remorse. There are
 moments when he is querulous, but we must forgive them to the man
 who had been hopelessly distanced in popular fame by his inferiors ;
 whose attempts at public utterance had utterly collapsed; whose
 ' Wallenstein ' still encumbered his publisher's shelves ; whose
 poetical copyrights had been deliberately valued at nil ; and whose
 name was only mentioned in the chief reviews as a superlative for
 wilful eccentricity and absurdity. And then, at every turn, we come
 upon frequent gleams, not only of subtle thought and imaginative
 expression, but of shrewd common sense, and even at times of a
genuine humour, which seems to imply that Lamb was partly serious
 when he said that Coleridge had so much ' f-f-fun ' in him. After
 reading many of the letters, which still remain unpublished, I may
 say that it is my own conviction that a life of Coleridge may still be
 put together by some judicious writer, who should take Boswell rather
than the ' Acta Sanctorum ' for his model, which would be as
 interesting as the great ' Confessions ' ; which should by turns remind
us of Augustine, of Montaigne, and of Rousseau, and sometimes, too,
of the inimitable Pepys or Boswell himself ; which should show the
blending of the many elements of a most complex character and a
most versatile and opulent intellect ; which should often call forth
wonder, and smiles, and sighs, and indignation smothered by pity, in
one of those unique combinations which it would take a Shakespeare
to portray and act, and defy the skill of a psychologist to define.
     Only a faint indication of this is to be found in Coleridge's
' Apologia,' or, as he called it, his ' Biographia Literaria,' of which
I must now say a word. It was written at his very nadir, and
published just after he had reached his asylum at Highgate. lu this
sense it has a special biographical value, though its statements,
coloured by the illusions to which he was then specially subject,
have passed mustor too easily with his biographers. Its aim is
chiefly to protest against the neglect of the public and the dispensers
of patronage. Such complaints generally remind nie of a rifleman
complaining that the target persists in keeping out of the Hue of fire.
But if we must pardon something to a man so grievously tried for
endeavouring to shift a part of the responsibility upon other shoulders
than his own, we must be upon our guard against accepting censures
 which involve injustice to others. Nothing but Coleridge's strange
illusions could be an apology, for example, for his complaints that
the Ministry had not rewarded a writer whose greatest successes had
been scornful denunciations of their great leader, Pitt. The book, of
 course, is put together with a pitchfork. It is without form or pro
 portion, and is finally ckcd out with a batch of the old letters from

1888.J                       on S. T. Coleridge.                     243
Germany which ho had already used in the ' Friend,' and apparently
kept as a last resource to stop the mouths of printers.
     Now it is remarkable that even at this time, when his demorali
sation had gone furthest, he could still pour out many pages of
criticism, quite irrelevant to the professed purpose of the book, and
yet such as was beyond and above the range of any living contempo
rary. Coleridge at his worst lost the power of finishing and concen
trating—of which he had never had very much—but not the power of
discursive reflection. He must be compared not to a tree which has
lost its vital fibre, bat to a vine deprived of its props, which, though
most of its fruit is crushed and wasted, can yet produce grapes with
the full bloom of what might have been a superlative vintage. But
there is one fact of the ' Biographia ' for which the apology of illusion
is more requisite even than for his misstatements of fact. Coleridge
has often been accused of plagiarism. I do not believe that he stole
his Shakespeare criticism from Schlegel, and, partly at least, for the
reason which would induce me to acquit a supposed thief of having
stolen a pair of breeches from a wild Highlandman. But it is un
deniable that Coleridge was guilty of a serious theft of metaphysical
wares. The only excuse suggested is that the theft was too certain
of exposure to be perpetrated. But, as it certainly was perpetrated,
this can only be an apology for the motive. The simple fact is that
part of his scheme was to establish his claims to be a great meta
physician. But it takes much trouble and some thought to put to
gether what looks like a chain of a priori demonstration of abstract
 principles. Coleridge, therefore, persuaded himself that he had
 really anticipated Schelling's thoughts and might justifiably appro
 priate Schelling's words. He threw out a few phrases about " genial
 coincidence "—perhaps the happiest circumlocution ever devised for
 what Pistol called " conveying "—and adopted Schelling in the lamp.
 When he had come to an end of Schelling's guidance, he proceeded
 —with an infantile simplicity which disarms indignation—to write a
 solemn complimentary letter from himself to himself, pointing out
 that the public would have had enough of the discussion, and " Dear
 C." politely agreed to drop the subject, with proper compliments to
 his " affectionate, &c."
     And now I come to the very difficult task of indicating, as briefly
 as I can, the bearing of these remarks upon Coleridge's multifarious
 activity. It is not possible to sum up in a few phrases the character
 istics of a man who wrote upon metaphysics, theology, morals,
politics, and literary criticism ; who made a deep impression in all
 the departments of thought ; whose utterances are scattered up and
 down in fragmentary treatises, in complex arguments which generally
 break off in the middle, and in miscellaneous jottings upon the
 margins of books ; whoso opinions have been differently interpreted
 by different disciples, and have in great part to be inferred from his
 comments upon other writers, and can only be intelligible when wo
 have settled what those writers meant, and what he took them to

244                           Mr. Leslie Stephen                [March 9,
mean ; who frequently changed his mind, and who certainly appears,
to thinkers of a different order, to add obscurity even to subjects
which are necessarily obscure. Nor is the difficulty diminished when,
as in my case, the commentator belongs to what must be called the
antagonistic school, and is even most properly to be described as a
thorough Philistine who is dull enough to glory in his Philistinism.
All that I shall attempt is to select a certain aspect of the Coleridgian
impulse, and to say what impression it makes upon a radically prosaic
mind.
    The brilliant Coleridge of Nether Stowey, the buoyant young
poet-philosopher who had not yet been to Germany, was still a curious
compound of imperfectly fused elements. His Liberalism had led
him to the Unitarianism of Priestley and the associative philosophy
of Hartley. But he had also dipped into Plotinus and into some of
the mystical writers who represent the very opposite pole of specula
tion. The first doctrine was imposed upon him from without, the
other was that which was really congenial to his temperament. For
Coleridge was, above all, essentially and intrinsically a poet. The
first genuine manifestations of his genius are the poems which he
wrote before he was twenty-six. The germ of all Coleridge's utter
ances may bo found—by a little ingenuity—in the ' Ancient Mariner.'
For what is the secret of the Etrange charm of that unique achieve
ment ? I do not speak of what may be called its purely literary
merits—the melody of versification, the command of language, the
vividness of the descriptive passages, and so forth—I leave such
points to critics of finer perception and a greater command of super
latives. But part, at least, of the secret is the ease with which
Coleridge moves in a world of which the machinery (as the old critics
called it) is supplied by the mystic philosopher. Milton, as
Peuseroso, implores
                   The spirit of Plato to unfold,
                   What worlds or what vast systems hold
                   The spirit of man that hath fursook
                    Her mansion in this fleshy nook,
                    And of those demons that nre found
                    In fire, air, flood, and underground,
                   TV hose powers have a true consent
                    With plunet and with element.
     If such a man fell asleep in his " high lonely tower," his dreams
 would present to him in sensuous imagery the very world in which
 the strange history of the ' Ancient Mariner ' was transacted. It is a
 world in which both animated things, and stones, and brooks, and
 clouds, and i lants are moved by spiritual agency ; in which, as he
 would put it, the veil of the senses is nothing but a symbolism every
 where telling of unseen and supernatural forces. What we call the
 solid and the substantial becomes a dream; and the dream is the true
 underlying reality. The difference between such poetry, and the

1888.]                      on S. T. Coleridge.                           215
poetry of Pope, or even of Gray, or Goldsmith, or Cowper—poetry
which is the direct utterance of a string of moral, political, or
religious reflections—implies a literary revolution. Coleridge, even
more distinctly than Wordsworth, represented a deliberate rejection
of the canons of the preceding school ; for, if Wordsworth's philo
 sophy differed from that of Pope, he still taught by direct exposition
instead of the presentation of sensuous symbolism. The distinction
might be illustrated by the ingenious criticism of Mrs. Barbauld, who
 told Coleridge that the ' Ancient Mariner ' had two faults— it was
improbable, and had no moral. Coleridge owned the improbability,
but replied to the other stricture that it had too much moral, that it
 ought to have had no more than a story in the ' Arabian Nights.'
Indeed, the moral, which would apparently be that people who
 sympathise with a man who shoots an aIbatross will die in prolonged
torture of thirst, is open to obvious objections.
     Coleridge's poetical impulse died early ; perhaps, as De Qnincey
said, it was killed by the opium ; or as Coleridge said himself, that
his afflictions had suspended what nature gave him at his birth,
                      His shaping spirit of imagination.
So that his only plan was
                  From his own nature all the natural man,
                  By abstruse research to steal,
and partly, too, I should guess, for the reason that this strange mystic
world in which he was at home, was so remote from all ordinary
experience that it failed even to provide an efficient symbolism for his
deepest thoughts, and could only be accessible in the singular glow
and fervour of youthful inspiration. The domestic anxieties, the pains
of ill-health, the depression produced by opium, were a heavy clog
upon an imagination which should try to soar into vast aerial regions.
But it may be donbtfnl whether this peculiar vein of imagination,
emptied in the ' Ancient Mariner ' and ' Christabel," could in any
case have been worked much further.
    At any rate, Coleridge, as his imaginative impulse flagged, passed
into the reflective stage ; and, as was natural, his mind dwelt much
upon those principles of art which he had already discussed with
Wordsworth in his creative period. In saying that Coleridge was
primarily a poet I did not mean to intimate that he was not also
a subtle dialectician. There is no real incompatibility between the
two faculties. A poetic literature which includes Shakespeare in the
past and Mr. Browning in the present is of itself a sufficient proof
that the keenest and most active logical faculty may be combined with
the truest poetical imagination. Coleridge's peculiar service to
English criticism consisted, indeed, in great measure, in a clear
appreciation of the true relation between the faculties, a relation, I think,
which he never quite managed to express clearly. Poetry, as ho says,

246                         Mr. Leslie Stephen                [March 9,
is properly opposed not to proeo but to science. Its aim, he infers, is
not to establish truth but to communicate pleasure. The poet
presents us with the concrete symbol ; the man of science endeavours
to analyse and abstract the laws embodied. Shakespeare was certainly
not a psychologist in the sense in which Professor Bain is a psycholo
gist. He does not state what are our ultimate faculties, or how they
act and react, and determine our conduct ; but, so far as he creates
typical characters, he gives concrete psychology, or presents the
problems upon which psychology has to operate. Therefore, if poetry,
as Coleridge says after Milton, should be simple, sensuous, passionate,
instead of systematic, abstract, and emotionless, like speculative
reasoning, it is not to be inferred that the poet should be positively
unphilosophical, nor is he the better, as some recent critics appear to
have discovered, for merely appealing to the senses as being without
thoughts, or, in simpler words, a mere animal. The loftiest poet and
the loftiest philosopher deal with the same subject-matter, the great
problems of the world and of human life, though one presents the
symbolism and the other unravels the logical connection of the
abstract conceptions.
     Coleridge, having practised, proceeded to preach. That a poet
should also be a good critic is no more surprising than that any man
should speak well on the art of which he is master. Our best critics
of poetry, at least, from Dryden to Mr. Matthew Arnold, have been
(to invert a famous maxim) poets who have succeeded. Coleridge's
specific merit was not, as I think, that he laid down any scientific
theory. I don't believe that any such theory has as yet any existence
except in embryo. He was something almost unique in this as in his
poetry, first because his criticism (so far as it was really excellent)
was the criticism of love, the criticism of a man who combined the
first simple impulse of admiration with the power of explaining why
he admired ; and secondly, and as a result, because he placed himself
at the right point of view ; because, to put it briefly, he was the first
great writer who criticised poetry as poetry, and not as science. The
preceding generation had asked, as Mrs. Barbauld asked: What is
the moral ? Has Othello a moral catastrophe ? What does ' Paradise
Lost ' prove ? Are the principles of Pope's ' Essay on Man ' philo
sophical, or is Goldsmith's 'Deserted Village' a sound piece of
 political economy ? The reply embodied in Coleridge's admirable
criticisms, especially of Shakespeare, was that this implied a total
misconception of the relations of poetry to philosophy. The " moral "
of a poem is not this or that proposition tagged to it or deducible from
it, moral or otherwise; but the total effect of the stimulus to tho
imagination and affections, or what Coleridge would call its dynamic
 effect. That will, no doubt, depend partly upon the philosophy
 assumed in it; but has no common ground with the merits of a
 demonstration in Euclid or Spinoza. It is this adoption of a really
 new method, which makes us feel when wo compare Coleridge, not
 only with tho critics of a past generation, but even with very able and

1888.]                     on S. T. Coleridge.                       247
acute writers such as Jeffrey or Hazlitt, who wore his contemporaries,
that we are in a freer and larger atmosphere, and are in contact with
deeper principles. It raises another question, for it leads to Cole
ridge's most conscious aim. Nothing is easier than to put the proper
label on a poet—to call him " romantic," or " classical," and so forth ;
and then, if he has a predecessor of like principles, to explain him by
the likeness, and if he represents a change of principles, to make the
change explain itself by calling it a reaction. The method is delight
fully simple, and I can use the words as easily as my neighbours.
The only thing I find difficult is to look wise when I use them, or to
fancy that I give an explanation because I have adopted a classification.
Coleridge, both in poetry and philosophy, conceived himself to be one
of the leaders of such a reaction. He proposed to abolish the wicked,
mechanical, infidel, prosaic eighteenth century and go back to the
seventeenth. I do not believe in the possibility or the desirability of
any such reaction. I prefer my own grandfathers to their grand
fathers, and myself—including you and me—to my grandfathers. I
am quite sure that, if I did not, I could not make time run backwards.
We are far enough off to be just to the maligned eighteenth century,
and to keep all our uncharitableness for our contemporaries—it may
do them some good. I would never abuse the century which loved
common sense and freedom of speech, and hated humbug and mystery ;
the century in which first sprang to life most of the social and
intellectual movements which are still the best hope of our own ; in
which science and history and invention first took their modern shape ;
the century of David Hume, and Adam Smith, and Gibbon, and
Burke, and Johnson, and Fielding, and many old friends to whom I
aver incalculable gratitude ; but I admit that, like other centuries, it
had its faults. It was, no doubt, nnpoetical at its close—almost as
nnpoetical as the latter half of the nineteenth ; and somehow it had
fallen into that queer blunder of judging poetry by the canons of
science. The old symbolism of an earlier generation had faded, and
for Pagan or Christian imagery we had frigid personifications, such
even as Coleridge quotes from some prize poem : " Inoculation,
heavenly maid ! " a deity who could be only adored in a rhymed
medical treatise. And Coleridge's charge against the philosophy of
the time was really identical with his charge against the poetry.
    Poetry, without the mystic or spiritual element, meant Darwin's
"Botanic Garden"— an ice-palace, as he called it, a heap of fine
phrases and sham personifications. Take the same element from
theology, and you have Paley's ' Evidences ' ; from morals, and the
residuum is Bentham's utilitarianism. Coleridge's nomenclature
expressed this in a fashion. He was fond of saying that all men
were born Aristotelians or Platonists : Platonists, if, in his favourite
distinction, the reason and the imagination dominated in them, and
Aristotelians if they had only the understanding, the almost vulpine
cunning, which was shared evea by the lower animals, which meant
prudence in morality, reliance upon mere external evidence in

 248                        Mr. Leslie Stephen                 [March 9,
 theology, and pure expediency in politics. How the Aristotelians
 had come to rule the world ever since the opening of the eighteenth
 century is a question which, so far as I know, he never answered.
 But the effect of their dominion was equally to dethrone reason as to
 asphyxiate imagination. The two were allies, if not an incarnation
 of the same faculty. Inversely the Benthamites, till Mill was con
 verted by Wordsworth, regarded poetry as equivalent to mere
 tintinnabulation and lying, or, as Carlyle's friend put it, the " pro-
 dooction of a rude age." It was as much in his character of poet as
 of philosopher, that Coleridge hated Political Economy, the favourite
 science of the Benthamites ; for, according to him, it was an illustra
 tion of their destructive method. The economist deals with mere
 barren abstractions, and then misapplies them to the concrete
 organism, the life of which, according to the common metaphor, has
 been destroyed by his dissecting knife. Coleridge goes too far in
 speaking as if analysis were in itself a mischievous instead of an
 important process, much as Wordsworth thought that every man of
 science was ready to botanise on his mother's grave. But, on the
 other hand, the clear conviction that a society could only be explained
 as an organic and continuous whole enables him to point out very
 distinctly the limits of the opposite school. One indication of this
 contrast may be found in Coleridge's theory of Church and State. It
 is curious that Mill, in his essay upon Coleridge, especially admires
 him for taking into account the historical element in which Bentham
 was deficient. It is curious because it is remarkable that the leader
 of a school which boasted specially of resting upon experience, should
 admit that it was weak precisely in not appreciating the historical
 method on which surely experience should be founded. It seems
 almost as if the antagonists had changed weapons, like the duellists in
 Hamlet. The a priori thinker rests upon experience, and the empiricist
upon a really a priori method.
     The ambiguity indicates Coleridge's peculiar position towards the
opposite school. He regards society as an organism, a something
 which has grown through long centuries, and therefore to be studied
in its vital principle, not to be analysed into a mere mechanism for
distributing certain lumps of happiness. In doing so he was saying
what had been said by Burke, whose wisdom he fully appreciated and
whose real consistency he recognised. To my mind, indeed, Burke as
a political philosopher was far greater than Coleridge. But Burke
hated the metaphysics in which Coleridge delighted, and therefore
with him we seem at beet to come upon blank prejudice, or pre
scription, as the ultimate ground of political science. Coleridge
feels the necessity of connecting his organic principles with somo
genuine philosophical principle, and Mill admits that Conservatism
in his treatment was something very superior to the mere brute
prejudice to which Eldon and Castlereagh appealed, and which was
used as a bludgeon by The Quarterly Review. Unluckily it is here,
too, that we find the weakness of Coleridge's character. He tried

1888.]                      on S. T. Coleridge.                     249
to put together his views at a time when his mind had been hope
lessly enervated ; when he could gness and beat about a principle,
but could never get it fairly stated or see its full bearings. He is
struggling for utterance, still clinging to the belief that he can
elaborate a system, but never getting beyond prolegomena and
fruitful hints. He says that to study politics with benefit we must
try to elaborate the " idea " of Church and State, and the " idea," as
he explains, is identical with what scientific people call a law.
But how the law or laws of an organism are to be determined by
some transcendental principle overruling and independent of ex
periences, is just the point which remains inexplicable. He seems
 to appreciate what we now call the historic method. He uses the
sacred phrase 'evolution,' which is simply the general formula of
 which the historic method is a special application. But we find
 that by evolution he means some strange process suggestive of his
 old mystical employment, and oven at times talks of heptads and
 pentads and the " adorable tetractys," which is the same with the
 Trinity ; and connects chemical laws of oxygen and hydrogen gas
 with the logical formulae about prothesis, and antithesis, and meso-
 thesis. To state the theory of evolution in verifiable and scientific
 terms was reserved for Darwin ; when we meet it in Coleridge we
 scorn to be going back to Pythagoras ; and yet it is the same thought
 which is struggling for an utterance in singular and bewildering
 terms, and moreover it was just the theory which Mill required.
     But, to come to a conclusion, though I cannot think that Cole
 ridge ever worked with his mind clear, or was, indeed, capable of
 the necessary concentration and steadiness of thought by which
 alone philosophical achievements are possible ; though I hold, again,
 that if he had succeeded he would have found that he was not so
 much refuting his opponents as supplying a necessary complement to
 their teaching, I can still believe that ho saw more clearly than any
 of his contemporaries what were the vital issues ; that in his de
 tached, and desultory, and inconsistent fashion he was stirring the
 thoughts which were to occupy his successors ; and that a detailed
 examination would show in how many directions a certain Coloridgian
 leaven is working in later fermentations.
      Besides the able and zealous disciples who acknowledged his
 leadership, wo might find many affinities in Carlyle's masculine if
 narrow teaching; or again, in a school which diverged in a very
 opposite direction, for the theory of Church authority sanctioned by
 the Oxford disciples of Cardinal Newman is, in spite of its different
 result, closely allied to Coleridge's ; while the modern Hegelians—
 though they regard him as a superficial dabbler—must admit that he
 rendered the service (of doubtful value, perhaps) of infecting English
 thought with the virus of German metaphysics, and will perhaps
 admit that, in principle, he anticipated some of their most cogent
 criticisms of the common enemy. Coleridge never constructed a
 system. If a philosophy, or its creator, is to bo judged by the
    VOL. XII. (No. 82.)                                         s

  250               Mr. Leslie Stephen on S. T. Coleridge.      [March 9,
  systematic characters, Coleridge must take a Tory low place. But
  when we think what philosophical systems have so far been ; what
  flimsy and air-built bubbles in the eyes of the next generation ;
  how often we desire, even in the case of the greatest men, that the
  one vital idea (there is seldom so much as one !) could be preserved,
  and the pretentious structure in which it is involved permitted once
  for all to burst ; we may think that another criterion is admissible ;
  that a man's work may be judged by the stimulus given to reflection,
  even if given in so intricate a muddle and such fragmentary utter
  ances that its disciples themselves are hopelessly unable to present it
  in an orderly form. Upon that ground, Coleridge's rank will be a
  very high one, although, when all is said, the history, both of the
  man and the thinker, will always be a sad one—the saddest in some
  sense that we can read, for it is the history of early promise blighted
  and vast powers all but running hopelessly to waste.
                                                                 [L.S.]
•

1888.]            Mr. John Murray on Coral Reef3, &c.                 251
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 16, 1888.
    WILLIAM Hnoaras, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                           JOHN MUBBAT, Esq.
     Structure, Origin, and Distribution of Coral Beefs and Islands.
THE picturesque beauty of the coral atoll, seated 'mid a waste of
troubled waters, with its circlet of living green, its quiet, placid
lagoon, and its marvellous submarine zoological gardens, has long
been celebrated in the descriptions of voyagers to tropical seas. The
attempt to arrive at a correct explanation of the general and charac
teristic form and features of these reefs and islands has, for an
equally long period of time, exercised the ingenuity of thoughtful
men.
     Coral reefs are the most gigantic and remarkable organic accu
mulations on the face of the earth. They are met with in certain
tropical regions, and are huge masses of carbonate of lime, secreted
from ocean waters by myriads of marine organisms. While the
great bulk of the reef consists of dead corals, skeletons and shells, tho
outer surface is clothed with a living mantle of plants and animals.
This is especially the case on the outer and seaward face of the reef,
where there are, at all times, myriads upon myriads of outstretched
and hungry mouths, and not tho least interesting questions connected
with a coral reef are those relating to how these hungry mouths are
satisfied.
    It is to the power of these organisms of secreting carbonate of
lime from sea water—building up and out generation after generation
on their dead selves—that the coral reef owes its origin. So wonder
ful and unique is the result, that combination for a definite end has
sometimes been attributed to these reef-builders.
    There is, however, another process ever at work in the ocean, in
a sense antagonistic to that of secretion of carbonate of lime by
organisms, which has much to do in fashioning the more characteris
tic features of coral reefs. This is the solution of all dead carbonate
of lime shells, skeletons, and calcareous debris, wherever theso are
exposed to the action of sea water. As soon as life loses its hold on
the coral structures, and wherever these dead carbonate of lime
remains are unprotected by rapid accumulation, they are silently,
surely, and steadily removed in solution. This appears to be one of
the best established oceanographical facts, and any theories concern
ing the general economy of tho ocean which fail to take account of
                                                             s 2

252                         Mr. John Murray                  [March 16,
this universal agency are most likely to be at fault. We know
something about the rate of solution, probably more than wo do
about the rate of growth and secretion of carbonate of lime by the
coral polyps. It has been shown that the rate of solution varies
with temperature, with pressure, and with the amount of carbonic
acid present in the water. It is on the play of these two opposing
forces—the one vital and the other chemical—and their varying
activity in different regions and under different circumstances, that
we rely for the explanation of many oceanographical phenomena,
especially many of those connected with oceanic deposits and coral
reefs. In some regions there may be more growth, secretion and
deposition of shell and coral materials than solution by sea water,
and then there results the formation of coral reefs and vast calcareous
deposits at the bottom of the ocean. There may be an almost exact
balance between these processes. And again, there may be more
solution than secretion, as, for instance, in the red clay areas, which
occupy the deepest parts of the ocean, and in some coral reef lagoons.
    What is the nature of the foundations of these coral islands,
surrounded as they sometimes are by an ocean miles in depth ? Why
have some elongated reefs no lagoons? Why have most of the
lagoons of the smaller atolls been filled up ? Why is the circle of
land or reef in the perfect atolls only, at most, a few hundred yards
in diameter? What is the origin of the lagoon? What relation
exists between the depth of the lagoon, its area, and the depth of the
water beyond the outer reef? How has the dry land of these islands
been formed, provided with a soil, a fauna and a flora ? These appear
to be the chief questions that demand an answer from any theory of
coral island formation.
    These coral formations are essentially structures belonging to
the great oceans and ocean basins. They are dots of land within
the oceanic areas that might bo compared or contrasted with tie
small salt lakes which are scattered over the surface of the continen
tal lands. A rapid survey of some of the more general phenomena of
the great oceans may, then, lead to a better appreciation of the
problems connected with coral reefs.
    The great ocean basins occupy over two-thirds of the earth's
surface, and have a mean depth of over two miles. The central por
tions of these basins, called the abysmal regions, occupy about one-
half of the earth's surface, and have a mean depression below the
general level of the continents of over three miles. The abysmal
regions are vast undulating plains, sometimes rising to less than two
miles from the surface of the sea, and again sinking to four and five
miles beneath it. Volcanic cones rise singly or in clusters from
these great submerged plains. When they shoot above the level of
the sea they form single islands, like Ascension and St. Pau1's Rocks,
or groups, like the Azores, the Sandwich, tho Fiji, and the Society
Islands. As might have been expected, there are many more of theso
cones hidden beneath the waves thnn rise above them. When the

1888.]    on Structure, Origin, and Distribution of Coral Reefs, Ac. 253
Challenger sounded along the west coast of Africa, there was no
suspicion that between her stations she was sailing over submerged
cones. Since then, however, the soundings of telegraph ships have
correctly mapped out no less than seven of these peaks between the
latitude of Lisbon and the island of Teneriffe. The depths on the
summits of these vary from 12 to 500 fathoms. On one of them, at
400 fathoms, two species of coral (Lophohelia prolifera and Amphihelia
oculata) were growing luxuriantly. Throughout the ocean basins
about 300 such submarine cones, rising from great depths up to
within depths of from 500 to 10 fathoms from the surface, arc
already known, or indicated by soundings.
     All the agencies at work above the lower limit of wave action
tend to wear away and level down these cones, and thus to form
banks. Graham's Island, thrown up in the Mediterranean in 1831,
was 200 feet in height and three miles in circumference, and was
washed away in a year or two. The bank left on the spot, at first
very shallow, has now 21 feet of water over it. Instances similar to
this historical example must often have happened in the great ocean
basins. Again, the same agencies produce wide banks around vol
canic islands by washing away and spreading out the materials of
the softer rocks. Such banks, with depths of less than 60 fathoms,
are found extending many miles seawards around some volcanic
islands.
     On the other hand, all the deeply submerged summits are con
tinually being built up to the lower limit of wave action by the accu
mulation of the remains of animals which live .on them and by the
fall of shells upon them from the surface waters. In the Solomon
Islands, Dr. Brougham Guppy has shown that there are upraised
coral islands with central volcanic cones covered with thick layers of
mariue deposits ; Christmas Island in the Indian Ocean is another
instance, and similar deposits must now be forming over hundreds of
submerged mountains. In this way are foundations prepared for tho
true reef-building species, which only flourish in the shallower
depths.
     The bulk of tho water of the ocean has a very low temperature :
it is ice-cold at the bottom, even under tho equator, but on tho surface
within the tropics, there is a relatively thin film of warm water, with
a temperature of from 70° to 84° Fahr. This film of warm water
is much deeper towards the western parts of the Atlantic and Pacific
than it is in the eastern, the reason for this being that the trade
winds, which blow continually from the east, carry all tho warm
surface water to the westward, and draw up cold water from beneath
along the western shores of Africa and America to supply the place
of that driven westward at tho surface. Consequently, there is, at
times, a very low temperature, and a great annual range of tempe
rature, along these western shores. . This is more clearly shown by
the temperatures at 50 and 100 fathoms than by those at tho sur
face. There are no coral reefs along tho western shores of Africa and

254                         Mr. John Murray                 [March 16,
South America, a circumstance evidently connected with the low
temperature, wide range, and, more directly, with the food supply,
consequent on these conditions. It appears to be a confirmation of
this view that, on the eastern shores of Africa, about Cape Gardafui,
from off which the south-west monsoon blows for several months in
the year, cold water is also drawn to the surface, and there, likewise,
arc no coral reefs, though they flourish to the north and south of this
region.
     Coral reefs flourish in mid-ocean and along the eastern shores of
tho continents, or wherever the coasts are bathed by the warmest
and purest currents of water coming directly from the open sea.
If we except Bermuda and one or two other outlying reefs, where the
temperature may occasionally fall to 66° Fahr. or 64° Fahr., it may
be said that reefs are never found where the surface temperature of
the water, at any time of the year, sinks below 70° Fahr., and whore
the annual range is greater than 12° Fahr. In typical coral reef
regions, however, tho temperature is higher and the range much
less.
     Tho food supply of the coral reef is derived from pelagic oceanic
organisms, which exist in the greatest variety and abundance in the
surface and sub-surface waters of tho ocean. These consist of
myriads of algae, rhizopods, infusoriaus, medusa), annelids, molluscs,
crustaceans, ascidians, and fishes. A very large number of these
creatures, within the tropics, secrete carbonate of lime from the
ocean to form their shells and skeletons, which, falling to the bottom
after death, form the vast oceanic deposits known as Pteropod and
 Globigerina oozes. In falling to the bottom, they carry down some
 of the organic matter that composed their living bodies, and thus are
 tho animals which live on the floor of the ocean chiefly supplied with
 food. Here it may be remarked that the abundance of life at depths
 of even over two miles is very great. Our small dredges sometimes
 bring up over sixty species and hundreds of specimens in one haul—•
 of invertebrates and fishes, exclusive of tho protozoa. These pelagic
 organisms oscillate from the surface down to about 80 or 100 fathoms,
 probably that stratum of tho ocean affected by sunlight, and they
 apparently descend further in regions where the stratum of warm
 water has a greater depth. Many of tho forms rise to the surface ia
 the evening and during calms, and sink again in sunlight and during
 stormy weather. It is in tho evening and when it is calm that this
 swarming life is most vividly forced on tho attention by gorgeous
 phosphorescent displays. The lime-secreting organisms, like Cocco-
 sphercs and Rhabtlosphercs, Foramiuifera, Pteropods, and other
 Molluscs, are much more abundant, both in species and individuals,
 in the warmest and saltest waters than elsewhere. I have estimated,
 from tow-net experiments, that at least 16 tons of carbonate of lime,
 in the form of these shells, exist in a mass of the ocean, in coral
 reef regions, one mile square by 100 fathoms in depth. If wo take
 this estimate, which I consider much below tho reality, and suppose

  1888.] on Structure, Origin, and Distribution of Coral Reefs, &c. 265
 one-sixteenth of these organisms to die and fall to the bottom each
  day, then they would take between 400 and 500 years to form a
 deposit one inch in thickness. I give this calculation more to
 indicate a method than to give even the roughest approximation to
 a rate of accumulation of deposits. The experiments were too few
 to warrant any definite deductions.
      The great oceanic currents moving westward at the rate of several
 miles an hour, bear these shoals of pelagic organisms on to the face
 of the reef, where millions of greedy mouths are ready and eager to
 receive them. The corals and other organisms situated on the outer
 and windward side of the reef receive the first and best supply ;
 they are thus endowed with a greater amount of energy, and grow
 faster and more luxuriantly there than on other portions of the reef;
 the depth at which there is the most constant supply of this food is
 several fathoms beneath the surface, and there too the corals are
 found in most vigorous growth. It is only a relatively small quantity
 of this pelagic food that enters the lagoon, the corals that there
 struggle on in patches being largely supplied with the means of
 existence from the larvae of reef-building animals.
     So many observations were made during the Challenger Expedi
 tion on the pelagic fauna inside and outside reefs that there is little,
 if any, doubt in my mind that the food supply is a most important
 factor in relation to the growth of corals in the different portions of
 a reef. Actual observations were made on the feeding of corals at a
 good many places, as well as numerous observations on the stomach
contents. These observations have been confirmed by Alexander
Agassiz.
     It is not possible to state in what form the carbonate of lime that
 is secreted in such enormous quantities by marine organisms exists
in oceanic waters.
     The following table shows the average composition of sea-water
salts, the acids and bases being combined in the way usually adopted
 by chemists.
                      ATERAGE COMPOSITION OF SEA SALT.
              Chloride of sodium                       77-758
              Chloride of magnesium                    10 • 878
              Sulphate of magnesium                     4 '737
              Sulphate of lime                          3-600
              Sulphate of potash                        2-465
              Bromide of magnesium                      0-217
              Carbonate of lime ,                       0-345
                                                      100-000
     In the actual ocean water there are probably traces of every known
element, and it is impossible to say what is the precise amount of the
respective chlorides, sulphates, and carbonates'present. Theoretically,
every base may be combined with every acid, and the whole solution

256                             Mr. John Murray                [March 16,
miiut be in a continual state of flux as to its iutornal composition.
While the quantity of sea salts in a given volume of water varies
with position, yet it has been shown by hundreds of analyses that the
actual ratio of acids and bases—that is, the ratio of the constituents of
sea salts—is constant in waters from all regions and depths, with one
very significant exception—that of lime—which is present in slightly
greater proportion in deep water.
      The total amount of calcium in a cubic mile of sea water is esti
mated at nearly 2,000,000 tons. The amount of the same element
present in a cubic mile of river water is nearly 150,000 tons.
At the rate at which rivers carry down water from the land it is
estimated that it would take 680,000 years to pour into the ocean
an amount of calcium equal to that now held by the ocean in
solution.
       The amount of calcium existing in the 40,000,000 square miles
of the typical calcareous deposits of the ocean exceeds, however, that
at present held in solution if we merely take them to have an average
thickness of 30 feet, and from this calculation we might say that, if
the secretion and solution of lime in the other regions of the ocean
be exactly balanced, and the calcium in the ocean remain always
constant, those calcareous deposits of the thickness indicated would
require between 600,000 and 700,000 years to accumulate. There i»
good evidence, however, that the rate of accumulation is much more
rapid in some positions.
       The lime thus carried down to the sea is originally derived from
 the decomposition of anhydrous minerals, and comes from the land in
the form of carbonate, phosphate, and sulphate of lime—the carbonate
 being in the greatest abundance in river water. On the other hand,
 the sulphate of lime very greatly predominates in sea water, the
 carbonates being present in small quantity. We are not in a position
 to say whether or not the coral polyps take the whole of the material
 for their skeletons from the carbonates, as is generally believed, or
 indeed to say what changes take place during the progress of secretion
 by organisms.
       In the greatest depths of the Pacific coral seas there is striking
 evidence of the solvent power of ocean water. Our dredges bring up
 from a depth of three or four miles over a hundred ear-bones of
 whales and remnants of the dense Ziphioid beaks, but all the larger
 and more areolar bones of these immense animals have been almost en
 tirely removed by solution. In a single haul there may also be many
 hundreds of sharks' teeth, some of them larger than the fossil Carcha-
 •i ml, .n teeth, but all that remains of them is the hard dentine. None
 of the numerous calcareous surface shells reach the bottom, although
 they are quite as abundant over the red clay areas as over those
 shallower areas where they form Globigerina and Pteropod deposits.
 In consequence of the small amount of dotrital material reaching
 these abysmal areas distant from continents, cosmic metallic spherules,
 manganese nodules, highly altered volcanic fragments, and zeolitic

 1888.]    on Structure, Origin, and Distribution of Coral Reefs, &c. 257
minerals, are there found in great numbers. Almost all these things
are found occasionally in the other regions of the ocean's bed, but
 their presence is generally masked by the accumulation of other
matters. In some regions Radiolarian and Diatom remains are
 found in the greatest depths, and they too are subject to the
solvent power of sea water, but to a much less extent than carbonate
of lime shells.
     As we ascend to shallower waters, a few of the thicker shelled
 specimens are met with at first, with lesser depths the carbonate of
 lime shells increase in number, until in the shallower deposits the
 remains of Pteropods, Heteropods, and the most delicate larval shells
are present in the deposit at the bottom. This gradation in the
appearance of the shells can be well seen in a series of soundings
at different depths around a volcanic cone, such as has been described
as forming the base of a coral atoll. There is no known way of account
 ing for this vertical distribution of these dead shells except by
 admitting that they have been dissolved away in sinking through the
 deeper strata of water, or shortly after reaching the bottom ; indeed,
an examination of the shells themselves almost shows the process in
 operation. It is rare to find any trace of fish bones in deposits other
than the otoliths.
     These considerations, as well as numerous experiments in the
 laboratory, show that everywhere in the ocean dead carbonate of lime
 structures slowly disappear wherever they are exposed to the action
of sea water, and in investigating the evolution of the general features
 of coral reefs it is as necessary to take cognisance of this fact as of
 the secretion of carbonate of lime by organisms.
     The first stage, then, in the history of a coral island is the pre
paration of a suitable foundation on submerged volcanic cones, or
 along the shores of a volcanic island, or the borders of a continent.
 In the case of the atoll the cone may have been reduced below the
level of the sea by the waves and atmospheric influences, or built up
 to the lower limit of breaker action by the vast accumulation of
organisms on its summit.
     A time comes, however, should the peak be situated in a region
where the temperature is sufficiently high, and the surface currents
contain a suitable* quality of food, that the reef-builders fix them
selves on the bank. The massive structure which they secrete from
ocean water enables them to build up and maintain their position in
the very face of ocean currents, of breakers, of the overwhelming and
outrageous sea.*
     " Coral" with the sailor or marine surveyor is usually any carbonate
    * Dr. Brougham Guppy saya, " History can afford us no clue to the first
appearance or the age of reefs ; yet in the myths of the Pacific Islanders we find
that the savage inhabitants of these regions regard the history of a coral atoll 09
commencing with tho submerged shoal, which through the agency of God-like
heroes ia brought up by their fish-hooks to the surface."—Paper, Vkt. fnst.

258                         Mr. John Murray                   [March 16,
of lime shell or skeleton or their broken-down parts. " Coral " is
used by the naturalist in a much more restricted sense ; he limits the
term to animals classed as Madrepores, Hydrocorallines, and Alcyo-
narians. The animals belonging to the first two of these orders
comprise those included under the vague term of reef corah?. Be
sides these, however, very many other classes of animals contribute
to the building up of coral reefs and islands—such are Foraminifera,
Sponges, Polyzoa, Annelids, Echinoderms, and Calcareous Algra. The
relative proportions of these different organisms in a reef vary with
 the region, with the depth, and with the temperature, but members
of what are known under the term of reef corah? appear always to
predominate.
    The animals of the true reef-building species resemble the common
sea anemones in structure and size ; the individual polyps may vary
from the eighth of an inch in diameter to over a foot. Some of the
structures built by colonies may exceed 20 feet in diameter.
    There may be great variety in the appearance of submerged reefs
as they rise from banks of a different nature, form, and extent,
as, indeed, was pointed out long ago by Chamisso. There may be
differences due also to the kinds and abundance of deep-sea animals
living on such banks, as well as differences due to currents, tempera
ture, and other meteorological conditions.
    From the very first the plantations situated on the outer edge will
have the, advantage, from the more abundant supply of food and the
absence of sand in the water, which last more or less injuriously
affects those placed towards the interior. Chamisso attributed the
existence of the lagoon to the more vigorous growth of the peri
pherally situated corals of a reef, as compared with those placed
towards the middle, and in this he was to a large extent right, but
the symmetrical form of the completed atoll is chiefly due to the
solution of the dead carbonate of lime structures. The Great Chagos
Bank illustrates the irregular way in which such a large bank of
coral plantations approaches the surface. When these, however,
reach the surface, they assume slowly a more regular outline, those
on the outer edge coalesce, and ultimately form a complete ring of
coral reef, and the lagoon becomes gradually cleared of its coral
patches or islands, for as the atoll becomes more perfect, the con
ditions of life within the lagoon become less and less favourable, and
a larger quantity of dead coral is removed in solution.
    The coral atoll varies greatly in size and form : it is usually more
or less circular, and may be one or over fifty miles in diameter.
The breakers spend their fury on the outer edge, and produce what
is known as the broad shore platform ; but within, trees descend
to the very shore of the lagoon, where there is quiet water, and a ship
may often enter on the lee side of the atoll and find safe anchorage.
    In this connection it is important to bear in mind the relation
which exists between the periphery and the superficial area of the
lagoon in atolls of different sizes. If the coral plantations which rise

1888.] on Structure, Origin, and Distribution of Coral Reefs, &c. 259
from the top of a submerged nmnntn, 'u have an area of one square mile,
then on reaching the surface of the waves there will be a shallow
depression in the centre owing to the more rapid growth of the outer
edge. Such an atoll will have, if it be a square, four miles of outer
reef for the supply of coral sand and other debris, and these being
washed and blown into the one square mile of shallow lagoon it is
likely to become filled up, the result being a small island with dry
lagoon in which may be found deposits of sulphate of lime, magnesian
and phosphatic rocks, and guano —all these testifying to the great
age of the island and absence of subsidence in the region. It is only
atolls with a diameter of less than two miles that thus become filled up.
In other and larger plantations, rising from a more extensive bank,
the conditions are very different. In this larger atoll—say four
miles square—there is now only one mile of outer reef to each square
mile of lagoon, instead of four miles of outer reef to the one square mile
of lagoon in the smaller atoll. Only one-fourth of the detrital matter
and food enters the larger lagoon, from the outside, per square mile
of lagoon, and hence there is proportionally less living coral ; the
solvent agencies predominate and the lagoon is widened and deepened.
Growing seawards on the outer face and dissolving away in the
lagoon, the whole expands after the manner of a fairy ring, and the
ribbon of reef or land can never in consequence increase beyond a
half or three-quarters of a mile in width, it being usually much
less.
     Atolls may occur far away from any other land, but it more
 frequently happens that they are arranged in linear groups, in this
 respect resembling volcanic islands. Extensive banks may be crowded
 with small atolls, like the Northern Maldives; or a bank may be
 occupied by one great and perfect atoll 20 to 40 miles in diameter,
 like some of the Southern Maldives and the Paumotns. In some
 instances the large atolls appear to have resulted from the growth
 and coalescence of the smaller marginal atolls ; especially does this
 seem to have been the case with the large Southern Maldives.
     The outer slopes vary greatly in different reefs, and in different
 parts of the same reef. When there is deep water beyond, the reef
 very often extends out with a gentle slope to a depth of 25 to 40
 fathoms, and is studded with living coral, the bosses and knobs
 becoming larger in the deeper water farthest from the reef, where
 there are great overhanging cliffs, which eventually fall away by
 their own weight and form a talus on which the reef may proceed
 further outwards. Occasionally there is a very steep descent almost
 at once from the outer edge. Thus the deeper the water beyond, the
 more slowly will the reef extend seawards. In reefs with a very
 gentle slope outside, the corals are frequently overhanging at depths
 of six or seven fathoms, for in these instances the lower part of the
 sea-face of the reef is rendered unsuitable for vigorous growth, in
 consequence of the sand which is carried in by waves coming over
 the comparatively shallow depths outside.

260                        Mr. John Murray                  [March 16,
    As has been stated, the lagoon in many of the smallest atolls has
been filled up, but this never appears to happen in atolls with a
diameter of over two miles unless there be distinct evidence of
upheaval. In perfectly formed atolls, that is, those in which the
reefs are nearly continuous throughout, the deepest water is found
towards the centre of the lagoon, and there is a relation between this
depth and the depth of water beyond the outside reefs. In North
and South Minerva reefs, in the South Pacific, where the outside
depths are very great, there are depths down to 17 fathoms in the
lagoons, which are apparently clear of coral heads. Hero we may
suppose that the central parts of the lagoon have for a long time been
exposed to the solvent action of sea-water, owing to the slow lateral
growth of the reef as a whole. In the same regions the Elizabeth
and Middlcton reefs, which are about the same size, have only four
or five fathoms within the lagoons, and the depths outside the reefs
are at the distance of a mile mostly within the 100 fathom line, and
sometimes less than 50 fathoms. There are also many coral heads
within the lagoons. Here we may suppose the atolls to be more
recent and to have extended more rapidly than in the case of the
 Minerva reefs. If the depths beyond the reefs be taken into con
sideration, then there is usually a direct relation between the depth
of the lagoon and its diameter. The greatest depths, even in the
largest atolls, do not exceed 50, or at most 60, fathoms ; they are
usually much less. In atolls which are deeply submerged, or have
not yet reached the surface, which have wide and deep openings into
the lagoon-like spaces, this relation may not exist. In these instances
the secretion and deposition of carbonate of lime may be in excess of
solution in all parts of the lagoon. It is only when the atoll reaches
the surface, becomes more perfect, and its lagoon waters consequently
less favourable to growth, that the solution of the dead corals and
calcareous debris exceeds any secretion and deposition that may take
place throughout the whole extent of the lagoon ; it is then widened
and deepened, and formed into a more or less perfect cup-like
depression.
    The whole of a coral reef is permeated with sea-water like a
sponge ; as this water is but slowly changed in the interior parts it
becomes saturated, and a deposition of crystalline carbonate of lime
frequently takes place among the interstices of the corals and coral
debris. In consequence of the solution of coral debris and the re-
deposited lime occupying less space, large cavities are formed, and
this process often results in local depression in some islands, as, for
instance, in Bermuda. At many points on a reef where evaporation
takes place there is a deposition of amorphous carbonate of lime
cementing the whole reef materials into a compact conglomerate-like
rock.
    The fragments of the various organisms broken off from the outer
edge during gales or storms are piled up on the upper surface of the
reef, and eventually ground into sand, the result being the formation

1888.] on Structure, Origin, and Distribution of Coral Beefs, &c. 261
of a sandy cay or shoal at some distance back from the outer edgo of
the reef—the first stage in the formation of dry land.
    The fragments of pumice thrown up into the ocean during far-
distant submarine eruptions, or washed down from volcanic lands,
are at all times to be found floating abont on the surface of the sea,
and these being cast upon the newly formed islet produce by their
disintegration the clayey materials for the formation of a soil—tho
red earth of coral islands. Just within the shore platform theso
pumice fragments are found in a fresh condition, but as the lagoon
is approached they disappear, the soil becomes deeper, and the most
luxuriant vegetation and largest trees are found close to the edge of
the inner waters. The land is seldom continuous around the atoll ; it
occurs usually in patches. The water passes over tho shallow spaces
between the islets and through the deeper lagoon entrances, theso
last being kept open by the strong sand-bearing currents which pass
at each tide.
    The few species of plants and animals which inhabit theso coral
islands have been drifted to the new island like the pumice, or
carried, many of them may be, by birds ; lastly, savage and civilised
man finds there a home.
    There is no essential difference between the reefs forming
fringing and barrier reefs, and those which are known as atolls.
In the former case the corals have commenced to grow close to the
shore, and as they grow outward, a small boat passage, and then a
ship channel, is carved out between the reef and the shore by tidal
scour and the solvent action of the water on the dead parts of the
reef : thus the fringing reef may be converted into a barrier reef.
In some instances the corals find a suitable foundation on tho banks
that surround islands and front continental lands, it may be, at a
great distance from the coast, and when they reach the surface they
form a distant barrier which proceeds seawards, ultimately on a talus
made up of materials torn from its seaward face.
    If the foregoing considerations be just and tenable, then it would
appear that all the characteristic features of coral reefs can be pro
duced, alike in stationary areas or in areas of slow elevation and sub
sidence, by processes continually at work in the ocean at the present
time. Slow elevation or subsidence would only modify in a minor
way a typical coral atoll or barrier reef, but subsidence in past
times cannot bo regarded as tho cause of tho leading characteristics
of coral reefs. There are abundant evidences of elevation in coral
reef regions in recent times, but no direct evidence of subsidence.
If it has been shown that atoll and barrier reefs can be formed
without subsidence, then it is most unlikely that their presence in
any way indicates regions of the earth's surface where there have
been wide, general, and slow depressions.
    According to Mr. Darwin's theory, which has been almost uni
versally accepted during the past half century, tho corals commence
to grow close to the shore of an island or continent: as the laud

262              Mr. John Murray on Coral Reefs, dc.         [March 16,
slowly sinks the corals meanwhile grow upwards to the surface of
the sea, and a water space—the lagoon channel—is formed between
the shore of the island and the encircling reef, the fringing being
thus converted into a barrier reef. Eventually the central island
sinks altogether from sight and the barrier reef is converted into an
atoll, the lagoon marking the place where the volcanic or other land
once existed. Encircling reefs and atolls are represented as becoming
smaller and smaller as the sinking goes on, and the final stage of the
atoll is a small coral islet, less than two miles in diameter, with the
lagoon filled up and covered with deposits of sea-salts and guano.
    It is at once evident that the views now advocated are in almost
all respects the reverse of those demanded by Mr. Darwin's theory.
    The recent deep-sea investigations do not appear in any way to
support the view that large or small islands once filled the spaces
now occupied by the lagoon waters, and that the reefs show approxi
mately the position of the shores of a subsided island. The struc
ture of the upraised coral islands, so far as yet examined, appears to
lend no support to the Darwinian theory of formation. When we
remember that the great growing surface of existing reefs is the sea
ward face from the sea surface down to twenty or forty fathoms, that
large quantities of coral debris must be annually removed from
lagoons in suspension and solution, that reefs expand laterally and
remain always but a few hundred yards in width, that the lagoons of
finished atolls are deepest in the centre, and are relatively shallow
compared with the depth off the outer reefs, then it seems impossible
with our present knowledge to admit that atolls or barrier reefs have
ever been developed after the manner indicated by Mr. Darwin's
simple and beautiful theory of coral reefs.
                                                              [J. M.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, March 23, 1888.
WILLIAM HUOOINS, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. "Vice-President, in the
                                   Chair.
  SIB FBEDEBIOK BRAMWELL, D.C.L. F.R.S. Hon. Sec. and V.P. R.I.
                  A Lecture with,—and without,—point.
     [The discourse mainly consisted of a demonstration of the serious
inconveniences attending the adoption in ordinary life of the Decimal
and Metrical Systems.]
                             (Abstract deferred.)

1888.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                         263
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, April 2, 1888.
      SIB JAMBS CBIOHTON BBOWNB, M.D. LL.D. F.R.8. Manager,
                                  in the Chair.
            William Arthur Brailey, M.D. M.A. M.R.C.S.
            Thomas R. Dallmeyer, Esq.
            Samuel de Lissa, Esq.
            Walter GiIbey, Esq.
            Colonel Alexander Charles Hamilton, R.E.
            Robert Moon, Esq.
            Fitzpatrick Praed, Esq.
were elected Mombern of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to His Grace
the DUKB OP NORTHUMBERLAND, E.G. the President, for his present
of ' Annals of the House of Percy (1030-1887). By E. B. do
Fonblanque, 2 wl. 1887 ' ; and to Lieutenant-General PITT-RITERS,
M.R.I, for his present of ' Excavations in Cranboine Chase, near
Rushmore. Vol. I. 1887.'
     The PBESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
The Secretary of State for India—Report of a Tour in the Punjab and Rajput&na
     in 1883-4. By H. B. W. Garrick (Archaeol. Survey of India). 8vo. 1887.
The French Government—Topographie Historique du Vieux Paris. Region
     Occidentale de 1'Universite". Par F. A. Berty et L. M. Tisserand. 4to.
     et Plan. 1887.
Accademia dei Lincei, Reak, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. Vol. HI.
     2° Semestre, Fasc. 10, II. 8vo. 1887.
Academie des Sciences de I'lnstitui, Paris—Me'moires, Tomo XI, 1 1. 4to. 1883.
   M&noires pr&entes par Divers Savants, Tomes XXVII. XXVIII. XXIX.
     4to. 1883-7.
   Receuil de Me'moires, etc. relatifs a 1'Observation da Passage de Vnms BUT 1 e
     Soleil, Tome II. Partio 2 ; Tome III. Parties 1-3. 4to. 1880-5.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 126. 8vo. 1887.
Asiatie Society, Royal (China Branch)—Journal, Vol. XXII. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
     1887.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLVIII. No. 4. 8vo. 1888.
     Memoirs, Vol. XLIX. Part 1. 4to. 1888.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. IX. Part 3. 8vo. 1888.
 Salavia Observatory — Magnetical and Meteorological Observations, Vol. IX.
      1886. 4to. 1887.
   Rainfall in East Indian Archipelago, 1886. 8vo. 1887.

264                        General Monthly Meeting.                     [April 2,
British Association for the Advancement of Science — Report of Meeting at
     Manchester, 1887. 8vo. 1888.
British Architect*, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1887-8, Nos. 10, 11. 4to.
Chazarain, Dr. (the Author)—Lcs Courants de la Polarite" dans 1'Aimant ot dans
     le Corps Humain. 8vo. 1887.
Chemical Society—Journal for March 1888. 8vo.
Churchill, Mesers. J. and A. (the Publishers) — Journal of Laryngology and
     Rhinology, Vol. II. Nos. 1, 2, 3. 8vo. 1888.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. XCI. 8vo. 1887-8.
Damson, George M. Esq. F.G.S. (fhe Author)—Kwokiool People of Vancouver
     Island (Trans. Royal Soe. of Canada). 4to. 1888.
Dax : Societe de Borda—Bulletins, 3° Serie, Douzieme Annee, Trimeatre 3°. 8vo.
      1888.
Editors—American Journal of Science for March, 1888. 8vo.
  Analyst for March, 1888. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for March, 1888. 4to.
   Chemical News for March, 1888. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for March, 1888. 8vo.
   Engineer for March, 1888. fol.
   Engineering for March, 1888. fol.
   Horologicul Journal for March, 1888. 8vo.
   Industries for March, 1888. fol.
   Iron for March, 1888. 4to.
   Murray's Magazine for March, 1888. 8vo.
   Nature for March, 1888. 4to.
   Revue Sciontifique for March, 1888. 4to.
   Scientific News for March, 1888. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for March, 1888. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for March, 1888. 4to.
Foster, J. Ksq. (the Editor)—Aliuuni Oxonienses : The Members of the University
     of Oxford, 1715-1881!. Vol.1. 8vo. 1888.
Florence, Jlibliotcca Nazionaln Centrale—Bolletino, Num. 52, 53. 8vo. 1888.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 747. 8vo. 1888.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. X. No. 3. 8vo.
     1888.
   Supplementary Papers, Vol. II. Part 2. 8vo. 1888.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Abhandlungen, Band XI. No. 2. fol.
      1887.
   Jahrbuch, Band XXXVII. Heft 2. 8vo. 1888.
  Verhandlungen, 1887. NOB. 9-16. 8vo.
Georgofili, Reale Accartemia—Mti, Quarta Serie, Vol. X. Disp. 3, 4. 8vo. 1887.
Johns Hopkins UniixrsHy—American Journal of Philology, Vol. VIII. No. 4.
     8vo. 1887.
   Studies in Historical and Political Science, Fifth Scries, No. 12. 8vo. 1887.
   University Circular, No. 6H. 4to. 1888.
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 162. 8vo. 1888.
Manchester Geological Society —Transactions, Vol. XIX. Parts 14, 15. 8vo. 18S8.
Manchester Literary and Scientific Society—Memoirs, Vol. X. Third Series.
     8vo. 1887.
   Proceedings, Vol. XXV. XXVI. 8vo. 1885-7.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal— Proceedings, No. 17. 8vo. 1887.
Meteorological Office—Weekly Weather Reports, Vol. IV. Nos. 46-52. Appendix
      1-4. Vol. V. Nos. 1-7. 4to. 1887-8.
   Hourly Readings, 1885, Part 2. 4to. 1888.
  Monthly Weather Reports, Jan. Feb. 1887. 4to.
Ministry of Public Works, Rome—Giornale del Gonio Civile, Serie Quinta, Vol.
     II. No. 1. 8vo. And Disc^ui. fol. 1888.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions.
      Vol. XXXVII. Part 2. 8vo. 1888.

1888.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                         265
Northumberland, His Grace the Duke of, K.G. D.C.L. F.R.S. Fres. R.I.—Annals
      of the Honae of Percy (1030-1887). By E. B. de Fonblanque. 2 vol.
      [Privately Printed.] 8vo. 1887.
Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XX. No. 4. New
      Series. 8vo. 1888.
Pennsylvania Geological Survey—Annual Report, 1886, 2 Puts. 8vo. 1887.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, March, 1888. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XII. No. 5. 8vo. 1888.
Pitt-Riven, Lieut.-General, D.C.L. F.R.S. Jf.R.I. (the Author)—Excavations in
      Cranborne Chase, near Rushmore, Vol. I. 4 to. 1887. [Privately Printed.]
Richardson, B. W. M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—the Asclepiad, VoL V. No. 17.
      8vo. 1888.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 263. 8vo. 1888.
Royal Scottish Society of Arts—Transactions, Vol. XIL Part 1. 8vo. 1888.
Ilussett, The Hon. Rollo, U.R.I, (the Author)—National Strategy against Infection.
      8vo. 1888.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal — Philologisch-historische Clagse: Berichte.
     1887. Nos. 4, 5. 8vo.
   MathematiBch-physische Classe : Berichte, 1887. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1888.
SodM Archeologique ,lu Midi le In France—Memoires, Tome XIV. 2e Li v. -Ho.
      Toulouse. 1887.
   Bulletin. Nouvelle Serie, No. 4. 4to. Toulouse, 1887.
Society for (he Abolition of Vivisection—The Brown Animal Sanatory Institution.
      8vo. 1888.
Society of Artt—Journal, March, 1888. 8vo.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital-Reports, Vol. XXIII. 8vo. 1887.
St. Pftersbowg Academie Imperiales des Sciences—Mlmoireg, Tome XXXV.
      No. 10. 4to. 1887.
Telegraph Engineers, Society of—Journal, No. 70. 8vo. 1888.
The British Museum (Natural History)—Catalogue of Birds, Vol. XIL 8vo.
      1888.
   Catalogue of Fossil Mammalia, Part 5. 8vo. 1887.
   Guide to the Shell and Starfish Galleries. 8vo. 1887.
 Tomalin, Lewis R. 8. Esq. (the Author)—Essays on Health Culture. By G. Jaeger.
      8vo. 1887.
 Vereins zur BefSrderung dea Gewerbfleises in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1888 :
      Heft, 2. 4to.
 Velschow, Franz A. Esq. C. E. (the Authory—The Natural Law of relation
      between Rainfall and Vegetable Life. 8vo. 1888.
    VOL. XII. (No. 82.)

  266                           Professor Flower                         [April 13,
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, April 13, 1888.
     EDWABD WOODS, Esq. M.Inst.C.E. Vice-President, in the Chair.
         PBOFESSOR WILLIAM HENRY FLOWEB, C.B. LL.D. F.R.S.
                           The Pygmy Races of Men.
  IT is well known that the nations of antiquity entertained a wide
  spread belief in the existence of a race or races of human beings of
  exceedingly diminutive stature, who dwelt in some of the remote and
  unexplored regions of the earth. These were called Pygmies, a word
  said to be derived from mry/iy, which means a fist, and also a measure
  of length, the distance from the eIbow to the knuckles of an ordinary-
  sized man, or rather more than 13 inches.
      In the opening of the third book of the Iliad, the Trojan hosts
  are described as coming on with noise and shouting, " like the cranes
  which flee from the coming of winter and sudden rain, and fly with
  clamour towards the streams of ocean, bearing slaughter and fate to
  the Pygmy men, and in early morn offer cruel battle," or, as Pope
  has it—
                " So when inclement winters vox the plain,
                  With piercing frosts, or thick descending rain,
                  To warmer seas the cranes embodied fly,
                  With noise and order through the midway sky,
                  To Pygmy nations wounds and death they bring,
                  And all the war descends upon the wing."
      The combats between the pygmies and the cranes are often alluded
  to by later classical writers, and are not unfrequently depicted
  upon Greek vases. In one of these in the Hope collection at Deep-
  dene, in which the figures are represented with great spirit, the
  pygmies are dwarfish-looking men with large heads, negro features,
  and close woolly or frizzly hair. They are armed with lances.
  Notices of a less poetical and apparently more scientific character of
  the occurrence of races of very small human beings are met with in
  Aristotle, Herodotus, Ctesias, Pliny, Pomponius Melo, and others.
  Aristotle places his pygmies in Africa, near the sources of the Nile,
  while Ctesias describes a race of dwarfs in the interior of India. The
  account in Herodotus is so circumstantial, and has such an air of
  truthfulness about it, especially in connection with recent discoveries,
  that it is worth quoting in full.*
      " I did hear, indeed, what I will now relate, from certain natives
  of Cyrene. Once upon a time, they said, they were on a visit to the
              * Herodotus, Book II., 32, Kawlinson's translation, p. 47.
-

1888.]                on the Pygmy Races of Men.                      267
oracular shrine of Ammon, when it chanced that, in the course of
conversation with Etearchus, the Ammonian king, tho talk fell upon
the Nile, how that its sources were unknown to all men. Etearchus
upon this mentioned that some Nasamonians had once come to his
court, and when asked if they could give any information concerning
the uninhabited parts of Libya, had told the following tale. (The
Nasamonians are a Libyan race who occupy the Syrtes, and a tract
of no great size towards the east.) They said there had grown up
among them some wild young men, the sons of certain chiefs, who,
when they came to man's estate, indulged in all manner of extrava
gancies, and among other things drew lots for five of their number to
go and explore the desert parts of Libya, and try if they could not
penetrate further than any had done previously. The young men
therefore dispatched on this errand by their comrades with a plentiful
supply of water and provisions, travelled at first through the inhabited
region, passing which they came to the wild beast tract, whence they
finally entered upon the desert, which they proceeded to cross in a
direction from east to west. After journeying for many days over a
wide extent of sand, they came at last to a plain where they observed
trees growing : approaching them, and seeing fruit on them, they
proceeded to gather it. While they were thus engaged, there came
upon them some dwarfish men, under the middle height, who seized
them and carried them off. The Nasamonians could not understand
a word of their language, nor had they any acquaintance with the
language of tho Nasamonians. They were led across extensive
marshes, and finally came to a town, where all the men were of the height
of their conductors, and black-complexioned. A great river flowed
by the town, running from west to east, and containing crocodiles."
    It is satisfactory to know that the narrative concludes by saying
that these pioneers of African exploration, forerunners of Bruce and
Park, of Earth, Livingstone, Speke, Grant, Schweinfurth, Stanley, and
the rest, " got safe back to their country."
     Extension of knowledge of the natural products of the earth, and
a more critical spirit on the part of authors, led to attempts to account
for thie belief, and the discovery of races of monkeys—of the doings
of which, it must be said, more or less fabulous stories were often
reported by travellers—generally sufficed the commentators and
naturalists of tho last century to explain the origin of tho stories of
the pygmies. To this view the great authority of Buffon was extended.
     Still more recently-acquired information as to the actual condition
of the human population of the globe has, however, led to a revision
 of tho ideas upon the subject, and to more careful and critical
researches into tho ancient documents. M. de Quatrofages, the emi
nent and veteran Professor of Anthropology at the Museum d'Histoire
Naturelle of Paris, especially, has carefully examined and collated all
 tho evidence bearing upon the question, and devoted much ingenuity
 of argument to prove that tho two localities in which the ancient
authors appear to place their pygmies, the interior of Africa near
                                                              T 2

268                           Professor Flower                [April 13,
the sources of the Nile, and tho southernmost parts of Asia, and
the characters they assign to them, indicate an actual knowledge of
the existence of the two groups of small people which still inhabit
these regions, the history of which will form the subject of this
lecture. The evidence which has convinced M. de Qnatrefages, and
which, I have no doubt, will suffice for those who take pleasure in
discovering an underlying truth in all such legends and myths, or in
the more grateful task of rehabilitating the veracity of the fathers of
literature and history, will be found collected in a very readable form
in a little book published last year in the ' Bibliotheque scientifique
contemporaine," called ' Les Pygmees,' to which I refer my hearers
for fuller information upon the subject of this discourse, and
 especially for numerous references to the literature of the subject,
which, as the book is accessible to all who wish to pursue it further,
I need not give here.
     It is still, however, to my mind, an open question whether these
old stories may not be classed with innumerable others, the offspring
of the ftrtile invention of the human brain, the potency of which as
an origin of myths has, I think, sometimes been too much underrated.
I shall, therefore, now take leave of them, and confine myself to giving
you, as far as the brief space of time at my disposal admits, an account
of our actual knowledge of the smallest races of men either existing,
or, as far as we know, ever having existed on earth, and which may,
therefore, taking the word in its current though not literal sense, be
called the " pygmies " of the species.
     Among the various characters by which the different races of men
are distinguished from one another, size is undoubtedly one of con
siderable importance. Not but what in each race there is much in
dividual variation, some persons being taller and some shorter ; yet
these variations are, especially in the purer or less mixed races,
restricted within certain limits, and there is a general average, both
for men and women, which can be ascertained when a sufficient
number of accurate measurements have been recorded. That the pre
vailing size of a race is a really deeply-seated, inherited character
istic, and depends but little on outward conditions, as abundance of
food, climate, &c., is proved by well-known facts. The tallest and
the shortest races in Europe are respectively the Norwegians and the
Lapps, living in almost the same region. In Africa, also, the diminu
 tive Bushmen and the tallest race of the country, the Kaffirs, are
 close neighbours. The natives of the Andaman Islands and those of
 many islands of the equatorial region of the Pacific, in which the
 conditions are similar, or if anything more favourable to the former,
are at opposite ends of the scale of height. Those not accustomed to
the difficulties both of making and recording such measurements will
scarcely be prepared, however, to learn how meagre, unsatisfactory,
and unreliable our knowledge of the stature of most of the races of
mankind is at present, although unquestionably it has been consider
ably increased within recent years. We must, however, make use of

1888.]                   on the Pygmy Races of Men.                       269
such material as we possess, and trust to the future correction of
errors when better opportunities occur.
      It is convenient to divide men, according to their height, into
three groups—tall, medium, and short ; in Topinard's system,* the
first being those the average height (of the men) of which is above
 1 • 700 metres (5 feet 7 inches), the last those below 1 • 600 metres
(5 feet 3 inches), and the middle division those between the two.
In the short division are included certain of the Mongolian or yellow
races of Asia, as the Samoyedes, the Ostiaks, the Japanese, the
Siamese, and the Annamites ; also the Veddahs of Ceylon and certain
 of the wild hill-tribes of Southern India. These all range between
 1 • 525 and 1 • 600 metres—say between 5 feet and 5 feet 3 inches.
      It is of none of these people that I am going to speak to-day.
My pygmies are all on a still smaller scale, the average height of the
men being in all cases below 5 feet, in some cases, as we shall see,
considerably below.
      Besides their diminutive size, I may note at the outset that they
all have in a strongly-marked degree the character of the hair dis
tinguished as frizzly—i. e. growing in very fine, close curia, and
flattened or elliptical in section, and therefore, whatever other
structural differences they present, they all belong to the same
primary branch of the human species as the African negro and the
Melanesian of the Western Pacific.
      I will first direct your attention to a group of islands in the
Indian Ocean—the Andamans— where we shall find a race in many
respects of the greatest possible interest to the anthropologist.
      These islands are situated in the Bay of Bengal between the 10th
and 14th parallels of north latitude, and near the meridian 93° east
of Greenwich, and consist of the Great and Little Andamans. The
former is about 140 miles long, and has a breadth nowhere exceeding
20 miles. It is divided by narrow channels into three, called re
spectively North, Middle, and South Andaman, and there are also
various smaller islands belonging to the group. Little Andaman is
a detached island lying about i!8 miles to the south of the main
group, about 27 miles in length and 10 to 18 in breadth.
      Although these islands have been inhabited for a very great
length of time by people whose state of culture and customs have
undergone little or no change, as proved by the examination of the
contents of the old kitchen-middens, or refuse heaps, found in many
places in them, and although they lie so near the track of civilisation
and commerce, the islands and their inhabitants were practically
unknown to the world until so recently as the year 1858. It is true
that their existence is mentioned by Arabic writers of the ninth
century, and again by Marco Polo, and that in 1788 an attempt was
made to establish a penal colony upon them by the East India
Company, which was abandoned a few years after ; but the bad repu-
           * ' Elements d'4nthroiiologic Citneralc.' Paris, 1885, p. 403.

270                         Professor Flower                  [April 13,
tation the inhabitants had acquired for ferocious and inhospitable
treatment of strangers brought by accident to thoir shores, caused
them to be carefully avoided, and no permanent settlement or
relations of anything like a friendly character, or likely to afford
any useful information as to the character of the islands or the in
habitants, were established. It is fair to mention that this hostility
to foreigners, which for long was one of the chief characteristics by
which the Andamanese were known to the outer world, found much
justification in the cruel experiences they suffered from the mal
practices, especially kidnapping for slavery, of the Chinese and
Malay traders who visited the islands in search of beche de mer and
edible birds'-nests. It is also to this characteristic that the in
habitants owe so much of their interest to us from a scientific point
of view, for we have here the rare case of a population, confined to a
very limited space, and isolated for hundreds, perhaps thousands, of
years from all contact with external influence, their physical
characters unmixed by crossing, and their culture, their beliefs, their
language entirely their own.
     In 1857, when the Sepoy mutiny called the attention of the
 Indian Government to the necessity of a habitation for their numerous
 convict prisoners, the Andaman Islands were again thought of for
 the purpose. A Commission, consisting of Dr. F. J. Mouat,
Dr. G. Playfair, and Lieut. J. A. Hoathcote, was sent to the islands
 to report upon their capabilities for such a purpose ; and, acting upon
 its recommendations, early in the following year the islands were
 taken possession of in the name of the East India Company by
 Captain (now General) H. Man, and the British flag hoisted at Port
 Blair, near the southern end of Great Andaman, which thenceforth
 became the nucleus of the settlement of invaders, now numbering
 about 15,000 persons, of whom more than three-fourths are convict
 prisoners, the rest soldiers, police, and the usual accompaniments
of a military station.
     The effect of this inroad upon the unsophisticated native popula
 tion, who, though spread over the whole area of the islands, were far
 less numerous, may easily be imagined. It is simply deterioration
 of character, moral and physical decay, and finally extinction. The
 newly-introduced habits of life, vices, and diseases, are spreading at
 a fearful rate, and with deadly effect. In this sad history there are,
 however, two redeeming features which distinguish our occupation of
 the Andamans from that of Tasmania, where a similar tragedy was
 played out during the present century. In the first place, the
 British Governors and residents appear from the first to have used
 every effort to obtain for the natives the most careful and considerate
 treatment, and to alleviate as much as possible the evils which they
 have unintentionally been the means of inflicting on them. Secondly,
 most careful records have been preserved of the physical characters,
 the social customs, the arts, manufactures, traditions, and language of
 the people while still in their primitive condition. For this most

                                                                    ,
  1888.J               on <Ae P^roy JBa^q/'Jffen.p,                   271
  important work, a work which, if not done, would have left a blank
  in the history of the world which could never have been replaced,
  we are indebted almost entirely to the scientific enthusiasm of one
  individual, Mr. Edward Horace Man, who most fortunately happened
 to be in a position (as Assistant Superintendent of the Islands, and
 specially in charge of the natives) which enabled him to obtain the
 required information with facilities which probably no one elso
 could have had, and whose observations ' On the Aboriginal Inhabi
 tants of the Andaman Islands,' published by the Anthropological
 Institute of Great Britain and Ireland, are most valuable, not only
 for the information they contain, but as correcting the numerous erro
 neous and misleading statements circulated regarding these people
 by previous and less well-informed or less critical authors.
     The Arab writer of the ninth century previously alluded to,
 states that " their complexion is frightful, their hair frizzled, their
 countenance and eyes frightful, their feet very large, and almost a
 cubit in length, and they go quite naked," while Marco Polo (about
 1285) says that " the people are no better than wild beasts, aud I
assure you all the men of this island of Angamanain have heads like
dogs, and teeth and eyes likewise ; in fact, in the face they are just
like big mastiff dogs." These specimens of mediaaval anthropology
are almost rivalled by the descriptions of the customs and moral
character of the same people published as recently as 1862, based
chiefly on information obtained from one of the runaway sepoy
convicts, and which represent them as among the lowest and most
degraded of human beings.
     The natives of the Andamans are divided into nine distinct tribes,
each inhabiting its own district. Eight of these live upon the Great
Andaman Islands, and one upon the hitherto almost unexplored
Little Andaman. Although each of these tribes possess a distinct
dialect, these are all traceable to the same source, and are all in the
same stage of development. The observations that have been mado
hitherto relate mostly to the tribe inhabiting the south island, but it
does not appear that there is any great variation either in physical
characters or manners, customs, and culture among them.
     With regard to the important character of size, we have more
abundant and more accurate information than of most other races.
Mr. Man gives the measurements of forty-eight men and forty-one
women, making the average of the former 4 feet l0f inches, that of
the latter 4 feet 7^ inches, a difference therefore of 3J inches between
the sexes. The tallest man was 5 feet 1 J- inches; the shortest
4 feet 6 inches. Tho tallest woman 4 feet 11\ inches ; the shortest
4 feet 4 inches. Measurements made upon the living subject are
always liable to errors, but it is possible that in so large a series
these will compensate each other, and that therefore the averages
may be relied upon. My own observations, based upon the measure
ments of the bones alone of as many as twenty-nine skeletons, give
smaller averages, viz. 4 feet 8£ inches for the men, and 4 feet 6J

 272                            Professor Flower                        [APril 13,
 inches for the women ; but these, it must be recollected, are cal
 culated from the length of the femur, upon a ratio which, though
 usually correct for Europeans, may not hold good in the case of other
 races.* The hair is fine, and very closely curled; woolly, as it is
 generally called, or, rather, frizzly, and elliptical in section, as in the
 negroes. The colour of the skin is very dark, although not abso
 lutely black. The head is of roundish (brachycephalic) form, the
 cephalic index of the skull being about 82. The other cranial
 characters are fully described in the papers just referred to. The
 teeth are large, but the jaws arc only slightly prognathous. The
 features possess little of the negro type ; at all events, little of the
 most marked and coarser peculiarities of that typo. The projecting
jaws, the prominent thick lips, the broad and flattened nose of the
 genuine negro are so softened down in the Andamanese as scarcely
to be recognised, and yet in the relative proportions of the limb-bones,
especially in the shortness of the humerus compared with the fore
arm, and in the form of the pelvis, negro affinities are most strongly
indicated.
     In speaking of the culture of the Andamanese, of course I only
refer to their condition before the introduction of European civilisa
tion into the islands. They live in small villages or encampments,
in dwellings of simple and rude construction, built only of branches
and leaves of trees. They are entirely ignorant of agriculture, and
keep no poultry or domestic animals. They make rude pots of clay,
sun-dried, or partially baked in the fire, but these are hand-made, as
they are ignorant of the use of the potter's wheel. Their clothing is
of the scantiest description, and what little they have serves chiefly
for decorative or ornamental purposes, and not for keeping the body
warm. They make no use of the skins of animals. They have fairly
well-made dug-out canoes and outriggers, but fit only for navigating
the numerous creeks and straits between the islands, and not for
voyages in the open sea. They are expert swimmers and divers.
Though constantly using fire, they are quite ignorant of the art of
producing it, and have to expend much care and labour in keeping up
a constant supply of burning or smouldering wood. They are ignorant
of all metals ; but for domestic purposes make great use of shells,
especially a species of Cyrene found abundantly on the shores of the
islands, also quartz chips and flakes, and bamboo knives. They havo
stone anvils and hammers, and they make good string from vegetable
fibres, as well as baskets, fishing nets, sleeping mats, &c. Their
principal weapons are the bow and arrow, in the use of which they are
very skilful. They have harpoons for killing turtle and fish, but no
kind of shield or breastplate for defence when fighting. The natural
    * See "On the Osteology and Affinities of the Natives of the Andaman
Islands" ('Journal Anthropological Institute,' vol. ix. p. 108, 1879); and "Addi
tional Observations on the Osteology of the Natives of the Andaman Mauds "
(ibid. vol. xiv. p. 115, 1884).

 1888.]                 on the Pygmy Races of Men.                      273
 fertility of the island supplies them with abundance and variety
 of food all the year round, the purveying of which affords occupation
 and amusement for the greater part of the male population. This
 consists of pigs (*'«« andamanensis), which are numerous on the islands,
 paradoxures,dugong, and occasionally porpoise, iguanas, turtles, turtles'
 eggs, many kinds of fish, prawns, mollusks, larvae of large wood-boring
 and burrowing beetles, honey, and numerous roots (as yams), fruits,
 and seeds. The food is invariably cooked before eating, and generally
 taken when extremely hot. They were ignorant of all stimulants or
 intoxicating drinks—in fact, water was their only beverage ; and
 tobacco, or any substitute for it, was quite unknown till introduced by
 Europeans.
     As with all other human beings existing at present in the world,
 however low in the scale of civilisation, the social life of the Andama-
 nese is enveloped in a complex maze of unwritten law or custom, the
 intricacies of which are most difficult for any stranger to unravel.
The relations they may or may not marry, the food they are obliged
or forbidden to partake of at particular epochs of life or seasons of the
year, the words and names they may or may not pronounce ; all these,
as well as their traditions, superstitions, and beliefs, their occupations,
games, and amusements, of which they seem to have had no luck, would
take far too long to describe here ; but before leaving these interesting
people, I may quote an observation of Mr. Man's, which, unless he has
seen them with too couleur-de-i-ose eyesight, throws a very favourable
light upon the primitive unsophisticated life of these poor little
savages, now so ruthlessly broken into and destroyed by the exigencies
of our ever-extending empire.
     " It has been asserted," Mr. Man says, " that the ' communal
marriage ' system prevails among them, and that ' marriage is nothing
more than taking a female slave ' ; but, so far from the contract
being regarded as a merely temporary arrangement, to be set aside at
the will of either party, no incompatibility of temper or other cause
is allowed to dissolve the union ; and while bigamy, polygamy,
polyandry, and divorce are unknown, conjugal fidelity till death is
not the exception but the rule, and matrimonial differences, which,
however, occur but rarely, are easily settled with or without the in
tervention of friends." In fact, Mr. Man goes on to say, " One of
the most striking features of their social relations is the marked
equality and affection which subsists between husband and wife," and
" the consideration and respect with which women are treated might
with advantage be emulated by certain classes in our own land."
    It should also be mentioned that cannibalism and infanticide, two
such common incidents of savage life, were never practised by them.
     We must now pass to the important scientific question, Who are
the natives of the Andaman Islands, and where, among the other
races of the human species, shall we look for their nearest relations '?
     It is due mainly to the assiduous researches into all the docu
mentary evidence relating to the inhabitants of Southern Asia and

274                         Professor Flower                [April 13,
the Indian Archipelago, conducted through many years by M. de
Quatrefages, in some cases with the assistance of his colleague
M. • liiiny, that the facts I am about to put before you have been
prominently brought to light, and their significance demonstrated.
    It is well known that the greater part of the large island of New
Guinea, and of the chain of islands extending eastwards and south
wards from it, including the Solomon Islands, the Now Hebrides,
and New Caledonia, and also the Fijis, are still inhabited mainly by
people of dark colour, frizzly hair, and many characteristics allying
them to the negroes of Africa. These constitute the race to which
the term Melanesian is commonly applied in this country, or Oceanic
negroes, the " Papouas " of Quatrefages. Their area at one time was
more extensive than it is now, and has been greatly encroached upon
by the brown, straight-haired Polynesian race with Malay affinities,
now inhabiting many of the more important islands of the Pacific,
and the mingling of which with the more aboriginal Melanesians in
various proportions has been a cause, among others, of the diverse
aspect of the population on many of the islands in this extensive
region. These Papouas, or Melanesians, however, differ greatly from
the Andamaneso in many easily denned characters, which are,
especially, their larger stature, their long, narrow, and high skulls,
and their coarser and more negro-like features. Although undoubt
edly allied, we cannot look to them as the nearest relations of our
little Andamanese.
    When the Spaniards commenced the colonisation of the Philip
pines, they met with, in the mountainous region in the interior of the
Island of Luzon, besides the prevailing native population, consisting
of Tagals of Malay origin, very small people, of black complexion,
with the frizzly hair of the African negroes. So struck were they
with the resemblance, that they called them " Negritos del Monte "
(little Negroes of the mountain). Their local name was Aigtas, or
luagtas, said to signify " black," and from which the word Aeta,
generally now applied to them, is derived. These people have lately
been studied by two French travellers, M. Marcho and Dr. Montano ;
the result of their measurements gives 4 feet 8| inches as the
average height of the men, and 4 feet 6J inches the average for the
women. In many of their moral characteristics they resemble the
Andamancse. The Ae'tas are faithful to their marriage vows, and
have but one wife. The affection of parents for children is very
strong, and the latter have for their father and mother much love
and respect. The marriage ceremony, according to M. Montano, is
very remarkable. The affianced pair climb two flexible trees placed
near to each other. One of the elders of the tribe bends them towards
each other. When their heads touch, the marriage is legally ac
complished. A great fete, with much dancing, concludes the
ceremony.
     It was afterwards found that the same race existed in other parts
of tho archipelago, Panay, Mindanao, &c., and that they entirely

1888.]                 on the Pygmy Bates of Men.                     275
peopled some little islands—among others, Bougas Island, or " Isla
de los Negros."
    As the islands of these eastern seas have become better known,
further discoveries of the existence of a small Negroid population have
been made in Formosa, in the interior of Borneo, Sandalwood Island
(Sumba), Xulla, Bourou, Ceram, Flores, Solor, Lomblem, Pantar,
( (mlay , the eastern peninsula of Celebes, &c. In fact, Sumatra and
Java are the only large islands of this great area which contain no
traces of them except some doubtful cross-breeds, and some remains of
an industry which appears not to have passed beyond the Age of Stone.
    The Suuda Islands form the southern limit of the Negrito area ;
 Formosa, the last to the north, where the race has preserved all its
characters. But beyond this, as in Loo Choo, and even in the south
east portion of Japan, it reveals its former existence by the traces it
has left in the present population. That it has contributed considerably
to form the population of New Guinea is unquestionable. In many
parts of that great island, small round-headed tribes live more or less
distinct from the larger and longer-headed people who make up the
bulk of the population.
    But it is not only in the islands that the Negrito race dwell.
Traces of them are found also on the mainland of Asia, but
everywhere under the same conditions : in scattered tribes, occupying
the more inaccessible mountainous regions of countries otherwise
mainly inhabited by other races, and generally in a condition more or
less of degradation and barbarism, resulting from the oppression with
which they have been treated by their invading conquerors ; often
moreover, so much mixed that their original characters are scarcely
recognisable. The Semangs of the interior of Malacca in the Malay
peuiusula, the Sakays from Pcrak, the Moys of Annam, all show traces
of Negrito blood. In India proper, especially among the lowest and
least civilised tribes, not only of the central and southern districts,
but almost to the foot of the Himalayas, in the Punjab, and even to
the west side of the Indus, according to Quatrefages, frizzly hair, negro
features, and email stature, are so common that a strong argument can
bo based on them for the belief in a Negrito race forming the basis of
the whole pre-Aryan, or Dravidian as it is generally called, population
of the peninsula. The crossing that has taken place with other races
has doubtless greatly altered the physical characters of this people,
and the evidences of this alteration manifest themselves in many ways ;
sometimes the curliness of the hair is lost by the admixture with
straight-haired races, while the black complexion and small staturo
remain ; sometimes the stature is increased, but the colour, which
seems to be one of the most persistent of characteristics, remains.
    The localities in which the Negrito people are found in their greatest
purity, either in almost inaccessible islands, as on the Andamans, or
elsewhere in the mountainous ranges of the interior only ; and their
social condition and traditions, wherever they exist—all point to tho
fact that they were the earliest inhabitants ; and that the Mongolian

   276                         Profegtor Flower                   [April 13,
   and Malay races on the east, and the Aryans on the west, which are
   now so rapidly exterminating and replacing them, are later comers into
   the land, exactly as, in the greater part of the Pacific Ocean, territory
   formerly occupied by the aboriginal dark, frizzly-haired Negroid
   Melanesians has been gradually and slowly invaded by the brown
   Polynesians, who in their turn, but by a much more rapid process, are
   being replaced by Europeans.
       We now see what constitutes the great interest of the Andamanese
   natives to the student of the ethnological history of the Eastern world.
   Their long isolation has made them a remarkably homogeneous race,
   stamping them all with a common resemblance not seen iu the mixed
   races generally met with in continental areas. For although, as with
   most savages, marriages within the family (using the term in a very
   wide sense) are most strictly forbidden, all such alliances have
   necessarily been confined to natives of the islands. They are the
   least modified representatives of the people who were, so far as we
   know, the primitive inhabitants of a large portion of the earth's
   surface, but who are now verging on extinction. It is, however, not
   necessary to suppose that the Andaman Islanders give us the exact
  characters and features of all the other branches of the race. Differences
   in detail doubtless existed—differences which are almost always sure
   to arise whenever races become isolated from each other for long
  periods of time.
       In many cases the characters of the ancient inhabitants of a land
  have been revealed to us by the preservation of their actual remains.
  Unfortunately we have as yet no such evidence to tell us of the former
  condition of man in Southern Asia. We may, however, look upon the
  Andamanese, the Aetas, and the Semangs, as living fossils ; and by
  their aid conjecture the condition of the whole population of the land
  in ancient times. It is possible, also, to follow Quatrefagos, and to
  see in them the origin of the stories of the Oriental pygmies related
  by Ctesias and by Pliny.
       We now pass to the continent of Africa, in the interior of which
  the pygmies of Homer, Herodotus, and Aristotle have generally been
  placed. Africa, as is well known, is the home of another great branch
  of the black, frizzly-haired, or Ethiopian division of the human
  species, which docs, or did till lately, occupy the southern two-thirds
  of this great continent, the northern third being inhabited by Hamito
  and Semite branches of the great white or Caucasian primary division
  of the human species, or by races resulting from the mixture of these
  with the Negroes. But besides the true Negro, there has long been
  known to exist in the southern part of the continent a curiously modi
  fied typo, consisting of the Hottentots, and the Bushmen—Bosjesmeu
  (men of the woods) of the Dutch colonists—the latter of whom, on
  account of their small size, come within the scope of the present sub
  ject. They lead the lives of the most degraded of savages, dwelling
  among the rocky and more inaccessible mountains of the interior,
  making habitations of the natural caves, subsisting entirely by the
-

1888.J                on the Pygmy Races of Men.                    277
chase, being most expert in the use of the bow and arrow, and treated
as enemies and outcasts by the surrounding and more civilised tribes,
whose flocks and herds they show little respect for when other game
is not within reach. The physical characters of these people are
well known, as many specimens have been brought to Europe alive for
the purpose of exhibition. The hair shows the extreme of the frizzly
type ; being shorter and less abundant than that of the ordinary
Negro, it has the appearance of growing in separate tufts, which coil
up together into round balls compared to " peppercorns." The yellow
complexion differs from that of the Negro, and, combined with the
wide cheek-bones and form of the eyes, so much recalls that of certain
of the pure yellow races that some anthropologists are inclined to
trace true Mongolian affinities and admixture, although the extreme
crispness of the hair makes such a supposition almost impossible.
The width of the cheek-bones and the narrowness of the forehead and
the chin give a lozenge-shape to the front view of the face. The
forehead is prominent and straight ; the nose extremely flat and
broad, more so than in any other race, and the lips prominent and
thick, although the jaws are less prognathous than in the true Negro
races. The cranium has many special characters by which it can be
easily distinguished from that of any other. It has generally a very
feminine, almost infantile, appearance, though the capacity of the
cranial cavity is not the smallest, exceeding that of the Andamanese.
In general form the cranium is rather oblong than oval, having
straight sides, a flat top, and especially a vertical forehead, which
rises straight from the root of the nose. It is moderately doli
chocephalic or rather mesaticephalic, the average index of ten
specimens being 75 • 4. The height is in all considerably less than
the breadth, the average index being 71 • 1. The glabella and infra-
orbital ridges are little developed, except in the oldest males. The
malar bones project much forwards, and the space between the orbits
is very wide and flat. The nasal bones are extremely small and
depressed, and the aperture wide ; the average nasal index being 60 • 8,
so they are the most platyrhine of races.
     With regard to the stature, we have not yet sufficient materials
for giving a reliable average. Quatrefages, following Barrow, gives
4 feet 6 inches for the men, and 4 feet for the women, and speaks of
 one individual of the latter sex, who was the mother of several
 children, measuring only 3 feet 9 inches in height , but later observa
 tions (still, however, insufficient in number) give a rather larger
 stature : thus Topinard places the average at 1 • 404 metre, or 4 feet
 71 inches ; and Fritsch, who measured six male Bushmen in South
 Africa, found their mean height to be 1 • 444 metre, or nearly 4 feet
 9 inches. It is probable that, taking them all together, they differ
 but little in size from the Andamanese, although in colour, in form
 of head, in features, and in the proportions of the body, they arc
 widely removed from them.
     There is every reason to believe that these Bushmen represent the

  278                            Professor Flower                    [April 13,
   earliest race of which wo have, or are ever likely to have, any know
   ledge, which inhabited the southern portion of the African continent,
  but that long before the advent of Europeans upon the scene, they
  had been invaded from the north by Negro tribes, who, being superior
  in size, strength, and civilisation, had taken possession of the greater
. part of their territories, and mingling freely with the aborigines, had
   produced the mixed race called Hottentots, who retained the culture
   and settled pastoral habits of the Negroes, with many of the physical
   features of the Bushmen. These, in their turn, encroached upon by the
   pure-bred Bantu Negroes from the north, and by the Dutch and
   English from the south, are now greatly diminished, and indeed
   threatened with the same fate that will surely soon befall the scanty
   remnant of the early inhabitants who still retain their primitive type.
        At present the habitat of the Bushman race is confined to certain
   districts in the south-west of Africa, from the confines of the Cape
   Colony as far north as the shores of Lake Ngami. Further to the
   north the great equatorial region of Africa is occupied by various
   Negro tribes, using the term in its broadest sense, but belonging to
   the divisions which, on account of peculiarities of language, have been
   grouped together as Bantu. They all present the common physical
   characteristics typical of the Negro race, only two of which need be
   specially mentioned here — medium or large stature, and dolicho
   cephalic skull (average cranial index about 73 • 5).
        It is at various scattered places in the midst of these, that the
   only other small people of which I shall have to speak, the veritable
   pygmies of Homer, Herodotus, and Aristotle, according to Quatre-
   fages, are still to be met with.*
        The first notice of the occurrence of these in modern times is con
   tained in " The strange adventures of Andrew Battoll of Leigh in
 . Essex, sent by the Portugals prisoner to Angola, who lived there, and
   in the adjoining regions near eighteen years" (1589 to 1607), pub
   lished in ' Purchas his Pilgrimes ' (1625), lib. vii. chap. iii. p. 983 :—
        " To the north-east of Mani-Kesock, are a kind of little people,
    called Matimbas ; which are no bigger than Boyes of twelve yeares
   old, but very thicke, and live only upon flesh, which they kill in the
   woods with their bows and darts. They pay tribute to Mani-Kc*ock,
    and bring all their Elephants' teeth and tayles to him. They will
    not enter into any of the Maramba's houses, nor will suffer any to
    come whore they dwell. And if by chance any Maramba or people
    of Longo pass where they dwell, they will forsake that place and go
    to another. The women carry Bows and Arrows as well as the men.
    And one of these will walk in the woods alone and kill the Pongos
    with their poysoned Arrows."
       * The scattered information upon this subject was first collected together
   by Hamy in his "Essai de co-ordination di>s Matc'riaux recemment recncillis aur
   1'ethnologic des Negrillos ou Pygmees dt; 1'Afriquc etjuatoriale," 'Bull. Soc.
   d'Anthropologie de Paris,' tome ii. (ser. iii.), 1870, p. 79.

 1888.]                  on the Pygmy Races of Men.                   279
      BatteH's narrative, it should be said, is generally admitted as
 having an air of veracity about it not always conspicuous in the stories
 of travellers of his time. In addition to the observations on the human
 inhabitants, it contains excellent descriptions of animals, as the pongo
 or gorilla, and the zebra, now well known, but in his day new to
 Europeans.
      Dapper, in a work called 'Description de la Basse Ethiopie,'
 published in Amsterdam in 1686, speaks of a race of dwarfs inhabiting
 the same region, which he calls Mimos or Bakke-Bakke, but nothing
 further was heard of these people until quite recent times. A German
 scientific expedition to Loango, the results of which were published in
 the ' Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologic,' 1874, and in Hartmann's work, 'Die
 Negritier," obtained, at Chinchoxo, photographs and descriptions of
 a dwarf tribe called " Baboukos," whose heads were proportionally
 large and of roundish form (cephalix index of skull, 78 to 81). One
 individual, supposed to be about forty years of age, measured 1-365
 metres, rather under 4 feet 6 inches.
      Dr. Touchard, in a " Notice sur le Gabon," published in the
 ' Bevue Maritime et Coloniale ' for 1861, describes the recent destruc
 tion of a population established in the interior of this country, and
 to which he gives the name of " Akoa." They seem to have been exter
 minated by the M'Pongos in their expansion towards the west. Some
 of them, however, remained as slaves at the time of the visit of Admiral
 Fleuriot de Langle, who in 1868 photographed one (measuring about
 4 feet 6 inches high) and brought home some skulls, which were ex
amined by Hamy, and all proved very small and sub-brachycophalic.
      Another tribe, the M'Boulous, inhabiting the coast north of the
 Gaboon river, have been described by M. Marche as probably tho
primitive race of the country. They live in little villages, keeping
entirely to themselves, though surrounded by tho larger negro tribes,
 M'Pongos and Bakalais, who are encroaching upon them so closely
that their numbers are rapidly diminishing. In 1860 they were not
more than 3000 ; in 1879 they were much less numerous. They are
of an earthy-brown colour, and rarely exceed 1 • 600 metre in height
Si feet 3 inches). In the rich collections of skulls made by Mr.
   . B. Walker and by M. Du Chaillu, from the coast of this region,
are many which are remarkable for their small size and round form.
Of many other notices of tribes of negroes of diminutive size, living
near the west coast of Equatorial Africa, I need only mention that
of Du Chaillu, who gives an interesting account of his visit to an
Obongo village in Ashango-land, between the Gaboon and tho
Congo ; although unfortunately, owing to the extreme shyness and
suspicion of the inhabitants, he was allowed little opportunity for
anthropological observations. He succeeded, however, in measuring
one man and six women ; the height of the former was 4 feet 6 inches,
the average of the latter 4 feet 8 inches.*
                    1 A Journey to Ashango-land,' 1807, p. 315.

280                           Professor Flower                      [April 18,
    Far further into the interior, towards the centre of the region
contained in the great bend of the Congo or Livingstone River,
Stanley heard of a numerous and independent population of dwarfs,
called " Watwas," who, like the Batimbas of Battell, are great
hunters of elephants, and use poisoned arrows. One of these he met
with at Ikondu, was 1 feet (\\ inches high, and of a chocolate brown
colour.* More recently Dr. Wolff describes under the name of
" Batouas " (perhaps the same as Stanley's Watwas), a people of
lighter colour than other negroes, and never exceeding 1 • 40 metres
(4: feet 7 inches) high, but whose average is not more than 1-30
(4 feet 3 inches), who occupy isolated villages scattered through the
territory of the Bahoubas, with whom they never mix.f
    Penetrating into the heart of Africa from the north-east, in 1870,
Dr. Schweinfurth first made us acquainted with a diminutive race
of people who have since attained a considerable anthropological
notoriety. They seem to go by two names in their own country,
Akka and Tikki-tikki, the latter reminding us curiously of Dapper's
Bakke-bakke, and the former, more singularly still, having been read
by the learned Egyptologist, Mariette, by the side of the figure of a
dwarf in one of the monuments of the early Egyptian empire.
    It was at the court of Mounza, king of the Monbuttu, that Schwein-
fnrth first met with the Akkas. They appear to live under the pro
tection of that monarch, who had a regiment of them attached to his
service, but their real country was further to the south and west,
about 3° N. lat. and 25° E. long. From the accounts the traveller
received, they occupy a considerable territory, and are divided into
nine distinct tribes, each having its own king or chief. Like all the
other pygmy African tribes, they live chiefly by the chase, being
great hunters of the elephant, which they attack with bows and
arrows.
    In exchange for one of his dogs, Schweinfurth obtained from
Mounza one of these little men, whom he intended to bring to
Europe, but who died on the homeward journey at Berber. Un
fortunately all the measurements and observations which were made
in the Monbuttu country by Schweinfurth perished in the fire which
destroyed so much of the valuable material he had collected. His
descriptions of their physical characters are therefore chiefly recollec
tions. Other travellers^-Long, Marno, and Vossion—though not
penetrating as far as the Akka country, have given observations upon
individuals of the race they have met with in their travels. The
Italian Miani, following the footsteps of Schweinfurth into the
Monbnttn country, also obtained by barter two Akka boys, with the
view of bringing them to Europe. He himself fell a victim to the
fatigues of the journey and climate, but left his collections, including
the young Akkas, to the Italian Geographical Society. Probably no
       * ' Through the Dark Continent.' vol. ii.
       t ' La Gazetto Geograpbique,' 1887, p. 153, quoted by Qualrefages.

 1888.]                  on the Pygmy Races of Men.                  281
 two individuals of a savage race have boon so much honoured by the
 attentions of the scientific world. First at Cairo, and afterwards in
 Italy, Tebo (or Thibaut) and Chairallah, as they were named, were
 described, measured, and photographed, and have been the subjects
 of a library of memoirs, their bibliographers including the names of
 Owen, Panceri, Cornalia, Mantegazza, Giglioli and Zannetti, Broca,
 Hamy, and de Quatrefages. On their arrival in Italy, they were
 presented to the king and queen, introduced into the most fashionable
 society, and finally settled down as members of the household of
 Count Miniscalchi Erizzo, at Verona, where they received a
 European education, and performed the duties of pages.
      In reply to an inquiry addressed to my friend Dr. Giglioli, of
 Florence, I hear that Thibaut died of consumption on January 28th,
 1883, being then about twenty-two years of ago, and was buried in
 the cemetery at Verona. Unfortunately no scientific examination of
 the body was allowed, but whether Chairallah still lives or not I have
 not been able to learn. As Giglioli has not heard of his death, ho
 presumes that ho is still living in Count Miniscalchi's palace.
      One other specimen of this race has been the subject of careful
 observation by European anthropologists—a girl named Saida,
 brought home by Romolo Gessi (Gordon's lieutenant), and who is
 still, or was lately, living at Trieste as servant to 11. de Gessi.
      The various scattered observations hitherto made are obviously
 insufficient to deduce a mean height for tho race, but the nearest
 estimate that Quatrcfages could obtain is about 4 feet 7 inches for the
 men, and 4 feet 3 inches for tho women, decidedly inferior, therefore,
 to tho Andamanese. With regard to their other characters, their hair
 is of the most frizzly kind, their complexion lighter than that of most
 Negroes, but tho prognathism, width of nose, and ovorsion of lips
characteristic of the Ethiopian branch of the human family are
 carried to an extreme degree, especially if Schweinfurth's sketches can
bo trusted. Tho only essential point of difference from the ordinary
 Negro, except tho size, is the tendency to shortening and breadth of
the skull, although it by no means assumes the " almost spherical "
shape attributed to it by Schweiufurth.
      Some further information about tho Akkas will bo found in the
work, just published, of the intrepid and accomplished traveller, in
whose welfare wo are now so much interested, Dr. Emin Pasha,
Gordon's last surviving officer in the Soudan, who, in tho course of
his explorations, spent some little time lately in the country of the
Monbuttu. Here he not only met with living Akkas, one of whom ho
apparently still retains as a domestic in his service, and of whose
dimensions he has sent me a most detailed account, but he also, by
watching the spots whore two of them had been interred, succeeded
in obtaining their skeletons, which, with numerous other objects of
great scientific interest, safely arrived at the British Museum in
September of last year. I need hardly say that actual bones, clean,
imperishable, easy to be measured and compared, not once only, but
     VOL. XII. (No. 82.)                                          u

282                              Professor Flower                     [April 13,
any number of times, furnish the most acceptable evidence that an
anthropologist can possess of many of the most important physical
characters of a race. There we have facts which can always be
appealed to in support of statements and inferences based on them.
Height, proportions of limbs, form of head, characters of the face
even, are all more rigorously determined from the bones than they
can be on the living person. Therefore, the value of these remains,
imperfect as they unfortunately are, and of course insufficient in
number for the purpose of establishing average characters, is very
great indeed.
     As I have entered fully into the question of their peculiarities
elsewhere,* I can only give now a few of the most important and
most generally to be understood results of their examination. The
first point of interest is their size. The two skeletons are both those
of full-grown people, one a man, the other a woman. There is no
reason to suppose that they were specially selected as exceptionally
small ; they were clearly the only ones which Emin had an oppor
tunity of procuring ; yet they fully bear out, more than bear out, all
that has been said of the diminutive size of the race. Comparing the
dimensions of the bones, one by one, with those of the numerous
Andamanese that have passed through my hands, I find both of these
Akkas smaller, not than the average, but smaller than the smallest ;
smaller also than any Bushman whose skeleton I am acquainted with,
or whose dimensions have been published with scientific accuracy.
In fact, they are both, for they are nearly of a size, the smallest
normal human skeletons which I have seen, or of which I can find
any record. I say normal, because they are thoroughly well-grown
and proportioned, without a trace of the deformity almost always
 associated with individual dwarfishness in a taller race. One only,
 that of the female, is sufficiently perfect for articulation. After due
allowance for some missing vertebrae, and for the intervertebral
 spaces, the skeleton measures from the crown of the head to the
 ground exactly 4 feet, or 1-218 metre. About half an inch more for
 the thickness of the skin of the head and soles of the feet would
 complete the height when alive. The other (male) skeleton was
 (judging by the length of the femur) about a quarter of an inch
 shorter.
      The full-grown woman of whom Emin gives detailed dimensions
 is stated to be only 1 • 164 metre, or barely 3 feet 10 inches.f These
 heights are all unquestionably less than anything that has been yet
 obtained based upon such indisputable data. One very interesting
     * In a paper read before the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and
 Ireland, February llth, 1888, which will be published in the August number of
 the Journal.
     t In his letters Emin speaks of an Akka man as " 3 feet 6 inches " high
though this does not profess to be a scientific accurate observation, as does the
above. He says of this man that his whole body was covered by thick, stiff hair,
 almost like felt, as was the case with all the Akkas he had yet examined.

1888.]                on the Pygmy Races of Men.                    283
and almost unexpected result of a careful examination of theso
skeletons is that they conform in the relative proportions of the head,
trunk, and limb, not to dwarfs, but to full-sized people of other races,
and they are therefore strikingly unlike the stumpy, long-bodied,
with their lances against the cranes on ancient Greek vases.
    The other characters of these skeletons are Negroid to an intense
degree, and quite accord with what has been stated of their external
appearance. The form of the skull, too, has that sub-brachycephaly
which has been shown by 1 1 iimy to characterise all the small Negro
populations of Central Africa. It is quite unlike that of the
Andamanese, quite unlike that of the Bushmen. They are obviously
Negroes of a special type, to which I Limy has given the appropriate
term of Negrillo. They seem to have much the same relation to the
larger long-headed African Negroes that the small round-headed
Negritos of the Indian Ocean have to their larger long-headed
Melanesiau neighbours.
    At all events, the fact now seems clearly demonstrated that at
various spots across the great African continent, within a few degrees
north and south of the equator, extending from the Atlantic coast to
near the shores of the AIbert Nyanza (30° E. long.), and perhaps, from
some indications which time will not allow me to enter into now (but
which will be found in the writings of Hamy and Quatrefages), even
farther to the east, south of the G-alla land, are still surviving, in
scattered districts, communities of theso small Negroes, all much
resembling each other in size, appearance, and habits, and dwelling
mostly apart from their larger neighbours, by whom they are every
where surrounded. Our information about them is still very scanty,
and to obtain more would be a worthy object of ambition for the
anthropological traveller. In many parts, especially at the west, they
are obviously holding their own with difficulty, if not actually dis
appearing, and there is much about their condition of civilisation, and
the situations in which they are found, to induce us to look upon them,
as in the case of the Bushmen in the south and the Negritos in the
east, as the remains of a population which occupied the land before the
incoming of the present dominant races. If the account of the Nasa-
monians related by Herodotus be accepted as historical, the river they
came to, " flowing from west to east," must have been the Niger, and
the northward range of the dwarfish people far more extensive twenty-
three centuries ago than it is at the present time.
    This view opens a still larger question, and takes us back to the
neighbourhood of tho south of India as the centre from which
the whole of the great Negro race spread, east over the African
continent, and west over the islands of the Pacific, and to our little
Andamanese fellow subjects as probably the least modified descendants
of the primitive members of the great branch of the human species
characterised by their black skins and frizzly hair.
                                                          [W. H. P.]
                                                             u 2

284                        Sir William R. Grove              [April 20,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, April 20, 1888.
   EDWABD WOODS, Esq. M. Inst. C.E. Vice-President, in the Chair.
     The Bight. Hon. SIB WILLIAM R. GROTE, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D.
                               F.R.S. M.R.I.
                                Antagonism.
SOME months ago, shortly after I had resigned my office of Judge of
the High Court, I was expressing to a friend my fear of the effect
of having no compulsory occupation, when he said, by way of con
solation, " Never mind, ' for Satan finds some mischief still for idle
hands to do.' " You may possibly in the course of this evening think
 he was right.
     I have chosen a title for my lecture which may not fully convey
to your minds the scope of the views which I am going to submit to
you. I propose to adduce some arguments to show that " antagonism,"
a word generally used to signify something disagreeable, pervades all
 things ; that it is not the baneful thing which many consider it ; that
it produces at kast quite as much good as evil ; but that, whatever
be its effect, my theory—call it, if you will, speculation—is that it is
a necessity of existence, and of the organism of the universe so far as
we understand it ; that motion and life cannot go on without it ; that
 it is not a mere casual adjunct of Nature, but that without it there
 would bo no Nature, at all events as we conceive it ; that it is
 inevitably associated with unorganised matter, with organised matter,
 and with sentient beings.
      I am not awaro that this view, in the breadth in which I suggest
 it, has been advanced before. Probably no idea is new in all respects
 in the present period of the world's history. It has been said by a
 desponding pessimist that " There is nothing new, and nothing true,
 and nothing signifies," but I do not entirely agree with him; I
 believe that in what I am about to submit there is something new
 and true in the point of view from which I regard the matter ; whether
 it signifies or not is for you to judge.
      The universality of antagonism has not received the attention it
 seems to me to deserve from the fact of the clement of force, or rather
 of the conquering force, being mainly attended to, and too little note
  taken of the clement of resistance unless the latter vanquishes the
 force, and then it becomes, popularly speaking, the force, and tho
 former force the resistance.

   1888.]                       on Antagonism.                         285
       There are propositions applying more or less to what I am going
  to say of some antiquity.
       Heraclitus, quoted by Prof. Huxley, said : " War is the father
  and king of all things." Hobbes said war is the natural state of
  man, but his expressions have about them some little ambiguity. In
  Chapter I. of the ' De Corpore Politico ' he says, " Irresistible might
  in a state of nature is right," and " The estate of man in this natural
  liberty is war." Subsequently he says : " A man gives up his natural
  right, for when divers men having right not only to all things else,
  but to one another's persons, if they use the same there ariseth thereby
  invasion on the one part and resistance on the other, which is war,
  and therefore contrary to the law of Nature, the sum whereof consiateth
 in making peace." I can only explain this apparent inconsistency by
  supposing he meant " law of Nature " to be something different from
 " the natural estate of man," and that the making peace was the first
 effort at contract, or the beginning of law ; but then why call it the
 " law of Nature" where he says might is right ? There is some
 obscurity in the passage.
       The Persian divinities, Ormuzd and Ahriman, were the supposed
 rulers or representatives of good and evil, always at war, and causing
 the continuous struggles between human beings animated respectively
 by these two principles. Undoubtedly good and evil are antagonistic,
 but antagonism, as I view it, is as necessary to good as to evil, as
 necessary to Ormuzd as to Ahriman. Zoroaster's religion of a Divine
 being, one and indivisible, but with two sides, is, to my mind, a more
 philosophical conception. The views of Lamarck on the modification
 of organic beings by effort, and the establishment of the doctrine of
 Darwin as to the effects produced by the struggle for existence and
 domination, come much nearer to my subject. Darwin has shown
 how these struggles have modified the forms and habits of organised
 beings, and tended to increased differentiation, and Prof. Huxley
 and Herbert Spencer have powerfully promoted and expanded these
 doctrines. To the latter we owe the happy phrase, " survival of the
 fittest," and Prof. Huxley has recently, in a paper in the ' Nine
 teenth Century," anticipated some points I should have adverted to
 as to the social struggles for existence. To be anticipated, and by a
 very short period, is always trying, but it is more trying when what
 you intended to say has been said by your predecessor in more terse
and appropriate language than you have at your command.
      I propose to deal with "antagonism" inductively, i.e. with facts
 derived from observation alone, and not to meddle with spiritual
matters or with consequences.
     Let us begin with what we know of the visible universe, viz.
suns, planets, comets, meteorites, and their effects. These are all
pulling at each other, and resisting that pull by the action of other
forces.
     Any change in this pulling force produces a change, or, as it is
called, perturbation, in the motion of the body pulled. The planet

286                         Sir William It. Grove             [April 20,
Neptune, as you know, was discovered by the effect of its pulling
force on another planet, the latter being deflected from its normal
course. When this pulling force is not counterbalanced by other
forces, or when the objects pulled have not sufficient resisting power,
they fall into each other. Thus, this earth is daily causing a bom
bardment of itself by drawing smaller bodies—meteorites—to it,
20,000,000 of which, visible to the naked eye, fall on an average into
our atmosphere in each twenty-four hours, and of those visible through
the telescope, 400,000,000 are computed to fall within the same period.
Mr. Lockyer has recently given reasons for supposing the luminosity
of nebulae, or of many of them, is due to collisions or friction among
the meteorites which go to form them ; but his paper on the subject
is not yet published. Tou must get from Mr. Lockyer the details of
his views. I hope he may, at one of these evening meetings, give
you a resumd of them from the place I now occupy.
     What is commonly called centrifugal force does not come from
nothing ; it depends upon the law that a body falling by the influence
of attraction, not upon, but near to, the attracting body, whirls round
the latter, describing one of the curves known as conic sections.
Hence a meteorite may become a planet or satellite (one was supposed
to have become so to this earth, but I believe the observations have
not been verified) ; or it may go off in a parabola as comets do ; or
again, this centrifugal force may be generated by the gradual accre
tion of nebulous matter into solid masses falling near to, or being
thrown off from the central nucleus, the two forces (centrifugal and
centripetal) being antagonistic to each other, and the relative move
ments being continuous, but probably not perpetual. Our solar system
is also kept in its place by the antagonism of the surrounding bodies
of the Kosmos pulling at us. Suppose half of the stars we see, i. e. all
on one side of a meridian line, were removed, what would become of
our solar system ? It would drift away to the side where attraction
still existed, and there would be a wreck of matter and a crash of
worlds. It is very little known that Shakespeare was acquainted
with this pulling force. He says, by the mouth of Cressida—
                " But the strong base and building of my love
                  Is as the very centre of the earth,
                  Drawing all things to it "—
a very accurate description of the law of gravitation, BO far as this
earth is concerned, and written nearly a century before Newton's time.
    But in all probability the collisions of meteorites with the earth
and other suns and planets are not the only collisions in space. I
know of no better theory to account for the phenomena of temporary
stars, such as that which appeared in 1866, than that they result from
the collision of non-luminous stars, or stars previously invisible to us.
That star burst suddenly into light, and then the luminosity gradually
faded, the star became more and more dim, and ultimately disappeared.
The spectrum of it showed that the light was compound, and had pro

 1888.]                        on Antagonism.                          287
bably emanated from two different sources. It was probably of a very
high temperature. If this theory of temporary stars be admitted, we
 get a nebula of vapour or star dust again, and so may get fresh instances
of the nebular hypothesis.
     Let us now take the earth itself. It varies in temperature, and
consequently the particles at or near its surface are in continuous
movement, rubbing against each other, being oxidized or deoxidized,
either immediately or through the medium of vegetation. This also
is continuously tearing up its surface and changing its character.
Evaporation and condensation, producing rain, hail, and storms,
notably change it. Force and resistance are constantly at play. The
sea erodes rocks and rubs them into sand. The sea quits them, and
 leaves traces of its former presence by the fossil marine shells found
now at high altitudes. Rocks crumble down and break other rocks or
 are broken by them ; avalanches are not uncommon. The interior of
 the earth seems to be in a perpetual state of commotion, though only
 recurrent to our observation. Earthquakes in various places from
 time to time, and doubtless many beneath the sea of which we are not
 cognizant, nor of other gradual upheavals and depressions. Through
 out it nothing that we know of is at rest, and nothing can move
 without changing the position of something eke, and this is antagonism.
 Metals rust at its surface, and probably they or their oxides, chlorides,
 &c., are in a continuous state of change in the interior. Nothing that
 we know of is stationary. The earth as a whole seems so at first
 sight, but its surface is moving at the rate of some seventeen miles a
 minute at the equator ; and standing at cither of the poles—an experi
 ment which no one has yet had an opportunity of trying—a man would
 be turned round his own axis once in every twenty-four hours, while
 the earth's motion round the sun carries us through space more than
 a million and a half of miles a day.
   The above changes produce motion in other things. The earth
pulls the sun and planets, and in different degrees at different portions
of its orbit.
     Before I pass from inorganic to organized matter I had better
deal with what may perhaps strike you as the most difficult part of
my subject, viz. light. Where, you may say, is there antagonism
in the case of light ? Light exercises its force upon such minute
portions of matter that until the period of the discovery of photo
graphy its physical and chemical effects were almost unknown. Such
effects as bleaching, uniting some gases, and affecting the colouring
matter of vegetables, were partially known but little attended to ;
but photography created a new era : I shall advert to this presently.
The theories of light, however, involved matter and motion. The
corpuscular theory, as you well know, supposed that excessively small
particles were emitted from luminous bodies, and travelled with
enormous velocity. The undulatory theory, which supplanted it,
supposed that luminous bodies caused undulations or vibrations in a
highly tenuous matter called ether, which is supposed to exist

288                        Sir WiUiam It. Grove               [AprU 20,
throughout the interplanetary spaces and throughout the universe so
far as we know it. Some suppose this ether to be of a specific
character differing from that of ordinary gases, others that it is in the
nature of a highly attenuated gas ; but, whatever it be, it cannot be
affected by undulations or vibrations without being moved, and when
matter is moved by any force it must offer resistance to that force,
and hence we get antagonism between force and resistance. Light
also takes time in overcoming this resistance, i. e. in pushing aside
the ether. It travels, no doubt, at a good pace—about 190,000 miles
in a second ; but oven at this rate, and without being particular as to
a few millions of miles, it takes three years and a quarter to reach us
from the star which, so far as wo know, is the nearest to us, viz.
a Contanri. The ether, or whatever it may be called, tenuous as it is,
is not unimportant, though it bo not heavy. Without it we should
have no light and possibly no heat, and the consequences of its
absence would be rnther formidable. I believe you have heard Dr.
Tyndall on this subject. Supposing the visible universe to be as it
is now supposed to be, i. e. in no part a more vacuum, there can be no
force without resistance in any part of it.
     But photography carries us further, it shows us that light acts
on matter chemically, that it is capable of decomposing or forcing
asunder the constituents of chemical compounds, and is therefore a
force met by resistance. In the year 185C I made some experiments,
published in the ' Philosophical Magazine ' for January 1857, which
seemed to me to carry still further what I may call the molecular
fight between light and chemical affinity, and among them the follow
ing. Letters cut out of paper are placed between two polished squares
of glass with tin-foil on the outsides. It is then electrized like a
Leyden jar, for a few seconds, the glasses separated, the letters blown
off, and the inside of one of the glasses covered with photographic
collodion. This is then exposed to diffus-o daylight, and on being
immersed in the nitrate of silver bath the part which had been covered
with the paper comes out daik, tho remainder of the plate being un
affected. (This result was shown by the electric light lantern.) In
this case we seo that another imponderable force, electricity, invisibly
affects the surface of glass in such a way that it conveys to another
substance of definite thickness, viz. the prepared collodion, a change
in tho chemical relations of the substance (iodide of silver) pervading
it, enabling it to resist that decomposition by light which but for some
unseen modification of the surface of the glass plate it would have
undergone, and no doubt tho force of light being unable to effect its
object was reflected or dispersed, and instead of changing its mode of
motion in effecting chemical decomposition, it goes off on other
business. Tho visible effect is in the collodion film alone. I have
stripped that off, and the imprint remains on it, the surface of tho
glass being, so far as I could ascertain, unaffected. Thus in the film
over tho protected part, light conquers chemical affinity ; in that over
the non-protected part, chemical affinity resists and conquers light,

1888.]                        on Antagonism.                          289
which has to make an ignominious retreat. It is a curious chapter in
tho history of tho struggles of molecular forces, and probably similar
contests between light and chemical or physical attractions go on in
many natural phenomena, some forms of blight and some healthy
vegetable changes being probably dependent on the varying effects of
light, and conditions, electrical or otherwise, of the atmosphere.
    Let us now pass on to organic life. A blade of grass, as Burke,
I believe, said as a figure of speech, is fighting with its neighbours.
It is robbing them, and they are trying to rob it—no agreement or
contract, simply force opposed to force. This struggle is good for
the grass ; if it got too much nutriment it would become diseased.
The struggle keeps it in health. The rising of sap in trees, the
assimilation of carbon, tho process of growth, the strengthening
themselves to resist prevalent winds, and many other instances might
bo given, which afford examples of the internal and external struggles
in vegetable life.
    I will now proceed to consider animal life, and in this case I will
begin with tho internal life of animals, which is a continual struggle.
That great pump the heart is continuously beating—that is, conquer
ing resistance. It is forcing the blood through the arteries, they
assisting in squeezing it onwards. If they give way, the animal dies ;
if they become rigid and resist too much, the animal dies. Tbero
must be a regulated antagonism, a rhythmical pulsation, the very term
involving force and resistance. That the act of breathing is antago
nistic scarcely needs argument. The muscular action by which tho
ribs are made to open out and close alternately, in order to inhalo and
exhale air, and other physiological changes which I cannot here go
into, necessitate a continuous fight for life. So with digestion, assi
milation, and other functions, mechanical and chemical forees and
resistances come into play.
     Since this lecture was written, I have heard of a discovery made,
I am informed, by Prof. Metschnikoff, and which has brought to light
a singular instance of internal antagonism. He is said to have
proved that the white corpuscles of tho blood are permanent enemies
of Bacteria, and by inoculation will absorb poisonous germs ; a re
current war, as it appears, going on between them. If the corpuscle
is the conqueror, the Bacteria are swallowed up, and the patient lives.
If the corpuscles are vanquished, the patient dies, and the Bacteria
live, at all events for a time. If the theory is founded, it affords a
strong additional argument to the doctrine of internal antagonism.
Possibly if there were no Bacteria, and the corpuscles had nothing to
do, it would be worse for them and tho animal whom they serve.
    Let us now consider the external life of animals. I will take as
an instance, for a reason which you will soon see, the life of a wild
rabbit. It is throughout its life, except when asleep (of which more
presently), using exertion, cropping grass, at war with vegetables, &c.
If it gets a luxurious pasture it dies of repletion. If it gets too little
it dies of inanition. To keep itself healthy it must exert itself for

 290                         Sir William R. Qrove                [April 20,
its food ; this, and perhaps tbe avoiding its enemies, gives its exercise
and care, brings all its organs into nse, and thus it acquires its most
 perfect form of life. I have witnessed this effect myself, and that is
the reason why I choose the rabbit as an example. An estate in
 Somersetshire, which I once took temporarily, was on the slope of the
 Mendip Hills. The rabbits on one part of it, viz. that on the hill
 side, were in perfect condition, not too fat nor too thin, sleek, active,
and vigorous, and yielding to their antagonists, myself and family,
excellent food. Those in the valley, where the pasturage was rich
and luxuriant, were all diseased, most of them unfit for human food,
and many lying dead on the fields. They had not to struggle for life,
their short life was miserable and their death early, they wanted the
sweet uses of adversity— that is, of antagonism.
     The same story may be told of other animals. Carnivora, beasts
or birds of prey, live on weaker animals ; weaker animals herd
together to resist, or, by better chance of warning, to escape, beasts
of prey; while they, the Herbivora, in their turn are destroying
vegetable organisms.
     I now come to the most delicate part of my subject, viz. man (I in
clude women of course !). Is man exempt from this continual struggle ?
     It is needless to say that war is antagonism. Is not peace so also,
though in a different form ? It is a common-place remark to say that
the idle man is worn out by ennui, i. e. by internal antagonism.
Kingsley's " Do-as-you-like " race — who were fed by a substance
dropping from trees, who did no work, and who gradually degenerated
until they became inferior to apes, and ultimately died out from having
nothing to do, nothing to struggle with—is a caricature illustrative
of the matter. That the worry of competition is nearly equivalent
 to the hardships and perils of military life, seems proved to me by
the readiness with which military life is voluntarily undertaken, ill
as it is paid. If it were well paid, half our men would be in the
military or naval service, and I am not sure that we should not have
regiments of Amazons ! The increased risk of life or limbs and the
arduous nature of the work do not prevent men belonging to all
classes from entering these services, little remunerative as they are.
Others take the risks of travelling in the deserts of Africa or wintering
in the polar regions, of being eaten by lions or frozen to death, of
falling from a Swiss mountain or foundering in a yacht, in preference
 to a life of tranquillity ; and sportsmen prefer the danger of endeavour
ing to kill an animal that can and may kill them, to shooting tame
pheasants at a battue or partridges in a turnip-field.
     Then, in what is euphemistically called a life of peace, buyer and
seller, master and servant, landlord and tenant, debtor and creditor,
are all in a state of simmering antagonism ; and the inventions and
so-called improvements of applied science and art do not lessen it.
Exercise is antagonism ; at each step force is used to lift up our
bodies and push back the earth ; as the eminent Joseph Montgolfier
said, that when he saw a company dancing, he mentally inverted his

1888.]                         on Antagonism.                          291
view and imagined the earth dancing on the dancers' feet, which it
most unquestionably did. Indeed, his great invention of balloons was
guessed at by his witnessing a mild form of antagonism between heat
and gravitation. He, being a dutiful husband, was airing his wife's
dresses, who was going to a ball. He observed the hot air from the
fire inflated the light materials, which rose up in a sort of spheroidal
form (you may some of you have noticed this form in dress ! ). This
gave him the idea of the fire-balloon, which, being a large paper-maker
at Annonay, he forthwith experimented on, and hence we got aerial
navigation. This anecdote was told me by his nephew M. Seguin,
also an eminent man. Even what we call a natural death is a greater
struggle than that which other animals go through, and is, in fact, the
most artificial of all deaths. The lower animals, practically speaking,
do experience a natural death, i. e. a violent or unforeseen death. As
soon as their powers decline to such an extent that they cannot take
part in the struggle for existence, they die or are killed, generally
quickly, and their sufferings are not protracted by the artificial tortures
arising from the endeavours to prolong life.
     Let us now pass from individuals to communities. Is there less
antagonism now than of yore ? Do the nations of Europe now form
a happy family ? Are the armaments of Continental nations, or is
the navy of this country, less than in former years ? The very ex
pression " the Great Powers " involves antagonism.
     As with wars and revolutions, so, as I have said, with regard to
individuals, during our so-called peace, the fight is continuous among
communities. If the water does not boil, it simmers. Not merely
are there the struggles of poor against rich going on, but the battles for
position and pre-eminence are constant. The subjugated party or sect
seeks first for toleration, then for equalisation, and then for domination.
     We call contentment a virtue, but we inculcate discontent. A
 father reproaches his son for not exerting himself to improve his
 position, and at school and college and in subsequent periods of life
 efforts at advancement in the social scale are recommended. Individual
 antagonisms, class antagonisms, political, trading, and religious
 antagonisms take the place of war. Can war exhibit a more vigorous
 and persistent antagonism than competition does ? Take the college
 student with ruined health ; take the bankrupt tradesman with ruined
 family ; take the aspirants of fashion turning night into day, and
 preferring gas or electric light to that of the sun : there is, to be
 sure, some excuse for this, as we so rarely see the latter.
     But our very amusements are of a combative character: chess,
 whist, billiards, racing, cricket, foothall, &c. And in all these we, in
 common parlance, speak of beating our opponent. Even dancing is
 probably a relic and reminiscence of war, and some of its forms are
 of a military character. I can call to mind only one game which is
 not combative, and that is the game you are in some sort now playing,
 viz. " patience," and with, I fear, some degree of internal antagonism !
     Take, again, the ordinary incidents of a day's life in London :

292                        Sir William R. Grace               [April 20,
15,000 to 20,000 cabs, omnibuses, vans, private carriages, &c., all
struggling, the horses pushing the earth back and themselves forwards,
the pedestrians doing the same, but the horses compulsorily—they
have not as yet got votes. The occupants of the cabs, vans, &c., are
supposed to act from free will, but in the majority of cases they are
as much driven as the horses. Insolvents trying to renew bills, rich
men trying to save what they have got by saving half an hour of time.
Imagine, if you can, the friction of all this, and add the bargaining in
shops, the mental efforts in counting-houses, banks, &c., and road
repair, now a permanent and continuous institution. Take our rail
ways : similar efforts and resistances. Drivers, signal-men, porters,
&c., and the force emanating from the sun millions of years ago, and
locked up in the coal-fields, as Stephenson suggested, now employed
to overcome the inertia of trains and to make them push the earth in
this or that direction, and themselves along its surface. Take the
daily struggles in commerce, law, professions, and legislation, and
sometimes even in science and literature. Politics I cannot enter
upon here, but must leave you to judge whether there is not some
degree of antagonism in this pursuit. In all this there is plenty of
useful antagonism, plenty of useless—much to please Ormuzd and
much to delight Ahriman ; but of the two extremes, over-work or
stagnation, the latter would, I think, do Ahrimau's work more
efficiently than the former. We cry peace when there is no peace.
Would the world, however, be better if it wore otherwise ? Is the
Nirvana a pleasing prospect ? Sleep, though not without its troubles
and internal antagonism, is our nearest approach to it, but we should
hardly wish to be always asleep.
    Shakespeare not only knew something about gravitation, but ho
also know something about antagonism. He says, by the mouth of
Agamemnon—
                 " Sith every action that hath gone before,
                   Whereof we have record, trial did druw,
                   liias and thwart, not answering the aim,
                   And that unbodied figure of the thought
                   That gav't surmised shape."
    In no case is the friction of life shown more than in the perform
ance of " duty," i. o. an act of self-resistance, a word very commonly
used ; but the realisation of it is by no means so frequent. Indeed,
faith in its performance so yields to scepticism that it is said that
when a man talks of doing his duty, he is meditating some knavish
trick.
    The words good and evil are correlative : they are like height and
depth, parent and offspring. You cannot, as far as I can see, conceive
the existence of the one without involving the conception of the other.
In their common acceptation they represent the antagonism between
what is agreeable or beneficial and what is painful or injurious.
    An old anecdote will give us the notion of good and evil in a

1888.]                         on Antagonism.
slenderly educated mind. A missionary having considered that ho
had successfully inculcated good principles in the mind of a previously
untutored savage, produced him for exhibition before a select audience,
and began his catechism by asking him the nature of good and evil.
" Evil," the pupil answered, " is when other man takes my wife."
" Right," said the missionary, " now give me an example of good."
The answer was : " Good is when me takes other man's wife." Tho
answer was not exactly what was expected, but was not far in dis
accord with modern views among ourselves and other so-called
civilised races. I don't mean as to running away with other men's
wives ! But we still view good and evil very much as affecting our
own interests. At the commencement of a war each of the opposing
parties view victory—i.e. the destruction of their enemies —as good,
and being vanquished as evil. Congregations pray for this. States
men invoke the God of battles. Those among you who are old
enough will call to mind the Crimean war. Each combatant nation
gives thanks for the destruction of the enemy, each sido possibly
believing that they respectively are in the right, but in reality not
troubling themselves much about that minor question. We (uncon
sciously perhaps) " compound for sins we are inclined to, by damning
those we have no mind to." So in the daily life of what is called
peace. Tho stage-coach proprietor rejoiced when he had driven his
rival off the road, railway directors and shareholders now do the same,
so do publicans, shopkeepers, and other rivals'. We are still permc ated
by the old notion of good and evil. But " antagonism," as I view it,
not only comprehends the relation of good and evil, but, as I have
said, produces both, and is as necessary to good as to evil. Without
it there would be neither good nor evil.
     Judging of the lives of our progenitors from what we see of
the present races of men of less cerebral development, we may
characterize them as having been more impulsive than ourselves,
and as having their joys and sorrows more quickly alternated.
After the hunt for food, accompanied by privation and suffering,
comes the feast to gorging. Their main evil wns starvation, their
good repletion. Even now the Esquimaux watches a seal-hole in
the bitter cold for hours and days, and his compensation is tbo
spearing and eating the seal. The good is resultant upon and in
the long run I suppose, equivalent to the evil. These men look
not back into tho past, and forward into the future as we do. Wo,
by extending our thought over a wider area, are led to more con
tinuing sacrifices, and aim at more lasting enjoyment in the result.
Tho child Buffers at school in order that his future life may be more
prosperous. The man spends the best part of his life in arduous
toil, physical or mental, in order that he may not want in his later
years, or that his family may reap the benefit of his labour. Further-
seeing men spend their whole lives on work little remunerative that
succeeding generations may bo benefited. The prudent man transmits

294                        Sir William R. Qrove                [April 20,
health and wealth to his descendents, the improvident man poverty
or gout. One main element of what we call civilisation is the capa
bility of looking further back into the past, and further forward into
the future ; but, though measured on a different scale, the average
antagonism and approximate equivalence appear to me to be the
same.
     Can we suppose a state of things either in the inorganic or the
organic world which, consistently with our experience or any deduc
tion drawn from it, would be without antagonism ? In the inorganic
world it would be the absence of all movement, or, what practically
amounts to the same thing, movement of everything in the same
direction, and the same relative velocity ; for, as movement is only
known to us by relation, movement where nothing is stationary or
moving in a different direction or with a different velocity would be
unrecognizable.
     So in the organic but non-sentient world, if there were no struggle,
no absorption of food, no growth, nothing to overcome, there would
be nothing to call life. If, again, in the sentient world there were no
appetites, no hopes—for both these involve discontent—no fear, no
good or bad, what would life be? If fully carried out, is not life
without antagonism no life at all, a barren metaphysical conception
of existence, or rather alleged conception, for we cannot present to
the mind the form of such conception.
     In the most ordinary actions, such as are necessary to sustain
existence, we find, as I have already pointed out, a struggle more or
less intense, but we also find a reciprocal interdependence of effort
and result. The graminivorous animal is during his waking hours
always at work, always making a small but continuous effort, select
ing his pastures, cropping vegetables, avoiding enemies, &c. The
Carnivora suffer more in their normal existence; their hunger is
greater, and their physical exertion when they are driven by hunger
to make efforts to obtain food is more violent than with the Herbivora,
if they capture their prey by speed or battle, or their mental efforts
ere greater if they capture it by craft. But then their gratification
is also more intense, and thus there is a sort of rough equation
between their pain and their pleasure, the more sustained the labour
the more permanent is the gratification.
     As, with food or exercise, deficiency is as injurious in one, as is
excess in another direction, so as affecting the mind of communities,
as I have stated it to be with individuals, the effect of a life of ease
and too much repose is as much to be avoided as a life of unremitting
toil. The Pitcairn islanders, who managed in some way to adapt
their wants to their supply and to avoid undue increase of population,
are said never to have reached old age. In consequence of the un
eventful, unexcited lives they led, they died of inaction, not from
deficiency of food or shelter, but of excitement. They should have
migrated to England ! They died as hares do when their ears are
stuffed with cotton, i. e. from want of anxiety. We have hope in our

1888.]                          on Antagonism.                           295
suffering, and in the mid gush of our pleasure something bitter
surges up.
          " We look before and after, and pine for what is not,
            Our sincerest laughter with some pain is fraught,
            Our sweetest songs are those which tell of saddest thought."
     The question may possibly occur to yon, have we more or less
antagonism now than in former times? We certainly have moro
complexity, more differentiation, in our mental characteristics, and
probably in our physical, so far as the structure of the brain is con
 cerned ; but is there less antagonism? With greater complexity
 come increased wants, more continuous cares. Higher cerebral
development is accompanied with greater nervous irritability, with
 greater social intricacies—we have more frequent petty annoyances,
and they affect us more. With all onr so-called social improvements,
 is there not the same struggle between crime and its repression ? If
 we have no longer highway robberies, how many more cases of fraud
 exist, most of it not touched by our criminal laws ? As to litigation
I am perhaps not an impartial judge, but it seems to me that if law
were as cheap as is desired, every next-door neighbour would be in,
litigation. It would seem as if social order had never more than the
tnrn of the scale which is necessary to social existence in its favour
when contrasted with the disorganizing forces. Without that there
would be perpetual insurrections and anarchy. But though antago
nism takes a different form it is still there. Are wars more regulated
by justice than of yore ? I venture to doubt it, though probably
many may disagree with me. National self-interest or self-aggrandise
ment is, I think, the predominant factor, and is frequently admittedly
BO. I also doubt if the old maxim, " If you wish for peace prepare for
war," is of much value. Large armaments and improvements in the-
means of destruction (whose inventors are more thought of than the
discoverers of natural truths) are as frequently the cause of war as of
its prevention. Are wars less sanguinary with 100-ton guns than
with bows and arrows ? I cannot enter into statistics on this subject,
but a sensible writer who has, viz. Mr. Finlaison, came to the conclu
sion that wars cease now as anciently, not in the ratio of the improve
ments in killing implements, but from exhaustion of men or means.
Wars undoubtedly occur at more distant intervals, or the human race
would become extinct. Probably the largely increased competition
supplies their place : we fight commercially more and militarily less.
It is a sad reflection that man is almost the only animal that fights,
not for food or means of life or of perpetuating its race, but from
motives of the merest vanity, ambition, or passion. War is, however,
not wholly evil. It developes noble qualities—courage, endurance,
self-sacrifice, friendship, &c.—and tends to get rid of the silly encum
brances of fashion and ostentation. But do the much bepraised
inventions of peace bring less antagonism ? Consider the enormous,
labour and waste of time due to competition in the advertising system

296                      Sir William R. Grove      ^          [APril 20,
alone. Paper-making, type-founding, printing, pasting, posting or
otherwise circulating, sandwich-men, &c., all at work for purposes
which, I venture to think, are in great part useless ; and those who
might add to the productiveness of the earth, or to the enriching our
knowledge, are helping to extend the limits of the black country and
wasting their time in interested self-laudation. And the consumer
pays the costs. "Buy my clothing, which will never wear out."
" Become a shareholder in our company, which will pay cent. per
cent." " Take my pills, which will cure all diseases," &c. These
eulogies come from those highly impartial persons the advertisers, all
promising golden rewards, but, as with the alchemists, on condition
that gold be paid in advance for their wares ; and the silly portion of
the public (no small body) take them at their word. Though you
may not fully agree with this my anathema of the advertising system,
and though there may be some modicum of good in it, I think you
will agree that it affords a notable illustration of antagonism. If I
were a younger man, I think I should go to Kamchatka to avoid the
penny pqst ; possibly I should not bo satisfied when I got there.
    Civilisation begins by supplying wants, and ends by creating them,
and each supply for the newly created want begets other wants, and so
on, " toties quoties." As far as we can judge by its present progress,
mankind seems tending to an automatic state. The requirements of
each day are becoming so numerous as to occupy the greater portion
of that day ; and when telegrams, telephones, electro-motion, and
numerous other innovations which will probably follow these, reach
their full development, no time will bo left for thought, repose, or any
spontaneous individual action. In this mechanical state of existence
in times of peace, extremes of joy and sorrow, of good and evil, will
become more rare, and the necessary uniformity of life will reduce
passion and feeling to a continuous potty friction. The converse of
the existence contemplated by the Stoics will be attained, and instead
of a life of calm contemplation, our successors will have a life of
objectless activity. The cud will bo swallowed up in the means. It
will be all pursuit and no attainment. Is there & juste milieu, a point
at which the superfluous commoda vitx will cease ? None probably
would agree at where tbat point should be fixed, and the future alone
can show whether the human race will emancipate itself from being,
like Frankenstein, the slave of the monster it has created.
    In the cases I have given as illustrations—and many more
might be adduced — the evil resulting from apparently beneficial
changes is not a mere accident: it is as necessury a consequence
as reaction is a consequence of action. In the struggle for existence
or supremacy inevitable in all social growths, the invention, enact
ment, &c., intended to remedy an assumed evil will bo taken advantage
of by those for whom it is not intended ; the real grievance will
have been exaggerated by those having an interest in trading on it,
and the remedy itself will have collateral results not contemplated
by those who introduce the change. I could give many instances

1888.]                       on Antagonism.                          297
of this by my own experience as an advocate and judge, but this would
lead mo away from my subject. Evils, indeed, result from the very
change of habit induced by the alleged improvement. The carriage,
which saves fatigue, induces listlessness, and tends to prevent healthy
exercise. The knife and fork save the labour of mastication, but by
their use there is not the same stimulus to the salivary glands, not
the full healthy amount of secretion, whereby digestion suffers ; there
is not the same exercise of the teeth whereby they are strengthened
and uniformly worn, as we see in ancient skulls. It seems not im
probable that their premature decay in civilised nations is due to the
want of their normal exercise by the substitution of the knife and fork
and stew-pan. According to the evolution theory, our organs have
grown into what they are by long use, and the remission of this tends
to irregular development, or atrophy. Every artificial appliance
renders nugatory some pre-existing mode of action, either voluntary
or involuntary ; and as the parts of the whole organism have become
correlated, each part being modified by the functions and actions of
the others, every part suffers more or less when the mode of action
of any one part is changed. So with the social structure, the same
correlation of its constituent parts is a necessary consequence of ita
 growth, and the change of one part affects the well-being of other
parts. All change, to be healthy, must be extremely slow, the defect
struggling with the remedy through countless but infinitesimally
minute gradations.
    Lastly, do the forms of government give us any firm ground to
rest upon as to there being less undue antagonism in one than in
another form ? Whether it is better to run a risk of, say, one chance
in a thousand or more of being decapitated unjustly by a despot, or to
have what one may eat or drink, or whom one may marry, decided by
a majority of parish voters, is a question on which opinions may
differ, but there is abundant antagonism in either case.
    Communism, the dream of enthusiasts, offers little prospect of ease.
It involves an unstable equilibrium, i. e. it consists of a chain of con
nection where a defect in one link can destroy the working of the whole
system, and why the executive in that system should be more perfect
than in others I never have been able to see. Antagonism, on the
other hand, tends to stability. Each man working for his own
interests helps to supply the wants of others, thus ministering to
public convenience and order, and if one or more fail the general weal
is not imperilled.
     You may ask, Why this universal antagonism? My answer is,
I don't know; Science deals only with the How? not with the Why?
Why does matter gravitate to other matter, with a force inversely as
the square of the distance ? Why does oxygen unite with hydrogen ?
All I can say is that antagonism is, to my mind, universal, and will,
I believe, some day be considered as much a law as the law of gravi
tation. If matter is, as we believe, everywhere, even in the inter
planetary spaces, and if it attracts and moves other matter, which it
     VOL. XII. (No. 82.)                                         x

298                       Sir William R. Oroee                 [April 20,
apparently must do, there must be friction or antagonism of some
kind. So with organized beings, Nature only recognizes the right,
or rather the power, of the strongest. If twenty men be wrecked on
a secluded island which will only support ten, which ten have a right
to the produce of the island ? Nature gives no voice, and the strongest
take it. You may further ask me, Cui bono f what is the use of this
disquisition ? I should answer, If the views be true, it is always useful
to know the truth. The greatest discoveries have appeared useless at
the time. Kepler's discovery of the relations of the planetary move
ments appeared of no use at the time ; no one would now pronounce
it useless. I can, however, see much probable utility in the doctrine
I have advocated. The conviction of the necessity of antagonism,
and that without it there would be no light, heat, electricity, or life,
may teach us (assuming free will) to measure effort by the probable
result and to estimate the degree of probability. It may teach us not
 to waste our powers on fruitless objects, but to utilise and regulate
this necessity of existence ; for, if my views are correct, too much or
too little is bad, and a due proportion is good (like many other useful
things, it is best in moderation), to accept it rather as a boon than a
bane, and to know that we cannot do good without effort —that is,
without some suffering.
     I have spoken of antagonism as pervading the universe. Is there,
you may ask, any limit in point of time or space to force ? If there
bo so, there must be a limit to antagonism. It is said that heat tends
to dissipate itself, and all things necessarily to acquire a uniform
temperature. This would in time tend practically, though not abso
lutely, to the annihilation of force and to universal death ; but if
there be evidence of this in our solar system and what wo know of
some parts of the universe, which probably is but little, is there no
conceivable means of reaction or regeneration of active heat ? There
is some evidence of a probable zero of temperature for gases as wo
know them, i. o. a temperature so low that at it matter could not exist
in a gaseous form ; but passing over gases and liquids, if matter
becomes solid by loss of heat, such solid matter would coalesce,
masses would be formed, these would gravitate to each other, and
come into collision. It would be the nebular hypothesis over again.
Condensations and collisions would again generate heat ; and so on
ad infinitum.
     Collisions in the visible universe are probably more frequent than
is usually supposed. New nebulae appear where there were none
before, as recently in the constellation of Andromeda. Mr. Lockyer,
as I have said, considers that they are constant in the nebulae ; and
if there be such a number of meteorites as are stated to fall daily into
the atmosphere of this insignificant planet, what numbers mnst there
be in the universe ? There must be a sort of fog of meteorites, and
this may account, coupled with possibly some dissipation of light or
change of it into other forces, for the smaller degree of light than
would be expected if the universe of stellar bodies were infinite.

 1888.]                       on Antagonism.                          299
 For if so, and the stars are assumed to be of an equal average bright
 ness, then if there be no loss or obstruction, as light from a star
 decreases as the square of the distance and would from an infinite
 number of stars probably increase in the same ratio, the night would
 be as brightly illuminated as the day. We are told that there are
stars of different ages—nascent, adolescent, mature, decaying, and
 dying ; and when some of them, like nations at war, are broken up
 by collision into fragments or resolved into vapour, the particles fight
as individuals do, and like them end by coalescing and forming new
suns and planets. As the comparatively few people who die in
London to-night do not affect us here, so in the visible universe one
sun or planet in a billion or more may die every century and not be
missed, while another is being slowly born out of a nebula. Thus
worlds may be regenerated by antagonism without having for the
time more effect upon the Kosmos than the people now dying in
London have upon us. I do not venture to say that these collisions
are in themselves sufficient to renew solar life; time may give us
more information. There may be other modeg of regeneration or
renewed activity of the dissipated force, and some of a molecular
character. The conversion of heat into atomic force has been sug
gested by Mr. Crookes. I give no opinion on that, but I humbly
venture to doubt the mortality of the universe.
     Again, is the universe limited? and if so, by what? Not, I
presume, by a stone wall! or if so, where does the wall end? Is
space limited, and how ? If space be unlimited and the universe of
suns, planets, &c., limited, then the visible universe becomes a
luminous speck in an infinity of dark vacuous space, and the gases, or
at all events the so-called ether, unless limited in elasticity, would
expand into this vacuum—a limited quantity of ether into an infinite
vacuum ! If the universe of matter be unlimited in space, then the
cooling down may bo unlimited in time. But these are perhaps
fruitless speculations. We cannot comprehend infinity, neither can
we conceive a limitation to it. I must once more quote Shakespeare,
and say in his words, " It is past the infinite of thought." But what
ever be the case with some stars and planets, I cannot bring myself
to believe in a dead universe surrounded by a dark ocean of frozen
ether.
    Most of you have read ' Wonderland,' and may recollect that
after the Duchess has uttered some ponderous and enigmatical
apophthegms, Alice says, " Oh 1 " " Ah," says the Duchess, " I could
say a good deal more if I chose." So could I ; but my relentless
antagonist opposite (the clock) warns me, and I will only add one
more word, which you will be glad to hear, and that word is—Finis.
                                                           [W. R. G.]
                                                             x 2

300                       Mr. James Wimshurst                    [April 27,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, April 27, 1888.
    WILLIAM HuaaiNB, Esq. D.G.L. LL.D. F.B.S. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                    JAMES WIMBHUBST, Esq. M.R.I.
                      Electrical Influence Machines.
I HATE the honour this evening of addressing a few remarks to you upon
the subject of influence machines, and the manner in which I propose
to treat the subject is to state as shortly as possible, first, the histori
cal portion, and afterwards to point out the prominent characteristics
of the later and more commonly known machines. The diagrams
upon the screen will assist the eye to the general form of the typical
machines, but I fear that want of time will prevent me from explaining
each of them.
    In 1762 Wilcke described a simple apparatus which produced
electrical charges by influence, or induction, and following this the
great Italian scientist, Alexander Volta, in 1775 gave the electro-
phorus the form which it retains to the present day. This apparatus
may be viewed as containing the germ of the principle of all influence
machines yet constructed.
    Another step in the development was the invention of the doubler
by Bennet in 1786. He constructed metal plates which were thickly
varnished, and were supported by insulating handles, and which were
manipulated so as to increase a small initial charge. It may bo
better for me to here explain the process of building up an increased
charge by electrical influence, for the same principle holds in all of
the many forms of influence machines.
     This Volta electrophorus, and these three blackboards, will serve
for the purpose. I first excite the electrophorus in the usual manner,
and you see that it then influences a charge in its top plate ; the
charge in the resinous compound is known as negative, while the
charge induced in its top plate is known as positive. I now show you
by this electroscope that these charges are unlike in character. Both
charges are, however, small, and Bennet used the following system to
 increase them.
    Let these three boards represent Bonnet's three plates. To plate
No. 1 he imparted a positive charge, and with it he induced a negative
charge in plate No. 2. Then with plate No. 2 he induced a positive
charge in plate No. 3. He then placed the plates Nos. 1 and 3
together, by which combination he had two positive charges within
practically the same space, and with these two charges he induced a

1888.]             on Electrical Influence Machines.                 301
double charge in plate No. 2. This process was continued until the
desired degree of increase was obtained. I will not go through the
process of actually building up a charge by such means, for it would
take more time than I can spare.
    In 1787 Carvallo discovered the very important fact, that metal
plates when insulated, always acquire slight charges of electricity ;
following up those two important discoveries of Bennet and Carvallo,
Nicholson in 1788 constructed an apparatus, having two discs of metal
insulated and fixed in the same plane. Then by means of a spindle
and handle, a third disc, also insulated, was made to revolve near to
the two fixed discs, metallic touches being fixed in suitable positions.
With this apparatus he found that small residual charges might
readily be increased. It is in this simple apparatus that we have the
parent of influence machines (Diagram 1), and as it is now a hundred
years since Nicholson described this machine in the Phil. Trans., I
think it well worth showing a largo sized Nicholson machine at work
to-night.
    In 1823 Ronalds described a machine in which the moving disc was
attached to and worked by the pendulum of a clock. It was a modi
fication of Nicholson's doubler, and he used it to supply electricity for
telegraph working. For some years after these machines were
invented no important advance appears to have been made, and I think
this may be attributed to the great discoveries in galvanic electricity
which were made about the commencement of this century by Galvani
and Volta, followed in 1831 to 1857 by the magnificent discoveries of
Faraday in electro-magnetism, electro-chemistry, and electro-optics,
and no real improvement was made in influence machines till 1860,
in which year Varley patented a form of machine shown in Diagram 2.
It also was designed for telegraph working.
    In 1865 the subject was taken up with vigour in Germany by
Toepler, Holtz, and other eminent men. The most prominent of the
machines made by them are figured in the Diagrams 3 to 6, but time
will not admit of my giving an explanation of the many points of
interest in them ; it being my wish to show you at work such of the
machines as I may be able, and to make some observations upon
them.
    In 1866 Bertsch invented a machine, but not of the multiplying
type ; and in 1867 Sir William Thomson invented the form of
machine shown in Diagram 7, which, for the purpose of maintaining
a constant potential in a Leyden jar, is exceedmgly useful.
    The Carre machine was invented in 1868, and in 1880 the Voss
machine was introduced, since which time the latter has found a place
in many laboratories. It closely resembles the Varley machine in
appearance, and the Toepler machine in construction.
    In condensing this part of my subject, I have had to omit many
prominent names and much interesting subject matter, but I must
state that in placing what I have before you, many of my scientific
friends have been ready to help and to contribute, aud, as an instance

302                        Mr. James Wimshurst                 [April 27,
of this, I may mention that Professor Sylvanus P. Thompson at onco
placed all his literature and even his private notes of reference at my
service.
     I will now endeavour to point out the more prominent features of
the influence machines which I have present, and, in doing BO, I must
ask a moment's leave from the subject of my lecture to show you a
email machine made by that eminent worker, Faraday, which, apart
from its value as his handiwork, so closely brings us face to face with
the imperfect apparatus with which he and others of his day made
their valuable researches.
     The next machine which I take is a Holtz. It has one plate
revolving, the second plate being fixed. The fixed plate, as yon see,
is so much cut away, that it is very liable to breakage. Paper in
ductors are fixed upon the back of it, while opposite the inductors,
and in front of the revolving plate, are combs. To work the machine
(1) a specially dry atmosphere is required ; (2) an initial charge is
necessary ; (3) when at work the amount of electricity passing
through the terminals is great ; (4) the direction of the current is
apt to reverse ; (5) when the terminals are opened beyond the
 sparking distance the excitement rapidly dies away ; (6) it does not
 part with free electricity from either of the terminals singly.
      It has no metal on the revolving plates, nor any metal contacts ;
 the electricity is collected by combs which take the place of brushes,
 and it is the break in the connection of this circuit which supplies a
 current for external use. On this point I cannot do better than quote
 an extract from page 339 of Sir William Thomson's Papers on
 Electrostatics and Magnetism, which runs : " Holtz's now celebrated
 electric machine, which is closely analogous in principle to Varley's
 of 1860, is, I believe, a descendant of Nicholson's. Its great power
 depends upon the abolition by Holtz of metallic carriers and metallic
 make-and-break contacts. It differs from Varley's and mine by
 leaving the inductors to themselves, and using the current in the
 connecting arc."
      In respect to the second form of Holtz machine (Fig. 4) I have
 very little information, for since it was brought to my notice nearly
 six years ago I have not been able to find either one of the machines
 or any person who had seen one. As will be seen by the diagram it
 has two discs revolving in opposite directions, it has no metal sectors
 and no metal contacts. The " connecting arc circuit " is used for the
 terminal circuit. Altogether I can very well understand and fully
 appreciate the statement made by Professor Holtz in ' Uppenborn's
 Journal' of May 1881, wherein he writes "that for the purpose of
 demonstration I would rather be without such machines."
       The first type of Holtz machine has now in many instances been
 made up in multiple form, within suitably constructed glass cases,
  but when so made up great difficulty has been found in keeping each
  of the many plates to a like excitement. When differently excited
  the one set of plates furnished positive electricity to the comb, while

1888.]             on Electrical Influence Machines.                  303
the next set of plates gave negative electricity—as a consequence no
electricity passed the terminals.
    To overcome this objection, to dispense with the dangerously cut
plates, and also to better neutralise the revolving plate, throughout
its whole diameter, I made a large machine having twelve discs 2 feet
7 inches in diameter, and in it I inserted plain rectangular slips of
glass between the discs, which might readily be removed ; these slips
carried the paper inductors. To keep all the paper inductors on one
side of the machine to a like excitement, I connected them together
by a metal wire. The machine so made worked splendidly, and your
late secretary, Mr. Spottiswoode, sent on two occasions to take note
of my successful modifications. The machine is now ten years old,
but still works splendidly. 1 will show you a smaller sized one at
work.
    The next machine on which I make observations, is the Carre.
It consists essentially of a disc of glass which is free to revolve with
out touch or friction. At one end of a diameter it moves near to the
excited plate of a frictional machine, while at the opposite end of the
diameter is a strip of insulating material, opposite which, and also
opposite the excited amalgam plate, are combs for conducting the
induced charges, and to which the terminals are metallically
connected; the machine works well in ordinary atmosphere, and
certainly is in many ways to be preferred to the simple frictional
machine. In my experiments with it I found that the quantity of
electricity might be more than doubled by adding a segment of glass
between the amalgam cushions and the revolving plate. The current
in this type of machine is constant.
    The Voss machine has one fixed plate and one revolving plate.
Upon the fixed plate are two inductors, while on the revolving plate
are six circular carriers. Two brushes receive the first portions of
the induced charges from the carriers, which portions aro conveyed
to the inductors. The combs collect the remaining portion of the
induced charge for use as an outer circuit, while the metal rod with
its two brushes neutralises the plate surface in a line of its diagonal
diameter. When at work it supplies a considerable amount of
electricity. It is self-exciting in ordinary dry atmosphere. It freely
parts with its electricity from either terminal, but when so used the
current frequently changes its direction, hence there is no certainty
that a full charge has been obtained, nor whether the charge is of
positive or negative electricity.
    I next come to the type of machine with which I am more closely
associated, and I may preface my remarks by adding that the in
vention sprang solely from my experience gained by constantly using
and experimenting with the many electrical machines which I
possessed. It was from these I formed a working hypothesis which
led me to make the small machine now before you. The machine is
unaltered. It excited itself when new with the first revolution. It
so fully satisfied mo with its performance that I had four others

304                         Mr. J. Wimshursl                   [April 27,
made, the first of which I presented to this Institution. Its con
struction is of the simplest character. The two discs of glass revolve
near to each other, and in opposite directions. Each disc carries
metallic sectors ; each disc has its two brushes supported by metal
rods, the rods to the two plates forming an angle of 90° with each
other. The external circuit is independent of the brushes, and is
formed by the combs and terminals.
   The machine is self-exciting under all conditions of atmosphere,
owing probably to each plate being influenced by, and influencing in
turn its neighbour, hence there is the minimum surface for leakage.
When excited the direction of the current never changes ; this cir
cumstance is due probably to the circuit of the metallic sectors and
the make-and-break contacts always being closed, while the combs and
the external circuit are supplemental, and for external use only. The
quantity of electricity is very large and the potential high. When
suitably arranged the length of spark produced is equal to nearly
the radius of the disc. I have made them from 2 inches to 7 feet in
diameter, with equally satisfactory results. The Diagram No. 9
shows the distribution of the electricity upon the plate surfaces,
when the machine is fully excited. The inner circle of signs corre
sponds with the electricity upon the front surface of the disc. The
two circles of signs between the two black rings refer to the electri
city between the discs, while the outer circle of signs corresponds
with the electricity upon the outer surface of the back disc. The
diagram is the result of experiments which I cannot very well repeat
here this evening, but in support of the distribution shown on the
diagram I will show you two discs at work made of a flexible
material, which when driven in one direction, close together at the
top and bottom, while in the horizontal diameter they are repelled.
When driven in the reverse direction the opposite action takes place.
    I have also experimented with the cylindrical form of the
machine ; the first of these I made in 1882, and it is before you.
The cylinder gives inferior results to the simple discs, and is more
complicated to adjust. You notice I neither use nor recommend vul
canite, and it is perhaps well to caution my hearers against the use
of that material for the purpose, for it warps with age, and when left
in the daylight it changes and becomes useless.
    I have now only to speak of these larger machines. They are in
all respects made up with the same plates, sectors, and brushes as
 were used by me in the first experimental machines, but for conve
nience sake they are fitted in numbers within a glass case.
    This machine has eight plates of 2 feet 4 inches diameter ; it has
been in the possession of the Institution for about three years.
    This large machine, which has been made for this lecture, has
twelve discs, each 2 feet 6 inches in diameter. The length of spark
from it is 13-J- inches.
    During the construction of the machine every care was taken to
avoid electrical excitement in any of its parts, and after its completion

1888.]              on Electrical Influence Machines.               305
several friends were present to witness the fitting of the brushes and
the first start. When all was ready the terminals were connected to
an electroscope, and the handle was moved so slowly that it occupied
thirty seconds in moving one-half revolution, and at that point violent
excitement appeared.
    The machine has now been standing with its handle secured for
about eight hours ; no excitement is apparent, but still it may not be
absolutely inert ; of this each one present must judge, but I will con
nect it with this electroscope, and then move the handle slowly, so
that you may see when the excitement commences and judge of its
absolutely reliable behaviour as an instrument for public demonstra
tion. I may say that I have never under any condition found this
type of machine to fail in its performance.
    I now propose to show you the beautiful appearances of the dis
charge, then the length of sparks, which appear to be almost con
tinuous, and then in order that you may judge of the relative capa
bilities of each of these three machines, we will work them all at
the same time.
    The large frictional machine which is in use for this comparison
belongs to this Institution. It was made for Napoleon in 1822, and
its great power is so well known to you that a better standard could
not bo desired.
    These five Leyden jars are of equal size ; I will connect one of
them only to the large frictional machine, while I connect two jars
to each of the two large machines of the influence type. The
difference in power of the machines is then seen to bo very marked.
The exhibition may be considered as a miniature thunderstorm with
almost no intermission between the lightning flashes.
    In conclusion I may be permitted to say that it is fortunate I had
not read the opinions of Sir William Thomson and Professor Holtz,
as quoted in the earlier part of my lecture, previous to my own prac
tical experiments. For had I read such opinions from such authorities
I should probably have accepted them without putting them to prac
tical test. As the matter stands I have done those things which they
said I ought not to have done, and I have left undone those things
which they said I ought to have done, and by so doing I think you
must freely admit, that I have produced an electric generating
machine of great power, and have placed in the hands of the physicist,
for the purposes of public demonstration, or original research, an
instrument more reliable than anything hitherto produced.
                                                             [J.W.]

       300                             Annual Meeting.                          [May 1,
                               ANNUAL MEETING,
                                    Tuesday, May 1, 1888.
         SIB FBEDEBIOK BIUMWELL, D.C.L. F.R.S. Honorary Secretary and
                                Vice-President, in the Chair.
            The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
       1887, testifying to the continued prosperity and efficient management
       of the Institution, was read and adopted. The Real and Funded
       Property now amounts to above 81.000Z. entirely derived from the
       Contributions and Donations of the Members.
            Forty-one now Members were elected in 1887.
            Sixty-three Lectures and Nineteen Evening Discourses were
       delivered in 1887.
            The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1887 amounted to about
       283 volumes, making, with 463 volumes (including Periodicals bound)
       purchased by the Managers, a total of 746 volumes added to the
       Library in the year.
            Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and the Honorary
       Secretary, to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the
       Professors, for their valuable services to the Institution during the
       past year.
            The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
       for the ensuing year :
            PRESIDENT—The Duke of Northumberland, E.G. D.C.L. LL.D.
            TREASURER—Henry Pollock, Esq.
            SEOBETABY—Sir Frederick Bramwell, D.C.L. F.R.S. M. Inst. C.E.
                  MANAGERS.                                        VISITORS.
George Berkley, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.               Captain W. de W. Abney, R.E. F.R.8.
8ir James Crichton Browne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.8.     William Anderson, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
Vicat Cole, Esq. R.A.                            Benjamin Baker, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
Frank Crisp, Esq. LL.B. B.A. F.L.8.              John Birkett, Esq. F.R.C.8.
William Crookes, Esq. F.R.8.                     Michael Carteighc, Esq. F.C.8.
Warren tle la Rue, Esq. M.A. D.C.L. F.R.8.       James Farmer, Esq. J.P.
8ir Henry Doulton.                               John Piggin Feariield, Esq.
John Hall Gladstone, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.8.           Ernest H. Goold, Esq. F.Z.8.
Colonel James A. Grant, C.B. C.8.I. F.R.8.       Charles Hawksley, Esq. II. Inst. C.E.
The Rt. Hon. Sir William R. Grove, D.C.L. F.R.8. David Edward Hughes, Esq. F.R.8.
Rev. John Macnaught, M.A.                        Thomas John Maclagan, M.D.
Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A.                Lachlan Mackintosh Rate, Esq. M.A.
William Henry Preece, Esq. F.R.8. M. Inst. C.E.  John Bell 8edgwick, Esq. J.P. F.R.G.8.
John Rae, M.D. LL.D. F.R.8.                      Basil Woodd 8mith, Esq. F.R.A.8.
8ir Henry Thompson, F.R.C.S.                     James Wimshurst, Esq.

1888.]        Professor Laughlon on the Invincible Armada.           307
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 4, 1888.
     Colonel JAMES A. GRANT, C.B. C.S.I. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
       J. K. LAUOHTON, M.A. R.N. Professor of Modern History,
                         King's College, London.
           The Invincible Armada ; a Tercentenary Retrospect.
THB completion of three centuries since our great victory over the
Spanish fleet in the summer of 1588 has not unnaturally given rise to
renewed interest in the history of our past glories, and has recalled to
many minds the wholesome sentiment that "Britannia rules the
waves." There is, however, some danger of misunderstanding whilst
repeating the words : of thinking that if in past years Britannia ruled
the waves, she did so by right Divine, or hy some special and exceptional
favour of Providence, rather than by the wise provisions of her
Government and by the skill and discipline of her seamen. My object
this evening is, therefore, not so much to retrace the glorious but
often told story, as, whilst calling up tho main facts to your remem
brance, to lead you to examine more or less critically into the true
meaning of the great event, the circumstances of which have been
overlaid with a great deal of fable and of national or religious preju
dice, all fatal to anything like a philosophical or scientific inquiry,
which demands an equable temper and an attention to details such as
the graphic historian either slurs over or considers to be beyond the
scope of his researches.
    I may say then, at the outset, that I conceive the religions preju
dice to be entirely misplaced. That the opposing Governments did
invoke the aid of religious sentiment, is true enough ; so would the
 Governments of Russia and Turkey, for instance, at the present day ;
but the Elizabethan war with Spain had its origin in two perfectly
clear but wholly mundane causes ; the first and chief of which was
the exclusive commercial policy adopted and enforced by the Spanish
 Government in respect of its West Indian and American settlements.
 That such a policy should give rise to smuggling was almost a matter
 of course ; and amongst the smugglers were two men who, by force
of character, by genius curiously well adapted to tho circumstances
 of the age, and by undaunted courage, were destined to achieve a
foremost place in the roll of English seamen. Their names were
John Hawkyns and Francis Drake. In September 1568 these two
men, with some few companions and a little squadron of five small
vessels, after a lucrative though illicit traffic through the Spanish
settlements, wore caught at anchor, in the harbour of San Juan de Lua,

308                     Professor J. K. Laughton                 [May 4,
by a vastly superior Spanish force, and were overwhelmed. Hawkyns
and Drake, in two of the smallest vessels, alone escaped.
     Ordinary men, under the circumstances, would have digested their
loss as they best might ; but these were far indeed from being ordinary
men, and they determined by fair means or foul to exact compensation
for the injury which they conceived had been done them. Hawkyne
entered into a simulated negotiation to hand over a considerable part
of the navy of England to King Philip, on condition of having the
men who had been taken prisoners set free, and of receiving money
compensation for his loss. This peculiar intrigue forms an amusing
episode in the history of the Ridolfi plot in 1571. Drake, on the
other hand, finding compensation not forthcoming, resolved to seek it
for himself ; and after some preliminary cruises, made that wonderful
and adventurous voyage, in which, with a mere handful of men, he
took Nombre de Dios, sacked Venta Cruz, captured a convoy of mules
laden with silver, and returned home with more treasure than any
one ship had previously brought to England. His achievement was
to be speedily surpassed, and by himself. Four years afterwards he
started on a voyage for the South Sea, and, capturing Spanish ships
by the score and Spanish towns by the dozen, put a girdle round the
globe and returned to England, again bringing back an enormous
quantity of treasure, to the amount, it was said, of a million and a
half sterling. The outcry of the friends of Spain was very loud.
Drake, they said, was a pirate ; and unless he was punished, war with
 Spain was inevitable. Elizabeth had apparently made up her mind
 that, in any case, war was extremely probable ; and to give back
 money on which she had once got her clutches was to her a constitu
 tional impossibility. She kept the money, and she knighted Drake.
 Now we, as Englishmen, can admire the achievements of this man, and
 can sympathise with the wrongs which impelled him to them ; but wo
 must at the same time admit that, were we Spaniards, we might take
 a very different view of Drake's career. It is, at any rate, quite
 certain that the king of Spain, and not only the king, but every one of
 his subjects, considered Drake as a pirate who ought to have been
 hanged, and maintained that the approval and support which he
 received from the English crown was a distinct and valid reason for
 an appeal to arms.
     The other and almost equally valid reason, was the countenance
 and assistance which had been given by the English, indirectly and
 directly, to the king's rebellious subjects in the Low Countries.
 There were, of course, many other grounds of ill-will, beginning, it
 may be, with Elizabeth's refusal to marry Philip. The quarrel had
 been growing all along : Elizabeth had seized the Duke of Alva's
 treasure ; had allowed Dutch privateers to shelter in English harbours ;
 had supported Dutch rebels. Philip, on the other hand, had stirred
 up and fomented rebellion in Ireland, and had been a party to many
 plots in England — plots against the Queen's sovereignty, plots
 against the Queen's life. The breach was by no means a one
 sided one ; though we arc naturally accustomed to lay most stress

1888.]       on the Invincible Armada : a Tercentenary Retrospect.            809
on our own grievances, real and sentimental. What bronght
matters to a climax were the embargo laid on English shipping
in Spain in May 1585, and the dread of Spain, which could now
only be considered as a hostile power, obtaining the command of
the Dutch ports.* It is not a little curious to note how the war
between the two countries, which avowedly began in 1585, anticipated
the lines of the war of the French Revolution two centuries later.
In both cases the immediate cause of war was the dread of a hostile
power fortifying itself in the sea-ports of the Netherlands ; to prevent
this a levy of men was ordered ; the newly-raised army was sent
abroad under an incompetent general, whose sole title to command
was royal favour—it matters little whether he was called Earl of
Leicester or Duke of York—and the result was ignominious failure.
But meantime the English fleet swept the West Indies, and Drake's
expedition of 1585-6 was the precursor and prototype of Jervis's
campaign of 1794. It will be seen that this correspondence was not
only in the commencement of the wars, but also in their more advanced
 stages ; that the flat-bottomed boats at Dunkirk were imitated by those
at Boulogne ; and that the destruction of the enemy's ships at Cadiz
in 1596 presents a very exact analogy to the final overthrow of
 Bonaparte's schemes at Trafalgar.
      Drake's brilliant raid through the West Indies determined Philip
 on a decided course. For the past fifteen years the invasion of
 England had been mooted, as a thing desirable and not impossible.
 It had been proposed by the Duke of Alva in 1569 ; and more recently,
 in 1583, after his victory over Strozzi and his scratch fleet—mostly
 of French adventurers—at Tercera, the Marquis of Santa Cruz had
 urged it as a necessary step towards the reduction of the rebellious
 Netherlands-f The Duke of Parma had written to the same effect,
 repeating that English soldiers were of little count in presence of tho
 Spanish veterans, and adding a statement, which seems to have obtained
 general credence among the Spaniards, that the English ships at
 Tercera had been the first to fly ; had, in fact, played a part some
 what resembling that of tho Egyptian ships at Actium. It is quite
 possible that there were some English ships at Tercera, though it is
 doubtful ; if there were, they certainly did not imitate Strozzi's ill-
 jndged and suicidal manoeuvre of closing with the Spaniards, and—
 small blame to them—effected their escape. True or not, however, it
 appears certain that this reported flight of the English ships did have
 very considerable weight with many of the king's advisers ; and so
 advised, and at the same time impelled by wrath, he determined on
 the attempt. The Marquis of Santa Cruz was called on for his
 scheme, which extended to gigantic proportions. Everything was to
     * ' State Papers,' Domestic, clxxx. 35-40.
     t ' La Aruiada Invencible,' por cl Capitan de Navio C. Fernandez Duro,
 torn. i. p. 241. Many of the papers collected by Captain Duro have been published
 elsewhere ; many others are published by him for the first time : as one easily
 available source, it seems more convenient to refer for all of them to his most
 interesting and valuable work.

310                     Professor J. K. Laughton                         [May
be done from Spain. The whole shipping of the empire was to be
collected. Every available soldier was to be mustered. According
to the very detailed project submitted by Santa Cruz on 22nd March,
1586, the numbers amounted to :—
                                    NOB.        Tons.         Sailors.  Soldiers.
  Groat sbips of war                 150       77,250 I
  Store ships                         40        8,000 }      16,612     55,000
  Smaller vessels                    320       25,000 |
besides-
                                     Nos.     Sailors and Fighting Men.  Bowers.
  Galeasses                            6                 720               1800
  Galleys                            •HI                3200               8000
giving a total of 556 ships of all kinds, and 85,332 men, to which
were to be added cavalry, artillerymen, volunteers, and non-com
batants, bringing up the number of men to a gross total of 94,222.*
     A project so vast and so costly did not come within the king's
idea of " practical politics " ; ho resolved on the expedition, but con
ceived the idea of doing it at a cheaper rate by utilising the army
in the Low Countries. From this grew up the scheme which ulti
mately took form. The Duke of Parma was to prepare an army of
invaders in the Netherlands, and a nnmber of flat-bottomed boats
to carry it across the sea. The Marquis of Santa Cruz was to bring
up the Channel a fleet powerful enough to crush any possible opposi
tion, and carrying with it a body of troops, which, when joined with
those under Parma, would form an army at least as numerous as that
which Santa Cruz had detailed as sufficient.
     The necessary preparations were extensive ; and it is not quite
clear that, as they became more definite, Philip's ardour did not some
what slacken. The cost was certain ; the issue was doubtful ; and
even if successful, the result might perhaps not be exactly what was
desired. Philip had always posed as a supporter of the Queen of
Scots ; but the doubt must have suggested itself whether it was worth
 while, at this great cost, to conquer a kingdom for her ; a kingdom
which, with her French blood and French proclivities, would become
virtually a French province. The death of the Queen of Soots, on
8-18 February, 1587, removed this difficulty. Even if the conquered
kingdom was to be handed over to James, James was not bound to
 France as his mother had been. Placed on the throne of England by
 Spanish arms, he might be expected or even constrained to hold it
 virtually as a Spanish fief. And then, would it be necessary to give
 it to James at all ? Elizabeth, of course, was outside the reckoning ;
                             * Duro, i. p. 253.

1888.]    on the Invincible Armada.- a Tercentenary Retrospect.       811
once dispossessed, she was merely the illegitimate offspring of an
abominable and incestuous concubinage. James appeared to be the
legitimate heir ; but Philip himself was lineally descended from John
of Gaunt, and had a theoretical claim to the throne of England
distinctly superior to that which, in the case of Henry VII., had been
held sufficient. As an abstract problem in genealogy, Philip's claim
was by no means absurd. Whether it could become something more,
and take a practical form, might very well depend on the fortune of
war.
     Preparations were therefore now hurried on in earnest. Ships
were collected at the several ports, and especially at Lisbon and
Cadiz. It seemed probable that the invasion would be attempted in
the summer of 1587, when, some months before, Drake, with a fleet of
twenty-four ships, all told, appeared on the coast. The orders under
whichhe sailed from England on 2nd April, were to prevent the different
Spanish squadrons from joining, and where he found their ships, to
destroy them. It was a grand and masterful stop, but it had scarcely
been ordered before the Queen repented of it. Counter orders were
 sent post-haste to Plymouth, but Drake had already sailed. They
followed him, but never found him ; perhaps the bearer of them
 was not too eager to find him. At any rate, Drake never got these
 orders, and acting on those first given, with which he had sailed, he did
 at Cadiz " singe the king of Spain's beard " in a most effective
 manner. Thirty-seven ships there collected, were sunk, burnt, or
 brought away. They were as yet unarmed, unmanned, and, when the
 forts were once passed, could offer no resistance. Other damage
 Drake did, insulting Santa Cruz in the very port of Lisbon, offering
battle, which Santa Cruz was in no position to accept. Ships he had
in numbers ; but they too were neither manned nor armed ; nor had
he arms for them ; and though, with Drake off the mouth of the
Tagus, the happy thought occurred to the authorities on shore to
melt down the church bells, and make guns to drive him away,
before the guns were ready Drake had stretched off to the Azores,
where he captured the San Philip, a very large and rich East India-
man, whose treasures are said to have first opened the eyes of our
English merchants to the capabilities of Eastern trade, and to have
led to t!i > foundation of the East India Company.
     The destruction of shipping and stores at Cadiz necessarily
delayed the equipment of the Spanish fleet ; the year passed away,
and it was not ready. The following February (1588) the Marquis
of Santa Cruz died. The loss to Spain was incalculable, for he was
the only man who by birth was entitled, and by experience was com
petent, to command such an expedition as that which he had set on
foot. His name was encircled with a halo of naval victory. He
had held a high command at the battle of Lepanto ; and in the action
at Tercera was accredited with having put to ignominious flight these
very English who were now the object of attack. Curiously, how
ever, the king and his court do not seem to have realised their loss,
and with a light heart appointed Don Alonso Perez de Guzman ei

312                      Profeeeor J. K. Laughton                [May 4,
Bueno, Duke of Modina-Sidonia, to the vacant command. Medina-
Sidonia, now in his thirty-eighth year, was a man with no qualifica
tion for the post except his distinguished birth and a gentleness of
temper which, it was perhaps thought, would fit better with the idea
of making him subordinate to the Duke of Parma. It had indeed
appeared that Santa Cruz was not in the least disposed to accept this
inferior part ; and it may very well be that the king was almost relieved
by the solution of the difficulty which his death had offered. His
successor was utterly ignorant of naval affairs, had but little expe
rience of military, and none whatever of high command. Personally
brave, as became his long line of ancestry, he was, as a commander,
by his total want of experience and knowledge, timid, undecided, and
vacillating. His answer to the king on being ordered to take on
himself the command is, in itself, a curiosity. The business, he
wrote, was so great, so important, that he could not conscientiously
undertake it, being, as he was, altogether without experience or
knowledge of either the sea or of war.* His objections were, how
ever, overruled ; and in an evil hour for his reputation, he consented.
The equipment of the fleet was pushed on, and by the middle of
May it was ready to sail from the Tagus. It did actually sail on
20-30 May.
     I may here say that the name " Invincible," so commonly given
to this fleet, was certainly not official. I know that, in common belief,
it was given to it by the king himself. In Philip's numerous letters
there is no trace of any such thing. By him, by his secretary, by
Medina-Sidonia and other officers, the fleet is spoken of as the Grand
Fleet—a name constantly used in England during the eighteenth
century for what we would now call the Channel Fleet. In a semi
official list printed at Lisbon—a copy of which got into Burghley's
hands, and is now in the British Museum—it is called " La felicissima
Armada," the fortunate fleet ; but the term " Invincible " is unknown.
It would seem probable that the name sprung out of the idle talk of
some of the young adventurers—braggarts as became their age—or
out of the silly gossip of the Lisbon taverns.
     None the less, however, the power and might of Spain were at
this time so great, that when it was known they were being put forth
to crush England, the thing was regarded as done. Anglia fuit was
something like the expression of this general idea. Of the European
opinion of the power of Spain at this epoch there is an admirable
summary in the opening sentences of Lord Macaulay's ' Essay on the
War of the Succession in Spain.' The Spaniard, ho says, was, in
the apprehension of our ancestors, " a kind of dsemon, horribly male
volent, but withal most sagacious and powerful." Their language
 is just such " as Arminius would have used about the Romans." " It
is the language of a man burning with hatred, but cowed by those
 whom he hates, and painfully sensible of their superiority, not only
in power, but in intelligence."
                               * Duro, i. p. 415.

1888.]    on the Invincible Armada : a Tercentenary Retrospect.     318
    There was, however, one class of her Majesty's subjects, the
members of which had not this exalted opinion of Spanish power or
of Spanish prowess. For the last twenty years English sailors had
been, in their own irregular way, fighting the Spaniards on every sea
where they were to be met, and had come to the conclusion that,
whatever the Spaniard might be ashore, afloat he was but a poor
creature : the experiences of Drake, Hawkyns, Fenton, Fenner, and
a score of others whose names are less familiar, had proved that
even with great apparent odds in their favour, Spaniards were not
invincible. Of all the panic-stricken accounts of the great Armada
which have come down to us, it is well to point out that not one was
written by a seaman, or by any one who had practical knowledge of
the Spaniards by sea. You are all familiar with the exaggerations
of contemporary historians. The Spanish ships were so huge that
ocean groaned beneath their weight; so lofty, that they resembled
rather castles or fortresses ; so numerous, that the sea was invisible,
the spectator thought he beheld a populous town. What English
sailors thought of them may be judged from a letter written by
Fenner, who was with Drake when he burnt the shipping at Cadiz.
" Twelve of her Majesty's ships," he said, " were a match for all the
galleys in the king of Spain's dominions."
    But the power of Spain, the tavern gossip and braggadocio of
Lisbon, and the reports of spies who felt in honour bound to give
full value for their hire, grossly exaggerated the size, the might, the
armament and the equipment of the fleet as it sailed from Lisbon.
Of the numbers, size, and armament I shall have to speak presently.
The equipment, with which we are just now concerned, was so well
arranged and so perfect, that by the time the fleet reached Capo
Finisterre vast quantities of the provisions were found to be bad,
putrid, fit for nothing but to be thrown overboard. The ships were
short of water, probably because the casks were leaky. The ships
themselves were also leaking—strained, it was said, by the heavy
weather, but really from being overmasted. Several of them were
with difficulty kept afloat ; some were dismasted ; and the distress
was so general that Mcdina-Sidonia determined to put into Cornnna
to refit. This he did, but without taking any precautions to let his
intention be known through the fleet. The Scilly Isles had been
given out as the rendezvous in case of separation, and some dozen of
the ships, finding they had lost sight of the Admiral, did accordingly
go to the neighbourhood of the Scilly Isles, where they were duly
seen and reported at Plymouth. Their recall, the collecting the fleet
at Corunna, the refitting, the reprovisioning, all took time. The
damage was so great, the number of sick so large, the season getting
so advanced, that a council of war urgently recommended postponing
the expedition till the next year. The king's orders were, however,
imperative ; and the fleet finally sailed from Corunna on the 12-22
July.
    The main part of the English fleet was meantime mustered at
Plymouth under the command of Lord Howard of Effingham, tho
    VOL. XII. (No. 82.)                                         Y

314                      Professor J. K. Lauglitan                      [May 4,
Lord-Admiral of England, with whom wore Drake and Hfiwkyns as
vice- and rear-admirals ; several noblemen, including Lord Thomas
Howard, the admira1's nephew ; his two sons-in-law, Lord Sheffield and
Sir Robert Southwell ; and that quaint mixture of courtier, adventurer,
and buccaneer, the Earl of Cumberland ; together with many genuine
sea-dogs, of whom the best known are Frobiser, Fenner, and Fenton.
Large numbers of merchants' ships, levied by the Queen or by their
own towns, had joined the fleet, which as it lay at Plymouth consisted
of about 80 sail all told. From the time of his return from the coast
of Spain in the previous summer, Drake had been urgent that he
should be sent out again, with a still more powerful squadron, to repeat
the blow. Hawkyns, Frobiser, Fenner—ill the seamen of experience
—were of the same opinion. Howard, guided by their advice,
repeatedly pressed the importance of the step ; but Elizabeth stead
fastly refused. She hoped, perhaps, for peace ; more probably,
perhaps, she hoped that the war might continue to be carried on in
the same cheap and desultory fashion as during the last three years
and was unwilling to set Philip the example of more sustained efforts.
It is difficult to believe that she was entirely hoodwinked by the
negotiations carried on in Flanders and by the false protestations of
the Duke of Parma. She was herself too accomplished in dissimula
tion to fall such an easy victim as she is commonly represented ; but I
think that she had persuaded herself that the preparations in Spain were
merely a threat, which, however, might be converted into a terrible
reality. And this seems to me to explain her ignoble conduct in the
matter of supplying the ships. She believed that the Spaniards would
not be the aggressors ; that any extraordinary supply of ammunition
was uncalled for, and provisions could bo put on board from week to
week. It was cheaper, she may have argued to herself, than to buy
and ship a quantity of stores which would only have to be landed
again and disposed of at a loss. And so, notwithstanding the prayers
and entreaties of Howard and Drake, backed up by the opinion of
every man of experience, no further attempt was made on the Spanish
ports. It is probable enough that had Drake been permitted, he
would have kindled such a blaze in the Tagus or in the harbour of
Corunna, as would have effectually prevented the invasion which was
now on foot.
     It has been said over and over again* that the Duke of Medina-
Sidonia was ordered by Philip to hug the French coast, so as to
avoid the English fleet and to reach the Straits of Dover with his
force intact. Nothing can well be more inaccurate. He was, on the
contrary, ordered, if he met Drake near the mouth of the Channel,
to fall on him and destroy him ; it would bo easier and more certain
to destroy the English fleet piecemeal, than to allow it to collect in
one. Nor do his instructions contain one word about hugging the
French coast ; on the contrary, they advise the Scilly Isles or the
    * Monson, in Churchill's ' Voyages,' Hi. p. 149 ; Lcdiard's ' Navnl History,"
p. 253.

 1888.J   on the Invincible Armada : a Tercentenary Retrospect.          315
 Lizard us a rendezvous, and suggest the propriety of seizing on some
 unfortified port in the South of England.* A8 a matter of fact, a
position south of the Scilly Isles was given out as a rendezvous in the
first instance ; in the second, on sailing from Corunna, the rendezvous
was Mount's Bay.f
     In crossing the Bay of Biscay the Spaniards experienced bad
 weather, and were a good deal scattered ; barely two-thirds of the fleet
 were in company when Medina-Sidonia sighted the Lizard on the
 morning of 19th July, according to the English calendar, which I shall
 henceforth follow. There, whilst waiting for the fleet to collect, he
 hoisted the royal standard at the fore—a sacred flag, containing in
addition to the royal arms, the figures of Our Lord and the Blessed
 Virgin. Other flags there were by the score. The fleet was organised
 by provinces ; and I am led to believe that the ships of each squadron
wore the flag of its province—Andalusia, Guipuscoa, Naples, &c. ;
that they wore in addition the flags of the nobles and knights on
board, and probably also the flag of the particular saint to which they
were dedicated. But the flag which they appear to have worn in
common as the flag of the empire was, strictly speaking, the Burgun-
dian flag, which had been adopted by Spain in the time of Charles V.
—white, a saltire raguled red. I may add that, amongst this great
number and diversity of flags, the one flag which was not worn and
could not be worn was the red and yellow ensign of the present day :
this flag was not invented till the year 1785. I may here remind you,
in passing, that the English flag at this time was the plain St. George's
flag—white, a cross red ; and this seems to have been worn by every
English ship; though the Ark, Lord Howard's ship, flew the royal
standard at the main—the lilies and lions, the relative position of
which will recall to you the peculiar happiness of Macaulay's cele
brated couplet:—
         " Look how the lion of the sea lifts up his ancient crown,
           And undcrmath his deadly puw treads the gay lilies down."
Whether any of the ships flew private or local flags is doubtful.
I think it, however, not improbable that they did. Sir Oswald Brierly
thinks that some of the ships may have worn, not the plain English
flag, but the red cross on a Tudor ground, striped white and green,
and has so shown it in some of his delightful pictures. That such
a combination flag was occasionally used is possible enough, but I
have not found any evidence of its having been worn as a national
ensign at sea.
    Whilst the Duke of Mcdina-Sidonia was lying to, off tho Lizard,
on 19th July, ho was sighted by one of the English cruisers, tho
Golden Hind, commanded by Thomas Flcmyng, who forthwith carried
the news to tho Admiral ;{ and, according to the familiar story,
which I see no reason to doubt, found him, with the admirals
              * Duro, ii. p. 8.             t Ibid. ii. pp. 27, 168.
             J 'State Papi-rs,' Domestic, ccxv, 02.
                                                                     Y 2

316                        Professor J. K. Laughton                      [May 4,
and captains of the fleet, playing bowls on the Hoc. My friend,
Mr. Wright, of Plymouth, the indefatigable secretary of the Tercen
tenary Commemoration, has called my attenion to a pamphlet first
published in 1624, in which the incident is referred to as a well-
known fact.* But the common idea that Flemyng was a pirate ; that
he had been to sea pilfering ; f that in venturing into the presence of
the Lord Admiral, he risked his life, and only saved it by the impor
tance of his news,J all this is contrary to well-ascertained fact. To
say of Flemyng, or indeed of any seaman of that age, that he had not
committed some irregularities which his enemies might stigmatise as
piracy, is of course impossible ; but he was not a man of ill repute.
He seems to have been a connection of Hawkyns,§ and certainly
commanded the Golden Hind, a merchant-ship in the Queen's pay,
and serving under the immediate orders of Drake.
      The following day, Saturday the 20th, the Spanish fleet was
collected off the Lizard and moved slowly eastwards. A council of
war was held. They had learned that the English fleet was at
Plymouth, and the great weight of opinion among the Spanish leaders
was that they ought to attack it there. It has always been said
that Mediua-Sidonia was prevented from doing this by his instruc
tions. The statement is inaccurate. The letter of his instructions
distinctly permitted him to attack the English fleet ; the spirit of
them enjoined his doing it. || Fortunately he misunderstood his in
structions ; he conceived that he was bound to go up Channel, turn
ing neither to the right hand nor to the left until he could effect a
junction with the Duke of Parma. Had he, on the 19th, when he
first learned that the English fleet was at Plymouth, crowded sail
with even such ships as he had with him, he might have entered the
Sound that evening. The wind was from the south-west, and the
English ships, penned in between the Spaniards and the shore, would
have been forced to fight hand to hand ; the result might easily have
been disaster. The Spaniards neglected their chance, and it never
recurred ; for during the Saturday the English got out of the Sound,
and stretched along the coast to the westward. On Sunday morning,
when the two fleets were first in presence of each other, the English
were to windward, and by the weatherly qualities of their ships Lad
no difficulty in keeping the advantage they had gained.
      And now, before the fighting begins, it is time to speak of the
comparative force of the opposing fleets. We have all known from
our infancy that the Spanish ships, as compared with the English,
were stupendous in point of size, marvellous in their strength ; in
    * Morgan's ' Phoenix Britannicus,' p. 345.
    t Monson, in Churchill, iii. p. 150.                J ' Westward Ho ! '
    § Wright's ' Britain's Salamis,' p. 19.
    || " Si topuredes al dicho Draques con la Armada & la boca del Canal de
Inglaterra, podreis en este caso envestirle, porquo si estan divididas SUB fuerzas
sen's nray bueno irlas venciendo asi, para quo no se pudiesen juutur todas."—
Duro, ii. p. 9.

1888.]       on the Invincible Armada: a Tercentenary Retrospect.                 317
guns and in number of men beyond all proportion. The numbers I
give here, from the official Spanish record,* agree very well with
those reported in England.f
        Ships.           Tons.               Guns.                     Men.
         130            57,868               2,431            8,050  seamen.
                                                             18,973  soldiers.
                                                               1,382 volunteers, &o.
                                                              2,088  rowers.
                                               Total         30,493
      In one point alone of this statement is the difference from the
English account worth noticing. Barrow gives the number of
Spanish guns as 3165. To this I shall presently recur. Meantime,
I have to point out to you that these numbers refer to the fleet as it
left Lisbon. They had suffered a marked decrease before the fleet
left Corunna, and a still further decrease before the fleet came into
the Channel. Of the ships left behind I have no account. Some,
and some large ships amongst them, certainly did not come on.
Some, again, appear to have parted company on the voyage ; and of
four galleys, from which much had been expected, one was driven
ashore and wrecked near Bayonne ; the other three, making very bad
weather of it, returned to Spain.| Allowing for these losses, I think
it doubtful whether even 120 ships of all sizes came into the Channel;
the number of men did certainly not exceed 24,000 ; and in the
council of war held at Corunna it was estimated as low as 22,500.§
On the other hand, the number of men borne in the English ships
when ail collected together, is officially given as 15,925, to which
ought to bo added many more who were sent off from Plymouth on
21st July, or who joined as volunteers during the passage up Channel.
It is difficult to estimate the gross total as loss than from 17,000 to
 18,000 men.
      Our idea of the size of the Spanish ships has been also somewhat
exaggerated. According to Barrow ; " The best of the Queen's ships
placed alongside one of the first class of Spaniards would have been
like a sloop-of-war by the side of a first rate." In point of tonnage,
they were, in fact, the same. The largest Spaniard, the Regazona,
of the Levant squadron, is given as of 1249 tons. The largest
English ship, the Triumph, was of 1100 tons, and many circumstances
lead mo to believe that the English mode of reckoning tonnage gave
a smaller result than the Spanish. || There is no doubt, however, that
    * Duro, ii. pp. 06, 83.                  f Barrow's t Life of Drake,' p. 270.
    J Duro, i. p. 65. As they did return, the popular story of David Gwynne
(Lediard, p. 253) is, in its details at least, certaiuly fictitious.
     § Duro, ii. pp. 199, 142.
     || Other modes of reckoning tonnage adopted in the following reign gave
rcsulU varying from 20 to 50 per cent. more.—' State Papers," Domestic,
 ccxxxvii. 64.

318                           Professor J. K. Lauyhton                        [May 4,
tho Spanish ships looked larger. Thoir poops and forecastles, rising
tier above tier to a great height, towered far above the lower-built
English. Not that tho largo English ships were by any means flush-
decked; but they were not so high-charged as the Spanish. The
difference offered a great advantage to the Spaniards in hand-to-hand
fighting ; it told terribly against them when their enemy refused to
close ; it made their ships leewardly and unmanageable in even a
moderate breeze, and, added to the Spanish neglect of recent im
provements in rig—notably, the introduction of the bowline—rendered
them very inferior to the English in the open sea.*
     And not only was there this inferiority of the ships, there was
at least a corresponding inferiority of the seamen. The Spaniards
were in fact, to a great extent, fair-weather sailors. Some there
doubtless were who had doubled Cupe Horn or the Capo of Good
Hope, but by far the greater number had little experience beyond the
Mediterranean, or the equable run down the trades to the West
Indies. To the English, on the other hand, accustomed from boy
hood to the Irish or Iceland fisheries ; in manhood to the voyages
to the north-west with Frobiser or Davys, or round the world with
Drake, the summer gales of the Channel were, by comparison, passing
trifles—things to be warded off, but not to be feared. Even if the
men had been equal in quality, tho Spanish ships were terribly
undermanned. Tho seamen habitually gave place to the soldiers ;
the soldiers commanded ; the seamen did the drudgery, and not one
was borne in excess of what their soldier masters thought necessary.
The absolute numbers speak for themselves, and one comparison will
be sufficient. The San Martin, of 1000 tons, the flagship of the
Duke of Medina-Sidonia, had 177 seamen and 300 soldiers. The Ark,
of 800 tons, the flagship of Lord Howard, appears to have had some
thing like 300 seamen and 125 soldiers.
     More important, however, than even this inferiority of the Spanish
ships and sailors, was the inferiority of their guns and gunners. Now
here I come on to what is, I believe, to most of you new ground.
You have always been accustomed to hear of the number and size of
the Spanish guns. The statements to that effect are absolutely
incorrect. The Spanish guns were, as a rule, small: 4-, 6-, or
10-pounders ; they were comparatively few, and they were execrably
worked.f The simplest way to show this is by a comparative table of
armaments. It is not perfect ; it is not rigidly accurate ; the means
to construct a perfect or accurate table do not, I fear, exist ; but so
far as it goes, the table on the opposite page embodies the best in
formation attainable.
     The English armaments shown in it are from a list dated
1595-99,| and may possibly show some improvement on the armament
the ships carried in 1588. I see no reason, however, to suspect such.
    * Compare Monson, in Churchill, iii. pp. 312, 319.
    t Duro, ii. p. 237.
    j ' Archroulogia," xiii. p. 27 ; Derrick's ' Riae and Progress of the Hoyal Navy,'
p. 31.

   1888.]      on the Invincible Armada : a Tercentenary Retrospect.                                  319
  I have not been able to trace the original from which this paper was
  printed, but I have found of the same date, 1595, estimates for tho
  armament of three ships now in building, * the ordnance for the first-
                                 COMPARISON OP ARMAMENTS.
                                             No. Wright
                                                      of
                                                                     Description of Guus.
                                                                          Pounders.                Small
         Ships' Names.        Tons. Men.      of
                                            Guns. Broadside                                       Pieces.
                                                    iulbs.   60 30 •ii 18          r.' 9      6
  Spanish :—
     S. Lorenzo ..                   386     50      370       l 8           6          6   10        16
     N. S. d. Rosario . . 1150       422     41      195          3 7        4          1    m t      26
     Anuncinda ..             703    275     24       67                     3          3             18
     bta. Muriu d. Visou 666         307     18       54                           i;                 12
  English :—•
    Triumph                  1100    500     68      402      4   3        17 ,, 8            6      30
    Ark        .. .           800    425     55      377     4 4           12          12     6       17
    Nonpareil                 500    250     56      264      2 3            7          8   12       24
    Foresight                 300    160     37      102                   . ,    .. 14       8      15
    Tiger ...            .    200    100     22       83     t t  ,,       , .          6   14         2
    Tramontana .              I50      70    21       52                                    12         9
    Achates                   100      60    13       36              ••                6              7
 mentioned being described as "answerable to the pieces that are in
 the Mer Honour." I therefore show here also the armament of the
 Mer Honour, as given in tho paper in the ' Archaeologia," already
 referred to.
                                          Weight of             Description of Guns.
     Ship's Name.      Tons.    No. of    Broadside                   Poundnre.                  Small
                                            in IDS.                                              Pieces
                                                         30          18          9        6
Mer Honour ..           800       41        281            4         15         16        4         2
Sept. 1595                 ?      44        299            4         16         18        4         2
Oct. 1595, I. ..           ?      44        282                      20         20        4
     Do. II. ..            ?      36        222                      16         12        8        ••
      Another estimate that seems entitled to credit, is that given of
the armament of the Revenge—& ship of the same size and number of
men as tho Nonpareil, which was taken by the Spaniards in 1591, and
was reported by them to have 43 brass guns ; 20 on the lower deck
of from 4000 to 6000 Ibs. weight, and the rest of from 2000 to
3000.f The greater weights correspond to the 60- 30- or 18-pounders,
the smaller to the 9- and 6-pounders.
      Of the Spanish armament we cannot speak with the same absolute
knowledge ; but it seems admitted that the galeasses were the most
    * 'State Papers,' Domestic, ccliii. 114; coliv. 43.                        t Duro, i. p. 76.

  320                          Profeasor J. K. Laughton                    [May 4,
  heavily armed ships in the fleet ; and of those the San Lorenzo, which
  was taken off Calais, was the largest and heaviest. The report of her
  armament given by our people, who had possession of her for some
  time, corresponds fairly well with the official statement.* The Nuestra
  Senora del Rosario was the large ship captured by Drake and sent
  into Torbay.f Her armament is given from the official inventory
  taken at Torquay. She is spoken of by Duro as one of the most
  powerful and best ships of the fleet. J The other two ships do not
   seem distinguished in any way from others of the same size ; they
  belonged to the Levant squadron, and are classed with the San Jwm
  da Sicilia of 800 tons and 26 guns, which is spoken of as having
   taken a prominent part in the action of 29th July. I have not met
   with any account of the armament of the ships of the Portuguese
   squadron, including the San Martin, San Felipe, and San Mateo, of
   which all three were in the thickest of the tight, and the two last
   were driven on shore in a sinking state. Neither have I met with
   any inventory of the Nuestra SeRora de la Rosa, the ship that was
   partially blown up, and was sent into Weymouth. I do not, of course,
   suppose that the more effective fighting ships of the fleet were armed
   like the Anunciada or Santa Maria de Vison ; but I do believe that
   the armament of these is a fair representative of that of a very large
   proportion of ships that have been counted as effective.
        I must note also, that whereas the Spanish ships of below 300 tons
   burden carried four or six small guns—a merely nominal armament
   —English ships of 200 tons carried a very respectable armament,
   and ships even still smaller were not altogether despicable. Of
   the way in which the English merchant ships were armed, we have
   no knowledge ; but considering that the fitting them out for purposes
   of war was no novelty, that many of them had probably been on
   privateering cruises before, and that the Pelican or Golden Hind, in
   which Drake went round the world—a ship of nominally 100 tons—
   had 14 guns, I would distinctly question Barrow's judgment that,
   "looking at their tonnage, two-thirds of them, at least, would have
   been of little, if any, service, and indeed must have required
   uncommon vigilance to keep them out of harm's way."§ They were
   not, indeed, the ships that were to be found in the fore-front of the
   fight—no more were the Euryalus or Naiad at Trafalgar—but I see
   no reason to doubt that they did, in their own way, render good and
   efficient service.
        It was not only in the number and weight of guns that the English
   had a great comparative advantage ; they were immensely superior in
   the working of them. I may quote here from Captain Duro a very
   remarkable statement, which, however, is fully corroborated by
   original writers and by known facts. By the Spaniards, he says, ||
      *   ' State Papers,' Domestic, ccxiii. 67 ; Duro, i. p. 390.
      t  ' State Papers," Domestic, ccxv. 671.
      j  Duro, i. p. 83n : " una de las maa fuertes y mojores de la Armada."
      §  ' Life of Drake,' p. 270.                  |l Duro, i. p. 77.
-

1888.] on the Invincible Armada : a Tercentenary Retrospect.            321
 " the cannon was held to be an ignoble arm ; well enough for the
beginning of the fray, and to pass away the time till the moment of
engaging hand to hand, that is, of boarding. Actuated by such
 notions, the gunners were recommended to aim high, so as to dis
mantle the enemy and prevent his escape ; but, as a vertical stick is a
difficult thing to hit, the result was that shot were expended harmlessly
in the sea, or, at best, made some holes in the sails, or cut a few ropes
 of no great consequence." On the other hand, the gun was the
 weapon which the English sailors had early learned to trust to.
 Their practice might appear contemptible enough to an Excellent's
 gun's crew, but everything must have a beginning. With no disparts
 or side scales, with no aid beyond possibly a marked quoin to lay the
 gun horizontal, and with shot which—perhaps a good inch less in
 diameter than the bore of the gun—wobbled from side to side, or from
 top to bottom, leaving the gun at any angle that chance dictated, the
hitting the object aimed at was excessively doubtful. Still, by firing
a great many shot, they did manage to get home with sufficient to do
a good deal of damage. The Spanish accounts, speaking of the
quickness of the English fire, estimate the English expenditure of
shot as about three times their own.* Captain FitzGerald has
recently called attention to the possibility of a rapid fire of small
guns being found in the day of battle superior to the slow fire of big
guns. It is a very grave question, and one that deserves all the care
which Captain FitzGerald can persuade our authorities to give it.
But in the case we are now considering, the conditions were reversed ;
it was the heavy armament which was quick firing, the lighter guns
which were slow.
     There is another point which may very probably have also stood
In the way of the Spanish gunners. Through the greater part of last
century, the ports of Spanish line-of-battle ships were made much too
small, with the idea, apparently, of keeping out the enemy's musketry
shot, but with the actual result that their guns could neither be
trained, depressed, or elevated. In this way was possible such an
action as that between the Olorioso, a 70-gun ship, and the King
George, a frigate-built privateer of 32 guns, in 1747 ; in which the
two ships engaged broadside to broadside for several hours, without
the privateer receiving any proportionate damage-t In the beginning,
some such fault was general ; and to a very great extent, the guu was
brought to bear by the action of the helm ; but it is at least probable
that Spanish ships carried it to a still greater degree, and that this
might, to some extent, exaggerate the badness of the Spanish gunnery
practice, which was very bad indeed.
    All this was quite well known to Philip, and therefore to the
principal officers in the fleet before they left Lisbon. The king's
instructions to Medina-Sidonia say:—"You are especially to take
notice that the enemy's object will be to engage at a distance, on
account of the advantage which they have from their artillery and
         * Duro, ii. 377.        t ' Studies in Naval History,' p. 243.

  322                         Professor J. K. Laughton                    [May 4,
  the offensive fireworks with which they will be provided ; and on the
  other hand, the object on our side should be to close and grapple and
  engage hand to hand." * This perhaps may partly explain the com
  paratively small quantity of shot per gun provided for such a vast
  undertaking ; a quantity so small, that, notwithstanding the slowness
  of their fire, they ran short even after the skirmishes in the Channel.
       In estimating the opposing forces, this great superiority of tho
 English armament must be taken into account. Of Spanish ships of
 300 tons and upwards, the number that left Lisbon was officially
 stated as 80 : but of these, 18 were rated as ships of burden (ureas de
 cargo) ; and though they carried troops and some guns, could not
 be counted as effective ships of war. Of the remaining 62, many
 ought to be reckoned in the same category. An armament such as
 that of the Anunciada or Sla. Maria speaks for itself. From the
 number of soldiers they carried, and from their lofty poops and fore
 castles, such ships would be dangerous enough in a hand-to-hand
 fight, but were perfectly harmless as long as they were kept at a
 distance. But counting all these, wo have the following comparison
 of the fleets :—
                                            Spanish.             English.
                                       NOB.          Tons   Nos.          Tons
                                                   Average.             Average.
 O f 300 tons and upwards . .           62           727     23           552
Of 200 to ii00 tons                                          26           210
                                                             49
The English ships of 200 tons being included as unquestionably
superior as fighting machines to many of the much larger Spanish
ships.
      I am dwelling on these points—to many of which I do not think
sufficient attention has been paid—not as in any way detracting from
the superlative merit of the Englishmen who fought and won in this
great battle, but as showing that their achievement, however great,
was still within the bounds of human prowess. The Spaniards of
that time were among the most splendid soldiers that tho world has
seen ; and to speak of our men engaging them and defeating them,
against such tremendous odds as are commonly shown, is not to exalt
our heroes, but to travesty them into paladins of impossible romance,
or—in spite of abundant evidence to the contrary—to represent them
and the land they defended as saved from extermination only by the
direct interposition of Providence, and by a heaven-sent gale of wind.
     Time will not permit me, nor do I think it necessary to describe
to you in detail, the fight of that eventful week : to toll you how on
Sunday morning, 21st July, the English, having gained the wind, fell
                                   * Duro, ii. 9.

1888.]    on the Invincible Armada : a Tercentenary Retrospect.    323
on tho ships of the Spanish rear-guard, under the command of Don
Juan Martinez do Recalde in the Santa Ana, and without permitting
them to close, as they vainly tried to do, pounded them with their
great guns for the space of three hours, with such effect that Recaldo
sent to Don Pedro de Valdes for assistance, his ship having been
hulled several times, and her foremast badly wounded ; how Don
Pedro's ship, the Nuestra Senora del Rosario, in going to his assist
ance, fouled first one and then another of her consorts, lost her bow
sprit, foremast and maintopmast, and was left by Medina-Sidonia,
who conceived it to be his duty to push on to Dunkirk, even at tho
sacrifice of this large and powerful ship, which was taken possession
of by Drake the next morning, and sent into Torbay ; how another
ship, the Nuestra Senora de la Sosa, of 945 tons, was partially blown
up and was similarly left to be taken possession of by order of the
Admiral, and to be sent into Weymouth ; how on the Tuesday there
was another sharp action off Portland, and again, a third on the
Thursday off tho Isle of Wight, when Recalde's ship, the Santa Ana,
of 768 tons, received so much further damage that she left the fleet
and ran herself ashore near Havre ; how the English, joined, as they
passed along, by many small vessels full of men, but finding their
store of shot running short, were content for the next day with closely
following np the Spaniards, who on Saturday afternoon anchored off
Calais, whilst the English anchored about a mile to westward and to
windward of them. Here Howard was joined by the " squadron of
the Narrow Seas," under Lord Henry Seymour and Sir William.
Wynter, by the contingent of the City of London, under Nicholas
Gorges, and by many private ships, bringing the number up to a gross
total of nearly 200, a large proportion of which were very small, but
of which, as I have already shown, 49 were effective ships of war.
The Spanish numbers had been reduced by the loss of three, if not
four, of their largest and best ships, and were further reduced off
Calais by the loss of the San Lorenzo, the largest and most heavily
armed of the galcasses. For on Sunday night Howard sent eight
fireships in amongst the Spanish fleet ; the Spaniards, panic-struck,
cut their cables, and by wind and tide were swept far to leeward. In
the confusion, the San Lorenzo damaged her rudder, and in the
morning was driven ashore, and after a sharp fight, captured by the
boats of the Ark and some of the smaller ships. But the fleet was
away off Gravelines ; and there on that Monday, 29th July, was fought
the great battle which—more distinctly perhaps than any battle of
modern times—has moulded the history of Europe ; the battle which
curbed the gigantic power of Spain, which shattered the Spanish
prestige, and established the basis of England's Empire.
    It would be pleasant to dwell on the details of this great fight :
to tell you how the Spaniards, having formed themselves in a half-
inoon, convexity in front, were charged on the wings and centre by
our fleet; on the westernmost or larboard wing by Drake, with
Hawkyns, Frobiscr, Fonton, Fenner, and others ; in tho centre by
Howard and Lis kinsmen, with the Earl of Cumberland ; and on tho

824                      Profeuor J. K. LaugJiton                      [May 4,
starboard wing by Seymour, with Wynter and the squadron of the
Narrow Seas ; how the wings were driven in on their centre ; how the
ships, thus driven together, fouled each other, and lay a helpless and
inert mass, whilst the English pounded them in comparative safety.
" The fight," Wynter wrote, " continued from nine of the clock until
six of the clock at night, in the which time the Spanish army bore
away N.N.E. or north by east as much as they could, keeping company
one with another. ... I deliver it to your honour upon the credit of
a poor gentleman, that out of my ship there was shot 500 shot of
demi-cannon, culverin and demi-culverin ; and when I was furthest
off in discharging any of the pieces, I was not out of the shot of their
harquebus, and most times within speech one of another ; and surely
every man did well. No doubt the slaughter and hurt they received
was great, as time will discover it ; and when every man was weary
with labour, and our cartridges spent, and munitions wasted—I think
in some alt igether—we ceased, and followed the enemy." *
      The subject is one that tempts to pursue it still further, but time
warns me to draw to a close. It must be enough then to say that the
Spaniards were terribly beaten ; that two of their largest ships, ships
of the crack Portugal squadron, the San Felipe and San Maleo, ran
themselves ashore on the Netherlands' coast to escape foundering in
the open sea. Howard says that three were sunk, and four or five
driven ashore. In one case he can scarcely have been mistaken. " On
the 30th," ho says, " one of the enemy's great ships was espied to be
 in great distress by the captain [Robert Crossc] of her Majesty's
 ship called the Hope, who, being in speech of yielding unto the said
 captain, before they could agree on certain conditions, sank presently
 before their eyes." This may have been the San Juan de Sicilia,
 which was severely beaten in the fight and never returned to Spain,
 though it was not known how she was lost. The actual loss of life was
 certainly very great—how great was never known, for the pursuit of
 the English and the terrible passage round the west of Ireland pre
 vented any attempt at official returns. Of the losses among the isles
 of Scotland and on the coast of Ireland I do not intend now to speak. It
 is sufficient for my purpose to say that, according to the best Spanish
 accounts, which, in such an overwhelming disaster, are rather mixed,
 about half of the original 130 got home again ; some apparently by the
 simple process of not going farther than Corunna, some, as three of
 the galleys, by turning back before they crossed the Bay of Biscay.
      A point of more immediate naval interest regards the statements
 that have been made of the wholesale death of the English seamen
 from starvation, or the unwholesome nature of the victuals which the
  Queen's shameful parsimony compelled them to eat. I am no
 particular admirer of Queen Elizabeth, but I do think that in this
 matter she has had hard measure dealt her. I daresay she was as
 mean in the matter of her accounts as she was in many other things ;
  I daresay she refused to believe in the necessity of supplying pro-
    * Wyntcr to \Valpyngham, 1 August, 1588.—' State Papers,' Domestic, ccxiv. 7.

1888.]   on the Invincible Armada : a Tercentenary Retrospect.          825
visions, or in tlio badness of some that were condemned ; and I dare
say there was much Buffering and some sickness in consequence. But
the sickness that so terribly scourged our ships' companies seems to
have been of the nature of typhus, and to have been busy in some of
the ships, and especially in the Elizabeth Jonas, before the Spaniards
came into the Channel.* This pestilence would, no doubt, be materi
ally aggravated by scarcity and bad provisions, but it was primarily
and chiefly due to infection from the shore and from ignorance or
neglect of what we now know as sanitary laws. I may notice what
seems an interesting point, that the ships commanded by the ex
perienced old salts seem to have escaped comparatively lightly. The
ships named as most heavily scourged are the Elizabeth Jonas, the
 White Bear, and the Lion, commanded by Howard's sons-in-law and
nephew, men splendid in the day of battle, but of no experience in
the very necessary art of keeping a ship clean and sweet. A similar
infection, however, continued occasionally to scourge our ships'
companies, and still more frequently and more severely French or
Spanish ships' companies, till near the close of last century. In our
service, at least, it is now happily almost forgotten.
    Before I finish, there are two or three questions which I am some
times asked, and on which therefore it seems not oat of place that I
should say a few words.
    What active share had Ralegh in the repulse of the Armada?
None at all, so far as I can ascertain. It is stated by Camden, whom
Edwards, in his Life of Ralegh, follows, that he joined the fleet off
Portland on 23rd July. I think this extremely doubtful, and the
more so as Camden is certainly wrong in respect of some others whom
he reports to have joined about the same time. It is, of course, possi
ble that Ralegh went on board the Ark, and served as an amateur on
the staff of the Lord Admiral ; but his name is never once mentioned
in any such connection, and I venture to say it is improbable.
     What truth is there in the story that the Armada carried a large
number of priests appointed as missionaries ad fidem propagandam f
None at all. There were in the fleet 180 ecclesiastics, not an extrava
gant number when we remember that there were many nobles of a
rank which might well entitle them to have a private chaplain, and
that 50 years later it was not unusual for a French ship-of-war to
have two chaplains.
     What about the officers of the Inquisition? It seems to be a
confused story arising out of the presence of a regularly appointed
provost-marshall and staff. As to the chains and instruments of
torture, I presume the story was imagined by some of the men who
were on board the San Lorenzo off Calais, and saw there the irons
used for shackling the slaves to their benches.
     And now to conclude. I have described to you how 300 years
    * Howard to the Lord Treasurer, 10th August, 1588; Howard to thn Council,
22nd August, 1588; Howard to the Queen, 22nd August, 1588.—'State Papers,"
Domestic, ccxiv. 66; ccxv. 40, 41.

 32C       Professor Laughton on the Invincible Armada.          [May 4,
ago the conntry was exposed to a very great danger, which was mado
greater still by the uncertainty of the Government as to the proper
way to meet it, and by their halting between two opinions. Had the
money which was wasted on useless shore defences in England or in
the equipment of troops for Flanders been spent in providing a few more
Arks or Triumphs, or a larger supply of shot—though the want seems
due to the very unusual expenditure and a very natural miscalculation
—the victory would have been more assured. As it was, however,
it seems to me that we have before us a grand experience, conveying,
to those who can read it, most useful and important lessons. Although
subject to the most grinding parsimony, our navy in the day of need
was found equal to what was required of it. Professor Secley tells us
we had no navy worthy of the name before the days of tho Common
wealth.* He is in error. We had not only a navy, but a navy which,
by the care and prudence and ingenuity of its principal officers, and
especially of Hawkyns, who had been for some years its comptroller,
was superior to the navy which, in popular repute, was the most
powerful in the world. It was no mere chance which made our large
ships more handy, more weatherly, more heavily armed than those of
Spain, and, above all, which had them ready when they were wanted.
IB this the case at the present day ? I fear not. I am misinformed
if either our ships or guns are superior to thoso of our neighbours ;
it is, I am told, an open question whether tho armaments of our ships
are not inferior to those of possible enemies ; and I am speaking not
from popular gossip or newspaper paragraphs, but from official
utterances in tho House of Commons, when 1 say that several of our
largest ships—tho Triumphs or Arits of the present day— are lying in
harbour useless for want of guns, which are not likely to be supplied
for some months ; or of gun fittings, discovered to be defective only
when the ship is ordered for commission. Much has been said of
want of money—of estimates reduced below starvation point. Tho
want here, at least, is not of money, but of judgment and knowledge
and effective supervision. It will be little excuse to the nation to
attribute any possible disaster to a departmental error—to a dual
control—to the outrageous fact that the supply of ships is regulated
by one board and that of guns by another ; the two working inde
pendent of, and sometimes at variance with, each other. But this is
beyond my present purpose. I will only add that, as imitation is tho
sincerest form of flattery, so a readiness for action, similar to that
which enabled our forefathers to achieve this great victory, will bo
tho truest and the best commemoration of their glory. And yet I
think that in this, its Tercentenary, there is a peculiar fitness in tho
desire to record it on a visible monument. Storied urn or animated
bust cannot, indeed, call back the fleeting breath of the great dead ;
but they may aid in preserving their memories, a light to lighten our
path and to guide our footsteps,                           [J. K. L.]
                      * ' Expansion of England,' p. 81.

 1888.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                        327
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, May 7, 1888.
  SIB JAMES CBIOHTON BROWNB, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Vico-Prcsidont,
                                   in the Chair.
     The following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year wore
announced :—
            Sir James Crichton Browne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
            William Crookes, Esq. F.R.S.
            Warren de la Rue, Esq. M.A. D.C.L. F.R.S.
            Colonel James A. Grant, C.B. C.S.I. F.R.S.
            Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A.
            John Rae, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
            Henry Pollock, Esq. Treasurer.
            Sir Frederick Bramwell, D.C.L. F.R.S. Honorary Secretary.
            John Hutton Balfour-Browne, Esq. Q.C.
            Lady Roscoe.
            John Callander Ross, Esq.
            T. E. Thorpe, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. was elected Honorary
Professor of Natural Philosophy.
     The Right Hon. LORD RAYLBIOH, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. was
elected Professor of Natural Philosophy.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the following
Donation to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental Research : —
            Brigadier-General H. Collett                        £10
     THE PBESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FBOU
The Governor-General of India—Geological Survey of India. Records. Vol. XXI
     Parti. 8vo. 1888.
The Secretary of State for India—Report on Public Infraction in Bengal, 1886-7.
     fol. 1887.
Aoeademia dei Lincei, ReaU, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. Vol. III.
     2° Semestre, Fasc. 12, 13; Vol. IV. Fate. 1. 8vo. 1887.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Vol. LVI. Part I. Nos. 2, 3; Part II.
     Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1887-8.
   Proceedings, 1887, Nos. 9, 10 ; 1888, No. 1. 8vo. 1887-8.

 328                          Gincral Monthly Meeting.                  [Mtiy 7,
 Asiatic Satiety, Royal (Bonibay Branclt)—Journul. Vol. XVII. No. 46. 8vo. 1887.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, V..I. XLVIII. No. 5. 8vo 18S8.
 Aubertin, J. J. Esq. M R.I. (the Author)—A Fight with Distances : The States,
       Hawaiian Mauds, Conuda, Biitieh Columbia, Cuba, Bahamas. 8vo. 1888.
 Basselt, Alfred B. Esq. M.A. M.R.I. (the Author)—Treatise on Hydrodynamics.
       Vol I. 8vo. 1888.
 Birltett, John, Esq. F.Ii.C.S. M.R.I.—A. Copy of the Last Will and Testament of
       Thomas Guy. IL'mo. 1732.
 British Architectt, Royal Institute of—Proceeding 1887-8, Nos. 12, 13. 4to.
 Brymner, Douglas, Esq. (the Archivist)—Report of Canadian Archives, 18S7.
       8vo. li-88.
 Cambridge 1'ltilosophifal Society— Proceedings, Vol. VI. Purt 4. 8vo. 1888.
 Cliemicil Society— Journal for April, 1888. 8vo.
 Chief Signal Officer, U.S. Army—Annual Report for 1886. 8vo.
 East India Association— Journal, 1888, No. 1. 8vo.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for April, 1888. 4to.
    Analyst for April, 1888. 8vo.
    Athenattim for April, 1888. 4to.
    Chemical News for April, 1888. 8vo.
    Chemist and Druggist for Api il, 1888. 8vo.
    Engineer for April, 1888. fol.
    Engineering for April, 1888. fol.
    Homlogical Journal for April, 1888. 8vo.
    Industries for April, 1888. foL
    Iron for April, 1888. 4to.
    Murray's Magazine for April, 1888. 8vo.
    Nature for April, 1888. 4lo.
    Revue Scientifique for April, 1888. 4to.
   Scientific News for April, 1888. 4lo.
   Telegraphic Journal for April, 1888. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for April, 1888. 4to.
EUis, G. B. Esq. Jtf.JZ.J.-Britain's Salamis : or the Fight of 1588. By W. H. K.
       Wright. 8vo. 1888.
Feis, Jacob, Esq. (the Author and Translator)—Shakspere and Montaigne. 12mo.
       1884.
   Locksley Hall nach sechszig Jahren. Augdem Englischen des Lord Tennyson.
       12mo. 1888.
Florence, Biblioteca Rasionale Centrale—B. lletino, Num. 55. 8vo. 1888.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 748. 8vo. 1888.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedingi1, New Series, Vol X. No. 4. 8vo. 1 888.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Vcrhandlungen, 1887, NOs. 17-18; 1888.
      Nos. 1-4. 8vo.
Johns Hopkins University—American ChemicalJournal, Vol. X. No. 2. 8vo. 1888.
   University Circular, No. 64. 4 to. 1888.
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 139. 8vo. 1888.
Madras Government Central Museum—Coins : Catalogue No. I. Mysore. By E.
      Thurston. 8vo. 1888.
Madrid Royal Academy of Sciences—Anunrio, 1888. 8vo.
   Memorias, Tomo XII. XIII. Parte V. 4to. 1887.
   Revista, Tomo XXII. No. 4. 8vo. 1887.
Manchester Geolgical Society—Transactions,.Vol. XIX. Parts 10, 17. 8vo. 1888.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution— Proceedings, 1888, No. 1. 8vo.
Meteorologioal Office— Report of Meteorological Council, U.S. 31st March, 1887.
      8vo. 1888.
Meteorological Society, Royal— Quarterly Journal, No. 05. 8vo. 1888.
   Meteorological Record, No. 27. 8vo. 1888.
National Hocirty for Preserving Memorials of the Dead—Journal, No. 0, March,
      1888. 8vo.
   Fourth Yearly Report and List of Members, 1886. 8vo.

 1888.J                      General Monthly Meeting.
 New fork Academy of Sciences—Transactions, Vol. VI. 8vo. 1886-7.
Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1888, Part 1. 870. 1888.
 Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XX. No. 5. New
      Series. 8vo. 1888.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, April, 1888. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XII. No. 6. 8vo. 1888.
Preussiiche Akademie der Wissenschaflen—Sitzungsberiohte, XL.-LIY. 8vo. 1887.
Rio de Janeiro Observatory—Revista, NOs. 2, 3. 8vo. 1888.
Russell, the Hon. Rollo, M.R.I. (the Author)—Smoke in Relation to Fogs in
      London. 8vo. 1888.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Pbilologisch-historische Clusse : Abhandlungen,
      Band X. No. 8. 8vo. 1888.
Society of Arts—Journal, April, 1888. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. LI. Part 1. 8vo. 1888.
Stevens, B. F. Esq. (the Editor)—Clinton-Oornwallis Controversy growing out of
      the Campaign in Virginia, 1781. 2 vol. 8vo. 1888.
Telegraph Engineers, Society of—Journal, No. 71. 8vo. 1888.
University of -London—Calendar, 1888-9. 8vo.
Vereins zur BefSrdemng des Geaerbfleisses in Preusten—Verhandlungen. 1888 :
      Heft3. 4to.
Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. XII. Part 7. 4to. 1888.
   Proceedings, 1887, Part 4. 8vo. 1888.
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, May 11, 1888.
     WILLIAM CBOOKES, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
            Professor W. C. ROBEBTS-AUSTEN, F.R.S. M.R.I.
               Some curious properties of Metals and Alloys.
                                (Abstract deferred).
    VOL. XII. (No. 82.)

830                          M. AlpJumse Renard                    [May 18,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 18, 1888.
      JOHN RAB, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
         M. ALPHONSE RENABD, LL.D. Hon. M.R.S.E. Cor. G.S.
                 Curator of the Royal Museum, Brussels.
           La Reproduction Artificielle des Roches Volcaniques.
             "Neque enim aliud eat nature quam arg quaedam magna."
                                                    LEIBNIZ, Prologaa, ix.
FBISB a see debuts, la connaissance de 1'ecorce terrestre est tout
ntilitaire, si je puis m'exprimer ainsi : dans sa premiere phase, elle
nous apparait comme imposeo a 1'homme par la necessite d'explorer
les couches du globe, pour en extraire les mincrais, les materiaux de
construction et les matieres combustibles.
      Pour quiconque jette un coup d'oeil sur 1'histoire des sciences, il
devient evident, qu'elles doivent toutes leur origine a nn but utile et
pratique ; que toutes ont passe par cette phase initialo pour suivre un
d6veloppement r^gulier, dont je vais esquisser la marche pour la
geologic.
      L'homme commence done 1'exploration des profondenrs terrestres
pour y puiser les matieres qui doivent servir a ses besoins. D'abord
il le fait sans regie ; mais a mesure que 1'art du mineur se developpe,
la recherche des richesses minerales est poursuivie avec methode : on
observe les conditions dans lesquelles les min6ranx et les roches
ntiles se rencontrent au sein du globe. D'empiriques et de locales
qu'elles etaient a 1'origine, ces observations no tardent pas a se
generaliser; elles permettent alors d'entrevoir quelques-uns des
traits saillants de 1'architecture de notre planete. En fouillant les
entrailles de la terre, on en vint a se convaincre que le globe n'a pas
rtt'i fait d'un seul coup, qu'il doit sa formation a dos epoques suc-
cessives.
      On comprit ensuite que, pour interpreter 1'histoire de la terre et
le role des causes en jeu dans son edification, il fallait se livrer a des
eludes sur le vif : apprendre a connaitre 1'etat actuel de notre plauete.
En comparant les diverses couches du globe avec les terrains qui
e'edifient sous nos yeux, on parvint a retracer les conditions qui ont
preside a la formation des assises des periodes anciennes. C'est
ainsi que par 1'analyse des fails et par 1'induction qui g6neralise les
observations, la connaissance de 1'ecorce terrestre entre dans uno
phase nouvelle et vraiment scientifique. On s'etait propose d'abord
de decouvrir des regies pratiques pour le mineur et Ton est amen6
graduellement a dechi£frer 1'histoire de la terre.

1888.] sur la Reproduction Artificielle des Roches Volcaniques.     381
    T7n principe fondamental nous guide dans cette reconstitution da
pnssi' de la planete : c'est quo 1'essence des forces qui ont agi sur la
terre, n'a jamais change. On ne doit done rechercher dans les
epoques geologiques que la trace de phenomenes dont la nature est la
meme, peut-on dire, que cenx dont nous sommes les temoins, et que
nous pouvons soumettre a 1'observation directe.
    Depuis que, vers la fin du siecle dernier, on eonnuonea a appliquer
la methode inductive a 1'etude des masses minerales formant 1'ecorce
du globe, a leur architecture et mix etres dont les debris sont en-
cliassos dans les terrains, un vaste ensemble de documents s'est
accumule sur 1'histoire de notre planete. Durant cette pcriode, la
g^ologie s'est affirmed par d'immenscs progres, qui ne lui laissent
rien a envier a ses ainees, les autres branches des sciences naturelles.
    Voyons comment, en mettant en jeu cette methode analytique, en
s'appuyant sur 1'induction, le geologue interprete la formation des
roches. Les roches sont, on lo sait, les masses minerales solides qui
constituent les terrains. L"observation nous apprend a y distinguer
un premier groupe, caract^rise par la disposition en couches ou en
banes : ce sont les roches s6dimentaires. Un second groupe, qui no
nous offre point cette disposition stratifiee, comprend les roches do
nature volcanique, a structure massive. La structure et la composi
tion si difierentes de ces deux grandes divisions lithologiques, nous
conduit a envisager celles-ci comme formees dans des conditions
sp^ciales, qui ont laisse leur empreinte sur chacune d'elles.
     Nous voyons les roches sedimentaires s'edifier, lorsque nous ob-
servons comment les eaux courantes et la mer roulent et deposent sur
leur lit des eailloux, du sable, et du limon. Apres la mort des
organismes qui vivent dans ces eaux, leurs squelettes ou leurs
coquilles viennent se mller aux substances minerales et Clever avec
celles-ci des couches de sediments. Ces matieres ainsi deposees
prennent, par apport successif, la disposition stratifiee. Toutes les
particules qui les constituent, etaient primitivement des grains isoles
et qui portent encore la trace de leur origine: ce sont des debris de
roches preexistantes ou des depouilles d'organismes, que des actions
 physico-chimiques posteVieures peuvent cimenter.
     Comparons maintenant ces depots modernes sedimentaires, carac-
terises par la disposition stratifiee et la nature detritique de leurs
elements, a certaines couches des formations g^ologiques. Nous
voyons, sur les surfaces continentales, des masses dont la formation
remonte aux periodes g^ologiques, et qui oflrent des analogies etroites
d'alluro et de structure, avec les materiaux qui se d6posent, sous nos
yeux, des eaux fluviales et marines. Cette comparaison nous ameno
a envisager les roches stratifiees anciennes comme formees sous
1'empire des memes causes, et nous les interpretons comme deposecs
sous la mer ou par les eaux courantes. C'est done surtout 1'eau
qui est a 1'oauvro dans 1'^dification des masses s6dimentaires ou
detritiques.
     Le second groupe, dont nous aurons a traiter specialement, com
                                                              z 2

332                           N. Alphonsc Renard                  [May 18,
prend Ics roches massivcs ; celles-ci s'observent, on voio de formation,
dans Ics manifestations volcaniques. Les matieres fondues, vomies
du cratere ou injectees dans les couches sedimentaires, so consolident
par refroidissement. Les ('li'nicnts qui constituent les laves sont des
individus cristallins, deVeloppes aux d(5pens de la pate en fusion qui
 les enchusse. Ces cristaux ne pr^sentent rien de detritique dans le
sens que nous attachions, tout a 1'houre, a co mot. A parler d'une
maniero generale, la disposition par couches des terrains sedimen-
taires n'est pas indiqueo pour ces masses eruptives : au lieu de
1'horizontalite primitive, do la superposition reguliero des conches
stratifiees, nous avons dans les laves, uno allure qui indique la
poussee de bas en haut, a laquello elles ont HI'- soumises lors de leur
eruption. Enfin, ces ruches massives sont depourvues de debris
d'etres organises.
       Comparons, a leur tour, ces produits volcaniques contemporains
avec certaines roches anciennes cristallines : les granites, les porphyres,
 les trachytes, les basaltes. Nous observons que ces dernieres posse-
 deut, avec les produits des volcaus actifs, des analogies etroites do
 structure et de composition. On peut conclure de cot ensemble de
traits caracteristiques communs, que Ics roches raassives, qui traver-
sont les terrains goologiques a^dimontaires, ont ete, comme lea laves
moderncs, injectees de bas en haut, et qu'clles partagent avec celles-
ci uno origine eruptive.
       Mais tandis quo nous voyons se former, sous nos ycux, Ics roches
sedimentaires, que les conditions qui president a leur origine peuvent
etre suivies d'assez pres, quo cette oauvre s'accomplit an grand jour
 pout-on dire, les masses eruptives s'elaborent dans les profondenrs de
 la terre ; leur gen6se est en quolque sorte entouree de mystero, le
 regard ne pout sonder les vastcs reservoirs souterrains, ou ces matieres
 en fusion se pctrissent et d'ou elles sont projetees lors des eruptions
volcaniques.
       Ici, lea voies de 1'obscrvation dirccte sont en partie fermees ; la
plus fine analyse, los raisonnements les plus serres ne peuvent sup-
pleer aux donnees qui nous manqnent ; i Is sont impuissants a nous
apprendre toutes les causes en jeu dans la formation des roches
eruptivos.
       Pour r^soudre les doutes, controler et completer les observations,
on tento alors de reproduiro artificiellement les roches volcaniques :
d'en faire la synthtso. Arme des denuees de 1'observation qui doivent
servir do guide, on s'efforce, par des manipulations savantes, d'imiter
les prodnits de la nature. La science de la terre, d'analytique qu'ello
t'tiiif , entre des lors dans une deruicre phase, celle des experiences
Bynthetiques.
      Quoique rapctisses i nos appareils, ces essais d'imitsr la nature,
conduits par 1'intelligence de 1'homme, executes par ses mains, lui
permettent de faire naitre des faits analogues a ceux qu'il veut
approfondir, do dirigcr et de surveillor la marcho des phonomenes, do
se rendre un comptc exact do leurs relations et do faire varior a

 1888.] sur la Reproduction Artificielle des Roches Vokaniques.        333
volonte les conditions ou ils peuvent se produire. Les connaissances
acquises par 1'observation, 1'analyse ot le raisonnement sont itiusi,
suivant 1'expression de Bacon de Vernlam, soumises aufer et aufeu
de Vexperience.
    Nona venons d'indiquor a grands traits trois etapes dans la marche
des connaissances relatives a 1'ecorce terrestre. Nous les avons
entrevues a leur naissance, an moment ou elles se bornaient a des
notions utilos pour 1'humanite; nous les avons suivies plus tard,
loreque, se guidant par 1'observation et le raisonnement, elles s'elevaient
& la hautenr d'une science. La g^ologie, entree dans une 'derniere
phase, se trausforme aujourd'hui en science experimentalo.
    Nous aliens montrer en etudiant la reproduction artificiello dea
roches volcaniques recentes, quel puissant secours les recherches du
laboratoire peuvent apporter a 1'observation directe de ]a nature.
Mais avant d'exposer les precedes de la synthese des roches eruptives
contemporaines, nous avons a resumer ce que 1'analyse et 1'observa-
tion des faits ont appris sur la constitution et le mode de formation
de cos masses volcaniques. Le point de comparaison des syntheses so
trouve dans les laves naturelles; ce sont des modeles qu'on veut
copier : il importe done de les connaitre par le menu pour arriver a
les ii niter dans les details intimes.
    Rappelons done ce que nous savona des laves ot des conditions qui
president a leur formation. Nous n'avons pas a nous arreter ici sur
les grandes manifestations des forces internes du globe, ni sur le
cortege de phenomenes qui les accompagnent, sur ces eruptions
formidables qui ebranlent le volcan jusque dans sos fondements, et
projettent des masses vitrcuses pulverisees et des pierres ombrasecB.
An milieu de cet cataclysme, le cratere et les flancs de la montagne,
entrouverts sons la poussee des masses eruptives, laissent echapper
des flots de laves, qui se deroulent sur les pentes, et s'y solidifient
lentement.
    Le fait capital de 1'ernption c'est 1'emission de la lave. On appelle
ainsi les courants de matieres fondues qui s'echappent du cratere.
A parler d'une maniere g^n6ralo, on ne pent mieux comparer la lavo
qu'a un verre liquefie sous 1'influeuce des hautes temperatures qui
regnent sous 1'^corce solide du globe. Les observations directes sur
la temperature de la lave liquifiee du cratere, faitcs au moment memo
de 1'6ruption, sont entourees de perils que peu d'observatcurs ont
os6 aflfronter. Aussi ne possedons-nous, BUT ce point, que des
indications approximatives. Les volcans, ou 1'epanchement des
laves no d^passe pas un certain dogro d'intensite, mais qui sont dans
un etat d'activite moderee et permanente, comme a 1'ile HawaY,
ont permis a d'intrepides savants d'approcher assez pres du cratere
pour tenter d'evaluer la temperature de la masse liquified. Ils ont
pu constater ainsi qu'elle oscille entre 1000° et 2000° C. Mais des
que la lave s'epanche, la temperature baisse rapidement a sa surface ;
la nappe liquide BO recouvre d'une couchc, plus ou moins epaissc, do

334                           M. Alphonse Renard                 [May 18,
scorics sous laquelle coule commo un ruisseau de maticres fondues,
qui utteignent encore lo point do fusion de 1'aeier. C'est ce manteau
do scories qui empeclie 1'irradiation et qui permet aux masses, qa'il
recouvre, de conserver longtemps une certaine viscosite.
    Nous indiquerons plus loin les observations sur les phenomenes de
cristallisation qui so passent dans ces matieres epanchees, encore fluides
ou visqueuses, pretes a se figer. Voyons tout d'abord quclques-uns
dcs caractcres essentiels de la structure ct de la composition des laves.
Sunvent ces produits eruptifs sont bulloux, scoriaces ; quelquefois,
au contraire, ils se presentent comme une masse vitreuse, homogene,
do tointo plus ou moins foncee, ou 1'oeil nu ne distingue aucun mineral
isole. Quelquefois aussi cette masse est comme petrie de mineraux,
dont la presence, en nombre plus ou moins considerable, semble
refonler la pate vitreuse qui les cimente. Ces mineraux ainsi empatos
presentent, lorsque lour developpement est complet, des formes poly-
edriques r6gulieres constantes pour ckacune des especes : se sont des
cristaux, c'est a dire, les individus parfaits du monde mineral. 11s ont
puise dans la masse primitive vitreuse, les elements chimiqucs qui les
constituent et qui se sont groupes suivant leurs af&nites; comme on
voit s'engendrer, dans nn liquide eature d'un sel, les cristaux dont la
substance etait dissouto dans 1'eau mere.
    La mineralogio nous apprend a determiner les especes minerales
qui cristallisent dans les laves. L'analyse chimique vient a son tour
nous fournir de pr&neuses indications sur la composition des produits
volcaniques. Si 1'on traite, par les precedes de la chimio, les roches
^ruptives, on trouve quo toutes contiennent une quantite plus ou moins
considerable de silice combine^ qui peut s'elever au dela de 65 pour
cent de la masse : ce sont les laves acides ou legeres. On passe ensuito
par toutes les transitions aux laves basiques ou lourdes, dont la tenenr
en silice, diminuant graducllement, n'atteint plus que 55 a 45 pour
cent. La silice dont il s'agit n'existe pas a 1'etat libre dans les laves
contemporaines ; cette substance y est combinec, sous la forme de
silicates, avec 1'alumine, le fer, la chaux, la maguesie, la potasse et la
soude.
    Nous trouvons dans les laitiers de 1'industrie metallurgique des
produits presentant des analogies intimes avec ceux des volcaus, tant
au point do vue de la composition quo du mode de formation. Ces
scories artificielles sont, ainsi que les laves, formees de silicates et ce
qui rapproche encore ces dernieres des laitiers, c'est qu'elles doivent
etre envisag^es comme 1'ecume du noyau metallique interne, dont
riles formeraient les zones superieures. Les difierences que nous
montre leur composition r^sulteraient du fait qu'elles nous viennent
de zones plus ou moins profondes.
    Nos connaissances sur les roches eruptives devaient s'enrichir
d'uue mauiere inesperee par 1'application du microscope a la litLo-
logie. Nous n'avons pas a rappeler ici les resultats presque mer-
veilleux qu'a permis d'attoindre ce mode d'investigation, inaugure
par H. C. Sorby. Pour tout dire en un mot, 1'analyse microscopique

1888.] sur la Reproduction Arttficielle des Roches Volcaniques.       335
des roches a change la face de la petrographie. Envisageons senle-
iiu-nt quelques-unes des notions sur les produits volcaniqnes recents,
revelees par ces nouveaux precedes dont la delicatesse, la surete, et
1'eleganee n'ont ete surpassees dans aucune autre branche des sciences
naturelles. Non seulement ils ont rendu possible la verification et le
controle des hypotheses ; mais ils les ont guidees et fait aboutir tiux
remarquables dlcouvertes que je vais rappeler.
      L'oeil aide des plus fortes lonpes ne pouvait reconnaitre dans les
laves, que les mineraux cristallises d'assez grandes dimensions;
1'analyse chimique ne donnait, le plus souvent, que la composition de
la masse totale ; la constitution miueralogique n'etait qu'entrevue.
La texture intime de la roche restait impenetrable ; on ne pouvait so
rendre compte d'une maniere certaine de 1'ordre suivant lequel les
elements de cette masse fondue s'etaient solidifies, ni se representer
 les divers etats par oil passent les cristanx, leurs e~baucb.es, leurs
 formes primordiales, leurs squelettes, et 1'aspect de la roche a ses
diflerents stades de developpement. Appliquons le microscope a
1'examen d'un mince eclat de lave, rendu transparent par le polissage.
Les laves, avons-nous dit, peuveut etre comparees a des masses
vitreuses ; mais tandis que dans nos verres artificiels on s'efforce
d'obtenir un produit homogeue et limpide, les maticres liquifiees
des volcans, quand elles arrivent au jour, apportent deja dans
 leur masse, des elements differencies. Le verre qui les renferme
 doit etre considere comme un n'sidu de cristallisation oil de
 nombreux individus cristallins ont puise les elements qui constituent
leur espece. Dans ces verres volcaniques noirs, brillauts, opaques en
 apparence, depourvus de toute cristallinite, le microscope decouvre un
monde de formes minerales. II nous montre lours divers etats de
croissance, leurs arrets de developpement determines par la consoli
dation plus ou moins rapide de la masse. C'est surtout dans les roches
qui ont conserv^ a peu pres totalement leur nature vitreuse, homogenes
 11 1'oeil nu comme 1'obsidienne, qu'on trouve ces cristaux rudimentaires
 de figure bizarre, premiers pas de la matierc amorphe dans sou
 passage a 1'etat cristallin. Grace a la rapidite avec laquelle la pate
 vitreuse s'est figee, les cristaux n'ont pu croitre ; leur developpement
 a cte brusquement arrete. De la ces embryons de cristaux qui
 abondent dans les verres naturels, et qu'on a designes sous le nom de
 crislallites. Des cristallites analogues se produisent dans les laitiers
 des hauts-fourneaux, dont nous indiquions tout a 1'heure les relations
 etroites qui les unissent aux matieres laviques. Cette commune
 origine se traduit par des traits de famille qu'accuse le microscope.
 Les laitiers examines en lames minces montrent des formes cristallinos
 rudimentaires semblables aux cristallites des verres volcaniques.
       Mais d'ordinaire les cristaux ne sont pas restes a cet ('tat
 embryonnaire. Si la lave ne s'est pas trop brusquement refroidie, les
 mouvements moleculaires, conservant leur liberty d'action, meme dans
 une masse semi-liquide, la pate a pu donner naissance a des individus
 cristallises do tres petite dimension, les microlithes. Ces cristaux

 336                         N. Alphonse Benard                  [May 18,
 microscopiqucs sont n^s au sein de la masse vitreuse pendant qu'elle
 BO consolidait lontement. Malgre lear infinie delicatesse, ces perils
 polyedres permettent do retrouver, avec une exactitude merveilleuse,
 tous lea caracteres propres a des especes, qu'on ne connaissait dans le
 mondo mineral qu'en individus beaucoup plus volumineux, et dont, a
 coup sur, on ne pouvait soup9ouner la presence dans les laves. Ils
 forment souvent dans la pate, par leur enchevetrement, nn admirable
 n'srau cristallin et pretent a la roche, oil ils se sont developpes, une
 structure speciale, la structure microlilhique.
     Les dimensions toujours microscopiques de ccs microlithes, lour
 agencement, montrent bien qu'ils appartiennent a une periode trouble,
 qu'ils ont ete formes a un moment oil la lave, encore en mouvement,
 se Bolidifiait; ils s'en sont separes pendant 1'acte memo de 1'epan-
 chement ou de 1'eruption.
     Outre ces cristaux microscopiques et ces gronpements de
 cristallites, qui sont du dernier stade de consolidation, la lave apporte
 avec elle une provision de cristaux plus grands et de forme plus
 developpee qu'on peut bien souvent distinguer a 1'oail nu. Ces derniers
 ont pris naissanco dans des conditions plus calmes, analogues a celles
 que presente lll1 fluide tranquille oil la crystallisation a pu se fairo
d'uno maniere lente. Ils se sont formes dans le bain chimique en
fusion, alors qu'il etait encore renferm6 dans les reservoirs souterrains.
 Cet accroissement lent nous est montre d'une maniere evideute par
lenr disposition en zones concentriques et par leurs dimensions. Ces
 grands cristaux, apportes tout formes dans la lave, au moment de son
eruption, sont enchasses dans des microlithes ou dans une masse
 vitreuse. C'est apres qu'ils s'etaient developpes avec lenteur dans le
magma, durant la phase intratellurique, que la masse oil ils nageaient
a ete soulev6e. Une periode d'agitation a succ6d6 au calme, la lave
entrain6e avec violence a elmrrir ces cristaux, les a brises, corrodes,
 broyes, et fondus en partie. Le microscope nous moutre uettemeut
les phenomenes que je rappelle. On voit les grands cristaux
disloques, leurs fragments sont disperses, leurs aretes emoussees,
et rong^es ; ils sont envahis et pun6tres par la p&te.
     Pendant que les actions physiques et chimiques, mises en jeu par
le mouvement de la lave, s'attaquent ainsi a demolir les cristaux
anciens, naissent les microlithes. Cette matiere vitreuee, ou flottent
les grands cristaux, se prend en un amas d'individns microscopiques.
Ceux-ci se rattachent done a une suconde phase de la cristallisation,
ils sont engendr^s dans un magma visqueux en mouvemeut ; leur
developpement ulterieur est arrete par un refroidissement assez rapide
qui provoque la prise en masse.
     La disposition fluidale des microlithes indique parfaitement
d'ailleurs que cette pouss6e cristalline a ete contemporaine du mouve
ment de la coulee. On remarque, en effet, dans les preparations
microBCOpiques que les microlithes s'accumulent autour des grandes
sections cristallis^es ; ils ondulent, forment des trainees et pr^sentent
cette disposition que les micrographcs appellent structure fluidale.

1888.] gur la Reproduction Artlficidle des Ruches Volcaniques.          337
Elle est arcusec par 1'orientation de ces cristaux aciculaires infiniment
petits. Lorsque ces trainees de microlithes viennent a rencontrer des
cristaux enclaves de dimensions plus considerables, ils les contournent,
Be pressent dans les interstices qui separent les grandes sections,
s'appliquent sur leurs bords et nous offrent le dernier mouvement de
la masse au moment mrmo ou elle se figea.
       Le microscope nous enseigne done que la cristallisation dans les
laves appartient a deux temps. Le premier anterienr a 1'eruption,
durant lequel les grands cristaux deja formes nagent dans une masse
qu'on pout supposer entierement vitreuse. Au second temps, les
microlithes et les formes cristallines embryonnaires s'isolent ; ils
(Intent do 1'ejaculation, de 1'epanchement meme, et sont contemporains
do la consolidation de la roche.
       Ces observations microscopiques sur les cristaux de la seconde
phase permettent deja de conclure qu'ils ont ete formes purement et
eimplement par voie ignee, sans qu'on doive faire entrer en jeu des
temperatures ou des pressions hypothetiques, auxquelles on recourait
autrefois ; sans reclamer un repos absolu qu'on envisageait comme
necessaire pour que des mineraux puissent cristalliser regulierement.
On voit, en allot, les microlithes se former apres 1'epanchement, a la
pression barom^trique, a une temperature qui est loin d'etre aussi
elevee qu'on la supposait; on voit les cristaux naitre pendant la
marche meme de la coulee. Lorsque le refroidissement est tres
brusque, les microlithes n'ont pas le temps de se former, la matiere
lavique ne donne naissance alors qu'a des cristallites.
       Mais le microscope nous permet de fixer d'uue maniere plus
ili' tiiilK'i; encore la chronologic des cristaux des laves ; nous venous de
distinguer dans leur histoire, deux grandes periodes ; indiquons d'une
maniere geuerale, comment on peut, en quelque sorte, etablir la date
a laquelle chacune des especes de ces deux groupes se sont isolees du
verre. Les particularity qui conduisent a la determination de leur
age relatif, ce sont les inclusions.
       Un cristal qui se deVeloppe d'une masse vitreuse, englobo souvent
dcs particules du milieu dans lequel il croit. C'est ainsi que certaines
sections apparaissent au microscope criblees de grains vitreux, em-
prisonnes a 1'interieur du cristal et souvent disposes suivant les zones
d'accroissement. Ces inclusions nous montrent a 1'evidence que les
cristaux en question sont nes d'une matiere vitreuse liquifiee par la
chaleur. Dans d'autres cas, co sont des especes minerales qui se
tronvent inclnses sous la forme de microlithes, au sein d'un cristal.
II est evident alors que ces microlithes preexistaient au mineral qui
los emprisonne.
       Dans d'autres cas enfin, sur des cristaux nettement termines, une
espece vient se mouler, s'appliquer, remplir tous les interstices entro
les mineraux deja formes : ceci montre incoutestablement 1'anteriorite
de ces derniers.
       En tumult compte de ces faits, qui parlent par eux-memes, on ost
parvenu a dresser des listes chronologiques iudiquaut pour chacuno

338                        M. Alphonse Renard                   [May 18,
tlos especos des doux grandes p^riodes, la dato do It cristallisation.
Je no m'arreterai pas a vous les citer, mais nous verrons bientot se
degager par los experiences synthetiques, la loi qui pr^side a la forma
tion successive des cristaux et a leur age relatif.
     J'ai retrace les grandes lignes du tableau qui nons offre 1'histoire
d'une lavo ; je n'ai pu esquisser que certains details de cette represen
tation dcs pbenomenes lithologiques que les investigations modernes
out rcudus avec une si vivante rcalite ; mais ce que nous en avons vu,
suffit u moutrer d'une maniere frappante, a mon avis, ce que petit
1'analyso secondco par lo raisonnemont. Je crois ne pas me tromper
en avancant, qu'a cc point de vue, 1'etude d'une lave, telle que nous
nous somrnes efforces d'en oxposer les resultats, preseHte un des plus
beaux exemples de 1'application des methodos inductives aux sciences
naturelles : on ne sail ce quo 1'on doit le plus y admirer, on des
procedos mis en oauvre pour 1'analyse, ou de la finesse de 1'observa-
tion, ou du lien logique avec lequel on a su rattacber tous ces
phenomcmes.
     Pouvoir retracer avec une stricte fidelite dans une masse rocheuse,
oh 1'ooil nu ne decouvre qu'un amas indistinct et tout d'uno venue,
la marche de la cristallisation, penetrer dans cet admirable tissu dea
produits volcaniques ou, dans un centimetre cube, viennent s'agencer
des millions do polyedres, determiner avec une precision mathematiquo
la nature do chacun de ces corps infiniment petits, les prendro a leur
naissanco, les suivre jusqu'a leur entier developpement, retrouver la
trace do toutes les modifications qu'ils ont pu subir sous 1'influence
des agents physiques et chimiques, voila ce que ce puissant modo
d'investigation, 1'aualyse microscopique, a permis do realiser.
     Toutefois pour lo chercheur consciencieux et modeste, que de
choses encore inconnues dans ce champ en apparence si restreint et
deja si bien fouille do 1'histoire des produits volcaniques ! Que de
problemes dont la solution no peut etre donneo meme par 1'observa-
 tiou la mieux conduite ! Lorsque 1'observation ne suffit plus a
atteindre ce but, lorsqu'on a epuise toutes les ressources de ce mode
d'investigation, il reste encore celles des exp6riences synthetiques.
C'est un pas de plus dans la voio qui mene a 1'intclligonce complete
dcs faits et qui pout couduire u des solutions definitives. Mais, les
operations syHthetiques pour arriver a ce but, doivent etre dirigees
avee intelligence et dessein vers la fin qu'on vent atteindre.
     Comme 1'a dit Senarmont, 1'une des conditions essentielles d'une
synthfcse g^ologique, c'est quo chacune des operations artificielles, soit
compatible avco toutes les circonstances ou 1'operation naturelle a
laisse des traces caracteristiques. Les laitiers et les scorics de
1'industrie, dont nous avons montre, les relations avec certains pro
duits de la nature, sont en rcalite des syntheses, mais des syntheses de
hazard, qui, malgro le baut interet scientifique qu'elles presentent, ne
peuvent etro mises sur le meme pied que les syntheses intentionnelles,
dont je vais parler, oil 1'experimentateur, tenant en vue le probleme
 ' resoudre, s'offorcc do realiser, dans le laboratoire, des conditions

 1888.] sur la Reproduction Arttfinelle des Roches Volcaniques.          339
 idontiques a celles qui entouraient la formation des produits naturels
 qu'on veut iiuiter.
     Dans 1'ordre logique, les methoJes synthetiques suiveut en quelquo
 sorto les progres do 1'observation et de 1'analyse. Cepondant on
 constate quo, des les premiers pas do la geologie, quolques hommes
 superieurs entrevoient deja, avec le coup d'oail du genie, le role quo
 1'experience est appelee a jouer dans cette science. Buffon demontre
 par des essais que le granite et les principales roches cristallines sont
 fusibles et qu'elles so transforment par la fusion en matiere vitreuse.
 Quelques annees apres, Spallanzaui execute une longue serie d'ex-
 periences sur la fusion de laves, pour detruire les prejuges qui regnaieHt
 sur la cause de la chaleur des matieres eruptives.
     Mais c'est surtout a Sir James Hall que revient 1'honneur d'avoir,
 par des essais restes celebres, inaugnre 1'experience en g6ologie ; il eu
 a demontre 1'application d'une mauiere magistra1e etil 1'a generalisee.
 Nous n'avons a envisager dans les travaux de Hall, que ceux qui
 touchent a la synthese des roches. Vers 1'epoque ou Spallanzani
 etudiait, par les precedes du laboratoire, les conditions de formation
 des laves, 1'illustre gcologue ecossais fondait des roches eruptives dans
 un recipient en graphite ; il observait que le produit de cette fusion,
 refroidi brusquement, donnait une masse vitreuse amorphe, tandis
 qu'uu refroidissement plus lent y provoquait la formation de cristaux.
 James Hall avait deja reconnu par 1'experience, ce fait capital pour
 les syntheses futures, que, pour regenerer les cristaux d'une roche qu'on
 a fondue, il faut maintenir le verre provenant de la fusion, a une tem
 perature elevee ; mais infdrieure toutefois a la chaleur a laquelle on
 a du recourir pour fondre la roche. Durant ce recuit, certains
 mineraux peuvent cristalliser. Ces faits sont a mettre en parallele
.avec ceux que nous montrent les laves au moment ou la temperature
 s'abaisso apres 1'epanchemont.
     Vers le commencement de ce siecle, Gregory Watt dirige ses
 recherches dans la memo voie : il experimente sur des masses de
 basalte de 700 livres, il les fond et les laisse refroidir pendant huit
 jours sous une couche de charbon qui se consumait Ientement. Durant
 co recuit prolonge, des concretions spherolithiques fibre-radices, de
 six centimetres de diametre, s'isolaient dans le verre noir et opaque
 obtenu par la fusion du basalte ; enfin ce verre passait a 1'etat pierreux,
 devenait grenu, se chargeait de lamelles cristallines tres minces. En
 meme temps, son magnctisme augmeutait et sa densite croissait de
 2,743 a 2,949.
     Une conclusion des recherchos de Watt, qui se rattache par bion
 des points a celle de Hall que nous venons d'exprimer, c'est que la
 cristallisation peut se produire dans une pcriode oil la matiere fondue
 commence a se solidifier.
     Au moment ou 1'on preparait ainsi les voies de la synthese des
 roches, 1'analyso et les moyens d'investigation n'avaient pas atteint la

   310                         M. Alphonse Benard                  [May 18,
   perfection qu'elles possedent anjourd'hui ; d'un autre cot6, les pre-
   juges qui regnaient aux debuts de la geologic accumulaient des obstacles
   qu'on ne devait surmonter qu'un demi-siecle plus tard. Nons n'avons
   pas a nous arreter ici BUT la brillante periode des syntheses minerales
   qui suivit de pres 1'essor de la chimie et de la mineralogie. II snffit
   de citor les noms d'Ebelmen, de Hose, de Mitschorlich, de Senarmout,
   pour evoquer le souvenir des remarquables rcsultats de la reproduc
   tion artificielle des mineraux. Mais les rechercb.es de ces savants,
   portaient principalement sur la synthese d'especes isolees et non sur
   les roches, qui sont des agregats d'especes minerales. A parlor d'une
   maniere geuerale, leurs experiences etaient surtout d'ordre mineralo-
   gique, et ne touchaient que secondairement a la lithologie. Toute-
   fois les essais de ces habiles experimeutateurs, eclairerent bien des
   probleuies geologiques. Us nous prouveut aussi Comment s'est
   maiHtenue et acceutuee, a mesure que se developpaient les sciences
   miuerales, cetto tendance qui porte 1'intelligence a chercher, par les
   methodes experimentales, la comprehension plus complete des pheno-
    meues de la nature. Enfin en 1866, Daubree trace la voie de la
    reproduction des roches cristallines par fusion simple. C'est sa
    methode qui fut reprise depuis, et developpee par MM. Fouque et
    Michel Levy. Les recherches de Daubree auxquelles il est fait allu
    sion ici, sont celles qu'il entreprit pour reproduire par la fusion cer-
    taiues pierres meteoriques caracterisees par 1'absence do 1'element
    feldspathique. II fondait nne roche terrostre, la Iherzolite, dont la
    composition so rapproche des meteorites correspondantes, et parvenait
    a obtenir des produits qui dans les details de la structure et de la
    composition copiaient ceux des types cosmiques qu'il voulait imiter.
        Au moment oil cot eminent geologue preludait aiusi aux recherches
    qui devaient, quelquos annees apres, Jeter un si vif eclat sur le labora-
    toire de g^ologie du College de France, la voie des methodes synthe-
    tiques etait encore encombree .par les hypotheses. Ce n'etait plus
    avec celles relatives a 1'influence de forces mysterieuses qu'on avail
    & lutter ; mais on pensait que la reproduction des phenomencs
    geologiques dans le laboratoire n'etait possible qu'a la condition de
    disposer de temps d'une duree infinie, de temperatures et de masses
    dont cellos que nous pouvious mettre en jeu ne donnaient pas memo
    1'idce. On supposait encore que los associations minerales de la
    nature se reglaieut suivaut d'autres lois que celles des combinaisons
    que prodnisait le chimiste. Evidemment ce ne sont pas ces prejuges
    qui ont arrete Daubree dans la route ou, par la syntheso des mete
    orites, il avait si vaillamment fait le premier pas. II est nn de ceux,
    hatons-nous de la dire, dout les travaux ont lo plus contribue a faire
    disparaitre ces hypotheses du domaine de la guologie. Mais les
    methodes d'analyse tellcs qu'elles existaient alors ne permettaient
    pas encore de penutrer a fond la nature des roches naturelles et de
     comparer leur structure iutime avec celle des produits de la synthese.
     Les laboratoircs no passedaient pas les apparoils au moycu desqucls
-.

1888.] sur la Reproduction Artificielk dea Roches Volcaniqueg.        841
on peat obtonir do trcs hautes temperatures en les maintenant fixes
pendant le temps prolonge que reclament les experiences.
     Les grands progres realises dans la construction de ccs appareils
et 1'application du microscope a la lithologie, vinrent enfin permettre
d'aborder la reproduction de toutcs les roches volcaniques contem-
poraines. Deux savants frangais, MM. Fouque et Michel LeVy, qui
avaient introduit dans leur pays la lithologie micrographique, com-
mencont, en 1877, une serie d'experiences synthetiques desormais
m^morables dans 1'histoire de la science. L'un d'enx, s'etait acquis
nne juste reputation, par ses remarqaables travaux sur les phenomenes
des volcans, qu'il avait snivis sur place dans les diverges regions
classiques; il etait familiarise* avec tous les secrets do 1'analyse
chimique minerale, qu'il a doteo des methodes les plus ingenieuses et
les plus utiles. L'autre, prepare par les fortes etudes des hautes 6coles
frangaises, avait aborde avec un eclatant succes 1'examen des mineraux
par leurs proprietes optiques ; il avait porte plus avant qu'on ne 1'avait
lait avant lui, 1'application des methodes exactes en micrographie, et
s'etait fait connaitre par ses recherches sur les roches eruptives de la
 serie ancienne.
     Dans leurs travaux faits en commun, MM. Fouque et Levy avaient
en quelque sorte systematise et coordonno les faits relatifsa la succes
sion chronologique des cristaux des roches eruptives et revele un grand
nombre des details que nous avons signales en exposant les resultats
 de 1'analyse des laves. C'est a cotto heureuse association de talents,
a cette fe"conde collaboration, que 1'on doit les belles decouvertes qui
 out rendu c^lebre le laboratoiro du College de France ot auxquelles
 c'est un honneur pour moi de pouvoir rendre hommage devant un
auditoire chez qui tons les progres scientifiques sont accueillis avec
faveur, et de cette tribune, la premiere au monde pour la diffusion des
 sciences, ou 1'immortel Faraday exposait jadis, avec une ardenr
 genereuse, les admirables travaux de synthese min^ralogique d'Ebel-
 men.
      Nous avons indiqu6 deja les donnees sur lesquelles ces savants
dovaient s'appuyer dans lenrs essais: ce sont cellcs fonrnies par
 1'analyse chimique et mineralogique. Un point, que nous n'avons pas
 encore touche, est la base de leur procede general. Comme la th^orie
 pouvait le prevoir, les cristaux les plus anciens d'une roche ignee
 doivent etre les moins fusibles. A parler d'une maniere generale,
 c'est d'ailleurs ce qu'on observe : les mineraux dn premier temps do
 la cristallisation sont ceux qui occupent le degre le plus bas de
 1'ochelle de fusibilite. Les especes constitutives des laves ont apparu
 ii des temps successifs, suivant leur degr^ do fusibilite, a mesnre quo
 la temperature decroissait. Ces faits constates en detail par 1'analyse
 mcroscopique ont servi de point de depart aux manipulations do
 MM. Fouque et LeVy. Leur proced6 repose d'autre part sur nn fait
 que James Hall avait entrevu : c'est que la fusion d'une roche produit
 mi verre plus facilement fusible, que ne le sont chacune des especes
 cristallincs constitutives de cette rocho. Or, si Ton fond nn agregat

  342                       M. Alphonse Renard                    [May 18,
  nature! de mineranx ot qu'on fasse passer le verre, produit de cette
  fusion, par une serie de temperatures decroissantes, mais toujours
  superieures a celle de la fusion de cette masse vitreuse, les mineraux
  qui peuvent cristalliser de co magma doivent naitre les uns apres les
  autrcs et les moins fusibles seront les premiers a s'isoler. Ces
  cristaux seront englobes, moules par coux dont la fnsibilite est plus
  grande, et qui vont apparaitro, a leur tour, a mesuro qu'on fora
  decroitre la temperature. Sans insister sur la description technique
  des appareils, bornons-nous a dire, qu'a 1'aide des fourneaux ct des
  trompes, dont se servent pour leurs syntheses MM. Fonque et Levy,
  on obtient tons les degres intermediaires entre le rouge sombre et le
  blanc eblouissant et qu'on peut maintenir coustaute une temperature
  donnee pendant un temps illimit6.
       On introduit dans le fourneau un creuset en platine, d'une capacite
  d'environ 20 centimetres cubes, renfermant le melange de maticres
  minerales que la fusion et les recuits vont transformer en roche. Voici
  les phases des operations : d'abord, a 1'aide de dispositifs speciaux, on
  porte pendant quelque temps la temp6rature au blanc eblouissant, lo
  melange se transforme en verre. En reglant 1'admission du gaz et de
  1'air, en decouvrant le fourneau on fait decroitre la temperature de la
  masse fondue jusqu'au rouge orange, point de fusion de 1'acier.
   On soulevo ensuite lo creuset hors du fourneau, oil la temperature
   decroit au rouge cerise, point de fusion du cuivre. Enfin si 1'on
   fait sortir completement le creuset du four, on peut encore le
  maintenir a une temperature oil le cuivre fondrait mais diffioilement.
       Nous avons indiqueles grandes lignes de la marche de 1'operation.
  Ce sont ces recuits successifs a des temperatures decroissantes, qui
  forcent les cristaux a se former en s6rio a commencer par les moins
  fusibles et qui permettent de donner aux matieres fondues, soumises a
  ces manipulations, la texture et la composition mineralogique des
  produits volcaniques.
       Nous allons montrer par quelques exemples, lo mode operatoire
  des syntheses lithologiques. Suivons d'abord les manipulations pour
  la reproduction d'uno des roches qui jouent le role principal dans les
  eruptions du Vesuve : la leucotephrite. Cette roche est composee de
  leucite, de labrador et d'augite.
       On forme un melange de silice, d'alumine, de chaux, d'oxyde de fer,
  do potasse et de soude qui repond a 1 partie d'augite, 4 de labrador, 8
  de leucite. On introduit ce melange dans le creuset et on le transforme,
  au blanc eblouissant, en un verre homogene. Des que la fusion des
  elements chimiqucs est oporee, on abaisse la temperature, et durant
  48 heures, on maintient la matiere vitreuse a la temperature de 1'acier
  fondu. Les cristaux do leucite s'isolent durant cette premiere phase
  de 1'opcration. Elle repond eVidemment au premier temps de la
  consolidation des roches eruptives.
       On maintient de nouveau pendant 48 heures la matiere a la tem
   perature de fusion du cuivre, toute la masse, le residu d'oii s'etaient
   sopares, dans le premier temps, los cristaux de loucite, se transforme
•

1888.] «wr la Reproduction Artificielle des Roches Volcaniques.       343
en microlithes d'augite, de labrador, en octaedres de magnetite et de
picotite.
    Comparons maintenant, apres ce double recuit, les preparations
microscopiques de synthese de la lave naturelle ; non seulement les
memes mineraux ont &t& reproduits par le procede exclusif de la
fusion seche, mais 1'ordre de leur apparition, la proportion des
especes constitutives est identique et cette analogic pent se pour-
euivre mSme dans les details des formes cristallographiques. La
leucite en grands cristaux offre toutes les particularites do ce mineral
dans les laves v^suviennes, autour d'eux viennent se grouper les
microlithes du deuxieme temps—1'augite et le labrador. Enfin,
comme dans la roche naturelle, la leucito contient des inclusions de
fer magnetiquo et de picotite qui sont les mineraux les plus ancieus.
    Prenons comme second exemple, la synthese du basalte, 1'un des
types les plus repandus de la serie volcanique et au sujet duquel bien
des hypotheses avaient ete avancees pour en expliquer 1'origine. On
sait que le basalte est compose essentiellement de trois mineranx :
1'olivine, 1'augite et le labrador. L'olivine dans la roche naturelle
apparait en cristaux de la premiere consolidation.
     Comme dans le cas de la loucotepbrite on forme un melange
d'elements chimiques ou de mineraux pulverises repondant a la
composition moyenne d'un basalte riche en olivine. Ce melange est
compost de 3 parties de ce mineral, 2 d'augite et 3 do labrador. On
le transforme d'abord en un verre homogene noir. Pendant 48 heures
on le maintient au rouge blanc. Si, apres ce recuit a haute tempera
ture, on examine une lame mince de ce verre on y observe de grands
cristaux d'olivine. Ceux-ci sont encore empates dans une masse
vitreuse ou de petita octaedres de massicotite et de picotite se sont
isoles ainsi que de rares cristaux d'augite.
     II reste maiutenant a faire naitre les microlithes de la seconde
consolidation entre lesquels doivent s'enchasser les cristaux d'olivino
que in nis venons de voir se developper durant la premiere phase.
A cet effet, on maintient pendant 48 heures le culot a la temperature du
rouge cerise. Apres le recuit on a obtenu la formation d'une pate
composed de microlithes de labrador et d'augite, de magnetite et de
substance vitreuse residu de la cristallisation. Dans cetto seconde
phase on a done reprodnit la structure microlithique. Ces manipula
tions donnent naissance a des basaltes qu'on peut a peine distin-
guer des roches naturelles et ces quelques grammes de substance
habilement manias, nous fournissent la preuve hi plus convainquante
de la formation purement ignee do cette roche.
     Nous pourrions exposer, ici, la remarquable serie d'essais, executes
par MM. Fouque et LeVy, ou nous avons pris les deux syntheses
qui precedent. Toutes les roches eruptives contemporaincs ont etc
reconstitutes ainsi : les andcsites, les labradorites, les basaltes, les
liniliur.'itcs, les nephelinites, les tephrites, les roches a leucite, les
p^ridodites, les labradorites a structure ophitique. Bornous-nous a
montrer par un dernier cxemple, comment ces precedes do synthcso

344                        M. Alphonse Renard                    [May 18,
parvienncnt a (Sclairer, dircctemont, les phenomenes eruptifs dee
periodes du passe du globe.
    On avait distingue des roches cristallines ancienncs, frequentes
dans les Pyrenees, sous lo nom d'ophites. La periode a laquelle re-
monte leur apparition et leur origine n'etait pas etabliesavec certitude,
lorsqu'en 1877, M. LeVy, fit voir qu'elles etaient eruptives et qu'elles
montraient au microscope une structure remarquable qn'il designa
wins le nom de structure ophitique : le feldspath y apparait englobe
par des plages tres grandes d'augite. II semblait done que ces roches
ophitiques soient des roches ignees, dans lesquelles le refroidissement
aurait etc plus lent que dans les roches ordinaires des eruptions con-
temporaines. II fallait, en tentant de reproduire le type ophitique
par la synthesc, faire cristalliser 1'augite durant une phase nettement
separee de cello oil so produirait le feldspath, et donner, en outre,
a la premiere, le temps de cristalliser en larges plages. A cet effet,
un melange d'une partie d'anorthite et d'augite fut sonmis, apres
fusion, a un premier recuit auquel on le maintint pendant quatre jours,
a la temperature de la fusion de 1'acier ; 1'anorthite s'isole. Un second
recuit de mSme dur^e a la temperature de fusion dn cuivre, ameue la
cristallisation de 1'augite en grandes plages, qui monlent 1'element
feldspathique, et auquel viennent s'ajonter de petits octaedres de
magnetite et do picotite. L'origine Eruptive des ophites et la cause de
leur structure etaient done Stabiles, d'une maniere incontestable, par
cette remarquablo synthese.
    On voit ressortir a 1'eVidence comment la synthese parvient a
eclairer la gencse des roches, a trancher les discussions qui, jusqu'a
ces derniers temps, s'elevaient encore au sujet des principanx types
cristallins de 1'epoque moderne: celles relatives aux basaltes, par
exemple, oil 1'on voulait voir 1'eau jouer nn role important. Or, h»
conclusion gen6rale qui s'impose, apres ces experiences, c'est quo
le basalte et en general toutes les roches volcaniques des drnptiona
contemporaincs sont de fusion purement ignee.
    Mais a cot6 de ces magnifiques r6sultats, ces savants ont cu a
enregistrer bien des tentatives infructueuses. 11 est utile de les
rappeler pour 1'exemple, pour montrer les voies qu'il faut eviter, si
1'on veut urriver an but. Ces insucces circonscrivent le champ des
experiences futures et tracent les limites ontre lesquelles devront so
mouvoir les hypotheses. Us demontrent, en ontre, que les roches,
dont on n'a pas realist la synthese, par les methodes mises en jeu,
ont ete formees dans des conditions differentes de celles ou se con
stituent les produits volcaniques actuels. Cette conclusion, a laquelle
1'observation ct 1'analyse avaient deja conduit, sans tontefois rien
preciser quant anx causes, se tronve done confirmee par 1'insucces de
la synthese. Si elle a r^nssi, a refaire de toutes pieces les laves des
volcans modernes, elle a echoud a imiter celles qui ont cess6 de se
produire dans les eruptions contemporaines. On peut dire, d'nne
maniero generalo, que, jusqu'ici, toutes les roches acides se sont
dcrobes aux experiences synthetiques, comme toutes celles qui ren

 1888.] sur la Reproduction Artificielle des Roches Volcaniques.           345
 ferment parmi leurs mineraux constitutifs, du quartz, da mica, de
 1'orthose ot de la hornblende.
      Les precedes de la nature n'oflrent point de forces occnltes ; peut-
 ''tru qu'en combinant celles dont nous disposons deja, en Irs modifiant
dans leur application, nous sera-t-il permis de voir realiser la produc
 tion de roches qui, jusqu'aujourd'hui, se sont derobees aux efforts.
Cet espoir est etabli sur les resultats atteints, qui peuvent sorvir de
presages a de plus surprenants encore. C'est le cas de repeter quo
les echoes du pass4 preparent les conquetes du lendemain.
      Je me suis efforce dans cette rapide revue des progres de la
synthese lithologique, de montrer la haute portee scientifique des
recherches institutes au laboratoire de geologie du College de France ;
j'aurais pu 6numerer encore les syntheses, non moins remarquables
des mineraux et des meteorites que les savants auteurs ou lours 6ieves,
parmi lesquels M. Bourgeois occupe une place a part, ont su mener
a bonne fin. Mais, je dois me limiter, et co que j'ai dit soffit a prouver
combien leurs methodes ont fait avancer nos connaissances dans un
domaine de la nature dont 1'acces paraissait ferm^ aux investigations.
      Partout oil, jusqu'ici, la methode experimentale a porte son flam
beau, elle a mis en pleine Inmiere, les phcnomimes les plus saillants de
la science de la terre : il su Hi t de citer le nom de Daubree, le descendant
direct de ces illustres goologues de 1'ecole ecossaise, pour indiquer
1'etendue du champ des sciences mincrales, deja explor^ par les
precedes de 1'exp6rience. Tour a tour, ils ont &te appliques avec
succes a 1'interpretation des depots metalliferes ot des roches mcta-
morphiques, aux phenomencs de trituration et de transport des
matieres sedimentaires, a 1'i'i mU- des cassures et des deformations de
1'ecorce terrestre, de la schistosite des roches, de certains traits de la
structure des montagnes.
      La geologie, apres avoir passe* par les phases successives de
1'observation et de 1'analyse, est done entree dans celle de 1'experience
et de la synthese, oil 1'on s'efforce d'imiter la puissance creatrice de
la nature, couronnant ainsi 1'edifice scientifique par des procedc's
qui permettent d'entrevoir 1'action des causes dont la connaissance
est le but final des sciences physiques ot naturelles. C'est ce
couronnement de 1'oeuvre que pressentait deja Leibniz, lorsqu'il
«'cri vait, il y a deux siecles :—" 11 fera, eelon nous, une oauvre im-
portante celui qui comparera, soigneusement, les produits tires dn
sciu de la terre avec ceux des laboratoires ; car alors brilleront, a
nos yeux, les rapports frappants qui existent outre les produits de la
nature et cenx de 1'nrt. Bien que le Cr^ateur inepuisable des choses
ait en son pouvoir des moyens divers d'effectner ce qu'il vent, il se
plait, neanmoins, dans la Constance au milieu do la variety de ses
cenvres ; et c'est deja un grand pas vers la connaissance des choses
que d'avoir trouve, soulement, un moyen de les prodnire : car la
nature n'ost qu'nn art en plus grand."
                                                                    [A. R.]
     VOL. XII. (No. 82.)                                           2 A

     346                          Mr. Francis Gallon                     [May 25,
                      WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, May 25, 1888.
         JOHN RAE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                   FRANCIS GALTON, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. M.E.I.
                     Personal Identification and Description.*
    IT is strange that we should not have acquired more power of de
    scribing form and personal features than we actually possess. For
    my own part I have frequently chafed under the sense of inability to
    verbally explain hereditary resemblances and types of features, and
    to describe irregular outlines of many different kinds, which I will
    not now particularise. At last I tried to relieve myself as far as
    might be from this embarrassment, and took considerable trouble, and
    made many experiments. The net result is that while there appear
    to be many ways of approximately effecting what is wanted, it is
    difficult as yet to select the best of them with enough assurance to
    justify a plunge into a rather serious undertaking. According to the
    French proverb, the better has thus far proved an enemy to the pass
                                ably good, so I cannot go much into detail
                                at present, but will chiefly dwell on general
                                principles.
                                    Measure of Resemblance.—We recognise
                                different degrees of likeness and nnlikeness,
                                though I am not aware that attempts have as
                                yet been made to measure them. This can
                                be done if we take for our unit the least
                                discernible difference. The application of this
                                principle to irregular contours is particu
                                larly easy. Fig. 1 shows two such contours,
                                A and B, which might be meteorological,
                                geographical, or anything else. They are
                                drawn with firm lines, but of different
    8trengths for the sake of distinction. They contain the same area,
    and are so superimposed as to lie as fairly one over the other as may
    be. Now draw a broken contour which we will call C, equally sub
    dividing the intervals between A and B ; then C will be more like A
    than B was. Again draw a dotted contour, D, equally subdividing
    the intervals between C and A ; the likeness of D to A will be again
       * The substance of the lecture is here reprinted from ' Nature ' of June 21
    and 28, with the kind permission of the Editor, and after some slight revision
    by the author.
••-

1888.]       on Personal Identification and Description.              347
closer. Continue to act on the same principle until a stage is reached
when the contour last drawn is undistinguishable from A. Suppose
it to be the fourth stage ; then as 24 = 16, there are sixteen grades of
least-discernible differences between A and B. If one of the contours
differs greatly in a single or few respects from the other, reservation
may be made of those peculiarities. Thus, if A has a deep notch in
its lower right-hand border, we might cither state that fact, and say
that in other respects it differed from B by only 16 grades of un-
likeness, or we might make no reservation, and continue subdividing
until all trace of the notch was smoothed away. It is purely a matter
of convenience which course should be adopted in any given case.
The measurement of resemblance by units of least-discernible differ
ences is applicable to shades, colours, sounds, tastes, and to sense-
indications generally. There is no such thing as infinite unlikeness,
because the number of just discernible difference between any objects,
however dissimilar, is always finite. A point as perceived by the
sense of sight is not a mathematical point, but an object so small that
its shape ceases to be discernible. Mathematically, it requires an
infinitude of points to make a short line ; sensibly, it requires a finite
and not a large number of what the vision reckons as points, to do so.
If from thirty to forty points were dotted in a row across the disk of
the moon, they would appear to the naked eyes of most persons as a
continuous line.
     Description within Specified Limits.—It is impossible to verbally
define an irregular contour with such precision that a drawing made
from the description shall be undistinguishable from the original,
but we may be content with a lower achievement. Much would be
gained if we could refer to a standard collection of contours drawn
with double lines, and say that the contour in question falls between
the double lines of the contour catalogued as number so-and-so. This
would at least tell us that none of the very many contours that fell
outside the specified limits could be the one to which the description
applied. It is an approximate and a negative method of identification.
 Suppose the contour to be a profile, and for simplicity's sake let us
suppose it to be only the portion of a profile that lies below the notch
 that separates the brow from the nose, and extending only so far
downwards as the parting between the lips. Suppose it also to be
the mere outline of a shadow sharply cast upon the wall by a single
source of light, such as is excellently soeu when a person stands side
ways between the electric lantern and the screen in a lecture-room.
All human profiles of this kind, when they have been reduced to a
uniform vertical scale, fall within a small space. I have taken those
given by Lavater, which are in many cases of extreme shapes,
and have added others of English faces, and find that they all fall
within the space shown in Fig. 2. The outer and inner limits of the
space are of course not the profiles of any real faces, but the limits of
many profiles, some of which are exceptional at one point, and others
at another. Wo can classify the great majority of profiles so that
                                                           2x2

 848                         Jtfr. Francis Gallon                  [M(iy 25,
each of them shall be included between the double borders of one,
two, or some small number of standard portraits, such as Fig. 3. I
am as yet unprepared to say how near together the double borders of
 such standard portraits should be drawn ; in other words, what is the
                        smallest number of grades of unlikeness that we
  „ l0' '              can satisfactorily
              j, „ sorting                   deal
                                  profiles into    with.
                                                their properThe  process
                                                              classes     of
                                                                      and of
                       gradually building up a well-selected standard
                       collection, is a laborious undertaking if attempted
                       by any obvious way, but I believe it can be
                       effected with comparative ease on the basis of
                       measurements, as will be explained later on, and
                       by an apparatus that will be described.
                            Classification of Sets of Measures.—Prisoners
                       are now identified in Franco by the measures of
                       their heads and limbs, the set of measures of
                       each suspected person being compared with the
                       sets that severally refer to each of many thou
                       sands of convicts. This idea, and the practical
application of it, is due to M. Alphonse Bertillon. The actual method
by which this is done is not all that could be theoretically desired,
but it is said to be effective in action, and enables the authorities
quickly to assure themselves whether the suspected person is or is
not an old malefactor. The primary measures in the classification
are four—namely, the head length, head breadth, foot length, and
middle-finger length of the left foot and hand respectively. Each of
these is classified according as it is large, medium or small. There
are thus three, and only three, divisions of head lengths, each of which
is subdivided into three divisions of head breadth ; again, each of
these is further subdivided into three of foot length, and these again
into three of middle-finger length ; thus the number of primary classes
is equal to three multiplied into itself four times—that is to say, their
number is eighty-one, and a separate pigeon-hole is assigned to each.
All the exact measures and other notes on each criminal are written
on the same card, and this card is stored in its appropriate pigeon-hole.
The contents of each pigeon-hole are themselves sub-sorted on the
same principle of three-fold classification in respect to other measures.
This process can, of course, be extended indefinitely, but how far it
admits of being carried on advantageously is another question. The
fault of all hard-and-fast lines of classification, when variability is
continuous, is the doubt where to place and where to look for values
that are near the limits between two adjacent classes. Let us take
Stature as an illustration of what must occur in every case, and let
us represent its distribution by what I have called a " Scheme," as
shown in Fig. 4.
     Here the statures of any large group of persons are represented
by lines of proportionate length. The lines are arranged side by
sido at equal distances apart on a base, A B, of convenient length.

 1888.]        on Personal Identification and Description.           319
 A curve drawn through their tops gives the upper boundary of the
 scheme ; the lines themselves are then wiped out, having served their
 purpose. If the base A B be divided into three equal parts and
 perpendiculars, C, D ; E, F, be erected at the divisions between them,
 reaching from the base up to the curve, then the lengths of those
                                   Fm. 4.
perpendiculars will be proportionate to the limiting values between
the small and the medium group, and between those of the medium
and the large group, respectively. The difference between these
perpendiculars in the case of stature is about 2 • 3 inches. In other
words, the shortest and tallest men in the medium class differ only
by that amount. We have next to consider how much ought
reasonably to be allowed for error of measurement. Considering
that a man differs in height by a full third of an inch between the
time of getting up in the morning and lying down at night ; con
sidering also that measures are recorded to the nearest tenth of an
inch at the closest, also the many uncertainties connected with the
measurement of stature, it would be rash not to allow for a possible
(I do not say " probable ") error of at least ± half an inch. Prolong
C D, and note the points upon it at the distance of half an inch above
and below D ; draw horizontal lines from those points to meet the
curve at d.l, d.%, and from the points of intersection drop perpen
diculars reaching the base at c.l, c.2. A similar figure is drawn at F.

350                           Mr. Francis Gallon                [May 25,
Then the ratio borne by the uncertain entries to the whole number of
entries is as c, e, + el es to A B. This, as seen by the diagram, is a
very large proportion. There is a dilemma from which those who
adopt hard-and-fast lines of classification cannot escape : either the
fringe of uncertainty must be dangerously wide, or else the delicacy
with which measures are made cannot be turned to anything like its
full account. If the delicacy is small, the fringe of uncertainty must
be very wide ; if the delicacy is great, the summed widths of all the
fringes will be narrow, so long as there are only a few classes ; but,
on the other hand, by having only a few classes, most of the advantages
of possessing delicate observations are wasted. The bodily measure
ments are so dependent on one another that we cannot afford to
neglect small distinctions in an attempt to make an effective classi
fication. Thus long feet and long middle-fingers usually go together.
We therefore want to know whether the long feet in some particular
person are accompanied by very long, or moderately long, or barely
long fingers, though the fingers may in all three cases have been treated
as long in M. Bertillon's system of classes, because they would be
long as compared with those of the general population. Certainly his
eighty-one combinations are far from being equally probable. The
more numerous the measures the greater would be their interdepend
ence, and the more unequal would be the distribution of cases amon»
the various possible combinations of large, small, and medium values!
No attempt has yet been made to estimate the degree of their inter
dependence. I am therefore having the above measurements (with
slight necessary variation) recorded at my anthropometric laboratory
for the purpose of doing so. This laboratory, I may add, is now
open to public use under reasonable restrictions. It is entered
from the Science Collections in the Western Galleries at South
Kensington.
     Mechanical Selector.—Feeling the advantage of possessing a method
of classification that did not proceed upon hard and fast lines, I con
trived an apparatus that is quite independent of them, and which I
call a mechanical selector. Its object is to find which set, out of a
standard collection of many sets of measures, resembles any one given
set within any given degree of unlikeness. No one measure in any
of the sets selected by the instrument can differ from the corresponding
 measure in the given set by more than a specified value. The
 apparatus is very simple ; it applies to sets of measures of every
 description, and ought to act on a large scale as well as it does on a
 small one, with great rapidity, and be able to test several hundred sets
 by each movement. It relieves the eye and brain from the intolerable
 strain of tediously comparing a set of many measures with each of a
 large number of successive sets, in doing which a mental allowance
 has to be made for a plus or minus deviation of a specified amount in
 every entry. It is not my business to look after prisoners, and I do
 not fully know what need may really exist for new methods of quickly
 identifying suspected persons. If there be any real need, I should

1888.]         on Personal Identification and Description.           351
think that this apparatus, which is contrived for other purposes, might,
after obvious modifications, supply it.
    The apparatus consists, in prin
ciple, of a large number of strips of
card or metal c 1, c 2 (Fig. 5), say 8
or 9 inches long, and having a
common axis A passing through all
their smaller ends. A tilting-frarno
T, which turns on the same axis,
has a front cross-bar F (whose section
is seen in Fig. 5), on which the tips                                  §
of the larger ends of all the cards                                   ;3
rest whenever the machine is left
alone. In this condition a counter
poise at the other end of T suffices
to overcome the weight of all the
cards, and this heavier end of T
lies on the base-board 8. When tho
heavy end of T is lifted, as shown                                    •a
in Fig. 5, its front-bar F is of course                               1
depressed, and the cards being indi
vidually acted on by their own
weights, are free to descend with the
cross-bar unless they are otherwise
prevented. The lower edge of each
card is variously notched to indicate
the measures of the person it repre                                    M
sents. Only four notches are shown                                    1
in the figure, but six could be em
ployed in a card of 8 or 9 inches
long, allowing compartments of 1
inch in length to each of six dif
ferent measures. The position of
the notch in the compartment
allotted to it, indicates the corre
sponding measure according to a
suitable scale. When tho notch is                                     •8
 in the middle of a compartment, it
means that the measure is of medi                                     I
ocre amount ; when at one end of it,
 the measure is of some specified
 large value or of any other value
 above that ; when at the other end
 the measure is of some specified small
 value or of any other value below it. Intermediate positions represent
 intermediate values according to the scale. Each of the cards cor
 responds to one of the sets of measures in the standard collection.
 The set of measures of the given person are indicated by the positions

  352                        Mr. Francis Qallon                     [May 25,
  of parallel strings or wires, one for each measure, that are stretched
  between Rods and across Bridges at either end of a long board set
  cross-ways to the cards. Their positions on the bridges are adjusted
  by the same scale as that by which the notches were cut in the cards.
  Figs. 6a and 66 are views of this portion of the apparatus, which acts
  as a key, and is of about 30 inches in effective length. The whole is
  shown in working position in Fig. 7. When the key is slid into its
  place, and the heavy end of the tilting-frame T is raised, all the cards
  are free to descend so far as the tilting-frame is concerned, but they
                              Fio. 6a.                       66.
                                                                 R
                       Plan and section of the key-board K.
   arc chocked by one or more of the wires from descending below a
   particular level, except those few, if any, whose notches correspond
   throughout to the positions of the underlying wires. This is the case
   with the card c2 (Fig. 5), drawn with a dotted outline, but not with cl,
   which rests upon the third wire, counting from the axis. As the wires
   have to sustain the weight of all or nearly all the cards, frequent narrow
   bridges must be interposed between the main bridges to sustain the
   wires from point to point. The cards should be divided into batches
   by partitions corresponding to these interposed bridges, else they may
   press sideways with enough friction to interfere with their free indepen
   dent action. Neither these interposed bridges nor the partitions are
   drawn in the figure. The method of adjusting the wires there shown,
-

 1888.]          on Personal Identification and Description.                   353
 is simply by sliding the rings to which they are attached at either
 end along the rod which passes through them. It is easy to arrange
 a more delicate method of effecting the adjustment if desired.
 Hitherto I have snipped out the notches in the cards with a cutter
 made on the same principle as that used by railway guards in
 marking the tickets of travellers. The width of the notch is greater
 than the width of the wire by an amount proportionate to the allow
 ance intended to be made for error of measurement, and also for that
                                       Fio. 7.
                      Reduced plan of complete apparatus.
Explanation.—A, the common axis; c,, c2, the cards; T, tilting-frame, turning
     on A (the cards rest by their front ends on F, which is the front cross-bar of
     T, at the tune when the heavy hinder end of T rests on the base-board S) ;
     K is the key-board ; R R are the rods between which the wires are stretched;
     B B are the bridges at either end of the key-board, over which the wires
     pass. (The explanation refers to the other figs., as well as to this.)
due to mechanical misfit. There seems to be room for 500 cards or
metal strips, and ample room for 300 of them, to bo arranged in
sufficiently loose order within the width of 30 inches, and a key of
that effective length would test all these by a single movement. It
could also be applied in quick succession to any number of other
collections.
    Measurement of Profiles.—The sharp outline of a photographed
profile admits of more easy and precise measurement than the yielding

  354                         Mr. Francis Gallon                    [May 25,
  outline of the face itself. The measurable distances between the
  profiles of different persons are small, but the available measures are
  much more numerous than might have been expected, and their varia
  tions are more independent of one another than those of the limbs.
  I suspect that measures of the profile may be nearly as trustworthy
  as those of the limbs for approximate identification, that is, for
  excluding a very large proportion of persons from the possibility of
  being mistaken for the one whose measurements are given. The
  measurement of a profile enables us to use a mechanical selector for
  finding those in a large standard collection to which they nearly
  correspond. From tho selection thus made, the eye could easily
  make a further selection of those that suited best in other respects.
   A mechanical selector also enables us to quickly build up a standard
   collection step by step, by telling us whether or no each fresh set of
   measures falls within the limits of any of those already collected. If
   it does, we know that it is already provided for ; if not, a new card
   must be added to the collection. There will be no fear of duplica
   tions, as every freshly-added standard will differ from all its pre
   decessors by more than the specified range of permitted differences.
        As regards the most convenient measurements to be applied to a
   profile for use with the selector, I am unable as yet to speak decidedly.
              If we are dealing merely with a black silhouette, such as
     FIG. 8. the shadow cast on a waU by a small and brilliant light, the
              best line from which to measure seems to be B C in Fig. 8 ;
              namely, that which touches both the concavity of tho notch
              between the brow and nose, and the convexity of the chin.
           B It is not difficult to frame illustrated instructions to ex
              plain what should be done in the cases where no line can bo
              drawn that strictly fulfils these conditions. I have taken
      /
    N M
              a considerable number of measures from the line that touches
              the brow and chin, but am now inclined to prefer that
               which I have just described. A sharp unit of measurement
               is given by the distance between this line and another
               drawn parallel to it just touching the nose, as at N in the
               figure. A small uncertainty in the direction of B C has but
               a very trifling effect on this distance. By dividing the in
               terval between these parallel lines into four parts, and draw
    ing a line through the third of the divisions, parallel to B C, we obtain
    the two important points of reference, M aud R. M is a particularly
    well-defined point, from which O is determined by dropping a per
    pendicular from M upon B C. 0 seems the best of all points from
    which to measure. It is excellently placed for defining the shape
    and position of the notch between the nose and the upper lip, which
    is perhaps the most distinctive feature in the profile. O L can
    be determined with some precision ; O B and 0 C are but coarse
    measurements.
         In addition to these and other obvious measures, such as one or
    more to define the projection of the lips, it would bo well to measure
-

1888.]         on Personal Identification and Description.          355
the radius of the circle of curvature of the depression at B, also of
that between the nose and the lip, for they are both very variable and
very distinctive. So is the general slope of the base of the nose.
The difficulty lies not in selecting a few measures that will go far
towards negatively identifying a face, but in selecting the best—
namely, those that can be most precisely determined, are most inde
pendent of each other, most variable, and most expressive of the
general form of the profile. I have tried many different sets, and
found all to be more or less efficient, but have not yet decided to my
own satisfaction which to adopt.
    We will now suppose that either by the above method or by any
other, a standard collection of doubly outlined portraits such as that
in Fig. 3, has been made and come into use, so that a profile can be
approximately described by referring it to number so-and-so in the
catalogue. If the number it contained was less than 1000, three
figures would suffice to define any one of them. We will now con
sider how a yet closer description of the profile may be given by
using a few additional figures. One way of doing so is to have short
cross-lines drawn at critical positions between the two outlines of the
standard, and to suppose each of them to be divided into eight equal
parts. The intersection of the cross-lines with the outer border
would count as 0 ; that with the inner border as 8, and the inter
mediate divisions from 1 to 7. As the cross-lines would be very
short, a single numeral would thus define the position of a point in
any one of them, with perhaps as much precision as the naked eye
could utilise. By employing as many figures as there are cross-lines
in the standard, each successive figure for each successive cross-line,
a corresponding number of points in the profile would be fixed with
great accuracy. Suppose a total of nine figures to be allowed, then
the first three figures would specify the catalogue number of the
portrait to be referred to, and the remaining six figures would
determine six points in the outline of the portrait with greatly
increased precision.
    I may say that after numerous trials of different methods for
comparing portraits successively by the eye, I have found none so
handy and generally efficient as a double-image prism, which I
largely used in my earlier attempts in making composite portraits.
    I have not succeeded in contriving an instrument that shall
directly compare a given profile with those in a standard collection,
and which shall at the same time act with anything like the simplicity
of the mechanical selector, and with the same quick decision in
acceptance or rejection. Still, I recognise some waste of opportunity
in not utilising the power of varying the depths of the notches in the
cards, independently of their longitudinal position.
    Personal characteristics exist in much more minute particulars than
those just described. Leaving aside microscopic peculiarities, which
are of unknown multitudes, such as might be studied in the 800,000,000

 356                       Mr. Francis Gallon                    [May 25,
 specimens cut by a microtome, say of one two-thousandth part of an
 inch in thickness, and one-tenth of an inch each way in area, out of
•the 4000 cubic inches or so of the flesh, fat, and bone of a single
 average human body, there are many that are visible with or without
 the aid of a lens.
     The markings in the iris of the eye are of the above kind. They
 have been never adequately studied except by the makers of artificial
 eyes, who recognise thousands of varieties of them. These markings
 well deserve being photographed from life on an enlarged scale. I
 shall not dwell now upon these, nor on such peculiarities as those of
 handwriting, nor on the bifurcations and interlacements of the super
 ficial veins, nor on the shape and convolutions of the external ear.
 These all admit of brief approximate description by the method just
 explained—namely, by reference to the number in a standard collec
 tion of the specimen that shall not differ from it by more than a
 specified number of units of unlikeness. I have already explained
 what is meant by a unit of unlikeness, and the mechanical means by
 which a given set of measures can be compared with great ease and
 by a single movement with every set simultaneously, in a large
 standard collection of sets of measures.
     Perhaps the most beautiful and characteristic of all superficial
 marks are the small furrows, with the intervening ridges and their
 pores, that are disposed in a singularly complex yet regular order on
the under surfaces of the hands and the feet. I do not now speak of the
large wrinkles in which chiromantists delight, and which may be com
pared to the creases in an old coat, or to the deep folds in the hide of
a rhinoceros, but of those fine lines of which the buttered fingers of
children are apt to stamp impressions on the margins of the books
they handle, that leave little to be desired on the score of distinctness.
These lines are found to take their origin from various centres, one of
which lies in the under surface of each finger-tip. They proceed from
their several centres in spirals and whorls, and distribute themselves
in beautiful patterns over the whole palmar surface. A corresponding
system covers the soles of the feet. The same lines appear with little
modification in the hands and feet of monkeys. They appear to have been
carefully studied for the first time by Purkinje in 1822, and since then
 they have attracted the notice of many writers and physiologists, the
fullest and latest of whom is Eollman, who has published a pamphlet,
' Tastapparat der Hand ' (Leipzig, 1883), in which their physio
logical significance is fully discussed. Into that part of the subject
I am not going to enter here. It has occurred independently to
many persons to propose finger-marks as a means of identification.
In the last century, Bewick, in one of the vignettes in the ' History
of Birds,' gave a woodeut of his own thumb-mark, which is the first
clear impression I know of, and afterwards one of his finger-marks.
Some of the latest specimens that I have seen are by Mr. GiIbert
Thomson, an officer of the American Geological Survey, who, being
in Arizona, and having to make his orders for payment on a camp

1888.]         on Personal Identification and Description.                    357
suttler, hit upon the expedient of using his own thumb-mark to
serve the same purpose as the elaborate scroll engraved on blank
cheques—namely, to make the alteration of figures written on it im
possible without detection. I possess copies of two of his cheques.
A San Francisco photographer, Mr. Tabor, made enlarged photographs
of the finger-marks of Chinese, and his proposal to employ them
as a means of identifying Chinese immigrants, seems to have been
seriously considered. I may say that I can obtain no verification of
a common statement that the method is in actual use in the prisons
of China. The thumb-mark has been used there as elsewhere in
attestation of deeds, such as a man might make an impression with a
common seal, not his own, and say, " This is my act and deed " ; but I
cannot hear of any elaborate system of finger-marks having ever been
employed in China for the identification of prisoners. It was, how
ever, largely used in India, by Sir William Herschel, many years ago,
when he was an officer of the Bengal Civil Service. He found it to
be most successful in preventing personation, and in putting an end
to disputes about the authenticity of deeds. He described his method
fully in 'Nature,' in 1880 (vol. xiiii. p. 76), which should be referred
to ; also a paper by Mr. Faulds in the next volume. I may also
allude to articles in the American journal ' Science,' 1886 (vol. viii.
pp. 166 and 212).
    The question arises whether these finger-marks remain unaltered
throughout the life of the same person. In reply to this I am enabled
to submit a most interesting piece of evidence, which thus far is
                                     FIG. 9.
   Enlarged impressions of the fore and middle tiuger tips of the right hand of
                Sir William Herechel, made in the year 1860.

358                         Mr. Francis Oalton                         [May 25,
unique, through the kindness of Sir Wm. Herschel. It consists of
the imprints of the two first fingers of his own hand, made in 1860
and in 1888 respectively, that is, at periods separated by an interval
of twenty-eight years. I have also two intermediate imprints, made
by him in 1874 and in 1883 respectively. Figs. 9 and 11 are cut
from photographs on an enlarged scale of the imprints of 1860 and
1888, which were made direct upon the engraver's block; these wood
cuts may therefore bo relied on as very correct representations of the
originals in my present possession. Fig. 10 refers to the portion of
Fig. 9 to which I am about to draw attention. On first examining
these and other finger-marks, the eye wanders and becomes confused,
not knowing where to fix itself; the points shown in Fig. 10 are
                                    FIG. 10.
                          .- K
                  A                                 ^>
       Positions of furrow-heads and bifurcations of furrows, in Fig. 9.
                                     FIG. 11.
  Enlarged impressions of the fore and middle finger tips of the right hand of
                Sir William Herschel, made in the year 1888.

 1888.]         on Personal Identification and Description.            359
 those it should select. They are the places at which each new furrow
 makes its first appearance. The furrows may originate in two prin
 cipal ways, which are not always clearly distinguishable : (1) the
 new furrow may arise in the middle of a ridge ; (2) a single furrow
 may bifurcate and form a letter Y. The distinction between (1) and
 (2) is not greatly to be trusted, because one of the sides of the ridge
 in case (1) may become worn, or be narrow and low, and not always
leave an imprint, thus converting it into case (2) ; conversely case (2)
may be converted into case (1). The position of the origin of the
 new furrow is, however, none the less defined. I have noted the
 furrow-heads and bifurcations of furrows in Fig. 9, and shown them
 separately in Fig. 10. The reader will be able to identify these posi
 tions with the aid of a pair of compasses, and he will find that they
persist unchanged in Fig. 11, though there is occasionally uncer
tainty between cases (1) and (2). Also there is a little confusion in
the middle of the small triangular space that separates two distinct
systems of furrows, much as eddies separate the stream lines of
adjacent currents converging from opposite directions. A careful
comparison of Figs. 9 and 11 is a most instructive study of the effects
of age. There is an obvious amount of wearing and of coarseness in
the latter, but the main features in both are the same.
     I happen to possess a very convenient little apparatus for ex
amining finger-marks and for recording the positions of furrow-
heads. It is a slight and small, but well-made wooden pentagraph,
multiplying five-fold, in which a very low-power microscope, with
coarse cross-wires, forms the axis of the short limb, and a pencil-
holder forms the axis of the long limb. I contrived it for quite
another use, namely, the measurement of the length of wings of
moths in some rather extensive experiments that are now being made
for me in pedigree moth-breeding. It has proved very serviceable in
this inquiry also, and was much used in measuring the profiles spoken
of in the last article. Without some moderate magnifying power the
finger-marks cannot be properly studied. It is a convenient plan, in
default of better methods, to prick holes with a needle through the
furrow-heads into a separate piece of paper, where they can be
studied without risk of confusing the eye. There are peculiarities
often found in furrows that do not appear in these particular speci
mens, and to which I will not further refer. In Fig. 10 the form of the
origin of the spirals is just indicated. These forms are various;
they may bo in single or in multiple lines, and the earlier turns may
form long loops or be nearly circular. My own ten fingers show at
least four distinct varieties.
    Notwithstanding the experience of others to the contrary, I find it
not easy to make clear and perfect impressions of the fingers. The
proper plan seems to be to cover a flat surface, like that of a piece of
glass or zinc, with a thin and even coat of paint, whether it be printers'
ink or Indian ink rubbed into a thick paste, and to press the finger
lightly upon it so that the ridges only shall become inked, then the

  360           Mr. F. Gallon an Personal Identification, &c.    [May 26,
  inked fingers are pressed on smooth and slightly damped paper. If a
 plate of glass be smoked over a paraffin lamp, a beautiful negative
 impression may be made on it by the finger, suitable for a lantern
 transparency. The blackened finger may afterwards be made to
 leave a positive impression on a piece of paper, that requires to
 be varnished if it is to be rendered permanent. All this is rather dirty
 work, but people do not seem to object to it ; rivalry and the hope of
 making continually better impressions carry them on. It is trouble
 some to make plaster casts ; modelling-clay has been proposed ; hard
 wax, such as dentists use, acts fairly well ; sealing-wax is excellent if
 the heat can be tolerated ; I have some good impressions in it. For
 the mere study of the marks, no plan is better than that of rubbing a
 little thick paste of chalk (" prepared chalk ") and water or sized water
 upon the finger. The chalk lies in the furrows, and defines them.
 They might then be excellently photographed on an enlarged scale.
 My own photographic apparatus is not at hand, or I should have
 experimented in this. When notes of the furrow-heads and of the
 initial shape of the spiral have been made, the measurements would
 admit of comparison with those in catalogued sets by means of a
numerical arrangement, or even by the mechanical selector described
in the last article. If a cleanly and simple way could be discovered
 of taking durable impressions of the finger tips, there would be little
doubt of their being serviceable in more than one way.
     In concluding my remarks, I should say that one of the induce
ments to making these inquiries into personal identification has been
to discover independent features suitable for hereditary investigation.
It has long been my hope, though utterly without direct experimental
corroboration thus far, that if a considerable number of variable and
independent features could be catalogued, it might be possible to trace
kinship with considerable certainty. It does not at all follow because
a man inherits his main features from some one ancestor, that he may
not also inherit a large number of minor and commonly overlooked
features from many ancestors. Therefore it is not improbable, and
worth taking pains to inquire whether each person may not carry
visibly about his body undeniable evidence of his parentage and near
kinships.
                                                               [F. G.J

1888.]   Prof. Ewing on Earthquakes and how to Measure them.         361
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, June 1, 1888.
     WILLIAM CBOOKEB, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
     PROFESSOR J. A. EWINO, F.R.S. University College, Dundee.
                 Earthquakes and how to Measure them.
THE lecturer pointed out that seismology was a science with two
sides, one geological, the other mechanical. The geologist
attacked the subject by at once attempting to refer earthquakes to
their source in the crumpling, tearing, or slipping of strata, in
volcanic eruption, in the collapse or explosion of subterranean cavities.
The mechanical student of earthquakes, on the other hand, concerned
himself with the character of the motion that was experienced, and
with the means by which an earthquake spread from point to point
by the elastic vibration of rock and soil. His first business was to
find out exactly how the ground moved during an earthquake, to
determine by direct measurement the amount and direction of every
successive displacement, and the velocity and rate of acceleration at
every instant while the shaking went on. This was the problem of
Beismomotry, and the lecture would deal with the solution of this
problem, and with some of the results which had been obtained in the
measurement of earthquakes in Japan. Earthquakes happened there
with a frequency sufficient to satisfy the most exacting seismologist.
It had been estimated that one or another part of the empire was
shaken every day, aud in Tokio, where the measurements had been
made, there was an earthquake, on the average, about once a week.
    Most early attempts to reduce the observing of earthquakes to an
exact science had failed, because they were based on a wrong notion
of what an earthquake was. It had been imagined that an earthquake
consisted of a single isolated jerk, or of a few jerks, easily dis
tinguishable from any minor oscillations that might accompany them.
The old column seismometer, for instance, the use of which was
recommended in the ' Admiralty Manual of Scientific Enquiry,' at
tempted to measure what was called the intensity of the shock by
means of a number of columns of various diameters which stood liko
ninepins on a level base. It was expected that the shock would
overthrow the narrower columns up to a breadth which would gauge
the intensity of the disturbance, and also that the line in which they
fell would show the horizontal direction of transit of the earthquake
wave. In fact, however, such columns fell most capriciously when
they fell at all. The reason was that in an earthquake there was no
single outstanding impulse. There was a confused jumble of oscilla
tions, very numerous, and very irregular, which shifted their direction
    VOL. XII. (No. 82.)                                      2s

 362                              Professor Ewing                         [June 1,
  with such rapidity that a point on the earth's surface wriggled
 through a path like the form a loose coil of string might take if it
 were ravelled into a state of the utmost confusion. The mechanical
 problem in seismometry was to find a steady point, to suspend a body-
 so that some point in it, at least, should not move while this com
 plicated wriggling was going on ; the steady point would then serve
 as a datum with respect to which the movement of the ground might
 be recorded and measured. The simple pendulum had often been
 suggested as a steady-point seismometer, but in the protracted series
 of oscillations which made up an earthquake the bob of a pendulum
 might, and often did, acquire so much oscillation that, far from
remaining steady, it moved more than the ground itself.
     The lecturer illustrated this by showing the cumulative effect of
 a succession of small impulses on a pendulum when these happened
 to agree in period with the pendulum's swing. The fault of the
 pendulum, from the seismometric point of view, was its too great
 stability, and its consequently short period of free oscillation. To
prevent the body whose inertia was to furnish a steady point from
acquiring independent oscillation, the body must be suspended or
supported astatically ; in other words, its equilibrium must be very
nearly neutral. Methods of astatic suspension which had been used
in seismometry were described and illustrated by diagrams and
models, in particular the ball and block seismometer of Dr. Verbeck,
the horizontal pendulum, and a method of suspension by cross cords
based on the Tchebicheff straight-lino link-work.*
     The complete analysis of the ground's motion was effected by a
seismograph which resolved it into three components ; two horizontal
and one vertical, and recorded each of these separately, with respect
to an appropriate steady-point, by means of a multiplying lever, on a
sheet of smoked glass which was caused to revolve at a uniform rate
by clock-work. The clock was started into motion by the action of
the earliest tremors of the earthquake on a very delicate electric
seismoscope, the construction of which was shown by a diagram. In
this way a record was deposited upon the revolving plate which gave
every possible particular regarding the character of the earth's motion
at the observing-station. A complete set of the instruments as now
manufactured by the Cambridge Scientific Instrument Company was
shown in action.*)' Professor Ewing also described his duplex
pendulum seismograph, which draws on a fixed plate of smoked glass
a magnified picture of the horizontal motion of the ground during nn
earthquake-! Apparatus was shown for testing the accuracy of the
seismographs by means of imitation earthquakes, which shook the
    * Sre a memoir on 'Ehrthquake Measurement,' by Professor Ewing, pub
lished by the University of Tokio, 1883. Also 'Proc. Hoy. Soc.' No. 210, 1881 ;
and ' Transactions of the Seiemolngical Society of Japan," from 1880.
    t See ' Nature,' vol. xxxiv. p. 343.
    J Trans. Seis. Soc. Jap. vol. v. p. 89, and vol. viii. p. 83 ; ' Encyclopedia
Britannica,' Art. 'Seismometer'; 'Proc. Roy. Soc.,' June 21, 1888.

1888.]         on Earthquakes and how to Measure them.                      363
stand of the instrument, and drew two diagrams side by side upon
the glass plate—one, the record given by the seismograph itself, and
the other the record derived from a fixed piece which was held fast
in an independent support. The agreement of the two records with
one another proved how very nearly motionless the " steady-point "
of the seismograph remained during even a prolonged shaking re
sembling an earthquake. This test was applied to the instruments
on the table, and the close agreement of the two diagrams was
exhibited by projecting them on the lantern-screen. A large number
of autographic records of Japanese earthquakes were thrown on the
screen,* and particulars were given of the extent of the motion, and
the velocity and rate of acceleration, in some representative examples.
To determine the rate of acceleration was of special interest, because
it measured the destructive tendency of the shock.
    The lecturer explained that some of the seismograms exhibited on
the screen had been obtained since he had left Japan by bis former
assistant, Mr. Sekiya, who now held the unique position of Professor
of Seismology in the Imperial Japanese University. Professor Sekiya
had recently taken the pains to construct a model representing, by
means of a long coil of copper wire carefully bent into the proper
form, the actual path pursued by a point on the earth's surface during
a prolonged and rather severe shaking. This model of an earthquake
had been made by combining the three components of each successive
displacement as these were recorded by a set of seismographs like
those upon the lecture-table. The appearance of Professor Sekiya's
model (a description of which will be found in ' Nature,' vol \x\vii.
p. 297) was shown to the audience by means of the lantern.
     Professor Ewing drew attention to the small tremors of high fre
quency which characterised the beginnings of earthquake motion,
and which were apparent in a number of the diagrams he exhibited.
 These generally disappeared at a comparatively early stage in tho
 disturbance. In tho early portion they were as a rule found at first
 alone, preceding the larger and slower principal motions ; and then
 when the principal motions began, small tremors might still be seen
 for some time, superposed upon them. In all probability these quick-
 period tremors were normal vibrations, while the larger motions were
 transverse vibrations ; and a reference to tho theory of the transmis
 sion of vibrations in elastic solids served to explain why the quick-
 period tremors were tho first to be felt. The whole disturbance went
 on for several minutes, with irregular fluctuations in the amplitude of
 the motion, and with a protracted dying out of the oscillations, tho
 period of which usually lengthened towards the close. The record
 of a single earthquake comprised some hundreds of successive move
 ments, to and fro, or round fantastic loops. Each single movement
 usually occupied from half a second to two seconds. Earthquakes
    * Examples of these will be found in the lecturer's memoir on ' Earthquake
 Measurement,' also 'Nature,' vol. xxx. p. 174, xxxi p. 581, xxxvi. p. 107.

364       Prof. Ewing on Earthquakes and how to Measure them. [June 1,
 were quite perceptible in which the greatest extent of motion was no
more than T-J-j of an inch. In one case, on the other hand, Professor
 Si-k I via had obtained a record in which the motion was as much as an
inch and three-quarters. Even that was in an earthquake which did
comparatively little damage, and there was therefore reason to expect
that in a severely destructive shock (such as had not occurred since
the present system of seismometry was developed) the motion might
be considerably greater.
      Professor Ewing concluded his lecture by pointing out that the
seismographs ho had described might find practical application in
 measuring the stiffness of engineering structures. Ho exhibited, by
 the lantern, seismographic records he had recently taken on the new
 Tay Bridge, to examine the shaking of the bridge during the passage
 of trains. The instrument had been placed on the southernmost of
 the greater girders, where there was reason to expect the vibration
 would be a maximum. The extent of motion was remarkably small.
 It was loss than an eighth of an inch, even while the train was passing
 the seismograph—a fact which spoke well for stiffness of the structure.
Nevertheless, by watching the index of the seismograph he had been
able to toll whenever a train came on at the Dundee end of the
bridge, a distance of 1^ mile from the place where the instrument
was standing. One could then detect a vibratory motion, the extent
of which was probably not more than jj^ of an inch. This began in
the longitudinal direction, and for some time longitudinal vibration
only could be seen. As the train came nearer lateral vibration also
began, and the amplitude of course increased. It reached a maximum
when the train was close to the seismograph, and continued visible
until the train had passed off the bridge at the other end.*
                                                                     [J. A. E.]
    * Particulars of these experiments have boon communicated to the Royal
Society, and will be found in the ' Proceedings ' for June 21, 1888.
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, Juno 4, 1888.
  His Grace The DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, E.G. D.C.L. LL.D.
                          President, in the Chair.
                       F. W. Bayley, Esq. F.C.S.
                       Jacob Feis, Esq.
                       Charles AIbert Flint, Esq.
                       Arthur Holland, Esq.
                       Mrs. John Mackinlay.
                       Thomas Woolner, Esq. I?. A.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.

1888.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                         365
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Professor
W. Chandler Roberts-Austen, M.R.I, for his present of a Portable
Assay Furnace.
     THE PBESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      FROM
 The Governor- General of India—Geological Survey of India : Palsentologia Indicn,
      Ser. XIII. Vol. I. Part 7. 4lo. 1887.
Accademia del Linoei, Reale, .Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. Vol. IV.
      1° Semestre, Fasc. 2-4. 8vo. 1888.
   Memorie della Classe di Sciunze Morali Storiche e. Filologiehe. Serie 3*,
      Vol. XII. 4to. 1884. Atti, 1875-6. 2« Serie, Vol. IV. 4to. 1887.
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1887, Part 3. 8vo.
      1887.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Second Series, Vol. XXIV.
      Part 1. 8vo. 1888.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Descriptions of New Indian Lepidopterous Insects.
      By F. Moore. Part 3. 4to. 1888.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLVIII. No. 6. 8vo. 1888.
Buston Society of Natural History—Memoirs, Vol. IV. Nos. 1-4. 4to. 1886-8.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1887-8, No. 14. 4to.
Chemical Society—Journal for May, 1888. 8vo.
Churchill, Messrs. J. and A. (the Publishers)—Journal of Laryngology and
     Rhinology, Vol. II. No. 5. 8vo. 1888.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings. Vol. XCII. 8vo. 1 887-8.
Davies, G. C. Esq. (the Author)—Handbook to the Rivera and Broads of Norfolk
     and Suffolk. 9th edition. 12mo. 1887.
East India Association—Journal, 1888, No. 2. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for May, 1888. 8vo.
   Analyst for May, 1888. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for May, 1888. 4to.
   Chemical News for May, 1888. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for May, 1888. 8vo.
   Engineer for May, 1888. fol.
   Kngineering for May, 1888. fol.
   Horologioal Journal for May, 1888. 8vo.
   Industries for May, 1888. fol.
   Iron for May, 1888. 4to.
   Murray's Magazine for May, 1888. 8vo.
   Nature for May, 1888. 4to.
   Revuo Scientifique for May, 1888. 4to.
   Scientific News.for May, 1888. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for May, 1888. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for May, 1888. 4to.
Florence, Biblioteca Nazionale Cmtrale—Bolletiuo, Num. 56, 57. 8vo. 1888.
   Indici e Cataloghi, Vol. I. Faso. 7. 8vo. 1888.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 749. 8vo. 1888.
Geneva: Sociele de Physique et d'Histoire Niilurelle—Mcmoires, Tome XXIX.
      Partio 2. 4to. 1886-7.
Geographical Society, Royal —Proceedings, New Series, Vol. X. No. 5. 8vo.
      1888.
 Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1888, No. 5. 8vo.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 174. 8vo. 1888.
 Georgofili, Reale Accademia—Atti, Quarta Serie, Vol. XI. Disp. 1. 8vo. 1888.
Johns Hopkins University—University Circular, No. 65. 4to. 1888.

366                           Oeneral Monthly Meeting.                [June 4,
Leighton, John, Esq. F.8.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—A. System of Ballot. 12mo.
      1888.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 18. 8vo. 1888.
Meteorological Office—Weekly Weather Reports, Vol. V. Nos. 8-18. 4to. 1888.
   Monthly Weather lieports, March, April, 1887. 4to.
Ministry of Public Works, Ronc—Giornale del Genio Civile, Serie Quints,
     Vol. II. No. 2. 8vo. And Disegni. fol. 1888.
Musical Association—Proceedings, 10th to 13th Sessions, 1883-7. 8vo.
National Life-Boat Institution, Royal—Annual Report, 1838. 8vo.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
     Vol. XXXVII. Parts 3, 4. 8vo. 1888.
Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XX. Nos. 6, 7. New
     Series. 8vo. 1888.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, May, 1888. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XII. No. 7. 8vo. 1888.
Physical Society of London—Proceedings, Vol. IX. Part 2. 8vo. 1888.
Richardson, B. W. M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—The Asclepiad, Vol. V. No. 18.
     8vo. 1888.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 264-266. 8vo. 1888.
Smithsonian Institution—Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. XXXI.
     8vo. 1888.
Society of Arts—Journal, May, 1888. 8vo.
Surgeon-General's Office, U.S. Army—Index-Catalogue of the Library. Vols. 7
     and 8. 4to. 1886-7.
Sydney Morning Herald—History of Australian Settlement and Progress, with
     Reports of Centennial Celebrations in 1888. 4to.
Telegraph Engineers, Society of—Journal, No. 72. 8vo. 1888.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 143. 8vo. 1888.
Upsal University— Bulletin Menauel de 1'Observatoire Meieorologique, Vol. XIX.
     4to. 1887-8.
Vereiiu zur Bfftirderung des Geuterbfieises in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1888:
     Heft 4. 4to.
Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 84. 8vo. 1888.
Winuhurst, James, Esq. M.R.I. (the Author)—Electric Influence Machines,     -it".
     1888.
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, Juno 8, 1888.
Sin FBEDEBICK BRAMWELL, D.C.L. F.R.S. Honorary Secretary and
                         Vice-President, in the Chair.
                  PBOFESSOB DEWAB, M.A. F.R.8. M.R.I.
                          Phosphorescence and Ozone.
                               (Abstract deferred.)

1888.] Prof. Roberts-Austin on some curious Properties ofMetah.       367
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, May 11, 1888.
     WILLIAM CBOOKES, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
       PBOFESSOR W. CHANDLER ROBEBTS-AUSTEN, F.R.S. M.R.I.
              Some curious Properties of Metals and Alloys.
THE lecture consisted mainly of experimental demonstrations of the
changes induced in metals, either by slight variations in the treat
ment to which they are subjected or by rendering them impure by the
addition of small quantities of metals or metalloids.
    Prof. Austen began by pointing out that for centuries the early
metallurgists investigated the action of exceedingly small quantities
of matter upon masses of metal, and he said that, strange as it may
seem, the promulgation, in 1803, of Dalton's atomic theory threw a
flood of light upon chemical phenomena, but cast into shade such
investigations as those of Bergman which dealt with influences of
" traces " upon masses, and the authority of Berthollet was not sufficient
to save them from neglect. In this eventful year for science, 1803,
the latter published his essay on chemical statics, in which he stated,
as a fundamental proposition, that in comparing the action of bodies
on each other, which depends " upon their affinities and mutual
proportions, the mass of each has to be considered." * His views
were successfully contested by Proust, but, as Lothar Meyer says,
the influence on chemistry of the rejection of Berthollet's views was
remarkable : " All phenomena which could not bo attributed to fixed
atomic proportions were set aside as not truly chemical, and were
neglected. Thus chemists forsook the bridge by which Berthollet
had sought to unite the sister sciences, physics and chemistry."
Fortunately, however, in this country there was one chemist who had
followed up the line of work indicated by the early metallurgists,
for in 1803, the same year as that in which both Berthollet's essay
and Dalton's atomic theory were published, Charles Hatchett f com
municated to the Royal Society the results of a research which he
had conducted, with the assistance of Cavendish, in order to ascertain
" the chemical effects produced on gold by different metallic substances
when employed in certain " (often very small) " proportions as alloys."
    Allusion was then made to the evidence of the passage of metals
into allotropic states, and it was shown that although the importance
of the isomeric and allotropic states was abundantly recognised in
organic chemistry, it had been much neglected in the case of metals.
              • English edition (by M. Farrell, M.D.), 1804, p. 5.
              t Phil. Trans, vol. xciii. p. 43, 1803.

368                          Prof.Bdberts-Austen                  [May 11,
Special attention was then devoted to the work of Joule and Lyon
Playfair, who showed, in 1846, that metals in different allotropic
states possessed different atomic volumes, and the lecturer then pro
ceeded to the consideration of the work of Matthiessen who, in 1860,
was led to the view that in certain cases when metals were alloyed,
they passed into allotropic states, probably the most important
generalisation which has as yet been made in connection with the
molecular constitution of alloys.
    Instances of allotropy in pure metals were then shown to the
audience, such, for example, as Bolley's load which oxidises readily
in air ; Schiitzenberger's copper ; Fritsche's tin, which fell to powder
when exposed to an exceptionally cold winter ; Gore's antimony ;
Graham's palladium ; and allotropic nickel. It was further shown
that metals could bo obtained in chemically active states under the
following conditions :—Joule proved that when iron is released from
its amalgam by distilling away the mercury the metallic iron takes
fire on exposure to air, and is therefore clearly different from ordinary
iron, and is, in fact, an allotropic form of iron. Moissan * has shown
that similar effects are produced in the case of chromium and man
ganese, cobalt, and nickel, when released from their amalgams with
mercury.
     Evidence is not wanting of allotropy in metals released from solid
alloys, as well as from fluid amalgams with mercury. Certain alloys
may be viewed as solidified solutions, and when such bodies are
treated with a suitable solvent, usually an acid, it often happens that
one constituent metal is dissolved, and the other released in an in
soluble form. Reference was then made to a new alloy of potassium
and gold, containing about ten per cent. of the precious metal. If a
fragment of this alloy be thrown upon water, the potassium takes fire,
decomposes the water, and the gold is released as a black powder ;
there is a form of this black or dark-brown gold which appears to
bo an allotropic modification of gold, as it combines with water to
form auric hydride. By heating this dark gold to dull redness, it
readily assumes the ordinary golden colour. The Japanese use this
gold, released from gold-copper alloys, in a remarkable way, for they
produce, by the aid of certain pickling solutions, a beautiful patina
on copper which contains only two per cent. of gold, while even a
trace of the latter metal is sufficient to alter the tint of the patina.
     With regard to theoretical views as to molecular change in metals,
special care was given to a description of the work of Professor W.
Spring, of Lioge, who had furnished much evidence in support of the
view that polymerization of metals, that is the rearrangement of atoms
in their molecules, could take place even in solid alloys of lead and tin.
     With reference to the passage of metals into allotropic states
under slight external influences, it was stated that Debray f h*8
                * Comptes Rendus, vol. Ixxxviii. p. 180, 1879.
                 t Ibid. vol. xc. p. 1195, 1880.

 1888.]     on some curious Properties of Metals and Alloys.           369
given a case of an alloy in which a simple elevation of temperature
induces allotropic change in the constituent metals. It is prepared
as follows : ninety-five parts of zinc are alloyed by fusion with five
parts of rhodium, and the alloy is treated with hydrochloric acid,
which dissolves away the bulk of the zinc, leaving a rich rhodium-
zinc alloy, containing about 80 per cent. of rhodium. When this
alloy is heated in vacuo to a temperature of 400° C., a slight
explosion takes place, but no gas is evolved, and the alloy is then
insoluble in aqua regia, which dissolved it readily before the elevation
 of temperature caused it to change its state. Wo are thus presented
(as the experiment shown to the audience proved) with another
undoubted case of isomerism in alloys, the unstable, soluble modifi
cation of the alloy being capable of passing into the insoluble form
by a comparatively slight elevation of temperature.
     The industrial importance of the passage of metals and alloys
into allotropic states, and the possibility of changing the mechanical
properties of metals by apparently slight influences, was fully dealt
 with, and the lecture concluded with a detailed description of Pro
fessor Austen's own experiments which have since been printed in
the ' Philosophical Transactions ' of the Royal Society, the results
showing that very small amounts of metallic impurities exert an
extraordinary effect on the tenacity and extensibility of gold, and
that small as the amounts of these impurities are, their influence is
rigidly controlled by the Periodic Law of Newlands and Hendeleef,
the deleterious action of a metallic impurity being in direct relation
to its atomic volume. The audience was askod " to remember that
the knowledge of the kind of facts which had been considered comes
to us from very early times, for the influence produced on metals by
small quantities of added matter had a remarkable effect on the
development of chemistry, mainly by sustaining the belief of the
early chemists in the possibility of ennobling a base metal so as to
transmute it into gold. This was the object to which they devoted
life and health, and laboured with fast and vigil. We inherit the
results of thoir labours, and their prayers have been answered in a
way they little anticipated, for, from an industrial point of view, if not
from a scientific one, metals are " transmuted " by traces of impurity.
Possibly we are nearing an explanation of the causes which are at
work, but the fact remains that iron may be changed from a plastic
material, which in ornament can be fashioned into the most dainty
lines of flow, into one of great endurance, to which, for the present at
least, the defence of the country may be trusted, apparently because
armour-plates and missiles owe their respective qualities to the fact
that carbon, manganese, and chromium have small atomic volumes."

 370                        General Monthly Meeting.                     [July 2,
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, July 2, 1888.
     JOHN RAE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                   A. Gordon Salamon, Esq. F.C.S. F.I.C.
                   Thomas Graham Young, Esq. F.R.S. E.
were elected Members of the Boyal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
following Donations to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
Research :—
              Ludwig Mond, Esq                                  £100
              John Bell Sedgwick, Esq                              25
              Mrs. Bell Sedgwick                                   25
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Sir William
Thomson for his valuable present of a set of three electric
current measuring instruments (1) Magnetostatio milli-ampere meter ;
(2) Standard deci-ampero balance; (3) Magnetostatic deka-ampere
meter.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Attic, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. 1° Semestre,
     Vol. IV. Fasc. 5, 6. 8vo. 1888.
American Association for the Advancement of Science—Proceedings, 36th Meeting,
     New York, 1887. 8vo. 1888.
Antiquaries, Society of—Archseologia, Vol. LI. Part 1. 4to. 1888.
   Proceedings, Vol. XII. No. 1. 8vo. 1888.
Aiiatic Society, Royal (China Branch)— Journal, Vol. XXII. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. 1887.
Astronomical Society, lioyal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLVIII. No. 7. 8vo. 1888.
Bankers' Institute—Journal, Vol. IX. Part 6. 8vo. 1888.
British Architects, Royal Jnstitute of—Proceedings, 1887-8, Nos. 15, 16, 17. 4to.
Buffalo Library—The Buffalo Library and its Building. With Views. 4to.i
     1887.
Cltemical Society—Jonrnal for June, 1888. 8vo.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. &c. M.R.I. (the Editor)—Journal of the Royal
     Microscopical Society, 1888, Part 3. 8vo.
Cutter, Ephraim, Esq.—The Clinical Morphologies. 8vo. 1888.
Dax : Suciete dr. Borda— Bulletin, Treizicme Annc'e, 2t. Tromcstre. 8vo. 1888.

1888.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                       371
Editors—American Journal of Science for June, 1888. 4to.
  Analyst for June, 1888. 8vo.
  Athenaeum for June, 1888. 4to.
  Chemical News for June, 1888. 8vo.
  Chemist and Druggist for June, 1888. 8vo.
  Engineer for June, 1888. fol.
  Engineering for June, 1888. fol.
  Horologicul Journal for June, 1888. 8vo.
  Industries for June, 1888. fol.
  Iron for June, 1888. 4to.
  Murray's Magazine for June, 1888. 8vo.
  Nature for June, 1888. 4to.
  Revue Scientifique for June, 1 888. 4to.
  Scientific News for June, 1888. 4to.
  Telegraphic Journal for June, 1888. 8vo.
  Zoophilist for June, 1888. 4to.
Florence, Biblioteca Nasionale Centrale—Bolletino, Num. 58, 59. 8vo. 1888.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 750. 8vo. 1888.
Geneva: Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle—Memoires, Tome XXX.
     No. 4. 4to. 1888.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. X. No. 6. 8vo. 1888.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1888, Nos. 7, 8. 8vo.
Harlem, Socie'lf Hollandaise des Sciences— CEuvres Completes de Christiaan
     Huygens. Tome I. Correspondence, 1638-56. 4to. 1888.
John Hopkins University—Taxation in American States and Cities. By R. T.
     Ely. 8vo. 1888.
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 155. 8vo. 1888.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIX. Parts 18, 19. 8vo. 1888.
Manchester Steam Users' Association—Boiler Explosions Act, 1882. Board of
     Trade Reports, Nos. 187-223. fol. 1886-7.
Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Reports, 1879, Part 3. 4to. 1888.
  Hourly Reading, 1885, Part 3. 4to. 1888.
  Charts showing the Mean Barometrical Pressure over the Atlantic, Indian,
     and Pacific Ocrans. 1888.
Meteorological Society, Royal—Quarterly Journal, No. 66. 8vo. 1888.
Ministry of Public Works, Rome — Giornale del Oenio Civile, Serie Quinta,
     Vol. II. No. 3. 8vo. And Disegni. fol. 1888.
Newall, Major-General D. J. F. R.A. (the Author)—The Highlands of India. 8vo.
     1882.
New York Academy of Sciencet—Transactions, Vol. VII. Noa. 1, 2. 8vo. 1887-8.
  Annals, Vol. IV. Nos. 3 and 4. 8vo. 1888.
Pennsylvania Geological Surrey—Annual Report, 1886, Part III. With Atlas.
     8vo. 1887. Western Middle Atlas, Part 2. 8vo. 1887. Atlas, C 7. 8vo.
     1887.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, Juno, 1888. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XII. No. 8. 8vo. 1888.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Sitzungsberichte, I.-XX. 8vo. 1888.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 207. 8vo. 1888.
Royal Society of New South Wales—Journal and Proceedings, Vol. XXI. 8vo.
     1888.
Society of Arts—Journal, June, 1888. 8vo.
Telegraph Engineers, Society of—Journal, No. 73. 8vo. 1888.
Vereins zur Beforderung del Gewerbfleisses in Preuuen—Verhandlungen, 1888 .
     Heft5. 4to.
Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1888, Part I. 8vo. 1888.

372                         General Monthly Meeting.                       Nov. 5,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, November 5, 1888.
   SIB JAMES CIUOOTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.It.S. Vice-Prcsident,
                                  iu the Chair.
                               Amand Routh, M.D.
was elected a Member of the Royal Institution.
     Tho Special Thanks of the Members were returned for tho
following Donation to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
Research :—
            Lachlan Mackintosh Rate, Esq                            £50
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Messrs.
Crossley for their valuable present of ono of their Gas Eugiucs
(4 horse-power).
     Tho PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The Lords of the Admiralty— Greenwich Observations for 1886. 4to. 1888.
   Greenwich Spectroscopio and Photographic Reaults, 1886, 1887. 4to. 1886-7.
   Annals of tho Cupe Observatory, Vol. II. Tart 2. 4to. 1888.
   Cape Meridian Observations, 1882-1884. 8vo. 1887.
 The Governor-General of India—Geological Survey of India : Records, Vol. XXI.
     Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1888.
The Secretary of State for India—Great Trigonometrical Survey of India,
     Vol. X. 4to. 1887.
   Catalogue of tho Library of the India Office. 2 vol. 8vo. 1888.
   Meteorological Observations at Simla, 1841 -5, Vol. II. 4to. 1877.
Accatlemia dei Lincei, Rente, Rama —Atti, Sei'iu Quarta ; Kendiconti. 1° Semestrc,
     Vol. IV. Fasc. 7-12. 8vo. 1888.
   Memorie della Classe di Scienze Moral! Storiche e Filologiche. Serie 3",
     Vol. XII. 4to. 1S84. Atti, 1887. 4» Serie, Vol. III. 4to. 1887.
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1888, Part 1. 8vo.
      1888.
American Philosophical Society —Proceedings, No. 127. 8vo. 1888.
Aristntelian Society —Proceedings, Vol. I. No. 1. 8vo. 1888.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Vol. LVI. Part 2, No. 4 ; Vol. LVII. Part 2,
     No. 1. 8vo. 1888.
   Proceedings, 1888, Nos. 2, 3. 8vo.
Asiatic Society, lloyal (China liruncli)—Journal, Vol. XXII. No. 5. 8vo. 1888.

1888.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                         373
Agronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notice*, Vol. XLVIII. Nos. 8, 9. 8vo.
     1888.
Australian Irrigation Colonies' Commission—Australian Irrigation Colonies, fol.
      1888.
Australian Museum, Sydney—Report for 1887. fol. 1888.
Bankert, Institute of—Journal, Vol. IX. Part 8. 8vo. It 88.
Boston Society of Xatural History—Memoirs, Vol. IV. Nos. 5, 0. 4to. 1888.
British Architects, Hoyal Institute of—Proceedings, 1887-8, Nos. 18, 19, 20.
      1888-9, No. 1. 4to.
   Transactions, Vol. IV. 4to. 1888.
British Association, Local Committee—Handbook to Bath. Edited by J. W.
     Morris. 8vo. 1888.
British Museum—Catalogue of the Turkish Manuscripts. By C. Rieu. fol.
      1888.
   Catalogue of Engraved Gems. 8vo. 1888.
British Museum (Natural History)—Catalogue of Birds, Vol. XIV. 8vo. 1888.
   Catalogue of Fossil Roptilia and Amphibia, Part 1. 8vo. 1888.
California, University of—Reports, Catalogue-', &c. 8vo. 1872-1888.
Canada Geological and Natural History Surrey—Catalogue of Canadian Plan Is.
     Part IV. By J. Maconn. 8vo. 1888.
   Annual Report, 1886. With Maps. 8vo. 1887.
Chambers, George F. Esq. F.R.A.S. M.li.I. (the Author)—Local Government.
     8vo. 1888.
Cheminal Society—Journal for July-Oct. 1888. 8vo.
Chief Signal Officer, U.S. Army— Annual Report for 1887, Part I. 8vo. 1887.
Churchill, Messrs. J. and A. (the 1'ubliehers)—Journal of Laryngology and
     Rhinology, Vol. II. Nos. 8, 10, 11. 8vo. 1888.
City of London CW/eje—Calendar 1888-9. 8vo. 1888.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vols. XCIII. XCIV. 8vo.
      1887-8.
Cornwall Polytechnic Sor-ieli/—Jubilee Reports, 1882. 8vo.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. fr'.L.S. <to. M.R.I, (the Editor)— Journal of the Royal
     Microscopical Society, 1888. Park 4, 5. 8vo.
Dawson, Sir J. William, LL.D. F.Il.S. (the Author) —Specimens of Eozoon
     Canarlense.   8vo.   1888.
Dax: SociHtfile B"rda—Bulletin, Treizieme Anne'e, 3- Tremestre. Rvo. 188S.
Devonshire Association fur lh« Advancement of Science, Literature, and Art—•
      Report and Transactions, Vol. XX. 8vo. 1888.
   The Devonshire Domesday, Part V. 8vo. 1888.
East India Association—-Journal, 1888, Nos. 3, 4. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for July-Oct. 1888. 8vo.
   Analyst for July-Oct. 1888. 8vo.
   Athenaum for July-Get. 1888. 4to.
   Chemical News for July-Oct. 1888. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for Jnly-Oct. 1888. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for Jnly-Oct. 1888. fol.
   Engineer for July-Oct. 1888. fol.
   Engineering for July-Oct. 1888. ful.
   Industries frr Jnly-Oct. 1888. fol.
   Iron for July-Oct. 1888. 4to.
   Murray's Magazine for July-Oct. 1888. 8vo.
   Nature for July-Oct. 1888. 4to.
   Photographic News for July-Oct. 1888. 8vo.
   Revue Scientifii|ue for July-Oi t. 1888. 4to.
   Scientific News for Jnly-Oct. 1888. 4to.
   Tclcgraphio Journal for July-Oct. 1888. 8vo.
   Zoophihtt fur July-Oct. 1888. 4to.
Florence, B'Uiotrca Nazionale Centrale—Bolletino, Num. 60-07. 8vo. 1888.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 751-734. 8vo. 1888.

374                          General MontUy Meeting.                    [Nov. 5,
Geographical Society, Royal— Proceedings, New Series, Vol. X. Nos. 7-11. 8ro.
      18S8.
Gtological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhnndlungen, 1888, Nos. 9-12. 8vo.
   Jah'rhnch. Band XXXVIII. Heft 1. 2. 8vo. 1888.
Geohyical Soclety.— Quarterly Journal, No. 175. 8vo. 1888.
Geological Society of Inland, Royal—Journal, Vol. XVtI. Part 2. 8vo. 1887.
Georgoiili, Ranle Accademia—Atti, Quarta Serie, Vol. XI. Disp 2,3. 8vo. 1888.
 Gniy'K Inn, The Honourable Society of—Catalogue of the Librniy. By W. II.
      Doulhwuite. 8vo. 1888.
Harlem, Soci&e Hollandahe des Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Tome XX11.
      Liv. 4, 5. 8vo. 1888
Harris, George, Exq. LL.D. F.S.A. and Benjamin Ward liicJiardton, M.D. F.R.8.
      —The Autohiogrnphy of George Harris. 8vo. 1888.
Johns Ilopkius Unirrrsity—University Circular, Nos. 00, 67. 4to. 1888.
   A mcrican Journal of Philology, No. 33. 8vo. 1888.
    American Chemical Journal, Vol. X No. 3. 8vo. 1888.
LianniH Society—Journal, Nos. 110, 120. 181, HO, 103. 8vo. 1888.
   Transactions, Zoology Vol. III. Purts 5, 6; Botany Vol. II. Part 15, Vol. III.
      Part 1. 4to. 1887-8.
Liitmn Academy of Sciences—Jornnl, No. 45. 8vo. 1887.
    A Kloctricidade. Por V. Mnrhndo. 8vo. 1887.
Liusing. G. V. Esq. M.A. FR.S. and Professor Dewnr, M.A. FRS. M R.I. (the
      Authors^—Spectrum of the Oxy-Hydrogeu Flurnu. (Phil. Trans. Vol. 179.)
      4to. 1888.
Mackintoth, W. Esq. (the Translator)—The Gospel of St. Matthew in Rifian.
      8vo. 1888.
Madras Government Central Museum—Catalogue of Batrachia Salientia and
      Apoda. By E. Thuntton. 8vo. 1888.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIX. Part 20. 8vo. 1888.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Sucitty—Memoirs. Fourth Scries, Vol. I.
      8vo. 1888.
Mann, Henry (the Author)—Features of Society in Old and in New England.
      12mo. 1885.
Mann. Mrs. R. J. (the Author)— Sketch of the Life and Work of Robert Jamea
      Mann, M.I). M.R.I. 8vo. 1888.
Maryland Medical and Chirurgical Faculty—Transnctinns, 1888. 8vo.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, 1888, No. 2. 8vo.
Mvilical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 19. 8vo. 1888.
    Transactions. Vol. LXXI. 8vo. 1888.
Nemlrugghe, M. G. ran der (the Author)—Causerie sur la tension superficiulle.
      8vo. 1888.
    Sur ma the'orie du Filage de 1'Huile. 8vo. 1888.
Meteorological Office—Atlantic Weather Charts, 1883. Part 4. 4to. 1888
    Weekly Weather Reports, Vol. V. Nos. 20-38. 4to. 1888.
Meteorological Society, Royal—Quarterly Journal, No. 67. 8vo. 1888.
    Meteorological Record, NTo. 28. 8vo. 1888.
Killer, W. J. C. Esq. (the Hegistrar)—The Medical Register. 8vo. 1888.
    Tim I lentists' Register. 8vo. 1888.
Ministry of 1'ablic Wnrks, Rome— Giornale del Genio Civile, Serie Quiuta,
       Vol. II. Nos. 5, 6. 8vo. And Disegni. fol. 1888.
Mttsiral Association— Proceedings, 4th Session, 1887-8. 8vri.
Kem Smith Wales' Agent-General—The History of Australian Exploration, 1788-
       1888. By E. Favenc. 8vo. 1888.
Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1888, Part 2. 8vo 1888.
 Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XX. No. 8. New
      Series. 8vo. 1888.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—.Tournal. July-Oct. 1888. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XII. No. 9 ; Vol. XIII. No. 1. 8vo. 1888.
 I'htjxical Society of London—Proceeding-., Vtil. IX. Parts 3, 4. 8vo. 1888.

1888.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                          375
Richardson, B. W. M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—The Asclcpiad, Vol. V. No. 19.
     8vo. 1888.
Rio de Janeiro Observatory—Revista, Nos. 6, 8, 9. 8vo. 1888.
   Annales, Tome III. Passage de Venus, 1882. 4to. 1887.
Royal College of Surgeons of England—Calendar, 1888. 8vo.
Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland—The Medical Profession, 1887. Carmichael
     Prize Essays by W. Rivingtou nnd T. Laffan. 2vol. 8vo. 1888.
Royal Dublin Society—Transactions, Vol. III. No. 14; Vol. IV. No. 1. 4to.
      1887-8.
   Proceedings, Vol. V. Parts 7, 8 ; Vol. VI. Parts 1, 2. 8vo. 1887-8.
Royal Society of Canada—Proceedings anil Transactions, Vol. V. 4to. 1887-8.
Royal Soriety of London—Proceedings, Nos. 268-271. 8vo. 1888.
lloyal Society of Tasmania—Proceedings for 1887. 8vo. 1888.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Mathematisch-physUche Classe: Abhandlung.
      Band XIV. No. 9. 8vo. 1888.
   Philologisch-historischen, Classe : Abhandlungen, B.md X. No. 9 ; Band XI.
     No. 1. 8vo. 1888.
Seismological Society of Japan—Transactions, Vol. XII. 8vo. 1888.
Siemt;ni, Alexandcr, Esq. HI. R.I. (for the Executors) —Ti.o Life of Sir William
     Siemens. By W. Pole. 8vo. 1888.
Smith, Basil Wooild, Esq. M.It. /.—Middlesex C..unty Records, Vol. III. 8vo. 1883.
Smithsonian Institution —Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vois. XXXII.
      XXXIII. 8vo. 1888.
   Report, 1885, Part 2. 8vo. 1886.
Society of Arts— Journal, July-Get. 1888. 8vo.
Suciety of Dilettanti— The Principles of Athenian Architecture. By F. C.
      Ponrose. New Edition, fol. 1888.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. LI. Parts 2, 3 8vo. 1S88.
St. Pelersbourg, Academie Imperiale des Sciences—Me'uioircs, Tome XXXVI.
      Nos. 1,2. 4to. 1S88.
   Bulletin, Tome XXXII. Nos. 2, 3, 4. 4to. 1888.
 Telegraph Engineers, Society of—Jruruul, No. 74. 8vo. 1888.
 United Service Institution, Itnyal—Journal, No. 144. 8vo. 1888.
 United States Navy-Wia Series, Nos. I. II. III. 8vo. 1885.
   General Information Series, Nos. III. IV. VI. VII. 8vo. 1884-8.
   Coaling, Dncking, &c. of the Ports of the World. 8vo. 1888.
 Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbjleissts in Preussen —Verhandlungen, 18^8 :
      Heft 6, 7, 8. 4to.
 Victoria Institute—Transactions, Noa. 85, 86. 8vo. 1888.
 Wemyss, the Earl of (the Author)—Socialism at St. Stephens, 1886-7. 16mo.
      1888.
 Wild, Dr. H. (the Director)—Repertori urn fur Mcteorologio, Hand XI. 4to. 1888.
 Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1888, Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1888.

376                       General Monthly Meeting.                    [Dec. 3,
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                        Monday, December 3, 1888.
   Sm JAMES CmcnTON-BuowNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                William Dunsmoro Bohm, Esq.
                Rev. Henry Thomas Cart, M.A.
                Mrs. Charles Daniell,
                Josiuh Goodall, Esq.
                Miss C. Naden,
                Benjamin Ward Richardson, M.D. F.E.S.
                Colonel T. E. Tennant,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
 following Donations to the Fund for the promotion of Experimental
 Research :
    Mrs. R. J. Mann (for the late Dr. R. J. Mann, M.R.I.) .. £20
    Mrs. Bloomfield Moore                                               £50
    Warren Do la Rue, Esq                                             £100
      The following Lecture Arrangements were announced :—
     PROFESSOR DEWAR, M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I. Fullerian Professor of Chemistry, R.I.
 Six Lectures (adapted to a Juvenile Auditory) on CLOUDS AND CLOUDLAND.
 On Deo. 27 (77i»rs.%), Dec. 29, 1888; Jan. 1, 3, 5, 8, 1889.
     GKOROE JOHN ROMANES, Esq. M.A. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I. Fullerian Professor
 of Physiology, U.I. Twelve Lectures, constituting the second part of a Course
 on BEFORE AND AFTER DARWIN (The Evidences of Organic Evolution, and the
 Theory of Natural Selection). On Tuesdays, Jan. 22 to April Ii.
     PIIOFESSOU J. \V. JUDD, F.R.S. Four Lectures on THE METAMORPHOSES OF
 MINERALS. On Tliursdays, Jan. 24, 31, Feb. 7, 14.
     SIDNEY MARTIN, M.D. F.R.C.S.E. B.Sc. Four Lectures on THE VENOM OP
 SERPENTS AKD ALLIED POISONS, INCLUDING THOSE USED IN THE MIDDLE AGES.
 On Thursdays, Feb. 21, 28, March 7, 14.
     J. HENRY MIDDLETON, Esq. M.A. Slade Professor of Fine Art in the
 University of Cambridge. Four Lectures on HOUSES AND THEIH DECORATION
 FROM THB CLASSICAL TO THE MEDIAETAL PERIOD. On Thursdays, March 21, 28,
 April 4, 11.
     PROFESSOR ERNST PAUER. Four Lectures on THE CHARACTER OF THE GREAT
  COMPOSERS AND THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THEIR WORKS (with Illustrations on the
 Pianoforte). On Saturdays, Jan. 2M, Feb. 2, 9, 16.
     THE RIGHT HON. LORD RAYLEICH, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.T. Pro
 fessor of Natural Philosophy, R.I. Eight Lectures on RXPERISIENTAL OPTICS
 (POLARIZATION; WATE THEORY). On Saturdays, Feb. 23 to April 13.

1888.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                             377
     The PIIKHKNTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The Lonls of Ike Admiralty - Nuutical Almauac fur 1892. 8vo. 1888.
Accademia dei Lincei, Heule, Rama—Atti, Sorie Qunrta : Rendiconti. 1" 8eme«tre,
      Vol. IV. Fas.'. IS ; 2« Scmestre, Vol. IV. Fuse. 2, 3, 4, 5. 8vo. 1888.
Agricultural Society of England. Royal—Journal, Vol. XXIV. Part 2. 8vo. 1888.
Amsterdam Societe Royale de Xoologie—Bydragcn tot de Dierkonde. Afl. 14, IS,
      16. 4to. 1888.
   Feestnumrner. 4to. 1888.
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. XII. Ho. 2. 8vo. 1888.
Asiatic Sanely of Bengal- Journal, Vol. LVII. Part 1, Nos. 1, 2; Vol. LV1I.
      Part 2, Nos. 2. H. 8vo. 1888.
   Proceedings, 1888, Nos. 4-8. 8vo.
Bankers' Institute—Journal, Vol IX. Part 9. 8vo. 1888.
Bassett, A. B. Esq. M.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—Treatise on Hydrodynamivt,
      Vol. II. 8vo. 1888.
British Architects, Royal Institute of— Proceeding*, 1888-9, Nog. 2, 3. 4to.
   Kalendar, 1888 9. 8vo.
Canada Meteorological tlerrice—Report, 1885. 8vo. 1888.
 Chemical Society—Journal for November. 1888. 8vo.
Dance, Henry A. Ksq.— Diccionario Mallorquin-Castellano-Latin. For J. J.
      Amenfrual. 2 vols. 4to. Palma, 1858-78.
   Missae Gothicae et Offlcii Muzarabica. 4to. Toleti, 1875.
   La Roqueta, 1887. 4to. Palmn, 1887.
Kditors—American Journal of Science for November, 1888. 8ro.
   Analyst for November, 1888. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for November, 1888. 4to.
   Chemical News for November, 1888. -tto.
   Chemist and Druggist for November, l 888. 8fo.
   Engineer for November, 1888. fol.
   Engineering for November, 1888. fol.                          V           •-"«.;•
   Industries for November, 1888. fol.
   Iron for November, 1888. 4to.                        </'-J ''T T V ^ *' *-"l
   Murray's Magazine for November, 188K. Svn.           I' W *1 * V
   Nature for November, 1888. 4to.                       V £> ^        t :,•
   Revue Scientiflquo for November, 1888. 4tt).
   Scientific News for Novcmber, 1888. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for November, 1888. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for November, 1888. 4to.
 Florence, KSiUotccn NaziomiU Centrale—Bulletino, Num. 68, 69. 8vo. 1888.
 Geological Imtituh, Imperial, Vienna —Verhfindluugen, 1888, No. 13. 8vo.
 Geological Society— Quarterly Journal, No. 176. 8vo. 1888.
 Glasgow Philosophical Socidy— Proceedings, Vol. XIX. 8vo. 1888.
 Gorden, Surgeon-General C. A. M.D. C.B. M.R.I, (the Auihor)—The Vivisection
       Controversy in Parliament. 8vo. 1888.
 Harlem, Society Hottandaise dee Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Tome \\I1I
       Liv. 1. 8vo. 1888.
 Longstaff, LI. W. Esq. F.R.G.S. M.R.I. (Oie Author)—Notes on the Wimbledon
       Free Public Library. 8vo. 1888.
 Madras Government Central Museum— Report, 1887-8. fol.
    Catalogue of Coins, No. 2. By E. Thurston. 8vo. 1888.
 Meteorological Office— Hourly Readings, 1885. Part 4. 4to. 1888.
    Meteorological Observations at Stations of the Second Order for 1884. 4to. 1888.
   Contributions to the Knowledge of the Meteorology of the Arctic Regions,
       Part 5. 4to. 1888.
 Ministry of Public Works, Rontt—Giornale del Genio Civile, i-erie QuinUi,
       Vol. II. Nos. 7, 8. 8vo. And Disegni. fol. 1888.
       VvL. XII. (No. 82.)                                               2 c

378                          General Monthly Meeting.           [Dec. 3, 1888.
        Matthias, Esq. (the Author)—Supplementary Notes, &a. to the Play of
      Hamlet. 8vo. 1888.
North of England Instituie of Mining and Mechanical Engineert—Transactions,
      Vol. XXXVII. fart 5. 8vo. 1888.
tfumirmatie SocMy—Chronicle and Journal, 1888, Part 3. 8vo. 1888.
Odoniologieal Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXI. No. 1. New
      Series. 8vo. 1888.
Perry, Rev. S. J. F.K.S. (the Author)—Results of Meteorological and Magnetit*!
      Observations, 1887. 12mo. 1888.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain —Journal. November, 1888. 8vo.
 Richardstm, B. W. M.D. t'.K.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Asclepind, Vol. V.
      No. 20. 8vo. 1888.
Rio de Janeiro Observatory— Revista, No. 10. 8vo. 1888.
Royal Institution of Cornwall—Journal, Vol. IX. Parts 1, 2, 3. 8vo. 1886-8.
St. Petersbourg, Academie Impcriale des Sciences—Me'moires, Tome XXXVI.
      Nos. 3-5. 4to. 1888.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. I. Nog. 1, 2. 8vo. 1888.
SoHety of Artt—Journal, November, 1888. 8vo.
Surgetm-General't Ojjioe, U.S. Army— Index Cutaloguo of the Library, Vol. IX.
      4to. 1888.
 Teyler Museum—Archives, Serie II. Vol. III. 2' Partie. 4lo. 1888.
   Catalogue ile la Bibliotheque, Liv. 7, 8. 4to. 1887-8.
 Uaileil Service Intlitution, Rayal—Journal. No. 145. 8vo. 1888.
 United Stutes Geological Survey—Monographs, Vol. XII. Geology and Mining
      Industry of Leudville, Colorado. With Atlas. 4to and fol. 1883-6.

                     Institution of Creat iSritaitt.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, January 25, 1889.
      COLONEL J. A. GRANT, C.B. C.S.I. F.R.8. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
        PROFESSOR G. H. DARWIN, M.A. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
             Meteorites and the History of Stellar Systems.9
THB great advances which have been recently made in the art of
celestial photography have now made it possible to study the details
of structure of some of the nebulae, which formerly only appeared as
a chaotic luminosity, even when viewed through a powerful telescope.
To illustrate this new method of research, a photograph of the great
nebula in Andromeda, by Mr. Isaac Roberts, was exhibited ; it showed
that the nebula consists of a bright central condensation, surrounded
by several faintly luminous concentric rings.
    A short sketch of the Nebular Hypothesis of Laplace and Kant
was then given. This is a mechanical theory of the evolution of a
nebula into a star with attendant planets.
    It was then pointed out that Mr. Roberts's photograph exhibits
exactly the condition which Laplace imagined, and it thus confirms the
substantial truth of his hypothesis.
    But many points in the evolution of a planetary system are still
involved in much obscurity, and there is in particular one difficulty,
so fundamental that some astronomers have been led by it virtually
to throw over the nebular hypothesis.
    That theory attributes the annulation of the nebula to the gradual
diminution and ultimate vanishing of gaseous pressure at the equator
of a rotating mass of gas. Thus it is the very essence of the hypo
thesis that the nebula should consist of contimious gas.
    Now there is in the solar system at present no trace of the all-
pervading gas from which it is supposed to have been evolved, whilst
there is much evidence that the space surrounding the sun and
planets is peopled by countless loose stones or meteorites flying
about in various directions.
    This latter view is confirmed by the recent spectroscopic researches
of Mr. Lockyer, who has been led to suggest that the luminous gas,
which undoubtedly forms the visible portion of nebulae, is gas vola
tilised from the solid state, and rendered incandescent by violent
impacts between meteoric stones. These gases, he says, cool quickly,
cease to be luminous and condense, but the collisions being incessant,
the whole nebula shines with a steady light.
              * See Phil. Trans. R.S. vol. 180A (1889), pp. 1-69.
   VOL. XII.     (No. 83.)                                        2 D

380                      Professor G. H. Dancin                  [JaD. 25,
    It appears, then, to be probable that the immediately antecedent
state of the sun and planets was not a continuous gas, but was a
swarm of loose stones. Here, then, there arises a dilemma ; for on
the one hand the meteoric theory denies the continuity of the matter
forming nebulae, whilst on the other hand the nebular hypothesis
demands such continuity.
    The object of this lecture was to show that there is, however, a
way in which these two apparently conflicting ideas may be reconciled.
    In order to prepare the way for the suggested reconciliation, a
sketch was then given of the Kinetic Theory of Gases, according to
which a gas consists of a great number of elastic molecules, moving
at high speed in all directions at hazard, and continually coming
into collision with one another by chance.
    According to this theory a pigmy, of a size comparable with the
average distance between adjacent molecules, would be conscious of
the blows he received from individual molecules, and he would have
lost the sense of gaseous pressure, which arises from impacts too
numerous and too rapid for discrimination. Thus, what is called
gaseous pressure is a question of the magnitude of the observer.
    The suggestion, then, of this lecture was that celestial nebulae are
of such large dimensions, that meteorites might be treated as molecules
and that their collisions might impart to a nebula, as a whole, the quasi-
gaseous mechanical properties demanded by the nebular hypothesis.
     But if such a suggestion is to rise above the level of mere con
jecture, it demands a careful examination in detail. It is accordingly
necessary not only to consider the details of an individual collision,
but also to examine whether a meteoric medium is of sufficiently fine
texture to fulfil the conditions imputed to it.
    The kinetic theory of gases requires that the molecules of gas
should be perfectly elastic, and, although meteorites are certainly not
perfectly elastic, it was maintained that the sudden volatilisation of
gas, at the point of contact of two of them at the moment of collision,
would act as a violent explosive between them, and would impart to
them a virtual elasticity of considerable perfection.
     The investigation of the degree of fineness of grain necessary to
admit the applicability of the theory involved numerical calculation,
and the requisite data had necessarily to be derived from the solar
 system.
     If the sun's mass were broken up into iron meteorites, each
 weighing say a pound, the dimensions of each meteorite would be
known, and their number would be four followed by thirty zeros.
     These iron stones were then supposed to be distributed in a swarm
extending beyond the present orbit of the planet Neptune. To give
numerical precision, the swarm was taken to extend as far beyond
Neptune as Saturn now is from the Sun.
    These supposed conditions were adopted merely by way of an
example which should represent a nebula of extreme tenuity ; for if
the meteorites were not too sparsely distributed to impart quasi-gaseous

                                          /> ••
1889.]     on Meteorites and the History*of&e'Sfar^ipbgK3.            381
properties to the whole in this supposed case, the nebula would afortiori
possess those properties when it had shrunk to smaller dimensions.
The swarm was supposed to be arranged in a perfect sphere, and
what may be described as the layers of equal density of population
were taken to be concentric spheres, but the density of population
would necessarily be much greater towards the middle than towards
the outside.
     The whole crowd of stones would arrange itself automatically into
a steady condition, in which the population had no tendency to shift,
although, of course, the dance and collisions between the constituents
of the crowd would be incessant. When this steady condition was sub
mitted to calculation, it was possible to discover the average velocity
of the stones, the average density of population, and the average
frequency of collision at each point of the swarm.
     It will naturally occur to the reader to inquire as to the source
of the great velocity of the stones; it arose from gravitation, the
stones having fallen in from a great distance towards a centre of
aggregation.
     If somewhere in space there were an aggregation of meteorites,
and if a stone were released from a state of rest at a very great dis
tance, it would fall towards the swarm under the influence of gravi
tation. On reaching the swarm it would have acquired a certain
velocity, and would penetrate to some uncertain distance, until it
happened to strike another stone. Henceforth its path would be
zigzag, as it happened to strike, and it became incorporated as a
member or molecule of the swarm.
    The supposed visitant from outside space imported energy of
motion into the swarm, and besides increased the total mass of the
swarm. Thus, if it be imagined that the swarm is increased by the
addition of stone after stone, each being let fall from a distance, it
is clear that, in the course of accretion, the energy of agitation of the
meteorites continually increases. When stones have ceased to fall
in, the materials of the nebula were collected, and by means of incessant
collisions the swarm gradually attained the steady condition above
referred to.
    By reasoning of this kind it was possible to discover how fast the
stones were moving, but it is proper to add that an important correction
had to be applied to allow for the fact that at each collision between
two stones some speed is lost. In the process of settling down into
the steady condition, each stone loses, by imperfect elasticity, three-
tenths of the speed it would have if it were a fresh arrival from space.
     It makes no material difference in the result by whatever process
the stones were collected together, and the account given above of the
formation of a swarm was not intended as a contribution to its history,
but was only meant to explain the mechanical principles involved.
     By this line of argument it may be concluded that when the solar
swarm extended half as far again as the planet Neptune, the average
velocity of the stones was three miles a second.
                                                            2 D 2

  382                      Professor G. H. Darwin                   [Jan. 25,
      It was next necessary to find out how often the stones came into
  collision, how far they travelled from one collision to the next, and
  whether the collisions could be frequent enough to impart to the whole
  nebula the gaseous property demanded by the nebular hypothesis.
      Even a microscopic animal in our atmosphere is not aware of the
  individual impacts of molecules on his body, and his sensation is still
  that of gaseous pressure. Bat it must clearly be a giant who would
  not be aware of the individual blows of meteorites in a meteoric
  nebula, but would only realise their average effects.
       It would not be easy to explain the exact reasoning by which it is
  possible to determine how large the giant must be in order to act as
  a judge of the gaseous property of tho meteoric swarm, nor of how a
  comparison of his dimensions with the texture of a meteoric swarm is
  to be made, and it must suffice to say that the comparison is best
  clothed in a form which may appear something quite different, but
   which is really substantially the same.
       It may be stated, then, that a meteoric nebula would behave suffi
   ciently like a gas to allow the nebular hypothesis to be true, if the
  average path of a meteorite between two collisions were only a short
  portion of that curved orbit which it would describe under the action
  of gravitation if it could move through the swarm without ever
  colliding with another stone.
       These explanations led on to the numerical values derivable from
  calculation, on the hypothesis that the solar nebula, consisting of
  1 Ib. iron stones, was distributed in a swarm extending half as far
  again as the present distance of the planet Neptune from the Sun.
       It appeared, then, that at the middle of the swarm a meteorite
   would, on the average, come into collision every 13 hours, and would
  travel 140.000 miles between collisions ; at the distance of the small
  planets called the asteroids, it would collide every 17 hours, and
  would travel 190,000 miles between ; at the distance of Uranus the
  collisions would be at intervals of 25 days, and the path 6,000,000
  miles ; and lastly, at the distance of Neptune, the interval would be
  190 days, and the path 28,000,000 miles.
       It may also be shown that the path described between collisions
  forms a larger portion of the whole curved orbit of a meteorite the
  further we go from the middle of the swarm. Even at the distance
  of the planet Neptune the collisions were, relatively speaking, so
  frequent that, on the average, gravity only sufficed to draw the
  meteorite aside from the straight path by l-66th of the length of path it
  had traversed, before it was deflected into a fresh orbit by collision with
  another stone. The fraction l-66th was then the numerical value of
  the criterion of the applicability of quasi-gaseous properties to the
  swarm, and this fraction is so small that it may be concluded that the
  swarm passes the proposed test.
       It followed, therefore, that if meteorites possess a virtual elasticity,
   a swarm of meteorites provides a gas-like medium of fine enough
   structure to satisfy the demands of the nebular hypothesis.
\

1889.]    on Meteorites and tlie History of the Stellar Systems.     383
    The result of this discussion then appeared to justify the opinion
that the meteoric theory may be reconciled with Laplace's hypothesis,
and that they may both be held to be true.
    After this discussion of the proposed modification of Laplace's
hypothesis, it was natural to turn to the series of events which may
be supposed to have occurred after the nebular stage of evolution.
    At the various centres of condensation, which now form the sun,
planets, and satellites, the swarm of meteorites must be supposed to
have become denser, and the collisions too frequent to allow the gases
to condense again, so that by degrees all solid matter in the neigh
bourhood of such centres would be volatilised. Away from these con
densations there were still many free meteorites, but the majority of
those which formed the swarm in primitive times would have been
absorbed, and the absorption would still go on gradually.
    The collisions amongst the free meteorites became rarer and less
violent, and finally, when relative motion was nearly annulled, almost
ceased to occur. The residue of the meteoric swarm then consisted
of sparse flights of meteorites moving in streams. There is evidence
of the existence of such streams at the present day in the zodiacal
light, in falling stars, and in comets. But these are the dregs and
sawdust of the solar system, and merely give a memento of the myriads
which must have existed in early times, before the sun and planets
were formed.
    The subject of this lecture is a large one, and the limits of time
rendered it impossible to do more than speak of the more prominent
features of the problem. The value of the investigation of which
some account has been given, will appear very different to different
minds. To some it will stand condemned as altogether too specula
tive ; others may think that it is better to risk error on the chance of
winning truth. It was, however, contended by the lecturer that the
line of thought flowed in the channel of truth, and that by its aid
many other interesting problems might perhaps be solved with suffi
cient completeness to throw further light on the evolution of nebulas
and of planetary systems.
                                                            [G. H. D.]

384                      Professor W. C. Mclntosh              [Feb. 1,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, February 1, 1889.
             JOHN RAB, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
         PBOFESSOB W. C. MCINTOSH, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. tfcc.
                  The Life-history of a Marine Food-fish.
IT is but a few years since the life-history of our most important
marine food-fishes was involved in considerable obscurity—not only
as regards popular views, but even in respect to the knowledge of
men of science. Thus, for instance, in the years 1883 and 1884 the
almost unanimous opinion of British fishermen was that our common
 food-fishes sought the shallow water of the bays and inshore ground
 generally for the purpose of depositing their eggs on the bottom.
 No observations specially bearing on this point had been made by
 British zoologists, and a series had to be undertaken for a public
 inquiry then in progress—with a result which demonstrated how
 extensive the reverse of the popular notion was. Again certain
 comparatively recent authors on British fishes speak of a common
 fish like the gurnard as spawning twice a year, whereas, after careful
 observation, no evidence in support of this view has been obtained.
 The same obscurity veiled the larval and post-larval conditions of
 most of the food-fishes, even G. O. Sars—in regard to the latter
 stage—describing no intermediate forms between the larva of 6 mm.
 and the post-larval stage of 24 mm. in the cod—almost the only fish
 to which some attention had been paid.
      On the other hand, our knowledge of the development and life-
 history of the fresh-water fishes—such as the salmon, trout, and
 charr—has for many years been well understood—thanks to the
 labours of Louis Agassiz and Vogt in Switzerland, Coste and
 Lereboullet in France, Ransom in England, and Shaw in Scotland,
  on the scientific side, and of the noblemen and gentlemen of Perth
  shire (ably seconded by Robert Buist) in connection with Stormont-
  field Ponds on the Tay, on the popular side. Much information
  has also been recently obtained by Dr. Day and Sir J. Gibson
  Maitland at the excellent ponds of the latter at Howieton.
      A short time ago, relying on experience derived from fresh
  water fishes, not a few imagined the eggs of marine fishes as readily
  visible and tangible objects—possibly associated in their minds with
  certain practices in trout-fishing, or it may be with the manufacture
  of caviare. Recent investigations, however, have shown that in most

1889.]            on the Life-history of a Marine Food-fish.                  385
marine food-fishes the eggs are minute glassy spheres which float
freely in the ocean. For a knowledge of this fact we are indebted in
the first instance to Prof. G. O. Sars, of Christiania, a naturalist
trained from boyhood under a distinguished father, and who by a
fortunate appointment to a fishery post in Norway, was enabled to
discover that the eggs of the cod, haddock, and gurnard, floated in the
water, or, as we term it, were pelagic. He thus opened up a new
field in the economy of the food-fishes, which in a great maritime
country like ours ought not to have remained so long unexplored.
     Lately, however, attention has been earnestly directed to the
subject, and the labours of Cunningham, Brook, Prince, and others
have made considerable advances in this department.
     It is now known that the great majority of our British marine
food-fishes—indeed all our most valuable kinds (including even the
sprat and the pilchard amongst the clupeoids) produce minute eggs
(Fig. 1)—as transparent as crystal, and
which float freely throughout the water.                        FIG. 1.*
These eggs, moreover, are not all shed at
once, as in the case of the salmon, but suc
cessive portions of the ovary become ripe,
and the eggs then issue externally. If by
any accident or irregularity—as for instance
the confinement of a flounder in an unhealthy
tank—this gradational issue is interfered
with, the animal dies from the great dis-
tention caused by the pent-up eggs. In the
case of the cod this gradual issue of the
eggs continues probably for a week or two,              Pelagic egg of the Ling,
so that the progeny of a single fish in one                     enlarged,
season may vary considerably in size.
     From the early months of the year onward to late autumn the sea
off our shores thus abounds with pelagic eggs, those of the rockling,
haddock, and sprat being amongst the earlier forms, while the later
include those of the sole. As indicated in the Trawling Report, and
now supported by further experience, it would be a very difficult
matter indeed to arrange for a close time in the sea, that is to say, for
a limited period during which the mature fishes might be permitted to
spawn in peace. This, however, in the case of individual species,
such as the cod, might more readily be carried out, so as to save the
mature fishes at the spawning period.
     In a vessel of still sea water these transparent glassy spheres
rise at once on issuing from the fish, and form a stratum on the
surface. Even the ripe portions of ovaries removed from the
rejected viscera on a pier will show the same features, and thus,
indeed, they first came before the lamented Lord Dalhousie at
    * I am indebted to Mr. E. B. Prince, B.A. for kindly aiding me with sketches
for the woodcuts. The sketch of Motella is by Dr. Scharff. When floating freely
in the sea the blastodisk is inferior.

386                      Professor W. C. Mclntosh                     [Feb. 1,
Anstruther. In the sea, however, they are seldom met with on the
surface, and the tow-nets require to be sunk a fathom or two to
capture them, for their specific gravity is so little less than that of
sea water that they are carried hither and thither by the currents in
every direction. Some indeed are captured near the bottom by nets
attached to the trawl-beam, while experience with the large net of
the St. Andrews Laboratory has proved that a great number are
carried in mid water.
     When these glassy eggs issue from the female fish they are soon
fertilised in the surrounding water ; so that in British seas at any
rate non-fertilisation is one of the rarest conditions in pelagic
eggs. It is indeed more likely to happen in the case of the herring,
which deposits its eggs in masses on the bottom, or in artificial
circumstances in tanks. The unfertilised egg soon becomes opaque
and sinks, so that it is readily recognised.
    In this connection I would again refer to the notion not long ago
firmly rooted in the minds of many—especially those practically
engaged in fishing—that the fishes at the spawning season seek the
shallow water in which to deposit their eggs. Now there is little
in nature to support this idea. Shore-fishes it is true, such as the
lump-sucker and sea-scorpion (Coitus scorpius), do deposit their eggs
there (and there cannot be a doubt that some of the masses of eggs
thus deposited have been mistaken for those of the food-fishes), but
the edible fishes proper, such as the cod, haddock, whiting, flounders,
and others, appear to produce their eggs just where they happen to
be feeding at the season. Their eggs are taken in charge by the
ocean generally, and hence are independent of any imaginary protec
tion or privilege pertaining to the shallow waters.
     Moreover, it does not follow that the fishes of an enclosed bay *
will increase of themselves. As in the case of the plaice, in shallow
sandy bays, it may happen that most of the large mature fishes are
beyond the limits, the half-grown or immature forms mainly occur
ring within ; pelagic ova therefore must be borne inward, and still
more the pelagic young, while the post-larval stages likewise migrate
shorewards ; a counter-migration of the older forms subsequently
taking place to the deeper water. Such bays therefore, have to
 depend for their stock of fishes on the unprotected offshore. If by
 any chance the latter waters were depopulated the inshore would
 seriously suffer,f
     The minute size of the eggs of all the important marine food-
fishes enables a fish like the cod, for instance, to produce an enormous
number—probably about 9,000,000 as against the 18-25.000 of the
 salmon, or the 10-30,000 of the herring, both of which fishes deposit
    * For example, closed by a Fishery Order.
    t This feature wns pointed out in the ' Report of H.M. Trawling Commission,
 under Lord Dalhousie.'

1889.]           on the Life-history of a Marine Food-fish.                    387
their eggs on the bottom. In the same way the very small eggs of
the dab provide for a large annual increase of the species.
     The translucent eggs, which, unless they contain a globule
of oil, as in Fig. 1, are difficult to see in some instances even
in a glass vessel, thus escape (by floating throughout the water) the
vicissitudes to which a purely surface-life would expose them, such
as the admixture of the surface-water with rain, and the attacks of
gulls, ducks, and other forms ; and they also are less at the mercy of
the active predatory races living on the bottom, not to allude to the
risks of being swept by storms on the beach or captured and de
stroyed by the ground-rope of the trawler. Nature indeed could have
devised no method more secure than this for the safe increase of
those valuable fishes which for ages have peopled our waters, and,
with Prof. Huxley, I venture to say, will perhaps people them for
ages yet to come, notwithstanding the persistent efforts of man to
annihilate them.
      Some good observers, for example, Prof. Ryder in America, have
attached much importance to the oil-globule in eggs which are
pelagic ; but its buoyant influence has been slightly over-estimated,
for, as he himself shows, some contain no oil-globule, while the
massive oil-globnles in the eggs of the salmon and cat-fish have no
such effect.* They float, as well shown by Mr. Edward E. Prince,|
solely in virtue of their specific gravity, which is somewhat less than
that of sea-water. The moment fresh water is added they sink, as
they likewise often do when transferred from a vessel filled at sea
into one containing shore-water.
      While immediately after deposition these minute spheres are
prone to accident from impurity and sudden changes in the tempera
 ture of the water, such would not seem to be the case after develop
 ment has made some progress. Thus many living eggs will be
 found in odoriferous vessels brought from sea by the fishermen if the
 enclosed embryos have reached an advanced stage. Again, while
 carrying out some experiments on temperature (at the suggestion of
 Prof. Huxley) during the Trawling Expeditions, I had occasion to
 heat a test-tube containing some of the eggs of the flounder, so as to
 make them rush up and down the vessel most actively. Considerable
 heat was applied, and under the impression the eggs were irretrievably
     * Prof. Ryder classifies buoyaut ova into (1) those in which the specific
 gravity of the yolk is diminished, ex. cod ; (2) those in which large oil-drops in
 an eccentric position aid in causing the eggs to float ; and (3) those in which a
 very Lirge oil-drop caused the ovum to float even in fresh wnter. Mr. Prince
 has shown that the number of buoyant eggs without oil is at least equal to the
 nurnbt-r with oil-drops. The statement of the former, therefore, that the cod's
 egg is unique in floating by the diminished specific gravity of the protoplasmic
 matter of the vitellus does not traverse the view of the latter. Moreover, it must
 be remembered that the oil-globule in many is not permanently eccentric, but
 moves throughout the yolk.
    t Secretary to the Mussel and Bait Committee.

 388                       Professor W. C. Mclntosh                     [Feb. 1,
 injured, the tube was set aside. Some days afterwards, when ex
 plaining the nature of the experiment to Prof. Ewart, he noticed
 motion in the tube, and further examination showed that after all this
 exposure to heat the little flounders had emerged as usual, and were
alternately floating and swimming about in the water. On the other
 hand, severe frosts are fatal to ova crowded in shallow vessels, in
many cases actual rupture taking place ; * and the same occurs in
large eggs, for example those of the catfish, deposited on the bottom
of the vessel.
     Out of the little glassy sphere, after a longer or shorter interval
(varying from a few days to a few weeks, according to temperature),
comes a minute and nearly transparent fish (Fig. 2) which at first is
often as passive in the currents as the eggs themselves,f It soon, how
ever, uses its tail for swimming and its pectoral fins for balancing.
Its shape is somewhat like that of a tadpole, partly from the large
head, but mainly from the great size of the yolk-sac, which contains
a store of nourishment on which the little mouthless creature, about
                                      Fio. 2.
                      Larval Ling, immediately after hatching.
  •
3 mm. long, sustains itself for a week or ten days. In this respect it
somewhat resembles the young salmon in which a much larger
collection of the same food supports it about six weeks amongst the
gravel in the spawning-bed of the river, though a closer scrutiny
reveals certain essential differences. Thus the store of nourishment
in the yolk-sac of the salmon is taken up by the blood-vessels which
branch in a complex manner over the whole yolk, whereas in the
young cod, though the heart is present and pulsating, not a blood
vessel at first is seen, and none ever enters the yolk-sac. The
absorption of this nourishment therefore must take place by aid of the
cells and tissues themselves, and there is nothing specially wonderful
in this, when the conditions in the endoderm of Hydra, and other
instances of intracellular digestion are considered.
     It has been mentioned that these minute and most delicate little
    * ' Nature,' June, 1886.
    t For some years the development of fishes has been studied by able workers,
amongst others on the Continent, by Gotte, Kupft'er, Hoffman, Henneguy, E.
Van Beneden, Osiannikov, and Rafaele; in America, by Alex. Agaasiz, Ryder,
and Whitman ; while in our own country, Ransom, Klein, Cunningham, Prince,
and Brook have carried out similar researches.

1889.]            on the Life-history of a Marine Food-fish.                   389
fishes are nearly transparent, and this is more or less the case
throughout, though in the majority—even before they leave the egg—•
points of pigment appear here and there
in the skin, so as to give them a distinc                           FIG. 3.
tive character (Fig. 3). After hatching,
these pigment-spots branch out in a
stellate manner, thus becoming more
evident, and it is found that in most cases
each little food-fish has colours of its own.
Thus the cod (Fig. 4) is known by its
four somewhat regular black bands, the
pigment on the haddock being less defined,
the whiting by its canary-yellowish hue,
the gurnard by its chrome-yellow, the
ling by its gamboge-yellow, the flounder                  Flounder, showing pigment
by its yellow and black, and so on. All                            in the egg.
these hues, however, become greatly
modified during subsequent development, indeed the pigment in no
 group of vertebrates shows more remarkable changes between the
young and adult states than certain of our food-fishes. Thus for
instance the cod is characteristically speckled in its tiny youth
                    FIG. 4.                                   FIG. 5.
      Larval Cod with black spots or                Aggregation of pigment in
          bands, slightly enlarged.                     Post-larval Cod.
 (Fig. 4), next it becomes more or less uniformly tinted, then the
 pigment groups itself somewhat irregularly on the sides (Fig. 5) ;
thereafter it is boldly tesselated (Fig. 6), subsequently blotched
                                        FIG. 6.
                Tesaelated condition of young Cod (spirit-preparation).
 with reddish brown, and finally in its adult condition it again puts
 on more or less uniform tints. The ling shows a similar series

390                     Professor W. C. Mclntosh                [Feb. 1,
of transformations, the colours, however, differing in their arrange
ment, being marked with gamboge-yellow in its larval, slightly
barred in its early post-larval stage, then the body becomes more or
less uniformly tinted in its post-larval phase, and the little fish is
furnished with a pair of enormously developed and bright yellow-
ventral fins (Fig. 7)—so diiferent from the short ones of the adult.
                                    Fio. 7.
                    Long-finned Post-larval Ling, enlarged.
It is next striped longitudinally when about three inches long
(Fig. 8), thus affording a great contrast to the tesselated condition of
the young cod. In this stage an olive-brown band passes from the tip
of the snout in a line with the middle of the eye, straight backward
to the base of the caudal fin-rays. The pale ventral surface
bounds it inferiorly, while a dorsal stripe with a beautiful opaline
lustre runs from the tip of the snout, over the upper part of
each eye to the tail, on which it is opaque white, thus giving the
                                   FIG. 8.
                  Young Ling, about 3 inches long (in spirit).
fish a characteristic appearance. The dorsal line from the brain
backward is distinguished by a narrow edge of dull orange or pale
olive, which relieves the colours formerly mentioned, and the general
effect is varied by two black specks in the dorsals. When it is
double the length (i.e. 6 or 7 inches) a complete change has taken
place in its coloration (Fig. 9). Instead of being striped the
fish is now boldly and irregularly blotched—both dorsally and
laterally, the region of the white stripe being indicated by the pale
and somewhat scalloped area dividing the dorsal from the lateral
blotches. Fourteen or fifteen brownish blotches occur between the
pectorals and the base of the tail, and they arc separated by the

 1889.]           on the Life-history of a Marine Food-fish.                    391
 whitish areas, which thus assume a reticulated appearance, and hoth
 kinds of pigment invade the dorsal fins. Other touches of dark
                                      FIG. 9
              Young Ling in the barred stage. About half natural size.
  pigment on the fins and tail increase the complexity of the colora
  tion at this stage.
      Again, some species, like the gurnard, have pigment over the
  yolk-sac before they are hatched, others have not. The dragonet in
  its post-larval (and pelagic) stage has its ventral surface deeply
  tinted with black pigment, while in the adult, a ground-loving fish,
  it is white. The St. Andrew's cross in the eye of the post-larval
  four-horned Cottus (C. quadricornis~) is another remarkable feature
  (Fig. 10). No more interesting or
  more novel field, indeed, than this                       FIG. 10.
  exists in the whole range of zoology ;
  but the investigations need ships
  and boats, with expensive appliances,
  as well as persevering work for
  several seasons. We have only
  been able to open the field at St.
  Andrews by the help of the Trawling
  Commission under Lord Dalhousie,
  and subsequently by the aid of the            Head of Coitus qundricorni with
                                                    St. Andrew's cross in eyes.
  Fishery Board. It may be asked,
  Why is all this remarkable varia
  tion in colour? Just for the same reason that the young tapirs
  and wild pigs are striped, or the young red deer spotted—the adults
  in each case being uniformly tinted. Such features indicate their
  genetic relation with ancestral forms having these marks ; and, more
  over, in the struggle for existence, such variations in tint conduce
  to the safety of the young.
      The view of Eimer that the markings in animals are primi-
, lively longitudinal would not suit for many fishes, notably for the
  young cod, ling, and Pleuronectids, and, indeed, Haacke has already
  pointed this out from a study of the Australian fish, Helotes scotue,*
  the adult of which is marked by eight longitudinal bands, while
                           * One of the Pristipomatidw.

392                        Professor W. C. Mclniosh                    [Feb. 1,
young specimens present in addition a row of clear transverse bands
which subsequently disappear.
     The larval salmon enters the world of a size—though small—
that is readily recognisable, viz. about three-fourths of an inch in
length, but the marine forms under consideration, from their minute
size and glassy translucency, are almost invisible to the naked eye—
just a gleam of light broken by the passage of a different medium,
or a tinge of pigment, arresting attention. Only in the cat-fish
(which is not much—though it ought to be more—of a food-fish)
with its large egg, have we a size nearly reaching that of the salmon
at birth.
     We had left the larval fish tossed about by the currents and
unable to struggle against them, now floating with its yolk-sac
                                   uppermost, or hanging in the water with
                                  its head downward, and again making
               •                  spasmodic darts hither and thither. Soon,
                                  however, it gathers strength, and at the
                                  end of a week or ten days it glides
                                  actively through the water, and avoids
                                  both obstacles and enemies, the young
                                  cod nimbly escaping the forceps, poising
                                  itself in the water with its large pectoral
                                  fins (Fig. 11), and evincing both intelli
                                  gence and dexterity. Moreover, this
                                  activity greatly promotes respiration in
                                  those like the gurnard with a motionless
                                  T^'^ ™f» J** *»                          sent
       fins, magnified.            through the mouth and over the bran
                                  chial region. Its mouth has now opened
                                   and the yolk-sac has been absorbed, while
it feeds on the most minute of the little Copepods, especially those
almost microscopic in size, that swarm in the surrounding water.
The provision whereby such little fishes find in the ocean food suited
to their capacities is one of the most striking features in nature,
but it has only recently been carefully investigated.* It is a notion
no longer tenable that during the winter and spring the sea—to a
large extent—is devoid of the wealth of pelagic life so characteristic
of the summer months—just as it is of the genial waters of the
tropics. For several years, however, it has been known that a vast
abundance of minute life of all kinds is present throughout the
entire year—and from the surface to the bottom. Moreover,
during the warmer months a constant succession of young forms
    * Vide La faune pelagique du Golfe de Marseille, par Gonrret, Ann. dn
Mus(?e d'hist. nat. de Marseille, II. 1884. The pelagic fauna of our shores in
relation to the nourishment of the young food-fishes, Ann. Nat. Hist. Feb. 1887.
Also Hensen and Mobius in Ftinfter Bericht der Kommission zur wise. &c. der
deutschen Meere, Berlin 1887, pp. 1 and 109.

 1889.]          on the Life-history of a Marine Food-fish.                  393
rises from the eggs both of the sedentary and creeping animals on
the bottom to the surface—where they sport in the summer sun,
undergo certain changes, and again descend as they assume the form
 of the adult. The pelagic young food-fishes—swimming freely in
the ocean—thus have a double chance at them—first in their very
early stage as they rise, and again in their larger and later condition
as they descend. The enormous numbers, countless variety, and
ever-changing nature of the small animals either directly or
indirectly constituting the food of these little fishes form an im
portant feature in the economy of the sea. Such animal forms
comprise those long known in the British seas, besides others more
familiar to arctic voyagers, or to the sunny waters of the Medi
terranean, for, with modern apparatus and persistent effort (thanks
to the enlightened views of the Government acting through the
Fishery Board), our knowledge is always extending.
     It is a remarkable fact that it is primarily to plants in inshore
waters that the abundance and variety of animals are in many respects
due, especially if estuaries also debouch in the neighbourhood. Thus
nowhere are the swarms of Sagitto, Appendicularians, Crustaceans, and
other forms of fish-food more conspicuous than in the midst of a sea
teeming with diatoms, Rhizosolenise, and other algoid structures.*
These nourish many of the lower forms upon which the crustaceans
and other higher types feed, the latter again falling a prey to the fishes.
Moreover, while the larger forms of the Copepods and other crustaceans,
for example, afford suitable nourishment for tho more advanced post-
larval fishes, the multitudes of larval crustaceans (Nauplii) are adapted
to the needs of the smallest larval food-fishes. Now this plant-life
is specially abundant in April and May, just when the larval and very
young post-larval fishes appear more abundantly in the inshore waters,
so that the cycle is nearly complete, viz. from the inorganic medium —
through microscopic plantand larval crustacean—to the post-larval fish.
I have mentioned the neighbourhood of an estuary as a prolific source
of food for young fishes, and I need only explain further by instancing
the case of mussel-beds, which for months pour countless myriads of
larval mussels into the adjoining sea, far beyond the needs of the area
as regards mussel-culture, and which form a favourite food of the little
fishes at all stages, but especially from an inch and a half to three
inches in length. These fishes feed on the young mussels as they
settle down on the sea-weeds, rocks, and zoophytes in August, after a
free-swimming larval existence. Like some of the forms indicated
above, mussels live to a considerable extent ou microscopic plants and
various minute organisms contained in the mud of the estuaries and
other sites, so that a rich and favourite food, universally liked by fishes,
is the product of these uninviting flats. Moreover, in passing, it may
be remarked that, while everywhere preyed on by the food-fishes, it
   1 The fact that certain fishes feed on Infusoria has not been overlooked.

394                        Professor W. C. Mclntosh                   [Feb. 1,
occasionally happens that in turn the mussel proves a source of incon
venience to them, for, settling on the gill-arches of haddocks, the
mussels flourish on a site so suitable for aeration and food that they
by-and-by press out the gill-cover and impede respiration, just as the
shore-crab (which is also fond of mussels) has its eye-stalks wrenched
out by the slow but sure growth of the young mussels which have
fixed themselves in their sockets. Nemesis thus, by a chance of
anchorage, converts a favourite food into a permanent inconvenience.
     Again, in connection with the pelagic food of fishes, it is a well-
known fact that adult cod are extremely fond of sea-anemones,* and
some of the rarest species may be procured in their stomachs, a feature
by no means surprising when we remember that Abbe Dicquomare
cooked and ate his sea-anemones with great relish, and wrote in their
favour, as also did Mr. Gosse in our own country. Now, the pelagic
young fishes, instead of roaming near the bottom in proximity to the
anemones fixed on the rocks, and running the risk of being themselves
 captured for food, find in the inshore waters in summer the larval
Peachise in great numbers conveniently attached by the mouth to the
little hydromedusse (Thaumantias hemisphserica, and T. melanops) which
 occur in swarms in mid-water. Moreover, the somewhat larger young
 food-fishes (2-3 inches) show the same liking for the coelenterate group,
 by browsing on the zoophytes (Obelia genictdata) which cover the
 stones and rocks with feathery tufts, yet the zoophytes are not much
 the worse for this treatment, for they by-and-by shoot afresh, and
 clothe the area once more with a minute forest. The rapidity with
 which such zoophytes grow is remarkable, though we must remember
 that in some cases the old stock naturally dies off after having
 produced swarms of pelagic young.
     Under this rich food, the young fishes grow apace—head and eyes,
 mouth and accessory organs, body and fins—all rapidly increase, and
 the little fish, hatched in the spring, say from March to May, is soon in
 what is known as the post-larval stage, that is, has lost its yolk-sac,
 has assumed a more or less uniform tint, and has gill-fringes and
 teeth. It is about a quarter of an inch long, and is both active and
 intelligent, the large hend and large eyes of the young food-fishes
 being at this stage specially conspicuous, and in marked contrast with
 such as Cottuf. The marginal fin is quite continuous at a quarter of
 an inch, and the lancet-like termination of the caudal end of the body
 is noteworthy.
      About this time the ventral fins of the pelagic fishes first make
 their appearance, for hitherto they have managed to do without them.
 Moreover, these fins in some, such as the rockling and ling, undergo
 remarkable development, forming in the latter (Fig. 7) a pair of great
 ventral wings conspicuously coloured yellow ; yet in the adult (a
     * A favourite bait for cod in some parts (e. g. Aberdeen and St. Andrews),
  and from the fact, amongst others, that star-fishes do not molest them on the
  hooks, no bait is more successful.

1889.]          on the Life-history of a Marine Food-fish.            395
ground-fish) they attain no greater dimensions than in the cod, both
having at a certain stage soft, free filaments or tactile processes at
the tip. The ventral fins in the post-larval rockling are equally large,
the distal half being black, so that at first sight the little fish when
captured seems to possess a great ventral spine on each side (Fig. 12).
                                    FIG. 12.
                         Post-larval Rockliug, enlarged.
In the post-larval gurnard, again, the huge pectoral fins form a
drapery for the entire body when folded back, only the tip of the
tail extending beyond them (Fig. 13). They are indeed proportion
ally as large as in the southern flying gurnards, but in these the
fins reach full development only in adult life, while in the young
stages they are comparatively small—exactly the reverse happening
in the grey gurnard of our seas. The presence of the broad arches of
                                    Fio. 13.
                         Post-larval Gurnard, enlarged.
pigment on the pectorals of several forms, such as the present species,
green cod, and armed bullhead, is also an interesting feature. We
have not yet read the riddle of all these changes, but in the ling the
great ventral fins are probably connected with its roaming or pelagic
life, and this explanation would also suit in the case of the rockling,
both in their mature state seeking their food on the ground.
     The little fishes at this stage are still more or less translucent,
except in the region of the eyes, which are silvery, and on the parts
where the pigment occurs. Moreover, their fondness for a minute
reddish Copepod (Calanu« finmarchicus), which occurs in myriads
around them, gives the region of the stomach a faint pinkish hue from
the translncency of the tissues. By-and-by, however, pigment appears,
foreshadowing in the cod (Fig. 5) those peculiar squares which give the
sides, at a somewhat later stage, their tessellated or tartan-like aspect.
Besides, they are found neai-er the bottom of the water, so that they can
be captured in a naturalist's trawl with a fine gauze bag at the end.
There is, therefore, a downward tendency as the little fishes get older
     VOL. XII. (No. 83.)                                       2 B

 396                         Professor W. C. Mclntosh                         [Feb. 1,
 and stronger, and thus in many cases a parallelism exists between them
 and the minute forms on which they prey, for the eggs rise on deposi
 tion towards the surface, where the helpless larvae (or newly hatched
 young fishes) also often occur, and then they seek the lower regions of
 the water as their size increases.
     There is much that is wonderful in such a life-history, especially
 in the metamorphoses or changes of form undergone by many of our
                                       best fishes such as the flat fishes
                                       (Pleuronectidae), which come out of the
             Fio. 14.                 egg just like a haddock or cod, with
                                      an eye on each side, as in Fig. 2, yet
                                      in after life have both eyes on the same
                                      side. Nothing like this occurs in any
                                      of the higher vertebrates. Gradually
                                      during growth the body of the fish
                                      increases in depth (Fig. 14), then the
         Young " Witch "              right or left eye passes over (Fig. 15)
    (Pleuronectes cynoglossus)        the ridge of the head to the opposite
   in the third stage, enlarged.
                                      side, while the creature, hitherto pela
                                      gic, sinks deeper in the water and
exhibits a tendency to lie on the side from which the eye has
passed, and which gradually loses its dark pigment so as to become
white.* It finally reaches the bottom, taking up its residence amongst
the sand or sandy mud, and lying with the two eyes and the coloured
side up, the white underneath. The mode by which the eye travels
round has been a fruitful source of discussion with scientific men, and
                                        Fio. 15.
         Young " Witch " at a later stage, the left eye just appearing on the
                              ridge of the head, enlarged.
amongst these the names of Steenstrup,               Malm, Schiodte, and Alex.
Agassiz abroad, with Wyville Thomson                 and especially Traquair in
our own country, are well known. The                 fact is—two methods exist
in nature ; in the one the eye travels over         the ridge of the head, as just
       The tardy disappearance of the pigment in some forme is interesting.

 1889.]          on the Life-history of a Marine Food-fig],.                     397
 described in the flounder ; in the other it traverses the soft and yielding
 tissues of the young fish, and so gains the other side. In Plagusia, the
 species in which the latter remarkable change occurs in the post-larval
 stage, the general tissues are so transparent that the creature in a glass
 vessel can only be noticed by the two apparently disembodied eyes,
 or by the gleam of light caused by its movements ; and before the
 change ensues in its eyes it can look obliquely through its own body
 and see what passes on the other side.*
     Up to this stage in the life-history of both round and flat fishes it
 will have been apparent that the efforts of man can have little effect
 on the vast multitudes of the eggs and minute fishes. His trawl
 sweeps beneath them, or they are carried harmlessly through its meshes.
 Not even in the case of a trawl blocked by a fish-basket and several
 large skate are any likely to occur. No example indeed was pro
 cured in the trawling expeditions for the Commission under Lord
 Dalhousie. The hooks of the liners are too large for the mouth at
 this stage, and hence they escape capture. Their small size and
translucency also seem to afford protection in the case of predatory fishes
of their own or other kinds, for they are rare, so far as present obser
 vation goes, in the stomach of any fish. Their great numbers are
 doubtless kept in check by some means, and we know that even
jelly-fishes (e. g. Pleurdbrachisi) are very fond of post-larval fishes.
 It is only when they become somewhat larger that they are preyed on
 by their own and other species, and are swept up in thousands by the
 destructive shrimp-nets on our sandy shores.
     While the little food-fishes are assuming the change of hue
indicated in the preceding pages, they in many cases seek the inshore
waters ; at least systematic use of the mid-water and other nets prove
that at certain seasons they are met with in large numbers at the
entrance to bays or off shore, and that a little later—in the case of the
cod from the first of June onwards—they are visible from the rocky
margins. The coloration in this species (cod) is now beautifully
tessellated (Fig. 6), and they swim in groups, often in company with
the young green cod, at the margin of the rocks at low water, and in
the little tidal bays connected with rock-pools. The latter are often
richly clothed with tangles, bladder-weed, red and green seaweeds,
and the green Ulva—amidst the mazes of which the young fishes find
both food and shelter, capturing the little crustaceans (Copepods,
Ostracods, and others) swimming there, and snatching the young
mussels and minute univalve mollusks from the blades of the sea
weeds. To the zoologist few sights are more interesting than to
watch the little cod in these fairy lakes, as they swim in shoals
against the current, balancing themselves gracefully in the various
eddies by uid of their pectoral fins. In a mixed company, the young
cod are easily recognised by their coloration, and the reddish hue of
     Alex. Agassiz, ' Proceed. Americ. Acatl. Arts, and Sc., vol. xiv. p. 8, 1878.
                                                                    2 E 2

398                    Professor W. C. Mclntosh                   [Feb. 1,
the occiput, for the blood-vessels there shine through the tissues,
which generally are more translucent than in the green cod.
     Prof. G. O. Bars considered that about this stage there was an
intimate connection between them and the hordes of mednsse (Aurelta
and Cyanea) which abound in the inshore waters towards the end of
summer. He thought the young cod approached the medusa for the
sake of the minute pelagic animals stupefied by its poisonous threads,
and that the fish repaid this favour by picking off a parasitic crustacean
(Hyperia medusarunt) which clings to the medusa. Observations, con
tinued for a long period in this country, however, show that this
connection is only casual and of very little importance, and that
certain Hyperise are occasionally found in vast numbers in a free
condition.
     As the season advances, the young cod are joined off the rocky
ledges by a few pollack and whiting, but not by the haddock, which
appears to have certain social views of its own—keeping probably a
little farther out. The size of these cod late in autumn, as in
October, varies, some reaching 4 to 5 inches in length. Their
food ranges from zoophytes to crustaceans, mollusks, and small fishes,
and in confinement the larger are voracious, an example about 5
inches readily attacking a smaller (3 inches) and swallowing it as
fur as possible, though for some time a considerable portion of the
body and tail of the prey projected from the mouth. Moreover, the
tessellated condition becomes less marked, and as they approach
8 inches in length a tendency in some to uniformity of tint is
noticeable. Many of those, however, that continue to haunt the
rocky shores and the tangle-forests beyond low water still retain for
some time mottlod sides, and they are known by the name of rock-
cod. Further, while their growth in the earlier stages is less marked,
it is now very rapid—even in confinement. The exact rate of growth
in the free condition in the sea is difficult to estimate, but the little
cod of an inch and a half to an inch and three-quarters in June rench
lengths varying from 3 to 5 inches in autumn, nnd in the tanks of
the laboratory, specimens 5 inches in August attain 8 inches the
following March. At Arendal, in Norway, where opportunities for
watching the growth of cod in confinement have been supplied with a
liberality yet foreign to our country, Dannevig found that the cod of
3 mm. in April reached only 15 mm. in June, a length somewhat at
variance with the condition, as above stated, on our shores. In July
they measured 2 inches, in September 3 inches and a half, and in.
October about 4J inches. The second year they attained 14 to 16 inches
in length. In artificial circumstances, as well as in nature, it is found
that great variation exists in the sizes of the young fishes of the same
age, and this variation would not seem to be related to temperature.
    At the stages just mentioned they now come under the notice of
both liner and trawler, for young cod 5 or 6 inches ,in length
occasionally take a haddock-hook, and those somewhat larger
(9 to 18 inches) occur in certain hauls of the trawl, especially off a

 1889.]          on the Life-history of a Marine Food-fish.          399
 rocky coast like that of Aberdeenshire, south of Girdleness, as well
 as on the hooks of the liners on rough ground. Special trips, indeed
 were, and perhaps are, made by the liners for the capture of these
 young cod (termed codling), and thus their numbers are kept in
 check.
      So far as present observations go, therefore, the young cod in a
 free condition reach the length of from 4 to 10 inches the first year,
 while in the second they attain from 10 to 20 inches or more. It
 probably takes 3 or 4 years (and this is the original opinion of Sars)
 or more to reach full maturity and a length of 3 feet or upwards ;
 though he mentions having seen young cod a foot in length, with
 mature roe and milt, in the fish-market of Ohristiania. These, how
 ever, were probably abnormal examples.
      Let us now glance at the condition in the whiting. Its earlier
 post-larval stages immediately following those observed in the tanks
 at the laboratory (for we failed to rear them) are even now somewhat
 obscure, but they probably approach those of allied forms, such as the
 cod and haddock. The characteristic nature of the larval pigment,
 however, would lead to the belief that perhaps in the brighter tints
 (e. g. yellow), differences may occur. Such, however, are lost before
 they come under observation ; for all these delicate and minute forms
are dead before reaching the deck, and indeed considerably altered.
 The pressure to which they are subjected in the largo mid-water net
by the crowds of hydromedusae, and ctenophores alone would suffice
for this, and the handling of the heavily laden net increases the
dangers to forms so fragile. One about 12 mm. shows in spirit the
dorsal and anal fins outlined though not separated from each other,
and permanent rays occur in them and in the caudal. Minute
ventrals are present, while the pectorals form large mobile fans.
Groups of black pigment-corpuscles are distributed along the base of
the dorsal and anal fins and over the brain, and a similar series occurs
along the ventral median line of the abdomen. The sides have these
blackish pigment-corpuscles more generally distributed than in tho
cod. No barbel is noticeable. When a little longer (15 mm.), the
species is distinguished from the young cod by a more abundant
distribution of black pigment-specks along the sides of the body and
on the fins, and by the greater length and diminished depth of the
first anal fin. The median line of pigment still runs along the ventral
surface of the abdomen. At 20 mm. tho characters that distinguish
it from the cod of the same size are better marked, viz., the distribu
tion of dense blackish pigment along tho base of the dorsal fins ; and
it soon spreads downward over the sides. The first anal fin assumes
the character of the adult, and a minute papilla indicates a barbel.
Between the stage just mentioned and a length of 28 mm. a decided
change in the dense dorsal pigment takes place, viz., a tendency to
form separate groups or touches (Fig. 16). These differ from the cod
in being confined to the dorsal region, though a few bars occur at the
base of the tail. The fish is also now minutely flecked, all over the

400                       Professor W. C. Mclntosh                       [Feb. 1,
head, sides, snout, and fins, with black pigment, and its general outline
approaches that of the adult. It is at once distinguished from the
young cod by the shortness of the snout, irrespective of the features
                                     Fin. lu.
      Young Whiting with serrated dorsal pigment-band, and parasitic C/utHmua,
already pointed out, by the coloration, and by the shape of the first
anal fin.
    The differentiation of the two species, viz. the cod and the whiting,
is very marked in spirit at the length of 34 mm. In the whiting
the median dorsal fin is less abruptly elevated than in the cod, and
the first anals diverge widely, the elongation of the latter being
probably connected with the abbreviation of the abdomen. The body
of the whiting is more plump and neatly rounded than in the cod,
which is flatter and has generally a more prominent abdomen. The
pigment-specks closely cover the sides of the body in the whiting, as
well as the membranous webs of the dorsal fins, and are continued on the
head. The pigment at the base of the caudal rays is more distinct
in the whiting, and the lancet-like caudal termination of the body is
longer in this species. The rnyotornes are coarser in the cod, and the
surface has little of the dappled silvery sheen of the whiting. Tho
chromatophores are larger in the cod, and are grouped in blotches
over the surface, with intermediate pale patches, and the shoulder and
head have much less pigment than in the whiting. Both the pectoral
and ventral fins of the cod are shorter than those of the whiting. The
snout in the latter is shorter and broader as well as deeper, and the
short sub-mental papilla is in contrast with the long barbel of the cod
of the same length. The whiting, produced from an egg of larger
size, would appear to attain a plump body and finished outline sooner
than the cod.
    The foregoing stages are very abundant in autumn in the deep
water off the Isle of May and the mouth of the Forth, but they also
appear west of Inchkeith in the latter estuary. They are indeed
more characteristic of the former region, as far as present observations
go, than of the shallow water of the open bays such as St. Andrews,
though on reaching a somewhat larger size they are quite common in
the latter expanse. Both they and the cod in these early stages are
infested by a crustacean parasite (Ghalimns), which adheres to various
parts of the head and body, just as the larval Aufcus tenaciously
attacks the young flounders in tidal harbours and inshore grounds.

1889.]          on the Life-history of a Marine Food-fish.              401
    The young whiting at a later stage (3-5 in.) joins the young cod
at the margins of the rocks, and forms independent shoals in tidal
harbours, as well as occurs some distance off shore, being frequently
got in the mid-water net in the deeper water. Towards the latter
size (6-7 in.) it readily takes the hooks of the liner, and in certain bays
the multitudes of young whiting prove an inconvenience to the fisher
men. As it increases in size great shoals are formed in the offing,
though a few small are almost always found in inshore waters.
    The young round fishes, such as cod, haddock, and whiting, of
similar or nearly similar size, seem respectively to herd together.
Thus it happens that in certain hauls of both liners and trawlers the
majority agree in size. This is well known to the liners, who in
former days specially sought out the young cod as already indicated.
The same feature is observed in many other fishes, and probably
conduces to their safety.
    So far as known, the adult fishes of the three kinds specially
alluded to in the preceding paragraph (viz., cod, haddock, and whiting)
follow no very definite law in regard to migrations, if we except the
apparent congregation in certain regions during the spawning season,
as pointed out, for instance by Sars, off Lofoten, where they occur in
vast numbers from January to March. In our own country, again,
the appearance of shoals of haddocks and whiting in certain locali
ties is another example. How far such multitudes, however, are
influenced by the abundance of food is still an open question. In
British seas the herring is the main cause of these congregations in
the cod and haddock ; the former chiefly pursuing the fishes, the latter
their eggs. In the same way, the abundance of Norway lobsters and
similar food on the grounds called banks exercise considerable
influence on the presence of cod.
    It has already been pointed out, however, that in their young
stages certain migrations do occur. Thus the post-larval cod by-and-
by seeks the lamiuarian region, while the older forms for the most
part tend to go seaward. The same occurs even in a more pronounced
manner with the ling, the adults of which as a rule are found in deep
water. The pelagic post-larval ling seeks downwards as it grows,
and is seldom found near the shore till it attains the length of six or
seven inches, in short, until it is barred with pigment. As it
increases in size it migrates seaward. Similar features are noticed
in the plaice. As observed in the trawling expeditions of 1884, only
large plaice as a rule are procured in deep water off the east coast,
while the sandy bays abound with those ranging from 11 inches
downward, and none of the females of which appear to be mature.
Multitudes of little plaice haunt the margins of these sandy beaches,
but it cannot be said that forms which have the length, for example,
of 3 inches, are confined to any particular line drawn across a bay, for
small forms (2-4 in.) occur in hauls all over such a bay as that of St.
Andrews. Small turbot and halibut in the same way are often found
in the shallow bays, while the large adults are inhabitants of the

 402                     Professor W. C. Mclntosh                 [Feb. 1,
 deeper wuter. Such would not, however, seem to be the case with
 certain skate, very large adults of which occur in the shallow water
 of the sandy voes in Shetland.
      On the other hand the witch (Pleuronectes cynoglossus) keeps to its
 special areas, both as regards the young and the adult condition, BO
 that the movements of eggs, larval and post-larval forms, are circum
 scribed ; and the same would seem to be the case with the topknot
 C Zeugopterus) and sail-fluke (Arnoglossus). The dab (Pleuronectes
 limanda), again, is found in all stages both in comparatively deep
 and in comparatively shallow water.
      Almost all our valuable food-fishes, therefore, are produced from
 minute pelagic eggs, the enormous numbers of which provide for a
 vast increase and wide distribution of the species ; yet it cannot be
said that this habit alone provides for their multiplication when the
case of the herring with its demersal eggs, fixed firmly to the bottom,
is considered. It has to be borne in mind, however, that the larval
herring immediately mounts upward toward the surface as soon as
its strength suffices.
     Many striking changes occur during growth, both in external
form and coloration, but it is difficult at present to lay down any
general law that would apply to all cases, though those in which
certain migrations take place during growth show such changes very
prominently. The young round fishes by-aud-by roam about the
sea in shoals, led hither and thither mainly by the presence of food ;
though in the case of the larger and adult forms, safety or freedom
from molestation may have some influence. Though so minute on
escaping from the egg, their growth is, by-and-by, rapid, and the
duration of life in such as the cod is considerable. Abundance of
food, more than any special instinct, would appear to be the main
cause of their migrations in the adult or semi-adult state, and that
food is as varied as their haunts ; in short it embraces every sub-
kingdom up to their own, for fishes and their eggs form a large share
of their diet.
     There would be little difficulty in adding to the sea great numbers
of larval forms of any species of which eggs can be procured : yet if a
few adults can be obtained in such waters at the proper season it is
still an open question whether the natural process with its surround
ings would not be more successful.
     In the foregoing remarks I have but touched on a few of the
leading features of the life-history of a food-fish ; for the subject is
one of vast extent, and some of the points embraced in it are by no
means easily solved. We have only earnestly entered on the study
of the subject in this country within the last few years, and much yet
remains to be done, even in some of the most common marine fishes.
However, the zoological investigator is here stimulated by the fact
that all his labours directly bear on the public welfare, for it need
hardly be pointed out that a thorough knowledge of the development
and life-histories of our food-fishes is the first step to sound legisla

1889.]         on the Life-history of a Marine Food-fish.             403
tion and effective administration. The State has in past years spent
princely sums on more or less pure science, as in the memorable
voyage of the Challenger.         There can be no doubt that at the
present moment the public interests demand a searching and long-
continued inquiry nearer home, viz. the exhaustive investigation of
all that pertains to the food-fishes of our shores, since the problems
connected therewith affect the prosperity of so large a portion of the
population.
                                                           [W. C. M.]
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                       Monday, February 4, 1889.
  SIB JAMES CBICHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                  John Tomlinson Brunner, Esq. M.P.
                  Augustus Stroh, Esq.
                  Sir Charles Tennant, Bart.
                  John Tennant, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Mr. William
Anderson for his present of a portrait of Professor Mendeleef.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
following Donation to the Fund for the promotion of Experimental
Research :
             Professor Dewar                            £50
    The decease of Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. Manager and Vice-
President, on the 24th December last, was announced.
    The PBESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
The Governor-General of India—Bibliography of Indian Geology. By R. D.
    Oldham. 8vo. 1888.
The Government of Madras—Madras Meridian Circle Observations, 1865-7. 4to.
    1888.
Academy of Natural Sciencet, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1888, Purt 2. 8vo.
    1888.

404                         General Monthly Meeting.                     [Feb. 4,
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Memoirs, Vol. XI. Parts 5, 6, Nos. 6, 7.
     4to. 1887-8.
   Proceedings, Vol. XXIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1888.
American Philosophical Society—Transactions, Vol. XVI. Part 2. 4to. 1888.
Asiatic Society, Royal- Journal, Vol. XIX. Nos. 2, 8. 8vo. 1887-8.
Asiatic Society, Royal (China Branch)—Journal, Vol. XXII. No. 6. 8vo. 1888.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Tilrmthly Notices, Vol. XL1X. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1888.
Hankers, Institute of— Journal, Vol. IX. Part 10 ; Vol. X. Part 1. 8vo. 1888-9.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Abhandlungeu, Band XVI. Abtheilung 2. 4to.
      1887.
   Sitzungsbcrichte, 1887, Heft 3; 1888, Heft 1, 2. 8vo. 1888.
Bodleian Library—Report of the Librarian, 1882-7. 4to. 1888.
British Architect?, Royal Institute o/—Proceedings, 1888-9, Nos. 5, 6, 7. 4to.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. VI. Part 4. 8vo. 1888.
Chemical Society—Journal for Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. 8vo.
Chief Signal Officer, U.S. Army—Annual Report for 1887, Part 2. 8vo. 1887.
Clinical Society—Transactions, Sup. to Vol. XXI. Report on Myxoxlema. 8vo.
      1888.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. &c. M.R.I, (the Editor)—Journal of the Royal
      Microscopical Society, 188s, Part 6. 8vo.
Dax: Socitfttf de Borda—Bulletin, Treizicmu Annee, 4" Tremestre. 8vo. 1888.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Dee. 1888 and Jan. 1889. 8vo.
   Analyst for Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. 8vo.
   Athenteum fur Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1880. 4to.
   Chemical News for Duo. 1888 and Jan. 1889. 4tu.
   Chemist and Druggist for Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. fol.
   Engineer for Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. fol.
   Engineering for Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. fol.
   Horological Journal from May 1888 to Feb. 1889. 8vo.
   Industries for Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. fol.
   Iron fur Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. 4to.
   Murray's Magazine for Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. 8vo.
   Nature for Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. 4to.
   Photographic News for Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. 8vo.
   Hevue Scientifique for Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. 8vo.
   /oophilist for Dec. 1888 and Jim. 1889. 4to.
 Florence, Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale— Bolletino, Num. 71, 72, 73. 8vo. 1888.
   Jndice e Cataloghi IV. I Cudici Pulatina, Vol. I. Fasc. 8. 8vo. 1888.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 757. 8vo. 1888.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. X. No. 12; Vol. XI.
      No. 1. 8vo. 1888-9.
   Supplementary Papers, Vol. II. Part 3. 8vo. 1888.
 Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1888, No. 14. 8vo.
   Jahrbuch, Band XXXVII. Heft 3, 4 ; XXXVIII. Heft 3. 8vo. 1888.
 Hart, Sir Robert, K.C.M.G.—Le Saint Edit: Etude do Litte'rature Chinoise.
       Par A. T. Piry. 4to. Shanghai, 1879.
 Holmes-Forbes, A. W. Esq. M.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—English History ; William III.
      to George II. Questions and Answers. 12mo. 1888.
 Iron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1888, No. II. 8vo.
 Johns Hopkins University— University Circular, No. 68. 4to. 1888.
    Studies in Historical and Political Science, Seventh Scries, No. 1. 8vo.
       1889.
 Kew Observatory—Report, 1888. 8vo.
 Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 156, 157, 164. 8vo. 1888.
 Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XX. Part 1. 8vo. 1888.
 Manchester Steam L'seri' Association—Boiler Explosions. Board of Trade Reports.
       1879-82. fol.

 1889.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                       405
 Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, 1888, No. 3. 8vo.
 meteorological Society, Royal— Quarterly Journal, No. (J8. 8vo. 1888.
    Meteorological Record, Nos. 29, 30. 8vo. 1888.
 Ministry of }'nblir Wurks, Home—Giornale del Genio Civile, Sorio Quinta,
      Vol. II. Nos. 9, 10, 11. 8vo. And Disegni. fol. 1888.
Montpettier Academy of Sciences— Me'moires, Tome X. Faso. 1. 4to. 1881.
New York Academy of Sciences—Transactions, Vol. VII. Nos. 3-8. 8vo. 1887-8
   Annals, Vol. IV. Nos. 5-8. 8vo. 1888.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
      Vol. XXXVII. Part 6. 8vo. 1888.
Odontological Society of Great Britain— Transactions, Vol. XXI. No. 2. New
      Series. 8vo. 1888.
1'eniwylcania Geological Survey—Annual Report, 1886, Part IV. With Atlas.
      8vo. 1887.
   Atlas, Northern and Eastern Anthracite Field, Part II. AA. 8vo. 1887.
1'harmaceutical Society of Great liritaiu—Journal, Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. 8vo.
   Calendar, 1889. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XIII. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1888.
Rio dc Janeiro Observatory—Revista, Nos. 11, 12. 8vo. 1888.
Hoyal Irish Academy—Transactions, Vol. XXIX. Parts 3, 4. 4to. 1888.
   Proceedings, 3rd Scries, Vol. I. No. 1. 8vo. 1888.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 272, 273. 8vo. 1888.
Royal Society of New South Wales—Journal and Proceedings, Vol. XXII. Part 1.
      8vo. 1888.
Sanitary Institute of Great Britain— Transactions, Vol. IX. 8vo. 1888.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Mathcmatisch-physische Classe : Ablmndlung.
      Band XIV. Nos. 10-13. 8vo. 1888.
   Philologisch-historischen Classe : Berichte, 1888, NOs. 1, 2. 8vo. 1888.
Society of Architects -Proceedings, Vol. I. Nos. 3, 4, 5. 8vo. 1889.
Si}ciety of Arts—Journal, Dec. 1888 and Jan. 1889. 8vo.
Statistical Society— Journal, Vol. LI. 1'art 4. 8vo. 1888.
St. I'etershourg, Academic Imperiale dee Sciences—Mcmoires, Torne XXXVI.
     Nos. 6-11. 4to. 1888.
Telegraph Engineers, Society of—Journal, Nos. 75, 76. 8vo. 1888.
Vereins r.ur BefSrderung det Gewerbfteisees in 1'reussen—Verhaudlungen, 1888 :
      Heft 9, 10. 4to.
 Wells, Sir Spencer, Bart. F.Ii.C.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Cancer and Cancerous
      Diseases. (Morton Lecture, 1888.) 8vo. 1889.
 Wild, Dr. H. (the Director) —Annalen der Physikalischen Central-Observatoriums.
      1887, Theil II. 4to. 1888.
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, February 8, 1889.
Sin FUEDEEICK BBAMWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Honorary Secretary
                       and Vice-President, in the Chair.
            Siu WILLIAM THOMSON, D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                             Electrostatic Measurement.
                                 (Abstract deferred).

406                     Professor A. W. Riicker                [Feb. 15,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 15, 1889.
    WILLIAM CBOOKES, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
           PBOFESSOB A. W. RUCKEB, M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                             Electrical Stress.
THE subject of the discourse was brought before the members of the
Royal Institution some years ago by Mr. Gordon. In the interval a
considerable amount of work has been done upon it, both in England
and Germany, and many experiments have been devised to illustrate
it. Some of the more striking of these, though of great interest to
the student, are rarely or never shown in courses of experimental
lectures. The lecturer and Mr. C. V. Boys, F.R.S., last year devised
a set of apparatus which has made the optical demonstration of
electrical stress comparatively easy, and most of the results obtained
by Kerr and Quincke can now bo demonstrated to audiences of a
considerable size. Before discussing this portion of his subject the
lecturer introduced it by an explanation of principles on which the
experiments are founded.
    Magnetic lines of force can easily be mapped out by iron filings,
but the exhibition of electrical lines of force in a liquid is a more
complex matter. In the first place, if two oppositely electrified
bodies are introduced into a liquid which is a fairly good non
conductor, convective conduction is set up. Streams of electrified
liquid pass from the one to the other. The highly refracting liquid
phenyl thiocarbamide appears to be specially suitable for experiments
on this subject. If an electrified point is brought over the surface a
dimple is formed which becomes deeper as the point approaches it.
At the instant at which the needle touches the liquid the dimple dis
appears, but a bubble of air from the lower end frequently remains
imprisoned in the vortex caused by the downward rush of the
electrified liquid from the point. It oscillates a short distance
below the point, and indicates clearly the rapid motions which are
 produced in the fluid in its neighbourhood. When the needle is
withdrawn a small column of liquid adheres to it. This effect is,
however, seen to greater advantage if a sphere about 5 mm. in
 diameter is used instead of the needle-point. When this is with
 drawn a column of liquid about 5 mm. high and 2 mm. in diameter
 is formed between the sphere and the surface. A similar experi
 ment was made by Faraday on a much larger scale with oil of
 turpentine, and he detected the existence of currents which are in
 accord with the view that the unelectrified liquid flows up the exterior

1889.]                       on Electrical Stress.                   407
of the cylinder, becomes electrified by contact, and is repelled down
its axis. In view of this explanation, and the movements assumed
can be clearly seen iu the phenyl thiocarbamide, the performance of
the experiment on a small scale is not without interest. The possi
bility of the formation of such violent up-and-down currents in so
small a space must depend upon a very nice adjustment between the
properties of the liquid and the forces in play. It is also obvious that
such movements of the liquid must be a disturbing element in any
attempt to make the lines of electric force visible.
     Again, if a solid powder be suspended in a liquid into which
electrified solids arc introduced, it tends to accumulate round one of
the poles. This subject has been investigated by W. Holtz. Some
times the powder appears to move in a direction opposed to that in
which the liquid is streaming. Sometimes two powders will travel
towards different pules.
     If powdered autimony sulphide be placed in ether, it settles at the
bottom of the liquid, and if either two wires insulated with glass up
to their points, or two vortical plates be used as electrodes, and
slightly electrified, the solid particles arrange themselves along
the lines of force. If the electrification be increased, they cluster
round the positive pole. On suddenly reversing the electrification
by means of a commutator, they stream along lines of force to the
pole from which they were previously repelled. Other methods of
obtaining tho lines of force have been devised. They can, for instance,
be shown by crystals of sulphate of quinine immersed in turpentine.
     The tendency of the lines of force to separate one from the other
 was illustrated by Quincke's experiment. A bubble of air is formed
 in bisulphide of carbon between two horizontal plates. It is in connec
tion with a small manometer, and when the plates are oppositely
 excited, the electrical pressure acting at right angles to the lines of
 force, being greater in the liquid than in air, compels the bubble to
 contract and depresses the manometer.
     Kerr's experiments depend upon the fact that, since the electrical
 stress is a tension along the lines of force, and a pressure at right
 angles to them, a substance in which such a stress is produced assumes
 a semicrystalline condition in the sense that its properties along, and
 perpendicular to, the lines of force are different. Light is therefore
 transmitted with different velocities according as the direction of
 vibration coincides with, or is perpendicular to, these lines ; and tho
 familiar phenomena of the passage of polarised light through crystals
 may be imitated by an electrically stressed liquid.
     The bisulphide of carbon used must be dry, and, to make the
 phenomena clearly visible, it is necessary that the light should travel
 through a considerable thickness. Thus, to represent the stress
 between two spheres, elongated parallel cylinders should bo used, tho
axes of which are parallel to the course of the rays of light. These
 appear on tho screen as two dark circles. Between crossed Nicols,
 tho planes of polarisation of which are inclined at 45° to the hori

 408          Professor A. W. Eiicker on Electrical Stress.        [Feb. 15,
 /until], the field is dark until the cylinders are electrified, when light
 is restored in the space between them.
     If parallel plates with carefully rounded edges, and about 2 milli
 metres apart, are used, the colours of Newton's rings appear in turn,
 the red of the third order being sometimes reached. If one plate is
 convex towards the other, the colours of the higher orders appear in
 the middle, and travel outwards as the stress is increased. The
 experiments may be varied by using two concentric cylinders, or two
 sheets of metal bent twice at right angles to represent a section
 through a Leyden jar. In the first case a black cross is formed ; and
 in the second, black brushes unite the lower angles of the images of
 the edges of the plates. By the interposition of a piece of selenitc,
 which shows the blue of the second order, two of the quadrants con
 tained between the arms of the cross become green, and the others
red. In like manner the horizontal and vertical spaces between the
inner and outer coatings of the "jar" become differently coloured.
     There are several phenomena connected with the stress in insu
lators which present considerable difficulties. Thus it is found
 impossible to restore the light between crossed Nicols by subjecting
 a solid placed between them to electrical stress in a uniform field.
 That the non-uniformity of the field has nothing to do with the
 phenomenon in liquids, though at first disputed, is now generally
admitted. It may be readily proved by means of a Franklin's pane,
 of which half is pierced with windows. The glow is much weakened
 by thus replacing a uniform by a non-uniform field.
     Again, though most dielectrics when placed in an electric field
expand, the fatty oils contract. Prof. J. J. Thomson has recently
pointed out that this indicates that another set of strains are super
posed upon those assumed in the ordinary explanations of these
phenomena, and by which they may be neutralised or overcome.
     In experiments with carbon bisulphide it is necessary to take
every precaution against fire. For this purpose the cell which contains
the liquid should be immersed in a larger cell, so that if—as sometimes
happens—the passage of a spark cracks the glass the liquid may flow
into a confined space. This should stand in a tray with tuxned-np
edges, and an extinguisher of tin plate should be at hand to plaec
over the whole apparatus. No Leyden jars should be included in
the electrical circuit. The difficulties which formerly arose in the
exhibition of experiments in statical electricity owing to the presence
of moisture in the air of a lecture-room are now immensely reduced
by the Wimshurst machine, which works with unfailing certainty
under adverse conditions. A new and very beautiful machine was
kindly lent by Mr. Wimshurst for the purposes of the lecture.
                                                              [A. W. K.]

1889.]                 General Monthly Meeting.                  409
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                      Friday, February 22, 1889.
 COLONEL J. A. GRANT, C.B. C.S.I. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the
                                  Chair.
             HAROLD CRIOHTON BROWNE, Esq. F.R.G.S.
                       In the Heart of the Atlas.
                            (Abstract deferred.)
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 1, 1889.
     JOHN RAE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
EDMUND GOSSE, M.A. Clark Lecturer in English Literature, Triuitj
                          College, Cambridge.
                               Leigh Hunt.
THE lecturer began by a consideration of Leigh Hunt's present
position in the history of literature. He then analysed his personal
character, illustrating it with several unpublished anecdotes. He
proceeded to review Leigh Hunt's life, mainly from the point of
view of his literary activity, and briefly described in detail his
leading works in prose and verse. In conclusion, ho made a critical
examination of Hunt's style at various periods of his career, and
summed up with a resume of his principal merits as a prose-writer
and as a poet.
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                        Monday, March 4, 1889.
 SIB JAMES CHICHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
               John Cope Butterfield, Esq. F.C.S.
               Charles Cave, Esq.
               Mrs. E. S. Dewick,
               Miss K. D. Doulton,
               Joseph Gordon Gordon, Esq.

   410                           General Monthly Meeting.                     [March 4,
                      Mrs. Sibble Heap,
                       Miss Mona Kemp,
                      Lieutenant Nathaniel J. Lyon,
                       Alfred Nobel, Esq.
                       Richard Douglas Powell. M.D. F.R.C.P.
                       Thomas James Reeves, Esq. B.A. F.Z.S.
                       Mrs. W. Chandler Roberts-Austen,
                       Mrs. H. Sutton,
                       George Edward Whitton, Esq. M.B.
                       Ernest H. Winstone, Esq. M.A.
                      Mrs. M. A. E. Wright,
   were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
         The Honorary Secretary reported, That the following Resolution
   of the Managers respecting Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. had been
   communicated to Lady Pollock, and then read her Ladyship's
   acknowledgment :—
       Seeohed, "That the Managers of the Royal Institution of Great Britain
   desire at this their first Meeting after the death of their lamented friend and
   colleague, Sir Frederick Pollock, to record their sense of the great loss sustained
   by tho Institution and by themselves, in that they are for ever deprived of the
   advice and assistance of a colleague who had been for over forty years a Member
   of the Institution, and who, during that time, Imd devoted himself assiduously to
   its interests, not only in his capacity as a Member, but as a Manager and
   Vice-President.
       " Sir Frederick Pollock's varied scholarly attainments, combined with his
   intimate acquaintance with men distinguished in literature and arL, enabled him
   to render special services most valuable to the Institution ; whilst his kindly and
   courteous demeanour endeared him to all those with whom he was for so many
   years nssociated.
       " The Managers further desire to be permitted to offer to Lady Pollock the
   expression of their most sincere sympathy and condolence with her in her
   bereavement."
       Resolved, " That the Honorary Secretary do send to Lady Pollock a copy of
   this Resolution."
                                             " 59, MONTAOD SQUARR, W. Fdiruary 8(A, iS89.
           '' Juliet Lady Pollock presents her compliments to Sir Frederick liramwcll
   and his colleagues, and begs to thank them very warmly and sincerely for their
   appreciation so cordially expressed of her dear husband's distinguished qualities,
   uud for their sympathy with her sorrow."
         The Honorary Secretary further reported, That the following letter
   had been read to the Meeting of Managers at their Meeting this day :—
   " DEAR SIB FREDERICK,                      " ALBEMARI E SIBSKT, W. 26(A February, l8x9.
            " I write now with much regret to request you to be so good as to inform
    the Managers at their next Meeting, on Monday, the 4th of Maroh, that I feel it
    my duty, in consequence of failing sight, to resign the offices which I now hold
    in the Royal Institution as Assistant Secretary and Librarian, and that I await
    their decision as to the most convenient time for retiring.
        " I tru.-t you will excuse my mentioning the following facts. In consequence
    of the recommendation of Professor Faraday, who had known me from my youtb,
-.

1889.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                          411
I was engaged by the Managers as Assistant Secretary in May 1848, and
appointed Librarian in the following December. As lasting memorials of my
long connection with the Institution, I would refer to the Index of the Meetings
of the Managers and Members, beginning in 1799 ; to the two volumes of the
Classified Catalogue of the Library, published in 1857 and 1882 ; to the eleven
volumes of the 'Proceedings of the Royal Institution,' the printing of which
was authorised by the Managers at my suggestion in 1851, and which were long
edited by me, and more recently by Mr. Henry Young, under my direction ; and
to the nine Stands of Books of Reference, collected and placed in the Upper
Library.
    " In conclusion I desire to express my grateful sense of the uniform kindness
which I have received from the Members, the Committees, and all the Honorary
Secretaries whom I have served. My hearty desire during the greater part of my life
has been to promote the objects of the Institution and the comfort of its Members.
                                        " I remain, Sir Frederick,
                               " With many thanks for your own personal kindness,
                                                   " Yours faithfully,
                                                            "BENJAMIN VINCENT."
     The Honorary Secretary further reported, That the following
Resolution had been passed by the Managers :—
    Resolved, " That the Managers accept Mr. Vincent's resignation of the offices
of Assistant Secretary and Keeper of the Library, and, as a mark of their high
appreciation of the valuable services he has rendered the Institution, elect him
to the office of Honorary Librarian, at a salary of 150Z. a year, with all the
privileges of the Institution."
     Mr. Henry Young was appointed by the Managers Assistant
Secretary and Keeper of theJLibrary at their Meeting this day.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz :—
      FROM
 The New Zealand Government—Statistics of the Colony of New Zealand, 1887.
      fol. 1888.
 The French Government—Documents Inedits sur 1'Histoire de France : Recueil
      dea Chartes de 1'Abbnye de Cluny, Tome IV. 4to. 1888.
 Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. 2° Semes-
      tre, Vol. IV. Fasc. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. 8vo. 1888.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLIX. No. 3. 8vo. 1889.
 Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. X. Part 2. 8vo. 1889.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1888-9, Nos. 8, 9. 4to.
 Brymner, Douglas, Esq. (the Archivist)—Report on Canadian Archives, 1888.
      8vo. 1889.
 Chadwick, Edwin, Esq. C.B.—The Health of Nations : a Review of the Works
      of Edwin Chadwick, with a Biography. By B. W. Richardson. 2 vol.
      8vo. 1887.
 Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. VIII. No. 1. 8vo. 1889.
 Chemical Society—Journal for February, 1889. 8vo.
 Crisp, Frank, Esa. LL.B. F.L.S. &a. M.R.I, (the Editor)—Journal of the Royal
      Microscopical Society, 1888, Part 6a; 1889, Part 1. 8vo.
 East India Association—Journal, Vol. XXI. No. 1. 8vo. 1889.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for March, 1889. 8vo.
   Analyst for March, 1889. 8vo.
   Athenseum for March, 1889. 4to.
   Chemical News for March, 1889. 4to.
      VOL. XII.      (No. 83).                                         2 r

412                         General Monthly Meeting.                  [March 4,
Editors—Chemist nnd Drugget for March, 1883. 8vo.
   Klectrici.l Kngineer for March, 1889.
   Engineer for March, 1889. fol.
   Engineering for Murch, 1889. fol.
   Horological Journal for March, 1889. 8vo.
   Industries for March, 1889. fol.
   Iron for March, 1889. 4to.
   Murray's Magazine for March, 1889. 8vo.
   Nature for Murch, 1889. 4to.
   Photographic News for March, 1889. 8vo.
   Revue Scientifique for March, 1889. 4to.
   Tolegraphio Journal for March, 1889. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for March, 1889. 4to.
Florence, BibHoteea National* Ceatrale— Bolletino, Num. 74. 8vo. 1888.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 758. ' 8vo. 1889.
 Geneva, SociiU de Physique et d'Histoire Nuturelle—Memoires, Tome XXX.
      Partie 1. 4to. 1888.
 Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1888, Nos. 15-18; 1889,
      No. 1. 8vo.
 Geological Society—Qunrterly Journal, No. 177. 8vo. 1889.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Scries, Vol. XI. No. 2. 8vo. 1880.
 GforgaIili, licale Acaademia—Atti, Vol. X. Disp. 4 and Sup. 8vo. 1888-9.
Joints JJopJu'm University—American Chemical Journal, Vol. X. Nos. 4, 5, 6.
      8vo. 1888.
    Ameiican Journal of Philology, Nos. 34, 35. 8vo. 1888.
    Studies in Historical uud Political Science. Sixth Series, and Seventh Series,
      No. 1. 8vo. 1888-9.
 Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 121, 165-169. 8vo. 1889.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XX. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1889.
 Mechanical Engineers' Institution— Proceedings. 1888, No. 4. 8vo.
 Meteorological 'Office—Hourly Readings, 1886, Part 1. 4to. 1889.
    Report of the Meteorological Council, HS. 31 March, 1888. 8vo.
    Weekly Weather Reports, October- December, 1888. 4to.
 Ministry of Public Works, Rorne—Giornale del Genio Civile, Serie Quinta,
      Vol. it No. 12. 8vo. Am) Disegni. fol. 1888.
 Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1888, Part 4. 8vo. 1888.
 Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXI. Nos. 3, 4.
      New Series. 8vo. 1888.
 Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, February, 1889. 8vo.
 Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XIII. No. 4. 8vo. 1889.
 Richardson, B. W. M.D. F.R.S. M.RI. (the Author)—The Asclepiad, Vol. V.
       No. 21. 8vo. 1889.
 Rio de Janeiro Observatory—Revista, No, 1. 8vo. 1889.
 Iloyal Irish Amtkmy—Transactions, Vol. XXIX. Part 5. 4to. 1888.
 Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 274, 275. 8vo. 1889.
    Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CLXXIX. 4to. 1889.
 Scottish Society of Arts, Royal—Transactions, Vol. XII. Part 2. 8vo. 1889.
 Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. I. No. 7. 8vo. 1889.
 Society of Arts—Journal, February, 1889. 8vo.
 St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Reports, Vol. XXIV. 8vo. 1888.
  Telegraph Engineers, Society o/—Journal, No. 77. 8vo. 1889.
  United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 146. 8vo. 1889.
  Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerb eisses in Prettssen—Verhandlungen, 1889 :
       Heft 1. 4to.
  Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 87. 8vo. 1889.
 Yorkshire Archaeological and Topographical Association—Journal, Part XL. 8vo.
       1889.

  1889.]     Prof'. C. Lodge on the Discharge of a Leyden Jar.         413
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, March 8, 1889,
            SIB JAMES CBIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
                         Vice-President, in the Chair.
                 PROFESSOR OLITER LODGE, LL.D. F.R.S.
                       The Discharge of a Leyden Jar.
 IT is one of the great generalisations established by Faraday, that all
 electrical charge and discharge is essentially the charge and discharge
 of a Leyden jar. It is impossible to charge one body alone. When
 ever a body is charged positively, some other body is ipso facto
 charged negatively, and the two equal opposite charges are connected
 by lines of induction. The charges are, in fact, simply the ends of
 these lines, and it is as impossible to have one charge without its
 correlative as it is to have one end of a piece of string without thero
 being somewhere, hidden it may be, split up into strands it may be,
 but somewhere existent, the other end of that string.
     This I suppose familiar fact that all charge is virtually that of a
 Leyden jar being premised, our subject for this evening is at once
 seen to be a very wide one, ranging in fact over the whole domain of
 electricity. For the charge of a Leyden jar includes virtually the
 domain of electrostatics ; while the discharge of a jar, since it con
 stitutes a current, covers the ground of current electricity all except
 that portion which deals with phenomena peculiar to steady currents.
 And since a current of electricity necessarily magnetises the spaco
around it, whether it flow in a straight or in a curved path, whether
it flow through wire or burst through air, the territory of magnetism
is likewise invaded ; and inasmuch as a Leydon jar discharge is
oscillatory, and we now know the vibratory motion called light to be
really an oscillating electric current, the domain of optics is seriously
encroached upon.
     But though the subject I have chosen would permit this wide
range, and though it is highly desirable to keep before our minds the
wide-reaching import of the most simple-seeming fact in connection
with such a subject, yet to-night I do not intend to avail myself of any
such latitude, but to keep as closely and distinctly as possible to the
Leyden jar in its homely and well-known form, as constructed out of
a glass bottle, two sheets of tinfoil, and some stickphast.
     The act of charging such a jar I have permitted myself now for
some time to illustrate by the mechanical analogy of an inextensiblo
endless cord able to circulate over pulleys, and threading in some
portion of its length a row of tightly-gripping beads which are con
nected to fixed beams by elastic threads.
                                                           2 F 2

414                      Professor Oliver Lodge                     [March 8,
    The cord is to represent electricity ; the beads represent snccessive
strata in the thickness of the glass of the jar, or, if you like, atoms
of dielectric or insulating matter. Extra tension in the cord
represents negative potential, while a less tension (the nearest
analogue to pressure adapted to the circumstances) represents positive
Mechanical analogy of a circuit partly dielectric ; for instance, of a charged
               condenser. A is its positive coat, B its negative.
potential. Forces applied to move the cord, such as winches or
weights, are electromotive forces; a clamp or fixed obstruction
represents a rheostat or contact-breaker ; and an excess or defect of
cord between two strata of matter represents a positive or a negative
charge.
    The act of charging a jar is now quite easily depicted as shown in
the diagram.
    To discharge the jar one must remove the charging E.M.F. and
unclamp the screw, i.e. close the circuit. The stress in the elastic
threads will then rapidly drive the cord back, the inertia of the
beads will cause it to overshoot the mark, and for an instant the jar
will possess an inverse charge. Back again the cord swings, however,
and a charge of same sign as at first, but of rather less magnitude,
would be found in the jar, if the operation were now suspended. If it
be allowed to go on, the oscillations gradually subside, and in a short
 time everything is quiescent, and the jar is completely discharged.
    All this occurs in the Leyden jar, and the whole series of oscilla
tions, accompanied by periodic reversal and re-reversal of the charges
of the jar, is all accomplished in the incredibly short space of time
occupied by a spark.
    Consider now what the rate of oscillation depends on. Manifestly
on the elasticity of the threads and on the inertia of the matter which

 1889.]             on the Discharge of a Leyden Jar.                 415
 is moved. Take the simplest mechanical analogy, that of the
 vibration of a loaded spring, like the reeds in a musical box. The
 stiffer the spring, and the less the load, the faster it vibrates. Give
 a mathematician these data, and he will calculate for you the time the
 spring takes to execute one complete vibration, the " period " of its
 swing. [Loaded lath in vice.]
      The electrical problem and the electrical solution are precisely
 the same. That which corresponds to the flexibility of the spring, is
 in electrical language called static capacity, or, by Mr. Heaviside,
 permittance. That which corresponds to the inertia of ordinary
 matter is called electro-magnetic inertia, or self-induction, or, by Mr.
 Heaviside, inductance.
     Increase either of these, and the rate of oscillation is diminished.
 Increasing the static capacity corresponds to lengthening the spring ;
 increasing the self-induction corresponds to loading it.
     Now the static capacity is increased simply by using a larger jar,
 or by combining a number of jars into a battery in the very old
 established way. Increase in the self-induction is attained by giving
 the discharge more space to magnetise, or by making it magnetise a
 given space more strongly. For electro-magnetic inertia is wholly
 due to the magnetisation of the space surrounding a current, and this
 space may be increased or its magnetisation intensified as much as
we please.
     To increase the space we have only to make the discharge take a
long circuit instead of a short one. Thus we may send it by a wire
all round the room, or by a telegraph wire all round a town, and all
the space inside it and some of that outside will be more or less
magnetised. More or less, I say, as it is a case of less rather than
more. Practically very little eBect is felt except close to the
conductor, and accordingly the self-induction increases very nearly
proportionally to the length of the wire, and not in proportion to the
area inclosed : provided also the going and return wires are kept a
reasonable distance apart, so as not to encroach upon each other's
appreciably magnetised regions.
     But it is just as effective, and more compact, to intensify the
magnetisation of a given space by sending the current hundreds of
times round it instead of only once ; and this is done by inserting a
coil of wire into the discharge circuit.
     Yet a third way there is of increasing the magnetisation of a
given space, and that is to fill it with some very magnetizable
substance such as iron. This, indeed, is a most powerful method
under many circumstances, it being possible to increase the magneti
sation and therefore the self-induction or inertia of the current some
5000 times by the use of iron.
     But in the case of the discharge of a Leyden jar, iron is of no
advantage. The current oscillates so quickly that any iron introduced
into its circuit, however subdivided into thin wires it may be, is
protected from magnetism by inverse currents induced in its outer

416                       Professor Oliver Lodge                [March 8,
skin, as your Professor of Natural Philosophy* has shown, and
accordingly it does not get magnetised ; and so far from increasing
the inductance of the discharge circuit it positively diminishes it by
the reaction effect of these induced currents : it acts, in fact, much as
a mass of copper might be expected to do.
     The conditions determining rate of oscillation being understood
we have next to consider what regulates the damping out of the
vibrations, i. e. the total duration of the discharge.
     Resistance is one thing. To check the oscillations of a vibrating
spring you apply to it friction, or make it move in a viscous medium,
and its vibrations are speedily damped out. The friction may be
made so great that oscillations are entirely prevented, the motion
being a mere dead-beat return to the position of equilibrium ; or,
again, it may be greater still, and the motion may correspond to a
mere leak or slow sliding back, taking hours or days for its
accomplishment, With very large condensers, such as are used in
telegraphy, this kind of discharge is frequent, but in the case of a
Leyden jar discharge it is entirely exceptional. It can be caused by
including in the circuit a wet string, or a capillary tube full of
distilled water, or a slab of wood, or other atrociously bad conductor
of that sort ; but the conditions ordinarily associated with the
discharge of a Leyden jar, whether it discharge through a long or a
short wire, or simply through its tongs, or whether it overflow its
edge or puncture its glass, are such as correspond to oscillations, and
not to leak. [Discharge jar first through wire and next through
wood.]
     When the jar is made to leak through wood or water the
discharge is found to be still not steady : it is not oscillatory indeed,
but it is intermittent. It occurs in a series of little jerks, as when a
 thing is made to slide over a resined surface. The reason of this is
 that the terminals discharge faster than the circuit can supply the
 electricity, and so the flow is continually stopped and begun again.
     Such a discharge as this, consisting really of a succession of small
 sparks, may readily appeal to the eye as a single flash, but it lacks
 the noise and violence of the ordinary discharge ; and any kind of
 moving mirror will easily analyse it into its constituents and show it
 to bo intermittent. [Shake a mirror, or waggle head, or opera-glass.]
     It is pretty safe to say, then, that whenever a jar discharge is
 not oscillatory it is intermittent, and when not intermittent is
 oscillatory. There is an intermediate case when it is really dead-
 beat, but it could only be hit upon with special care, while its occur
 rence by accident must be rare.
      So far I have only mentioned resistance or friction as the cause
 of the dying out of the vibrations ; but there is another cause, and
 that a most exciting one.
      The vibrations of a reed are damped partly indeed by friction and
                               * Lord liayleigh.

 1889.]             on the Discharge of a Leyden Jar.                   417
 imperfect elasticity, but partly also by the energy transferred to the
 surrounding medium and consumed in the production of sound. It
 is the formation and propagation of sound waves which largely damp
 out the vibrations of any musical instrument. So it is also in
 electricity. The oscillatory discharge of a Leyden jar disturbs the
 medium surrounding it, carves it into waves which travel away from
 it into space: travel with a velocity of 185,000 miles a second:
 travel precisely with the velocity of light. [Tuning-fork.]
     The second cause, then, which damps out the oscillations in s.
 discharge circuit is radiation : electrical radiation if you like so to
 distinguish it, but it differs in no respect from ordinary radiation (or
 " radiant heat " as it has so often been called in this place) ; it differs
 in no respect from Light except in the physiological fact that the
 retinal mechanism, whatever it may be, responds only to waves of a
 particular, and that a very small, size, while radiation in general may
have waves which range from 10,000 miles to a millionth of an inch
in length.
     The seeds of this great discovery of the nature of light were sown
in this place : it is all the outcome of Faraday's magneto-electric
and electrostatic induction : the development of them into a rich and
full-blown theory was the greatest part of the life-work of Clerk-
Maxwell : the harvest of experimental verification is now being reaped
by a German. But by no ordinary German. Dr. Hertz, now Pro
fessor in the Polytechnicum of Karlsruhe, is a young investigator of
the highest type. Trained in the school of Helmholtz, and endowed
with both mathematical knowledge and great experimental skill, he has
immortalised himself by a brilliant series of investigations which
have cut right into the ripe corn of scientific opinion in these islands,
and by the same strokes as have harvested the grain have opened up
wide and many branching avenues to other investigators.
     At one time I had thought of addressing you this evening on the
subject of these researches of Hertz, but the experiments are not yet
reproducible on a scale suited to a large audience, and I have been
so closely occupied with some not wholly dissimilar, but inde
pendently conducted, researches of my own—researches led up to
through the unlikely avenue of lightning-conductors—that I have
had as yet no time to do more than verify some of them for my own
edification.
     In this work of repetition and verification Prof. Fitzgerald has,
as related in a recent number of NATURE (February 21, p. 391),
probably gone further ; and if I may venture a suggestion to your
Honorary Secretary, I feel sure that a discourse on Hertz's researches
from Prof. Fitzgerald next year would be not only acceptable to you,
but would be highly conducive to the progress of science.
     I have wandered a little from my Leyden jar, and I must return
to it and its oscillations. Let me very briefly run over the history of
our knowledge of the oscillatory character of a Leyden jar discharge.
It was first clearly realised and distinctly stated by that excellent

418                         Professor Oliver Lodge                 [March 8.
experimentalist, Joseph Henry, of Washington, a man not wholly
unlike Faraday in his mode of work, though doubtless possessing to
a less degree that astonishing insight into intricate and obscure
phenomena ; wanting also in Faraday's circumstantial advantages.
      This great man arrived at a conviction that the Leyden jar dis
 charge was oscillatory by studying the singular phenomena attending
 the magnetisation of steel needles by a Leyden jar discharge, fiist
 observed in 18'M by Savary. Fine needles, when taken out of the
 magnetising helices, were found to be not always magnetised in the
 right direction, and the subject is referred to in German books »s
 anomalous magnetisation. It is not the magnetisation which is
 anomalous, but the currents which have no simple direction ; and
 we find in a memoir published by Henry in 1842, the following
 words :—
      " This anomaly, which has remained so long unexplained, and
 which, at first sight, appears at variance with all our theoretical ideas
 of the connection of electricity and magnetism, was, after considerable
  study, satisfactorily referred by the author to an action of the dis
  charge of the Leyden jar, which had never before been recognised.
  The discharge, whatever may be its nature, is not correctly repre
  sented (employing for simplicity the theory of Franklin) by the
  single transfer of an imponderable fluid from one side of the jar to
  the other ; the phenomenon requires us to admit the existence of a
  principal discharge in one direction and then several reflex actions
  backward and forward each more feeble than the preceding, until the
  equilibrium is obtained. All the facts are shown to be in accordance
  wiih this hypothesis, and a ready explanation is afforded by it of a
  number of phenomena, which are to be found in the older works on
  electricity, but which have until this time remained unexplained."*
       The italics are Henry's. Now if this were an isolated passage it
  might be nothing more than a lucky guess. But it is not. The
  conclusion is one at which he arrives after a laborious repetition
  and serious study of the facts, and he keeps the idea constantly
  before him when once grasped, and uses it in all the rest of his
  researches on the subject. The facts studied by Henry do in my
  opinion support his conclusion, and if I am right in this it follows
  that he is the original discoverer of the oscillatory character of a
  spark, although he does not attempt to state his theory. That was
  first done, and completely done, in 1853, by Sir William Thomson ;
  and the progress of experiment by Feddersen, Helmholtz, Schiller,
  and others has done nothing but substantiate it.
       The writings of Henry have been only quite recently collected
 and published by the Smithsonian Institution of Washington in
 accessible form, and accordingly they have been far too much ignored.
     * ' Scientific Writings of Joseph Henry,' vol. i. p. 201. Published by the
  Smithsonian Institution, Washington, 1886.

1889.]               on the Discharge of a Leyden Jar.                      419
The two volumes contain a wealth of beautiful experiments clearly
recorded, and well repay perusal.
    The discovery of the oscillatory character of a Leyden jar dis
charge may seem a small matter but it is not. One has only to recall
the fact that the oscillators of Hertz are essentially Leyden jars—
one has only to use the phrase " electro-magnetic theory of light "
—to have some of the momentous issues of this discovery flash
before one.
    One more extract I must make from that same memoir by
Henry,* and it is a most interesting one ; it shows how near he was,
or might have been, to obtaining some of the results of Hertz;
though if he had obtained them, neither he nor any other experi
mentalist could possibly have divined their real significance.
    It is, after all, the genius of Maxwell and of a few other great
theoretical physicists whose names are on everyone's lipsf which
endows the simple induction experiments of Hertz and others with
such stupendous importance.
    Here is the quotation :—
    " In extending the researches relative to this part of the investi
gations, a remarkable result was obtained in regard to the distance at
which induction effects are produced by a very small quantity of
electricity ; a single spark from the prime conductor of a machine,
of about an inch long, thrown on to the end of a circuit of wire in an
upper room, produced an induction sufficiently powerful to magne
tise needles in a parallel circuit of iron placed in the cellar beneath,
at a perpendicular distance of 30 feet, with two floors and ceilings,
each 14 inches thick, intervening. The author is disposed to adopt
the hypothesis of an electrical plenum [in other words, of an ether],
and from the foregoing experiment it would appear that a single
spark is sufficient to disturb perceptibly the electricity of space
throughout at least a cube of 400,000 feet of capacity ; and when it
is considered that the magnetism of the needle is the result of tho
difference of two actions, it may be further inferred that the diffusion
of motion in this case is almost comparable with that of a spark from
a flint and steel in the case of light."
    Comparable it is, indeed, for we now know it to be the self-same
process.
    One immediate consequence and easy proof of the oscillatory
character of a Leyden jar discharge is the occurrence of phenomena
of sympathetic resonance.
    Everyone knows that one tuning-fork can excite another at a
   * Loo. cit., p. 204.
   t And of one whose Dame is not yet on everybody's lips, but whose profound
researches into electro-magnetic waves have penetrated further than anybody yet
understands into the depths of the subject, and whose papers have very likely
contributed largely to the theoretical inspiration of Hertz—I mean that powerful
mathematical physicist, Mr. Oliver Heaviside.

420                         Professor Oliver Lodge                    [March 8,
reasonable distance if both are tuned to the same note. Everyone
knows, also, that a fork can throw a stretched string attached to it
into sympathetic vibration if the two are tuned to unison or to some
simple harmonic. Both these facts have their electrical analogue. I
have not time to go fully into the matter to-night, but I may just
mention the two cases which I have myself specially noticed.
      A Leyden jar discharge can so excite a similarly-timed neigh
bouring Leyden jar circuit as to cause the latter to burst its dielectric
if thin and weak enough. The well-timed impulses accumulate in
the neighbouring circuit till they break through a quite perceptible
thickness of air.
      Put the circuits out of unison by varying the capacity or by
including a longer wire in one of them ; then, although the added
wire be a coil of several turns, well adapted to assist mutual induc
tion as ordinarily understood, the effect will no longer occur,
until the capacity is suitably diminished and the synchronism
thus restored.
      That is one case, and it is the electrical analogue of one tuning-
fork exciting another. It is too small at present to show here
satisfactorily, for I only recently observed it, but it is exhibited in
the library at the back.
      The other case, analogous to the excitation of a stretched string
 of proper length by a tuning-fork, I published last year under the
 name of the experiment of the recoil kick, where a Leyden jar circuit
 sends waves along a wire connected by one end with it, which waves
 splash off at the far end with an electric brush or long spark.
      I will show merely one phase of it to-night, and that is the
 reaction of the impulse accumulated in the wire upon the jar itself,
 causing it to either overflow or burst. (Sparks of gallon or pint jar
 made to overflow by wire round room.*)
      The early observations by Franklin on the bursting of Leyden
jars, and the extraordinary complexity or multiplicity of the fracture
that often results, are most interesting. His electric experiments as
     * During the course of this experiment, the gilt paper on the wall was
observed by the audience to bo sparkling, every gilt patch over a certain area
discharging into the next, after the manner of a spangled jar. It was probably
due to some kind of sympathetic resonance. Electricity splashes about in con
ductors in a surprising way everywhere in the neighbourhood of a discharge.
For instance, a telescope in the hand of one of the audience was reported
afterwards to be giving oft' little sparks at every discharge of the jar. K very-
thing which happens to have a period of electric oscillation corresponding to
some harmonic of Hie main oscillation of a discharge is liable to behnve in this
way. Whfn light falls on an opaque surface it turns into some other form of
energy. What the audience saw wi;s probably the result of waves of electrical
radiation being quenched or reflected by the walls of the room, and generatiug
t lectrieal currents in the act. It is these electric surgings which render such
severe caution necessary iu the erection of lightning-conductors.
     This explanation is merely tentative. I have had no time to investigate
the matter locally.

1889.]              on the Discharge of a Leyden Jar.                  421
well as Henry's well repay perusal, though, of course, they belong
to the infancy of the subject.
     He notes the striking fact that the bursting of a jar is an extra
occurrence, it does not replace the ordinary discharge in the proper
place, it accompanies it ; and we now know that it is precipitated by
it, that the spark occurring properly between the knobs sets up such
violent surgings that the jar is far more violently strained than by
the static charge or mere difference of potentials between its coatings ;
and if the surgings are at all even roughly properly timed, the jar
is bound to either overflow or burst.
     Hence a jar should always be made without a lid, and with a lip
protruding a carefully considered distance above its coatings : not
BO far as to fail to act as a safety valve, but far enough to prevent
overflow under ordinary and easy circumstances.
     And now we come to what is after all the main subject of my
discourse this evening, viz. the optical and audible demonstration of
the oscillations occurring in the Leyden jar spark. Such a demon
stration has, so far as I know, never before been attempted, but if
nothing goes wrong we shall easily accomplish it.
     And first I will do it audibly. To this end the oscillations must
be brought down from their extraordinary frequency of a million or
hundred thousand a second to a rate within the limits of human
audition. One does it exactly as in the case of the spring—one first
increases the flexibility and then one loads it. [Spark from battery
 of jars and varying sound of same.]
     Using the largest battery of jars at our disposal, I take the spark
between these two knobs—not a l«ng spark, ^ inch will be quite
 sufficient. Notwithstanding the great capacity, the rate of vibration
is still far above the limit of audibility, and nothing but the
customary crack is heard. I next add inertia to the circuit by
 including a great coil of wire, and at once the spark changes
 character, becoming very shrill but an unmistakable whistle, of a
 quality approximating to the cry of a bat. Add another coil, and
 down comes the pace once more, to something like 5000 per second,
 or about the highest note of a piano. Again and again I load the
 circuit with magnetisability, and at last the spark has only 500 vibra
 tions a second, giving the octave, or perhaps the double octave, above
 the middle C.
     One sees clearly why one gets a musical note : the noise of the
 spark is due to a sudden heating of the air ; now if the heat is oscil
 latory, the sound will be oscillatory too, but both will be an octavo
 above the electric oscillation, if I may so express it, because two heat-
 pulses will accompany every complete electric vibration, the heat
 production being independent of direction of current.
      Having thus got the frequency of oscillation down to so manage
 able a value, the optical analysis of it presents no difficulty : a simple
 looking-glass waggled in the hand will suffice to spread out the spark

422                      Professor Oliver Lodge               [March 8,
into a serrated band, just aB can be done with a singing or a sensitive
flame, a band too of very much the same appearance.
    Using an ordinary four-square rotating mirror driven electro-
magnetically at the rate of some two or three revolutions per second,
the baud is at the lowest pitch seen to be quite coarsely serrated ; and
fine serrations can be seen with four revolutions per second in even
the shrill whistling sparks.
    The only difficulty in seeing these effects is to catch them at the
right moment. They are only visible for a minute fraction of a revo
lution, though the band may appear drawn out to some length. The
further away the spark is from the mirror, the more drawn out it is,
but also the less chance there is of catching its image.
    With a single observer it is easy to arrange a contact maker on
the axle of the mirror which shall bring on the discharge at the
right place in the revolution, and the observer may then conveniently
watch for the image in a telescope or opera-glass, though at the lower
pitches nothing of the kind is necessary.
    But to show it to a large audience various plans can be adopted.
One is to arrange for several sparks instead of one ; another is to
multiply images of a single spark by suitably adjusted reflectors, which
if they are concave will give magnified images; another is to use
several rotating mirrors ; and indeed I do use two, one adjusted so
as to suit the spectators in the gallery.
    But the best plan that has struck me is to combine an intermittent
and an oscillatory discharge. Have the circuit in two branches, one
of high resistance so as to give intermittences, the other of ordinary
resistance so as to be oscillatory, and let the mirror analyse every
constituent of the intermittent discharge into a serrated baud. There
will thus be not one spark, but several successive sparks, close enough
together to sound almost like one, separate enough in the rotating
mirror to be visible on all sides at once, and each one analysed into its
component alternations.
    But to achieve this one must have great exciting power. In spite of
the power of this magnificent Wimshurst machine, it takes some
time to charge up our great Leydon battery, and it is tedious waiting
for each spark. A Wimshurst does admirably for a single observer,
but for a multitude one wants an instrument which shall charge the
battery not once only but many times over, with overflows between,
and all in the twinkling of an eye.
    To get this I must abandon my friend Mr. Wimshuret, and return
to Michael Faraday. In front of the table is a great induction coil ;
its secondary has the resistance needed to give an intermittent dis
charge. The quantity it supplies at a single spark will fill our jars
to overflowing several times over. The discharge circuit and all its
circumstances shall remain unchanged. [Excite jars by coil.j
    Runuing over the gamut with this coil now used as our exciter
instead of the Wimshurst machine—everything else remaining
exactly as it was—you hear the sparks give the same notes as before,

1889.]               on the Discharge of a Leyden Jar.                      423
but with a slight rattle in addition, indicating intermittence as well
as alternation. Rotate the mirror, and everyone should see one or
other of the serrated bands of light at nearly every break of the
primary current of the coil. [Rotating mirror to analyse sparks.]
     The musical sparks which I have now shown you were obtained
by me during a special digression * which I made while examining
the effect of discharging a Leyden jar round heavy glass or bisulphide
of carbon. The rotation of the plane of polarisation of light by a
steady current, or by a magnetic field of any kind properly disposed
with respect to the rays of light, is a very familiar one in this place.
Perhaps it is known also that it can be done by a Leyden jar current.
But 1 do not think it is ; and the fact seems to me very interesting.
It is not exactly new—in fact, as things go now it may be almost
called old, for it was investigated six or seven years ago by two most
highly skilled French experimenters, Messrs. Bichat and Blondlot.
     But it is exceedingly interesting as showing how short a time,
how absolutely no time, is needed by heavy glass to throw itself into
the suitable rotatory condition. Some observers have thought they
had proved that heavy glass requires time to develop the effect, by
spinning it between the poles of a magnet and seeing the effect
decrease; but their conclusions cannot be right, for the polarised
light follows every oscillation in a discharge, the plane of polarisa
tion being waved to and fro as often as 70,000 times a second in my
own observation.
     Very few persons in the world have seen the effect. In fact, I
doubt if anyone had seen it a month ago except Messrs. Bichat and
Blondlot. But I hope to make it visible to most persons here, though
I hardly hope to make it visible to all.
     Returning to the Wimshurst machine as exciter, I pass a dis
charge round the spiral of wire inclosing this long tube of CS2, and
 the analysing Nicol being turned to darkness, there may be seen a
faint—by those close to not so faint, but a very momentary—restora
tion of light on the screen at every spark. (CS,t tube experiment on
screen.)
     Now I say that this light restoration is also oscillatory. One way
of proving this fact is to insert a biquartz between the Nicols. With
a steady current it constitutes a sensitive detector of rotation, its
 sensitive tint turning green on one side and red on the other. But
with this oscillatory current a biquartz does absolutely nothing.
(Biquartz.)
     That is one proof. Another is that rotating the analyser either
 way weakens the extra brightening of the field, and weakens it
equally either way.
     But the most convincing proof is to reflect the light coming
   * Moat likely it was a conversation which I had with Sir Wm. Thomson, at
Christmas, which caused me to see the interest of getting glow oscillations. My
attention has mainly been directed to getting them quick.

 424       Prof. 0. Lodge on the Discharge of a Leyden Jar. [March 8,
 through the tube upon our rotating mirror, and to look now, not at
 the spark, or not only at the spark, but at the faint band into which
 the last residue of light coming through polariser and tube and
 analyser is drawn out. (Analyse the light in rotating mirror.)
     At every discharge this faint streak brightens in places into a
 beaded band : these are the oscillations of the polarised light : and
 when examined side by side they are as absolutely synchronous with
 the' oscillations of the spark itself as can be perceived.
     Rotating the analysing Nicol a little, one sees every alternate bead
 grow fainter, while the other alternate ones brighten ; thus directly
 establishing the fact of alternations, as distinct from intermittences.
A certain definite rotation will obliterate one set altogether, and make
the beading appear twice as coarse, as if it belonged to the octave
 below. [For further details see ' Philosophical Magazine ' for April,
 1889.]
     Out of a multitude of phenomena connected with the Leyden jar
discharge I have selected a few only to present to you here this
evening. Many more might have been shown, and great numbers
more are not at present adapted for presentation to an audience, being
only visible with difficulty and close to.
     An old and trite subject is seen to have in the light of theory an
unexpected charm and brilliancy. So it is with a great number of
other old familiar facts at the present time.
     The present is an epoch of astounding activity in physical science.
Progress is a thing of months and weeks, almost of days. The long
line of isolated ripples of past discovery seem blending into a mighty
wave, on the crest of which one begins to discern some oncoming
magnificent generalisation. The suspense is becoming feverish, at
times almost painful. One feels like a boy who has been long
strumming on the silent key-board of a deserted organ, into the
chest of which an unseen power begins to blow a vivifying breath.
Astonished, he now finds that the touch of a finger elicits a responsive
note, and he hesitates, half delighted, half affrighted, least he be
deafened by the chords which it would seem he can now summon forth
almost at will.
                                                               [O.L.]

                                 f < * OF THB
1889.]        Sir James N. DoufiGs on $3pc® Jifl^fc/JC"^)'           425
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, March 15, 1889.
SIB FREDERICK BRAMWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Honorary Secretary
                   and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                SIB JAMES N. DOUGLASS, F.R.S. M.R.I.
                    Beacon Lights and Fog Signals.
IT is stated by Samuel Smiles, in his ' Lives of Engineers,' that
" with Winstanley's structure on the Eddystone in 1696, may bo said
to have commenced the modern engineering efforts," in directing the
great sources of power in nature, for the use and convenience of man ;
efforts, which, followed up by Iludyerd, Smeaton, and others, have
been so successful in converting hidden dangers into sources of
safety, and ensuring the beneficent guidance of the mariner in his
trackless path.
     The famous structure of Smeaton, which had withstood the storms
of more than half a century with incalculable advantage to mankind,
became in course of time a matter of anxiety and watchful care to the
Corporation of Trinity House, owing to the great tremor of the
building with each wave stroke, during heavy westerly storms. The
joints of the masonry frequently yielded to the heavy strains, and
the sea-water was driven through them to the interior of the building.
The upper part of the structure was strengthened with internal iron
work in 1839, and again in 1865. On the last occasion, it was found
that the chief mischief was caused by the upward stroke of the heavy
seas against the projecting cornice of the lantern gallery, thus lifting
this portion of the masonry, together with the lantern above it.
Unfortunately, the portion of the gneis rock on which the lighthouse
was founded, had become seriously shaken by the heavy sea strokes
on the tower, and the rock had thus been seriously undermined at its
base. The waves rose during storms considerably above the summit
of the lantern, thus frequently eclipsing the light, and altering its
distinctive character from a fixed light to an occulting. This matter
of distinctive character in a beacon light, was one of little importance
at the date of the erection of Smeaton's lighthouse, when coal fires
were the only illuminating agents along the coasts; but with the
rapid development of our commerce, and the great increase in the
number of coast lights, it has become an absolute necessity that each
light maintain a clearly distinctive character. It was, therefore,

426                       Sir James N. Douglass              [March 15,
determined by the Trinity House, in 1877, to erect a new lighthouse
at a distance of 120 feet from Smeaton's tower, where a safe and
permanent foundation was found, but at a much lower level, which
necessitated the laying of a large portion of the foundation masonry
below low water. The foundation stone of this work was laid on the
 19th August, 1879, by H.R.H. The Duke of Edinburgh, Master of
the Trinity House; assisted by H.R.H. The Prince of Wales, an
honorary Elder Brother of the Corporation.
      On the 1st June, 1881, H.R.H. The Master, when passing up
 Channel in H.M.S. Lively, landed at the rock and laid the last
 stone of the tower ; and on the 18th May of the following year H.R.H.
 lighted the lamps, and formally opened the lighthouse. The edifice
 was thus completed within four years from its commencement, at a
 cost of 59,255Z. The work was executed under the immediate direc
 tion of the Trinity House and their engineer, and with a saving of
 24,000Z. on the lowest sum at which it had been found that it could
 be executed by contract. Every block of granite in the structure, is
dovetailed together, both vertically and horizontally, on a system
 devised by my father, and first adopted at the Hanois rock lighthouse,
 nil' the west coast of Guernsey. The illuminating apparatus consists
of two superposed oil lamps, each of six concentric wicks ; and of
two drums of lenses of 920 mm. focal distance, twelve lenses in each
drum. The optical apparatus is specially designed on the system of
Dr. John Hopkinson, F.R.S. for a double flashing light, and shows
two flashes in quick succession, at intervals of half a minute. Atten
tion has of late been directed to the subject of superposed lights in
lighthouses, which became a necessity when several small luminaries
had to be substituted for the large coal, or wood, fire of our early
lighthouses. The credit of first superposing lighthouse luminaries
is doubtless due to Smeaton, who lighted his lantern in 1759 with
24 large tallow candles in two tiers. The idea was followed in
1790 with the first revolving light, established at the St. Agnes
lighthouse, Scilly Islands, which consisted of 15 oil lamps and
reflectors, arranged in three groups, and in three tiers. The number
of the lamps and reflectors at this and other first-class lights, was
afterwards extended to 30, and in four tiers. In 1859 Mr. J. W.
D. Brown, of Lowisham, proposed superposed lenses for signal and
lighthouse lanterns, with a separate light for each tier of lenses. In
1872 Mr. John Wigham, of Dublin, proposed superposed lenses for
lighthouses, in conjunction with his large gas flames, umi the first
application of these was made in 1877, at the Galley Head light
house, County Cork. In 1876 Messrs. Lepaute and Sons, the
eminent lighthouse optical engineers of Paris, made successful experi
ments with superposed lenses and mineral oil flames, and one of their
apparatus was exhibited at the Paris International Exhibition of 1878.
The results of these experiments were given by M. Henry Lepaute,
in a paper contributed to the Congress at Havre, in 1877, of the
French Association for the Advancement of Science. The Eddy

1889.]              on Beacon Lights and Fog Signals.                 427
stone represents the first practical application of superposed lenses of
the first order, with oil as the illuminant.
     The apparatus at the Eddystone is provided with two six wick
burners of the Trinity House improved type, and has a minimum
intensity for clear weather of about 38,000 candle units, and a maxi
mum intensity of about 160,000 candle units for atmosphere impaired
for the transmission of light. The chandelier light in Smeaton's
lantern was unaided by optical apparatus. I have found by experi
ment that the aggregate intensity of the beam from the 24 candles
was 07 candle units nearly. The maximum intensity of the flashes
now sent to the mariner is about 2380 times that of the candle beam,
while the annual cost fur the mineral oil illuminant is about 82 per
cent. less. The sound signal for foggy weather consists of two bells
of 40 cwt. each, mounted on the lantern gallery, and rung by machinery.
If any wind occurs with the fog, the windward bell is sounded. The
distinctive character of the signal is two sounds of the bell in quick
succession every half minute, thus corresponding with the character
of the light signal.
     The tendency of the curvilinear outline near the base of Smeaton's
 and of other similar sea towers that have followed it, to elevate the
 centre of force of heavy waves on the structure, induced me to adopt
 a cylindrical base for the new lighthouse, which is found to retard
 the rise of waves on the structure, while it affords a convenient plat
 form for the light-keepers, and adds very considerably to their
 opportunities for landing and relief. The Town Council and inhabi
 tants of Plymouth having expressed a desire that Smeaton's lighthouse
 should be re-erected on Plymouth Hoe, in lieu of the Trinity House
 sea mark thereat, the Trinity House, who, as custodians of public
 money, had no funds available for such a purpose, undertook to
 deliver to the authorities at Plymouth, at actual cost for labour, the
 lanterns and the four rooms of the tower. These have been re-erected
 by public subscription, on a foundation of granite, corresponding
  nearly with the lower portions of Smeaton's tower, and it is to be
  hoped that it will be preserved by the town of Plymouth as a monu
 ment to the genius of Smeaton, and in commemoration of one of the
 most successful and beneficent works in civil engineering.
      It is extremely difficult to estimate with a fair degree of accuracy
 the maximum force of the waves with which some of the most exposed
  of these sea structures may occasionally have to contend. The late
  eminent lighthouse engineer, Mr. Thomas Stevenson, carried out a
  long series of experiments with a self-registeriug instrument he
  devised for determining the force of sea waves on exposed structures.
  He found at the Skerryvore rock lighthouse the Atlantic waves there
  gave an average force for five of the summer months, in 1843-4, of
  611 Ibs. per square foot. The average result for the six winter
  months of the same year was 2086 Ibs. per square foot, or three
  times as great as in the summer months. The greatest force registered
  was on the 29th March, 1845, during a westerly gale, when a pressure
      VOL XII. (No. 83.)                                        2 o

428                     Sir James N. Doujlass               [March 15,
of 6083 Ibs., or 2j tons newly, per square foot was recorded. After
Smeaton had carefully considered the great defect of the building of
Rudyerd at the Eddystone, viz. want of weight, he reported that, " if
the lighthouse was to be BO contrived as not to give way to the sea, it
must be made so strong as that the sea must be compelled to give
way to the building." Smeaton also had regard to durability as an
important element in the structure, for he adds, " in contemplating
the use and benefit of such a structure as this, my ideas of what its
duration and continued existence ought to be, were not confined within
the boundary of one age or two, but extended themselves to look
towards a possible perpetuity." Thus Smeaton soon arrived at the
firm conviction that his lighthouse must be built of granite, and of
this material nearly all lighthouses on exposed tidal rocks have since
been constructed, while those on submerged sandbanks are open
structures of iron, erected on screw piles or iron cylinders. The
screw pile was the invention of the late Mr. Alexander Mitchell, of
Belfast.
    We have here a model of the first lighthouse, erected in 1838 on
these screw piles, at the Maplin Sands, on the north side of the
estuary of the Thames ; under the direction of the late James
Walker, F.E.S. then Engineer-in-Chief to the Trinity House.
A lighthouse on the principle of minimum surface exposed to the
force of the waves, of which we have here a model, was erected on
the chief rock of the dangerous group of the Smalls, situated about
eighteen-and-a-half miles off Milford Haven, by Mr. John Phillips, a
merchant and shipowner of Liverpool.
    The work was designed and erected under great difficulties by
Mr. Henry Whiteside, a native of Liverpool, and a man of great
mechanical skill and undaunted courage. Added to his mechanical
ability, Whiteside possessed a great love and knowledge of music,
and had, previous to the erection of his lighthouse, excelled in the
construction of violins, spinnettes, and upright harpsichords. The
lighthouse, commenced in 1772, was intended to be erected on eight
cast iron pillars, sunk deep into the rock. This material was, how
ever, soon abandoned for English oak, as being more elastic and
trustworthy. The work was completed and lighted in 1776, with
eight lamps and glass faceted reflectors, similar to the one before us.
    In 1817, sixteen improved lamps and silvered paraboloidal
reflectors were substituted for these ; and the lighthouse, although
sorely tried by winter storms, was (with the aid of yearly repairs and
strengthening) enabled to send forth its beneficent beam until the
year 1856, when the Trinity House commenced the erection of a
lighthouse of granite, as shown by this model. The vibrations of the
old wooden structure must have been very considerable with heavy
etorms, for the lightkeepers occasionally found it sufficient to cause a
bucket of water, placed in the living room to spill just half its
contents. It was in this lighthouse that the painful circumstance
occurred in the year 1802, of the death of one of the lightkeepers.

 1889.]            on Beacon Lights and Fog Signals.                 429
In those days only two men inhabited the lighthouse at a time ; one
of them was taken ill, and the means employed by his companion for
obtaining relief proved ineffectual. He hoisted a signal of distress,
but owing to stormy weather no landing could be effected, and
after many days of extreme suffering, the poor fellow, named Thomas
Griffiths, breathed his last, when the survivor, Thomas Howell,
fully realised the awful responsibilities of his position ; decom
position would quickly follow, and the atmosphere of the small
apartment would be vitiated. The body could not be committed to
the sea, as suspicion of murder would probably follow. Howell was
a cooper by trade, and he was thus enabled to make a coffin for his
dead companion, out of boards obtained from a partition in the
apartment. After very great exertion the body was carried to the
outer gallery, and there securely lashed to the railing. For three
long weeks it occupied this position before the weather moderated,
yet night after night Howell faithfully kept his lights brightly
burning. When a landing was at last effected, his attenuated form
demonstrated the sufferings, both mental and physical, he had under
gone ; indeed, several of his friends failed to recognise him on his
return to his home. Since this sad occurrence the Trinity House
have always maintained three lightkeepers at their isolated rock
stations. The present lighthouse was designed by the late Engineer-
in-Chief of the Trinity House, Mr. James Walker, P.R.S. and I had
the honour of executing the work as resident engineer. The
foundation stone was laid on the 26th June, 1857, and the light was
exhibited on the 7th August, 1861. The work was completed by the
Trinity House, at a cost of 50,125Z., being about twenty-four per
cent. under the lowest amount at which it had been ascertained
that it could have been executed by contract.
     Probably the most exposed rock lighthouse is that on the Bishop
(the westernmost of the rocks of Scilly), shown on the diagram. Its
position is doubtless one of the most important to mariners, warning
them as it does of the terrible dangers where, on the 22nd of
October, 1707, Sir Cloudesley Shovel, with the Association, Eagle,
and Romney, were lost, with about 2000 men. The Bishop is also
the guiding light for the entrances to the English and Bristol Channels.
The rock, composed of a very hard pink-coloured granite, is about
153 feet long by 52 feet wide at the level of low water of spring
tides. It stands in over twenty fathoms water, is steep-to all
round, and is exposed to the full fury of the Atlantic. It was at
first feared that the width of the rock was not sufficient for the base
of a stone tower of adequate dimensions to withstand the heavy wave
shocks it would have to resist, and an open structure of wrought and
cast iron (shown on the diagram) was determined on. The work was
jointly designed by the late Engineer-in-Chief to the Trinity House, and
my father, the Superintending Engineer, who afterwards erected the
structure, at which I had the honour of acting as Assistant Engineer. •
    The work was commenced in 1847, and at the end of the working
                                                           2 G 2

430                      Sir James N. Douglass                [March 15,
season of 1850, the lighthouse was so far completed as to be in
readiness for receiving the lantern and the illuminating apparatus ;
and it was left with confidence, to resist the storms of the approach
ing winter. But during a very violent storm, between 11 p.m. of the 5th
and 3 a.m. on the 6th of the following February, the lighthouse was
completely destroyed and swept from the rock. On further con
sideration of the matter, the Trinity House determined, on the
recommendation of their engineers, to proceed with a stone structure,
and my father was appointed to build the lighthouse, I acting as
before as Assistant Engineer. The work was proceeded with in the
spring of 1851. In order to obtain the greatest possible diameter of
base for the tower that the rock would admit of, it was found
necessary to lay a portion of the foundation on the most exposed side of
the rock, at the level of cue foot below low-water of spring tides ; and,
although every possible human effort was made by the leafier, and his
devoted band of workers, the foundations were not completed until the
end of the season of 1852. Soon after this, my brother, Mr. William
Douglass, now Engineer-in-Chief to the Commissioners of Irish Lights,
succeeded me as assistant engineer at the work. The lighthouse was
completed in 1858, and its dioptric fixed oil light of the first order
was first exhibited on the 1st of September of that year. Soon after
wards, its exposure to heavy seas during storms, was fully realised.
On one occasion the Fog Bell was torn from its bracket at the lantern
gallery at 100 foot above high water, and the flag staff with a ladder,
which were lashed outside the lantern, were washed away. The
tremor of the towur on these occasions was such as to throw articles
 off shelves, and several of the large glass prisms of the Dioptric
 Apparatus were fractured. After some time it was found that several
 of the external blocks of granite situated a few feet above high water
 were fractured by the excessive strains on the building. In 1874 the
 tower was strengthened from top to bottom by heavy iron ties, bolted
 to the internal surface of the walls ; but, after a violent storm in the
 winter of 1881, there was evidence of further excessive straining at
 the face of the lower external blocks of masonry, when the Trinity
 House, on the advice of their engineer, determined on the re-erection
 of the lighthouse. This was accomplished, as shown on the diagram,
 by encasing the existing tower with carefully dovetailed granite
 masonry, each alternate block of the new granite being dovetailed to
 the old. The work was one of considerable difficulty, owing to the
 necessity for maintaining the light throughout the progress ; and the
 risk to the workmen was great, especially at the upper part of the old
 tower, owing to the narrow ledge on which the work had to be executed.
 I am, however, thankful to state that the new Lighthouse has been
 successfully completed by my son, Mr. W. T. Douglass, who was also my
 assistant engineer at the Eddystone ; and with the same complete immu
 nity from loss of life, or limb, to any person employed, as with the two
  previous structures on this rock. The optical apparatus consists of
  two superposed tiers of lenses of the type adopted at the Eddystone,

 1889.]             on Beacon Lights and Fog Signals.                431
 but of larger dimensions, as suggested by the late Mr. Thomas
 Stevenson, for obtaining greater efficiency with the larger flamed
 luminaries recently adopted. The apparatus is provided with two
 Trinity House improved mineral oil burners, and has a minimum
 intensity for clear weather of about 80,000 candle units, and a maxi
 mum intensity for thick weather of about 513,000 candle units. The
 character of the light is Double Flashing, showing two flashes, each
 of four seconds duration, in quick succession at periods of one minute.
 The flashes of this light, and those of a light lately completed at
 about eight nautical miles from it, on Round Island, are the most
 intense yet attained with oil flames for beacon lights ; and it may be
 stated that, with no other illuminant at present known to science,
 could these results be carried out within the space available at
 the Bishop rock, and under the circumstances attending that work.
 The fog signal recently adopted at this station, in lieu of the boll, is
 by the electrical explosion of four-ounce charges of gun-cotton, at
 intervals of five minutes. The apparatus provided for this form of
 fog signal is shown on the diagram. It consists of a wronght-iron
 crane (attached to the lantern) which is raised and lowered by a worm
 wheel and pinion. When the crane is lowered, its end reaches near
 the gallery, where the lightkeeper suspends the charge of gun-cotton,
 with its detonator attached, to the electric cable, which is carried
along the crane and through the roof of the lantern to a dynamo
electric firing machine. Alter suspending the charge, the jib of the
crane is raised to its upper position, when the charge is fired nearly
vertically over the glazing of the lantern, and thus without causing
damage to it.
     The large and heavy optical apparatus is rotated automatically
by compressed air, which is stored in two vertical steel reservoirs,
fixed at the centre of the tower. The air is compressed by a small
Davey Safety Motor. A winch, worked by the compressed air, is
fixed on the lantern gallery for landing the lightkeepers, stores, &c.
     The numerous outlying shoals surrounding the shores of this
country, particularly oif the east coast, were an early cause of anxiety
to those responsible for the guidance of mariners. And in addition
to buoys as sea marks by day, floating lights, as guides by night,
were found to be a necessity. The first light-vessel was moored at
the Nore Sand in 1732, and another near the Dudgeon Shoal in 1736.
We have here a model of the latter vessel, from which we may judge
of the pluck and hardihood of the crews who manned them ; especi
ally when we remember that there were no chain cables in those
days ; the vessel having to be moored with a cable of hemp, which,
owing to the constant chafing, occasionally parted during winter
storms, when, to save their lives, the crew had to put out another
anchor if possible, or set such storm canvas as they could, to keep her
off a Ice shore, and endeavour to reach a place of safety. The illumi
nating apparatus of these vessels consisted of a small lantern, and

432                     Sir James N. Douglass               [March 15,
flat wick oil lamps, fixed at a yard arm, and hero appears to have
occurred the first application of a distinctive character to beacon
lights, for the Dudgeon was fitted with two lights, one being placed
at each arm of the yard. The next light-vessel was placed at the
Newarp Shoal in 1790, and in 1795 one was placed at tho north end
of the Goodwin Sands. The two latter vessels were provided with
three fixed lights, and the lanterns were larger and surrounded each
mast-head, as shown by the model before us. An improvement was
also effected in these lights by providing each lamp with a silvered
reflector.
    In 1807 the late Mr. Robert Stevenson, the engineer of the Bell
Rock lighthouse, to whom and his successor is due much valuable
engineering and optical work connected with coast lighting, designed
a larger lantern to surround the mast, and capable of being lowered
to the deck for properly trimming tho lamps. Soon after the adop
tion of the system of catoptric illuminations in lighthouses, it was
extended to floating lights ; each lamp and reflector was hung in
gimballs, to ensure horizontal direction of the beams of light during
the pitching and rolling of the vessel. Wo have here one of these
apparatus. The intensity of the beam sent from it was 500 candle
units nearly.
      On the 1st January, 1837, the Trinity House installed the first
revolving floating light, at the S^vin Middle, and, later in the same
year, another on board the Gull light-vessel. The lamps and
reflectors were carried on a roller frame surrounding the must, and
rotated through light shafting, by clockwork placed between decks.
There were nine lamps and reflectors arranged in three groups, of
three each, and thus the collective intensity of each flash was equal
to that of three fixed lights, or 1500 candle units nearly. In 1872
the Trinity House further increased the dimensions of the lanterns
and reflectors of their floating lights, the lanterns from six to eight
feet in diameter, with cylindrical instead of polygonal glazing, and
the reflectors from 12 inches to 21 inches diameter at the aperture.
These improvements, together with the adoption of improved burners,
have effected a considerable increase in the intensity of these lights ;
and, during the last two years, a further improvement has been
obtained, by the adoption of concentric wick burners with more con
 densed flames, and of higher illuminating power, by which the
intensity of the beam from each reflector has been raised to 5000
caudle units ; being just ten times the intensity of the smaller appa
ratus ; while, by the adoption of mineral oil in lieu of colza, the
 annual cost for the illumiuant has been reduced 51 per cent.
     Dioptric apparatus for light-vessels was proposed by M.
Letourneau in 1851, several small fixed light apparatus being in
tended to be employed in each lantern, and arranged nearly in the
same way as the reflectors. This arrangement has been adopted in
 some instances by Messrs. D. and T. Stevenson, engineers to the
 Commissioners of Northern Lighthouses, and by the engineers of the

 1889.]            on Beacon Liyhts and Foy Siynal*.                 433
 French Lighthouse service ; but, for efficiency, and adaptability to
meet the rough duty to which floating lights are occasionally sub
jected, in stormy weather and collisions, this system has been found
to be inferior for this service to the catoptric.
    An interesting experiment was recently made by the Mersey
 Docks and Harbour Board with the electric arc light, on board one of
their light-vessels at the entrance of the Mersey, but unfortunately it
did not prove successful. The present difficulties experienced afloat
with this powerful illuminant will doubtless be overcome, and it will
be found to be, as in lighthouses, by far the most efficient illuminant
for some special stations, where a higher intensity than can be obtained
with flame luminaries is demanded. Experiments have been in pro
gress during the past two years at the " sunk " light-vessel, off the
coast of E.-wx, for maintaining electrical telegraphic communication
with the shore for reporting wrecks and casualties in the locality.
 This vessel is connected with the Post Office at Walton-on-Naze,
through nine miles of cable. The instruments adopted are the
Wheatstone A.B.C. " Morse," and the Gower Bell telephone—the
telephone for the first time for this purpose on board a vessel at sea,
and its efficiency has been found to be so perfect, that it is preferred
by the operators to the telegraphic instruments. Many difficulties
have been experienced in maintaining reliable communication during
stormy weather, owing to consequent wear and tear of the connections
with the vessel, but the system, which was designed and carried out
by the Telegraphic Construction and Maintenance Company, is now
working satisfactorily. Unfortunately, however, it is found to be too
costly for adoption, except in very special cases.
    In 1876, Mr. Julius Pintsch, of Berlin, patented in this country
his system of illuminating buoys or other floating bodies by com
pressed oil gas, and in 1878 one of these buoys was experimentally
tried at sea with success by the Trinity House. The system is
similar to that previously adopted by Mr. Pintsch with great success
in the lighting of railway carriages, but with the addition for buoys
of a specially constructed lantern, containing a small cylindrical lens
for a fixed light. Through the kindness of the Pintsch's Lighting
Company we have here one of these apparatus, producing an intensity
in the beam of about twenty caudle units. With the charge of gas
contained in the buoy the light is shown continuously, night and day,
from two to four months, according to the dimensions of the buoy,
without re-filling or requiring any other attention, except occasional
cleaning of the lens and the glazing of the lantern. In 1883,
Mr. William B. Rickman patented a very ingenious addition to this
apparatus for producing occulting or flashing light. The apparatus
is automatically worked by the issuing compressed gas on its way
from the buoy to the burner. After passing the regulator, where the
pressure of the gas is reduced for burning, it outers a cylindrical
chamber, covered with a diaphragm of very flexible specially prepared
leather ; this diaphragm, on being slightly raised by the inflowing

434                      Sir James N. Douglass              [March 15,
gas, communicates motion to a lever, which, assisted by a spiral
spring, closes tho inlet pipe, and opens at the same time the passage
to the burner. As the gas passes on and is consumed at the burner
the diaphragm, by its own weight, assisted by the springs, sinks, and,
touching the lever, closes the outlet aperture to the burner, and, at
the same moment, opens the inlet of the gas from the buoy for
another charge. Thus the light is extinguished while the gas is
entering the chamber and until the latter is re-filled, when the passage
from the buoy is again closed by tho rising of the diaphragm. A
email pilot jet is constantly burning to ensure the re-ignition of the
gns when re-admitted to the burner. It is evident that several cha
racteristic distinctions of light may be obtained by modifications of
this ingenious apparatus. About 150 buoys lighted on the Pintsch
system are already rendering valuable service to mariners in various
parts of the world. For the more important stations at sea, where
light-vessels are now employed, the system is considered to be yet
wanting in that trustworthiness which should be the leading cha
racteristic of all coast lighting. Very important experiments have
lately been made by the Lighthouse Board of the United States,
at their general depot at Tompkinsville, New York, with buoys
 lighted electrically by glow lamps, operated through submarine con
 ductors from the shore. These experiments have proved so successful
 that an installation for marking the Gedney's Channel, entrance of
 Lower Bay, New York Harbour, with six buoys and 100 candle glow
 lamps, was lighted on the 7th of November last. Gas buoys were
 considered inapplicable for this special case, owing to their form
 and size rendering them liable to break adrift, particularly when
 struck by floating ice or passing vessels. The buoy adopted for the
 service consists of a spar 46 feet long, having its lower end shackled
 direct to a heavy iron sinker, resting on the bottom. At the upper
 end the buoy is fitted with an iron cage, enclosing a heavy glass jar,
 in which is placed the glow lamp of 100 candle units intensity. The
 cable is secured by wire staples, in a deep groove cut in the buoy, and
  covered by a strip of wood. For a distance of several feet at the
 lower end of the buoy the cable is closely served with iron wire, over
  which is wound spun yarn, to prevent injury from chafing on the
  shackle and sinker. The central station on shore, with steam engines
  and dynamos in duplicate, is on Sandy Hook, at a distance from the
  extreme buoys of about three nautical miles. The installation is re
  ported to bo working continuously and successfully. For auxiliary
  or port lights on shore, whore no collisions can occur, the Pintsch
  gas system is found to be very perfect. At Broadness, on the Thames,
  near Gravesond, the Trinity House erected, in 1855, an automatic
  lighthouse illuminated on Pintsch's system, as shown by the diagram.
  This small lighthouse shows a single flashing light, at periods of ten
  seconds, the flashes having on intensity of 500 candle units. The
  flashes and eclipses are produced with perfect regularity by special
  clockwork, which alsu turns on the gas supply to the burner at

1889.]               on Beacon Lights and Fog Signals.               435
sunset and off again at sunrise. It is also arranged for periodic ad
justment, for the lengthening and shortening of the nights throughout
the year. This automatic light is in the charge of a boatman, who visits
it once a week, when he cleans and adjusts the apparatus, and cleans
the glazing of the lantern. An automatic lighthouse similar to that
at Broadness has been lately installed at Sunderland by the River
Wear Commissioners, on a pier which is inaccessible in stormy
weather. In 1881-82 several beacons automatically lighted by petro
leum spirit, on the system of Herr Lindberg and Herr Lyth, of
Stockholm, were established by the Swedish Lighthouse authorities,
and are reported to be working efficiently. In 1885, a beacon or
automatic lighthouse on this system was installed by the Trinity
House on the Thames, near Gravesend, and has been found to work
efficiently. The light is occulting at periods of about two seconds ;
the occultations are produced by an opaque screen rotated around the
light, by the ascending currents of heated air from the lamp acting
on a horizontal fan. As there is no governor to the apparatus the
periods of the occultations are subject to slight errors compared with
those of the gas light controlled by clockwork. In 1841 an iron
beacon, lighted by a glow lamp and the current from a secondary
battery, was erected on a tidal rock near Cadiz. Contact is made
and broken by a small clock, which runs for 28 days, and causes the
light to flash for five seconds at periods of half a minute. The clock
is also arranged for eclipsing the light between sunrise and sunset.
The apparatus is the invention of Don Isas Lavoden, of Cadiz, to
whom I am indebted for kindly showing me the light in action when
on a visit to Cadiz in 1885. There is every probability that auto
matic beacons, lighted either by electricity, gas, or petroleum spirit,
will, in consequence of their economy in maintenance, be extensively
adopted in the future.
    Coal and wood fires, the flames produced by the combustion of
tallow, nearly all the animal, vegetable, and mineral oils, coal and oil
gas, and the lime light, have been employed from time to time in
lighthouse illumination, and last but not least, the electric light.
None of these illuminants have received such universal application in
all positions both ashore and afloat as mineral oil at the present
moment, and justly so, when we consider its efficiency and economy
for the purpose. So recently as 1822, the last beacon coal fire in
this country was replaced by a catoptric oil light, at Saint Bees light
house, on the coast of Cumberland. We have here diagrams of two
of these coal fire beacons, one of them designed and erected by Smeaton
in 1767 on his lighthouse at the Spurn Point, on the cast side of the
entrance to the Humber. So late as 1845 sperm oil was entirely used
in the lighthouses and light-vessels of the Trinity House ; but,
shortly afterwards, colza was adopted with the same efficiency, and
with a saving in annual cost of about 44 per cent. In 1861, experi
ments were made by the Trinity House for determining the relative
efficiency and economy of colza and mineral oil for lighthouse ilium:

436                         Sir James N. Douglass              [March 15,
nation : but owing to the imperfect refinement of the best samples of
the latter then procurable in the market, together with its high price,
the result of the investigation was not so satisfactory as to justify a
change from colza. In 1869 the price of mineral oil of good illumi
nating quality and safe flashing point, was found to bo procurable at
about half the price of colza, when the Trinity House determined to
make a further series of experiments, and by these it was ascertained
that, with a few simple modifications of the Argaud burners then in
 use, they were rendered very efficient for the purpose, it was also
found that these burners were thus considerably improved for the
combustion of colza. A change from colza to mineral oil was then
commenced, and mineral oil is now generally adopted in the light
houses and light-vessels of the Trinity House service, aud with even
greater economy than was at first anticipated ; the price of this
illuminant being now rather less than one-third that of colza. The
most powerful oil burner then in use was one of four concentric wicks,
the joint production of Arago and Fresuel, and adopted by the French
lighthouse authorities about the year 1825, in conjunction with the
then new dioptric system of optical apparatus of Fresnel. The
standard intensity of the combined flames of this burner, one of
which we have here, was 260 caudle units. A fuither development
 was made, during the experiments of the Trinity House in 1871, by
increasing the number of wicks from four to six, which more than
doubled the intensity of the light, while effecting a condensation of
the luminary per unit of focal area, or in other words improved the
optical efficiency 70 per cent. We have here also one of these burners.
 1 have since devised an Argand burner for the combustion of all
illuminating gases and oils, whereby still further condensation of the
flames, together with greater intensity and economy of combustion, is
obtained, and the glass chimney is protected from breakage. These
improvements are effected by a special arrangement and distribution
of the air currents through the rings of flame, and between them and
the glass chimney. (See Models.) \Ve are thus enabled on this system
to increase the dimensions of lighthouse burners, for gas aud oil, for
ten or more rings of flame. With ten rings we obtain an aggregate
intensity, when burning cannel gas and good mineral oil, of consider
ably over 2000 caudle units, while the improved efficiency of the
luminary for optical condensation of the radiant light, per unit of
focal area, as compared with the luminary of our Fresnel four-wick
oil burner, has been in each case increased 109 per cent. With
reference to the perfect combustion of these highly condensed flames
1 may state that the efficiency for gas is exactly double that of the
London standard Argand burner, viz. when consuming gas of the
London standard of 16 candles, the light produced is at the rate
of 6 • 4, instead of 3 • 2, candles per cubic foot. In addition to a single
ring gas burner of this type we have two burners of ten rings of
flame, and models of their flames, one for gas and the other for mineral
oil. These burners are all of the Trinity House new p.ittern, both

1889.]             on Beacon Lights and Fog Signals.                  4.37
gas and oil, and they are of the same general arrangement for com
bustion, except that the oil burner is provided with cotton wicks.
Both produce flames of nearly the same form, dimensions, intensity,
and colour.
     The first application of coal gas to lighthouse illumination was
made at the Troon lighthouse, Ayrshire, in 1827 ; and in 1847 it
was adopted at the Hartlepool lighthouse, Durham ; when for the
first time it was employed in combination with dioptric apparatus of
the first order of Fresnel. The slow progress made with coal gas in
lighthouses, except for harbour lights, where the gas could be obtained
in their vicinity, as at Hartlepool, was chiefly due to the great cost
incurred in the manufacture of the small quantity required, and at
the usual isolated positions occupied by coast lighthouses, involving
extra cost both for labour and for the extra transport of the coal. In
1865 the attention of lighthouse authorities was directed to gas as an
illuminant for lighthouses by Mr. John R. Wigham, of Dublin, whose
system was tried in that year at the Howth Bailey lighthouse, Dublin
Bay. The gas burner of Mr. Wigham, one of which we have here,
consists of seven concentric rings, of single flat-flame burners, amount
ing in the aggregate to 108. The burner is used without a glass
chimney, and thus there is no appreciable condensation of the group
of flames for their employment at the focus of optical apparatus, and
the relative aggregate intensity of the seven rings of flat flames per
unit of focal area, as compared with the four concentric flames of the
old four-wick oil burner of Fresnel, are only 2^ per cent. higher
than the latter. The burner has five powers for varying states of
the atmosphere. For the minimum intensity 28 jets are employed,
and with the whole 108 jets there is a maximum aggregate intensity
of the flames, with cannel gas, of about 2500 candle units. Several
lighthouses on the coast of Ireland have been illuminated with gas
on the system of Mr. Wigham, and two at Haisboro, on the coast of
Norfolk. In 1878 Mr. Wigham installed at the Galley Head light
house, County Cork, his system of superposed gas flames and group
flashing light, which consisted of four of his large gas burners
vertically superposed. In conjunction with these were four tiers of
first order annular lenses, eight in each tier. By successive lowering
and raising of the gas flames at the focus of each tier of lenses, he
produced his group flashing distinction. This light shows, at periods
of one minute, instead of the usual single flash from each lens, or
vertical group of lenses, a group of short flashes, varying in number,
between six and seven. The unavoidable uncertainty with this
system in the number of flashes contained in each group is unfor
tunate for the mariner, who, with the continued increase in the
number of coast lights, requires the utmost precision in the distinctive
character adopted for each.
     In 1857 an experimental trial of the first magneto-electric machine
of Holmes, for the practical application of the electric light, was made

438                       Sir James N. Douglast                 [March 15,
by the Trinity House at Blackwall, nnder the direction, and to the
great delight, of their scientific adviser, Faraday ; and after a series
of experiments, the satisfactory report of Faraday encouraged the
Trinity House to order a practical trial of a pair of the Holmes
machines. The trial was made at the South Foreland high lighthouse,
by Faraday and Holmes, on the 8th of December, 1858, when electricity
was found to be a formidable rival to oil and gas for lighthouse
illumination, and this position it maintains to the present day. The
trials of this arc light were made at the focus of the first order dioptric
apparatus for oil light, which was very imperfect for the purpose, but
they were sufficiently encouraging to lead the Trinity House, under
the advice of Faraday, to proceed further with the electric light for
lighthouses. Faraday thus wrote in his report to the Trinity House :
" I beg to state that, in my opinion, Professor Holmes has practically
established the fitness and sufficiency of the magneto-electric light
for lighthouse purposes, so far as its nature and management are
concerned. The light produced is powerful beyond any other that
I have yet seen so applied, and in principle may be accumulated to
any degree; its regularity in the lantern is great, its management
 easy, and its care there may be confided to attentive keepers of the
 ordinary intellect and knowledge." These truly prophetic words of
 Faraday have been entirely realised ; electricity still stands foremost
 in the illumination of our coasts, and appears destined to be one of
 the greatest blessings ever conferred on humanity, and more especially
 on " those who go down to the sea in ships." On the 1st of February,
 1862, Holmes's machines and apparatus for the electric light were
installed at Dungeness lighthouse, and in 1863 the French lighthouse
authorities followed, by an installation of the Alliance Company's
magneto-electric machines and apparatus for fixed lights, at each of
the two lighthouses at Cape La Heve. We have here the first dioptric
 apparatus designed and manufactured by Messrs. Chance Bros. & Co.
 of Birmingham, for the electric fixed light at Dungeuess. We have
also one of the Holmes lamps employed there. The lamp used at the
 previous experiments was devised by M. Duboscq, of Paris. This lamp
 of Holmes is similar to those of Duboscq and Serrin, excepting that the
 upper and lower carbons and holders are balanced and regulated
 through pulleys and small catgut cords, instead of by rack and
 pinions. The carbons are £-inch square, and the mean intensity of
 the light in the arc was 670 candle units nearly. We have here
 samples of the carbons employed from time to time in tie develop
 ment of the electric light in lighthouses ; \ve have also a Bergot lamp,
 fitted with the fluted lorm of carbons I have recently devised. They
 are of the dimensions now in use at the Saint Catherine's lighthouse,
 and are giving a mean intensity in the arc of 40,000 candle units.
 Cylindrical compressed carbons were soon manufactured for the electric
 light, and were found to be more homogeneous in quality and the
 flickering of the light less than with the original square carbons,
 which were simply sawn from the residual carbon of gas retorts ; but

1889.]             on Beacon Lights and Fog Signals.                 439
there was still the objectionable crater at the points, whether direct
or alternating currents were employed, involving flickering from the
incessant shifting of position at the points. A considerable loss of
radiant light was also involved, particularly when condensing it
optically. The flickering was somewhat reduced by an improvement
of Messrs. Siemens, in providing the carbons with a graphite core,
but with the increasing powers of currents and in the necessary
dimensions of carbons the results were far from satisfactory. With
the fluted form of carbon shown on the diagram the formation of the
crater is prevented, and the arc is held centrally at the points of the
carbons; there is thus, in addition to comparatively steady light, nearly
uniform radiation in azimuth, and over a greater vertical angle for
optical condensation. It now appears to me, after some practical
 experience with this form of carbon, that it is impossible to determine
 a practical limit to the dimensions of carbons that may be efficiently
 employed. With carbons of the actual size shown on the diagram an
 intensity of about a million candle units should be produced in the
 arc, and about 150 millions of candle units in the condensed flashes
from the optical apparatus of the dimensions now employed for oil
 and gas flames in lighthouses. Such an intensity is about 400 times
 that possible at the focus of such apparatus with a flame luminary.
 Such results as these were probably in the mind of Faraday when he
 reported that "in principle this light may be accumulated to any
 degree." Flashes of the great intensity here referred to could only
 be employed in atmosphere impaired for the transmission of light.
 In clear weather they would be found to be far too dazzling to the
 eyes of the mariner, while an intensity of about 50,000 candle units
 is found to be sufficient for his guidance, and in thick fog no possible
 intensity can be of practical value for navigation. There are, how
 ever, various gradations of impaired atmosphere, between clear weather
 and thick fog, in which the highest available intensity is doubtless
 desirable at many important landfall stations for obtaining the greatest
 possible range of visibility. On the other hand, at the majority of
 stations in narrow waters, the maximum intensity now obtained with
 flame light is found to be more generally efficient for navigation than
 higher intensities.
     In 1881 the question of the relative merits of the three light
 house illuminants—electricity, gas, and mineral oil—was receiving the
 attention of the lighthouse authorities of this country, which resulted
 in the Trinity House accepting the responsibility of carrying out an
 investigation at the South Foreland, of universal importance to the
 mariner. In the photometrical and electrical portions of this work the
 Trinity House were aided by the labours of Professor Harold Dixon,
 F.R.S. and Professor W. Grylls Adams, F.R.S. which contributed
 very largely to the success of the investigation. The experiments
 were carried on during a period of over twelve months, and a vast
 amount of very valuable evidence was collected from numerous

440                      St'r James N. Douglass               [March 15,
observers, trained and untrained, scientific and practical. The report
of the Committee was presented to both Houses of Parliament, by
command of Her Majesty, in 1885. The final conclusions of the
Committee are given in the following words : " That for the ordinary
necessities of lighthouse illumination, mineral oil is the most suitable
and economical illuminant, and that for salient headlands, important
 landfalls, and places where a very powerful light is required, elec
 tricity offers the greatest advantages."
     I have already referred to the necessity, with the present develop
ment of maritime commerce, that every beacon light maintain a
clearly distinctive character. When the optically uuaided flames of
coal fires were the illuminants of our lighthouses, distinctive cha
racters, owing to the small number of lights then employed, were of
little importance, and the only distinctions then possible were the
costly ones of single, double, or triple lighthouses at one station ;
but with the enormous increase that has since occurred in the floating
commerce of the world, and with the necessary laws now in operation
requiring all vessels to carry lights, trustworthy individuality in
coast beacon lights has become a positive necessity. Until very
recently the distinctive characters consisted of the following : viz. —
fixed white, fixed red, revolving white, revolving red, and revolving
white and red alternately. The revolving lights showed a flash at
periods of 10 seconds, 20 seconds, 30 seconds, one minute, 2 minutes,
3 minutes, and 4 minutes. There were also intermittent or occulting
lights, having an eclipse at periods of half-a-minute, one minute, or
2 minutes. It is now generally considered that fixed lights are no
longer trustworthy coast signals, owing to their liability to confusion
with other lights, both ashore and afloat. It is also considered that
in these days of high speed vessels the period of the character of a
coast light should not if possible exceed half-a-minute. The revolving
or flashing class of lights are probably the most valuable, on account
of their superior intensity, as compared with the fixed or occulting
class, the light during the intervals of eclipse being condensed into
each succeeding flash by the revolving lenses or reflectors, and thus,
with the same expenditure of the illumiuant, an intensity is obtained
in the flashes of five to eight times that of the fixed or occulting
class. Where local dangers are required to be guarded by coloured
sectors of danger light with well-defined limits, this can only be
accomplished with the fixed or occulting class of lights. We will
illustrate this with the model before us. We will also show the clear
difference of character, not generally realised, between flashing and
occulting lights. A system of occulting lights for lighthouses was
proposed by the late Charles Babbage, F.R.S. in 1857 ; but as it
excluded the flashing or most powerful of the existing lights, it
did not receive much favour from lighthouse authorities. And in
1872, ' Distinctive Characters for Coast Lights,' was the subject
of a paper by Sir William Thomson, F.R.S. at the Brighton Meeting

1889.]             on Beacon Lights and Fog Signals.               441
of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, when he
directed attention to the extreme importance of ready identification
of lights at sea, and proposed the use of quick-flashing lights, their
flashes being of longer or shorter duration ; the short and long
flashes representing the dot and dash of the Morse alphabet as used
in telegraphy. It was found, however, that the number of symbols in
one alphabetical code would not be sufficient, on a thickly lighted
coast, to ensure individuality, and render each distinction perfectly
trustworthy. Further, that very rapid repetition of each symbol is
not required by the mariner, and would involve loss of accumulative
power in the flashes, besides incurring unnecessary wear and tear
in rotating heavy optical apparatus. Yet much is to be done in the
direction of simple distinction. At the Montreal Meeting of the
 British Association, in 1884, I submitted a paper on ' Improvements
in Coast Signals," in which were suggested two alphabetical codes of
flashing lights, and one of occulting, all having the same period of
the symbol, viz. half-a-minute. In one of the codes of flashing
lights long and short flashes were proposed, as previously by Sir
William Thomson, and, in the other, there were proposed white and
red flashes. In the occulting series, long and short eclipses were
proposed to be substituted for the long and short or white and red
flashes of the flashing codes. The system has the advantage of appli
cation to all existing lighthouse apparatus, and many lights have
been altered to selected symbols of each of these series.
   Little was ever accomplished in the way of warning or guidance to
the mariner during fog, until about the middle of this century. Pre
viously, a few bells had been established at lighthouses in this
country and abroad, and gongs of Chinese manufacture had been in
general use on board our light-vessels, but both instruments are now
acknowledged to be wanting in the efficiency now demanded in fog,
to meet the requirements of navigation. The first important improve
ment in fog signals, for the service of mariners, was made by the
late Mr. Daboll in 1851, who submitted to the United States Light
house Board, in that year, a powerful trumpet, sounded by air, com
pressed by horse-power. The apparatus was installed at Beaver Tail
Point, Rhode Island, and the favourable results obtained with it
stimulated Mr. Daboll, under the encouragement of the United States
Lighthouse Authorities, to the further development of the apparatus ;
and ultimately, he employed Ericsson's Caloric Engine, as the motive
power, with automatic gearing for regulating the blasts. In 1854,
some experiments on different means of producing sounds for coast
signals were made by the engineers of the French Lighthouse Depart
ment, and in 1861-2, MM. Le Gros and Saint Ange Allard, of the
Corps des Ponts et Chaussees, conducted a series of experiments upon
the sound of bells, and the various methods of striking them. In 1862,
Mr. Daboll submitted his improved fog trumpet apparatus of about
three horse-power in the blasts, to the Trinity House, who, under the

442                     Sir James N. Douglass                [March 15,
advice of Faraday, made experimental trials with it in London, and
afterwards gave it a practical trial at the Dungeness lighthouse,
where experiments were made with it against bells, gnns, and a reed
fog horn of Professor Holmes, whose services have been already
referred to in connection with the first practical application of
the electric light.       This fog horn of Holmes was sounded
by steam, direct from one of the boilers employed at the station for
his electric light. The results of these experiments were in favour
of Dabol1's trumpet, and in 1869, one of these instruments was
installed on board the Newarp light-vessel. In the same year, Holmes,
having effected further improvements with his steam horn, his
apparatus was fitted on board two light-vessels and sent out to the
coast of China, where they were found to give great satisfaction, as
compared with gong signals. In 1863 a committee of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science memorialised the
President of the Board of Trade, with the view of inducing him to
institute a series of experiments upon fog signals. The memorial,
after briefly setting forth a statement of the nature and importance
of the subject, described what was then known respecting it, and
several suggestions were made relative to the nature of the experi
ments recommended. The proposal does not appear to have been
favourably entertained by the authorities to whom it was referred, and
the experiments were not carried out. In 1864 a series of experiments
was undertaken by a commission appointed by the Lighthouse Board
of the United States to determine the relative powers of various fog
signals which were submitted to the notice of the Board. In 1872, a
committee of the Trinity House, with the object of ascertaining the
actual efficiency of various fog signals then in operation on the North
American Continent, visited the United States and Canada, where
they found in service Dabol1's trumpets, steam whistles, and siren
apparatus, devised by Mr. Felix Brown, of Progress Works, New
York, sounded by steam and compressed air. From the report of the
Trinity House Committee, it does not appear that they were greatly
impressed with this instrument, but probably they had not an
opportunity of testing its real merits, as compared with other signals.
The late Professor Henry, of the United States Lighthouse Board,
entertained a very high opinion of the siren, and on his advice,
and the urgent recommendation of Professor Tyndall, one of
these instruments was sent to England and included in the fog
signal experiments at the South Foreland in 1873-4. This in
vestigation was carried out by the Trinity House, with the
view of obtaining definite knowledge as to the relative merits of
various sound-producing instruments then in use, and also of ascer
taining how the propagation of sound is affected by meteorological
phenomena. Professor Tyndall, as scientific adviser of the Trinity
House, conducted the investigation, aided by a committee of the
 Trinity House and their engineer. These experiments were extended
over a lengthened period, in all conditions of weather, and the well

I889.]             on Beacon lAghtx and Fog Signals.                443
known scientific and practical results obtained, together with the
ascertained relative merits of sound-producing instruments for the
service of the mariner, have proved to be of the highest scientific
interest and practical importance. The investigation at the South
Foreland was followed up by the Trinity House with further explosive
fog signal experiments, in which they were assisted by the authori
ties at Woolwich Arsenal, with guns of various forms, weight of
charges, and descriptions of gunpowder. The powders tested were
—(1) fine grain, (2) larger grain, (3) rifle large grain, and (4)
pebble. The result placed the sound-producing powers of these
powders exactly in the order above stated; the fine grain, or most
rapidly burning powder, gave indisputably the loudest sound, while
the report of the slowly burning pebble powder, was weakest of all.
Here, again, the greater value of increased rapidity of combustion in
producing sound, was demonstrated. It was found that charges of
gun-cotton yielded reports louder at all ranges than equal charges
of the best gunpowder ; and further experiments proved the ex
plosion of half-a-pound of gun-cotton gave a sound equal in
intensity to that produced by three pounds of the best gunpowder.
These investigations led the Trinity House to adopt gun-cotton for
fog signals at isolated stations on rocks and shoals, as already
described, where, from want of space, it had hitherto been possible
to apply nothing better than a bell, or gong. Of all the sound
signals now employed, for the warning and guidance of mariners
during fog, viz. bells, gongs, guns, whistles, reed trumpets, sirens,
and sounds produced by the explosion of gun-cotton, the blasts
of the siren, and explosions of gun-cotton, have been found to
be the most efficient for coast fog signals; therefore these signals
have received the greatest care and attention in their development.
The siren doubtless ranks first, for stations wherever it can be
applied, chiefly on account of its economy in maintenance, and the
facility it affords for giving prolonged blasts of any desired intensity
or pitch, and thus providing any number of trustworthy distinctive
characters that may be required to ensure individuality in the signal.
Sirens are now employed at many floating and shore stations of the
Trinity House, and one recently installed at Saint Catherine's Light
house, Isle of Wight, of the automatic Holmes type, of which we have
here a model, absorbs during its blast not less than 600 horse-power.
The audibility of the blasts of this instrument may be considered to
be trustworthy at a range of two miles under all conditions of foggy
atmosphere on the sea surface over which it is intended to be sounded.
It is very desirable that for many landport stations a greater trust
worthy range bo provided for the mariner, but this can only be
afforded by such increased power as would be required for a more
powerful electric light installation to serve the mariner in other
gradations of thick atmosphere. A very important improvement
and economy have lately been effected in the sirens of the Trinity
House by rendering them always instantaneously available for
    VOL. XII. (No. 83.)                                      2 H

444         Sir James N. Douglass on Beacon Lights, d-e.     [March 15,
 sounding at their maximum power. This is accomplished by the
storage of a sufficient quantity of compressed air to work the siren
during the time required for raising steam and starting the engine.
The signal is thus always in readiness for immediate action, day or
night, with an expenditure of fuel only incurred during fog, which
on the coast of this country does not exceed an average of 440 hours
per annum. The experience yet gained with the most powerful fog
signals now in use, although these apparatus far exceed in efficiency,
for the service of the mariner in fog, any light that science can
provide, is not yet so satisfactory as we could desire. The best
signal is, as I have already stated, occasionally not heard, under
certain atmospheric conditions, beyond two miles ; while under other
conditions, not apparent to the mariner, the signal is distinctly
audible at ten miles : therefore there is much to be desired in the
development of the means of propagating sound waves, and in ren
dering them audible to the maiiner. In conclusion, I would venture
to state that, with the best light and sound signals that can be
provided, there are conditions of the atmosphere in which the
mariner will earnestly look and listen in vain for the desired light
or sound signal, and he must still, under such circumstances, exercise
caution in availing himself of their guidance, and never neglect the
assistance always at hand of his old trusty friend the lead.
                                                           [J. N. D.]
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, March 22, 1889.
  COLONBL J. A. GRANT, C.B. C.S.I. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the
                                  Chair.
                     EADWEARD MUYBBIDGE, Esq.
   The Science of Animal Locomotion in its Relation to design in Art.
                  (Illustrated by the Zoopraxiscope.)
                               [No Abstract.]
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, March 29, 1889.
     WILLIAM CROOKES. Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
               A. GOBDON SALAMON, Esq. F.C.S. M.R.I.
                                  least.
                            [Abstract deferred.]

    1889.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                            445
                        GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                               Monday, April 1, 1889.
    SIB JAMES CBICHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President, in
                                        the Chair.
                         Septimus Felix Beevor, Esq. B.A.
                         Professor J. A. Fleming, M.A. D.Sc.
                         John Langston, Esq. J.P. F.R.C.S.
                         Major S. Flood Page,
   were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
         The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to JOSEPH
   DATIS, Esq. for his present of an American " Forecast " Barometer.
         The following Arrangements for the Lectures after Easter were
   announced :—
        JEAN PAUL RICHTEB, Esq. Ph.D.—Three Lectures on THE ITALIAN RENAH-
   SrtiNC! P*INT™ : t£,*»• associations, their education, and their employments (will,
   Illustrations); on Tuesdays, April 30, May 7 14
        PROFESSOR E. RAY LANKESTER, M.A. LL.D. F.R.S.-Four Lectures on SOME
  RECENT BIOLOGICAL DISCOTERIES; on Tuesdays, May 21, 28, June 4 11
        EADWEARD MUYKHIDGE, Esq. of the University of Pennsylvania—Two Lec
  tures on THE SCIENCE OF ANIMAL LOCOMOTION IN ITS RELATION TO DESIGN IN ART
  (illustrated by the Zoopraxiscope) ; on Thursdays May 29
       PROFESSOR DEWAH, M.A FR.S. M.R.I. Fullerian Professor of Chemistry,
  R.I. Jacksoman Professor of Natural Experimental Philosophy, Cambridge—
  Five Experimental Lectures on CHEMICAL AFFINITY; on Thursdays Mav 16 23
  o0, June 6, 13.                                                      "             '
       JOSEPH BENNETT, Esq.—Four Lectures on THE ORIGIN AND DETELOPMENT OF
  OPERA IN ENGLAND (with Musical Illustrations); on Saturdays Mav4 1] 18 25
       PROFESSOR W. KNIGHT L.,D. Professor of Moral Philosophy at the Univeni^
  of St. Andrews— Three Lectures on I. THE CLASSIFICATION OF THE SCIENCES
  HISTORICAL AND CIUTICAL; II. IDEALISM AND EXPERIENCE, IN PHILOSOPHY AND
  LITERATI-HE; III. IDEALISM AND EXPERIENCE, IN ART AND LIFE (the Tvudall
  Lectures); on Saturdays, June 1, 8, 15.
        The PHESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz :
        FROM
 The Governor-General nf India— Geological Survey of India; Records, Vol. XXI.
        •TnTt 4.  OTO.  188').
 American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XXV No 128 Svn isaa
 Arbulhnot, F. FEsq. M.R.I.-The Beharistan (Abode of Spring). VjtaL 8vo.'
        .Benares, Io87.
     The Gulistan (Rose Garden of Sadi). 8vo. Benares, 1888.
 Asiatic Society, Royal (China Branch)—Journal, Vol. XXIII No 1 8vo 1888
 Astronomical Society, Jioyal— Monthly Notices, Vol. XLIX No 4 '8vG ' 1889 '
 Hankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. X. Part 3. 8vo. 1889.
Batavia Ofoervafory-Rainfoll in the East Indian Archipelago 1887 8vo 1888
    Magnetical and Meteorological Observations, Vols. VIII. and X fol ' 1888 '
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1888-9, Nos. 10 11 4to
(.ambrulge Philosophical Society—Transactions, Vol. XIV. Part 3 4to 1889
Chemical Society—Journal for March, 1889 8vo
Church,.Profenor A.M. MA. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)-Gmde to the Museum
       of Roman Remains at Cirencester. 7th ed. 8vo. 1889.
Civil Engineers' Inslilutwn—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol XCV 8vo 18RO
Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. XXI. 8vo. 1888.
Dux : Soeiftf de Borda—Bulletin , Quatorzieme Annc'e, \' Tremestre. 8vo. 1889
                                                                     2 H 2

446                         General Monthly Meeting.                    [April 1,
Editort—American Journal of Science for March, 1889. 8vo.
   Analyst for March, 1889. 8vo.
   Athenseum for March, 1889. 4to.
   Chemical News for March, 1889. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for March, 1889. 8TO.
   Electrical Engineer for March, 1889. fol.
   Engineer for March, 1889. fol.
   Engineering for March, 1889. fol.
   Horolosucal Journal for March, 1889. 8vo.
   Industries for March, 1889. fol.
   Iron for March, 1889. 4to.
   Murray's Magazine for March, 1889. 8vo.
   Nature for March, 1889. 4to.
   Photographic News for March, 1889. 8vo.
   Revue Scientifique for March, 1889. It".
   Telegraphic Journal for March, 1889. 8To.
   Zoophilist for March, 1889. 4to.
Florence, Bibliotera Nazionale Centrale—Bnlletino, Num. 77. 8vo. 1889.
 Gengraphiral Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. XI. No. 3. 8vo. 1889.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Henna—Verhnndlunpen, 1889, No. 2. 8vo.
Hamilton, Colonel A. C. R.E M.R.I, (the Author)—Map of the World on a new
      projection, showing Zoogeopraphifal regions. (2 copies.) 1889.
Mensbrugghe, G. van der, Esq. (the Author)—L'Influence de la Capillurite' dans la
     Densimetrie. 8vo. 1888.
   Contribution a la Theorie du Siphon. 8vo. 1889.
Miller, W. J C. Esq. (the Registrar)—Medical Register, 1889. 8vo.
   DentiBts' Register, 1889. 8vo.
   Medical Students' Register, 1889. 8vo.
   Fourth Re[K)rt of General Medical Council. 8vo. 1888.
Odantological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXI. No. 5. New
     Series. 8vo. 1889.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal. March. 18P9. 8vo.
Biiyal Colonial Institute—Proceedings, Vols. I. II. IV. VI. to XIX. 8vo. 1869-8N.
R-yal Society of Tendon— Proceedings, No. 276. 8vo. 1889.
Sajon Society of Sciences, Jtoyal—Mathematisch-physische Classe: Abhandlnng.
     Band XV. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1888. Berichte, 1888, Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1889.
   Philologisrh-historischen CLisse: Berichte, 1888, Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. 1889.
Siemens, Alexander, Esq. M.R.I, (for the Executors)—Scientific Works of Sir
      William Siemens. Kdited by E. F. Bamber. 3 volu. 8vo. 1889.
Society of Architectt—Proceedings, Vol. I. No. 8. 8vo. 1889.
Society of Arts—Journal. March, 18S9. 8vo.
Sanely of Chemical Industry—Journal, Vol. VIII. Nos. 1. 2. 8vo. 1889.
Thompson, Sir Henry. F.H.C.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Modern Cremation: its
     History and Practice. 8vo. 1889.
United States Geological Survey—Mineral Resources of the United States, 1885.
     8vo. 18S6.
   Bulletins, Nos. 40-47. 8vo. 1887-8.
Wright and G,. Messrs. J. (the Publishers)—The Medical Annual for 1889. 8vo.
   Lectures on Bright's Disease. By R. Saundby. 8vo. 1889.
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, April 5, 1889.
  COLONEL J. A. GBANT, C.B. C.S.I. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the
                                     Chair.
                       Tho Rev. CANON AINOBR, M.A.
                     True and False Humour in Literature.
                                  [No Abstract ]

1889.]   The Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh on Iridescent Crystals.        447
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, April 12, 1889.
SIR FREDERICK BBAHWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Honorary Secretary
                   and Vice-President, in the Chair.
The Right Hon. LORD RATLEIGH, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.L
                     PKOPFiSOE OF XATCICAI. PHILOSOPHY, li.I.
                            Iridescent Crystals.
THE principal subject of the lecture is the peculiar coloured reflection
observed in certain specimens of chlorate of potash. Reflection implies
a high degree of discontinuity. In some cases, as in decomposed
glass, and probably in opals, the discontinuity is due to the inter
position of layers of air ; but, as was proved by Stokes, in the case of '
chlorate crystals the discontinuity is that known as twinning. The
seat of the colour is a very thin layer in the interior of the crystal
and parallel to its faces.
    The following laws were discovered by Stokes :—
    (1) If one of the crystalline plates be turned round in its own
plane, without alteration of the angle of incidence, the peculiar reflec
tion vanishes twice in a revolution, viz. when the plane of incidence
coincides with the plane of symmetry of the crystal. [Shown.]
    (2) As the angle of incidence is increased the reflected light
becomes brighter and rises in refrangibility. [Shown.]
    (3) The colours are not due to absorption, the transmitted light
being strictly complementary to the reflected.
    (4) The coloured light is not polarised. It is produced indiffer
ently, whether the incident light be common light or light polarised
in any plane, and is seen whether the reflected light be viewed directly
or through a Nico1's prism turned in any way. [Shown.]
    (5) The spectrum of the reflected light is frequently found to
consist almost entirely of a comparatively narrow band. When the
angle of incidence is increased, the band moves in the direction of
increasing refrangibility, and at the same time increases rapidly in
width. In many cases the reflection appears to be almost total.
    In order to project these phenomena a crystal is prepared by
cemeuting a smooth face to a strip of glass, whose sides are not quite
parallel. The white reflection from the anterior face of the glass can
then be separated from the real subject of the experiment.
    A very remarkable feature in the reflected light remains to be
noticed. If the angle of incidence be small, and if the incident light

448                    Tfte Riyht Hon. Lord Rayleigh             [April 12,
be polarised in or perpendicularly to the plane of incidence, the
reflected light is polarised in the opposite manner. [Shown.]
     Similar phenomena, except that the reflection is white, are exhibited
by crystals prepared in a manner described by Madao. If the crystal
be treated beyond a certain point the peculiar reflection disappears,
but returns upon cooling. [Shown.]
     In all these cases there can be little doubt that the reflection takes
place at twin surfaces, the theory of such reflection* reproducing
with remarkable exactness most of the features above described. In
order to explain the vigour and purity of the colour reflected in
certain crystals, it is necessary to suppose that there are a considerable
number of twin surfaces disposed at approximate equal intervals. At
each angle of incidence there would be a particular wave length for
which the phases of the several reflections are in agreement. The
selection of light of a particular wave length would' thus take place
upon the same principle as in diffraction spectra, and might reach a
high degree of perfection.
     In illustration of this explanation an acoustical analogue is
exhibited. The successive twin planes are imitated by parallel and
equidistant discs of muslin (Figs. 1 and 2) stretched upon brass rings
                               Fic I.
                         GENERAL   SCHEME
                                                           ^SENSITIVE FLRM-
        FlC 2.
 DcrAiL OF LAZY -TONGS
and mounted (with the aid of three lazy-tongs arrangements), so that
there is but one degree of freedom to move, and that of such a character
as to vary the interval between the discs without disturbing their
equidistance and parallelism.
     The source of sound is a bird-call, giving a pure tone of high
pitch (inaudible), and the percipient is a high pressure flame issuing
from a burner so oriented that the direct waves are without influence
                             •Phil. Mug.' Sept. 1888.

1889,]                        on Iridescent Crystak.                          449
upon the flame.* But the waves reflected from the muslin arrive in
the effective direction, and if of sufficient intensity induce flaring.
The experiment consists in showing that the action depends upon the
distance between the discs. If the distance be such that the waves
reflected from the several discs co-operate,f the flame flares, but for
intermediate adjustments recovers its equilibrium. For full success
it is necessary that the reflective power of a single disc be neither too
great nor too small. A somewhat open fabric appears suitable.
     It was shown by Brewster that certain natural specimens of
Iceland spar are traversed by thin twin strata. A convergent beam,
reflected at a nearly grazing incidence from the twin planes, depicts
upon the screen an arc of light, which is interrupted by a dark spot
corresponding to the plane of symmetry. | Shown.] A similar experi
ment may be made with small rhombs in which twin layers have
been developed by mechanical force after the manner of Reusch.
     The light reflected from fiery opals has been shown by Crookes to
possess in many cases a high degree of purity, rivalling in this respect
the reflection from chlorate of potash. The explanation is to be
sought in a periodic stratified structure. But the other features
differ widely in the two cases. There is here no semicircular evanes
cence, as the specimen is rotated in azimuth. On the contrary, the
coloured light transmitted perpendicularly through a thin plate of
opal undergoes no change when the gem is turned round in its own
plane. This appears to prove that the alternate states are not related
to one another as twin crystals. More probably the alternate strata
are of air, as in decomposed glass. The brilliancy of opals is said
to be readily affected by atmospheric conditions.
    * Sec ' Proe. Roy. Inst.' Jan. 1888.
    t If tl)e reflection were perpendicular, the interval between successive discs
would be equal to the half wave-length, or to some multiple of this.

      4-30                             Annual Meeting.                          [May 1,
                              ANNUAL            MEETING,
                                 Wednesday, May 1, 1889.
       SIR JAMES CRICHTON BKOW.NE, M.D. LL.D. F.K.S. Vice-President,
                                         in the Chair.
          The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
      1888, testifying to the continued prosperity and efficient management
      of the Institution, was read and adopted. The Real and Funded
      Property now amounts to above 81,000Z. entirely derived from the
      Contributions and Donations of the Members.
          Forty-five new Members were elected in 1888.
          Sixty-four Lectures and Nineteen Evening Discourses were
      delivered in 1888.
          The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1888 amounted to about
      296 volumes, making, with 570 volumes (including Periodicals bound)
      purchased .by the Managers, a total of 866 volumes added to the
      Library in the year,
           Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and the Honorary
      Secretary, to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the
      Professors, for their valuable services to the Institution during the
      past year.
           The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
      for the ensuing year :
           PRESIDENT—The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. D.C.L. LL.D.
           TREASURER—Henry Pollock, Esq.
           SECRETARY — Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S.
                              M. Inst. C.E.
                MANAGERS.                                          VISITORS.
8ir Frederick Abel, C.B. D.C.L. F.R.8.            William Anderson, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
8ir James Crichton Browne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.      John Birkett, Esq. F.K.C.8.
William Crookes, Esq. F.R.8.                    . Alfred Cnrpmael, Esq.
Francis Galton, Esq. M.A. F.R.8.                  Ernest H. Goold, Esq. F.Z.8.
Colonel James A. Grant, C.B. C.8.I. F.R.8.        Charles Hawksley, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
The Rt.Hon. 8ir Wm. R. Grove, M.A. D.C.L. F.R.8. John Hopkinson, Esq. M.A. F.R.8. M.Inst. C.E.
William Hugging, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.8.       | Victor Horsley, Esq. F.R.8. F.R.C.8.
David Edward Hughes, Esq. F.R.8.                  I.udwig Mond, Esq. F.C.8.
Rev. John Macnaught, M.A.                         Edward Pollock, Esq.
William Henry Preece, Esq. F.R.8. M. Inst. C.E.   Lachlan Mackintosh Rate, Esq. M.A.
William 0. Priestley, M.D. LL.D. F.L.8.           Arthur William Riicker, Esq. M.A. F.R.8.
John Rae, M.D. LL.D. F.R.8.                       John Bell 8edgwick, Esq. J.P. F.R.G.8.
William Chandler Roberts-Austen, Esq. F.R.8.      Thomas Edward Thorpe, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.8.
Lord Arthur Russell.                              Thomas Tyrer. Esq. F.C.8.
Basil Woodd Smith, F'.sq. F.R.A.8.                James Wimshurst, Esq.

1889.]               Sir Henry Roscue on Aluminium.                  451
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 3, 1889.
SIB FREDERICK BHAMWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.8. Honorary Secretary
                   aud Vice-President, in the Chair.
           SIB HENRY ROSCOE, M.P. D.C.L. LL.D. V.P.R.S.
                               Aluminium.
CHEMISTS of many lands have contributed to our knowledge of the
metal aluminium. Davy, in 1807, tried in vain to reduce alumina by
means of the electric current. Oerstedt, the Dane, in 1824, pointed
out that the metal could be obtained by treating the chloride with an
alkali metal ; this was accomplished in Germany by Wbhler in 1827,
and more completely in 1845, whilst in 1854, Bunsen showed how
the metal can be obtained by electrolysis. But it is to France, by the
hands of Henri St. Claire Deville, in the same year, that the honour
belongs of having first prepared aluminium in a state of purity, and of
obtaining it on a scale which enabled its valuable properties to be re
cognised and made available, and the bar of " silver-white metal from
clay," was one of the chemical wonders in the first Paris Exhibition of
1855. Now England and America step in, and I have this evening to
relate the important changes which further investigation has effected
in the metallurgy of aluminium. The process suggested by Oerstedt,
carried out by Wohler, and modified by Deville, remains in principle
unchanged. The metal is prepared, as before, by a reduction of the
double chloride of aluminium and sodium, by means of metallic
sodium in presence of cryolite; and it is therefore not so much a
description of a new reaction as of improvements of old ones of which
I have to speak.
    I may perhaps be allowed to remind my hearers that more than
33 years ago, Mr. Barlow, then secretary to the Institution, delivered
a discourse, in the presence of M. Deville, on the properties and mode of
preparation of aluminium, then a novelty. He stated that the metal
was then sold at the rate of 3Z. per ounce, and the exhibition of a small
ingot, cast in the laboratory by M. Deville, was considered remarkable.
As indicating the progress since made, I may remark that the metal
is now sold at 20«. per Ib., and manufactured by the ton, by the
Aluminium Company, at their works at Oldbury, near Birmingham.
The improvements which have been made in this manufacture by the
zeal and energy of Mr. Castner, an American metallurgist, are of so
important a character, that the process may properly be termed the
Deville-Castner process.
    The production of aluminium previous to 1887, probably did not
exceed 10,000 Ibs. per annum, whilst the price at that time was very

452                          Sir Henry Roseoe                       [May 3,
high. To attain even this production required that at least 100,000
Ibs. of double chloride, and 40,000 Ibs. of sodium should be manu
factured annually. From these figures an idea of the magnitude of
the undertaking assumed by the Aluminium Company may be esti
mated, when we learn that they erected works having an annual
                                     .j9Ma.li      Wor/ls.
                 .Bir mSn   ^   t fn     Ca ru  ^
                                    ooooo    J     I ooo
                                    u u
                                     O'O
                                     oro
                                              ^
                                                rf
                                                      Bj     (&
                              I
                                                                        's
                             c?
                                © 0nyn0              (/    e
                                                                        •*;
                                                                        <
                             o                     D       /    yr r
                                                                  T
                                                                            A, j~"-i .- *•
                   TL
                           i7
                          c0
                                   ) vo[i 1-
                                               -\
                                                        c/
                                                              * z
                                      ^9     L_j              Gv^
                       I s         ©
                                                            J
                    (rrea/'
 producing capacity of 100,000 Ibs. of alumimum. To accomplish
 this, required not only that at least 400,000 Ibs. of sodium, 800,000
 Ibs. of chlorine, and 1,000,000 Ibs. of doublo chloride, should be
 annually manufactured, but in addition that each of these materials
 t-honld bo produced at a very low cost, in order to enable the metal
 to be sold at 20». per Ib.

1889.]                        on Aluminium.                            453
     Annexed is a sketch plan of the works, which now cover a
space of nearly five acres. They are divided into five separate
departments, viz., 1st, sodium, A ; 2nd, chlorine, B ; 3rd, chloride, 0 ;
4th, aluminium, D ; and 5th, foundry, rolling, wire mills, &c., E.
     In each department an accurate account is kept of the production
each day, the amount of material used, the different furnaces and
apparatus in operation, &c. In this manner it has been found possible
to ascertain each day exactly how the different processes are progress
ing, and what effect any modification has, either on cost, quantity, or
quality of product. By this means a complicated chemical process
is reduced to a series of very simple operations, so that whilst tl e
processes are apparently complicated and difficult to carry cut
successfully, this is not the case now that the details connected with
the manufacture have been perfected, and each operation carried on
quite independently until the final materials are brought together for
the production of the aluminium.
                        Manufacture of Sodium.
     The first improvement occurs in the manufacture of sodium by
what is known as the " Castner Process." The successful working of
this process marks an era in the production of sodium, as it not
only has greatly cheapened the metal, but has enabled the manufacture
to be carried out upon a very large scale with little or no danger.
Practically, the process consists in heating fused caustic soda in contact
with carbon whilst the former substance is in a perfectly liquid con
dition. By the process in vogue before the introduction of this
method, it was always deemed necessary that special means should be
taken to guard against actual fusion of the mixed charges, which,
if it were to take place, would to a largo extent allow the alkali and
reducing material to separate. Thus having an infusible charge to
heat, requiring the employment of a very high temperature for its
decomposition, the iron vessels must be of small circumference to
allow the penetration of the heat to the centre of the charge without
actually melting the vessel in which the materials are heated. By
the new process, owing to the alkali being in a fused or perfectly
liquid condition in contact directly with carbon, the necessity of this
is avoided, and consequently, the reduction can be carried on in largo
vessels at a comparatively low temperature. The reaction taking
place may be expressed as follows :—
                 SNaHO + C = Na2C03 + 3H + Na.
     The vessels in which the charges of alkali and reducing material
are heated are of egg-shaped pattern, about 18 inches in width at
their widest part and about 3 feet high, and are made in two portions,
the lower one being actually in the form of a crucible, while the
upper one is provided with an upright stem and a protruding hollow
arm. This part of the apparatus is known as the cover. In com

454                         Sir Henry Roscoe                      [May 3,
mencing the operation, these covers are raised in the heated furnace
through apertures provided in the floor of the heated chamber, and are
then fastened in their place by an attachment adjusted to the stem ; the
hollow arm extends outside the furnace. Directly below each aperture
in the bottom of the furnace are situated the hydraulic lifts ; attached
to the top of which are the platforms upon which are placed the
crucibles to be raised into the furnace. Attached to the hydraulic
lifts are the usual reversing valves for lowering or raising, and the
platform is of such a size as, when raised, completely to fill the
bottom aperture of the furnace. The charged crucible, being placed
upon the platform, is raised into its position, the edges meeting those
of the cover, forming an air-tight joint which prevents the escape of gas
and vapour from the vessel during reduction, except by the hollow arm
provided for this purpose. The natural expansion of the iron vessels
is accommodated by the water-pressure in the hydraulic lifts, so that
the joint of the cover and crucible are not disturbed until it is intended
to lower the lift for the purpose of removing the crucible.
     The length of time required for the first operation of reduction
and distillation is about two hours. At the end of this time the
crucibles are lowered, taken from the platforms by a large pair of
tongs on wheels, carried to a dumping pit, and thrown on their
side. The residue is cleaned out, and the hot pot, being again
gripped by the tongs, is taken back to the furnace. On its way, the
charge of alkali and reducing material is thrown in. It is again
placed on the lift and raised in position against the edges of the
cover. The time consumed in malting the change is ij minute,
and it only requires about seven minutes to draw, empty, recharge,
and replace the five crucibles in each furnace. In this manner the
crucibles retain the greater amount of their heat, so that the operation
of reduction and distillation now only requires one hour and ten
minutes. Each of the four furnaces, of five crucibles each, when in
operation, are drawn alternately, so that the process is carried on night
and day.
    Attached to the protruding hollow arm from the cover are the
condensers, which are of a peculiar pattern specially adapted to this
process? being quite different from those formerly used. They are
about 5 inches in diameter, and nearly 3 feet long, and have a small
opening in the bottom about 20 inches from the nozzle. The bottom
of these condensers is so inclined that the metal condensed from the
vapour issuing from the crucible during reduction, flows down and
out into a small pot placed directly below this opening. The
nncondensed gases escape from the condenser at the further end, and
burn with the characteristic sodium flame. The condensers are also
provided with a small hinged door at the further end, by means of
which the workmen from time to time may look in to observe how
the distillation is progressing. Previous to drawing the crucibles
from the furnace for the purpose of emptying and recharging, the
small pots each containing the distilled metal are removed, and empty

1889.)                        on Aluminium.                           455
ones substituted. Those removed each contain on an average about
6 Ibs. of metal, and are taken directly to the sodium casting shop,
where it is melted and cast, either into large bars ready to be used for
making aluminium, or in smaller sticks to be sold.
     Special care is taken to keep the temperature of the furnaces at
about 1000° C., and the gas and air valves are carefully regulated, so
as to maintain as even a temperature as possible. The covers remain
in the furnace from Sunday night to Saturday afternoon, and the
crucibles are kept in use until they are worn out, when new ones
are substituted without interrupting the general running of the furnace.
A furnace in operation requires 250 Ibs. of caustic soda every
one hour and ten minutes, and yields in the same time 30 Ibs. of
sodium, and about 240 Ibs. of crude carbonate of soda. With the
four furnaces at work 120 Ibs. of sodium can be made every 70 minutes,
or over a ton in the 24 hours. The residual carbonate, on treatment
with lime in the usual manner, yields two-thirds of the original
amount of caustic operated upon. Tho sodium, after being cast, is
saturated with kerosene oil, and stored in large tanks holding several
tons, placed in rooms specially designed both for security against either
fire or water.
                          Chlorine Manufacture.
     This part of the works is connected with the adjacent works of
Messrs. Chance Bros, by a large gutta-percha pipe, by moans of
which from time to time hydrochloric acid is supplied direct into
the large storage cisterns, from which it is used as desired for
making the chlorine. For the preparation of the chlorine gas
needed in making the chloride, the usual method is employed ; that
is, hydrochloric acid and manganese dioxide are heated together,
when chlorine gas is evolved with effervescence, and is led away by
earthenware and lead pipes to large lead-lined gasometers, where
it is stored.
     The materials for the generation of the chlorine are brought
together in large tanks, or stills, built up out of great sandstone slabs,
having rubber joints, and the heating is effected by the injection of
steam. The evolution of gas, at first rapid, becomes gradually slower,
and at last stops ; the hydrochloric acid and manganese dioxide being
converted into chlorine and manganous chloride. This last com
pound remains dissolved in the " spent still liquor " and is recon
verted into manganese dioxide, to be used over again, by Weldon's
Manganese Recovery Process. Owing to the difficulty of keeping up
a regular supply of chlorine under a constant pressure directly from
the stills, in order that the quantity passed into the sixty different
retorts in which the double-chloride is made can be regulated and
fed as desired, four large gasometers were erected. Each of these is
capable of holding 1,000 cubic feet of gas, and is completely lined
with lead, as are all the connecting mains, &c., this being the only
available metal which withstands the corrosive action of chlorine. The

456                         Sir Henry Roscoe                     [May 3,
gasometers are filled in turn from the stills, the chlorine consumed
being taken direct from a gasometer under a regular pressure until
it is exhausted ; the valves being changed, the supply is taken from
another holder, the emptied one being refilled from the still.
                   Manufacture of the Double Chloride.
     Twelve large regenerative gas furnaces are used for heating, and
in each of these are fixed five horizontal fire-clay retorts about 10 ft.
in length, into which the mixture for making the double chloride is
placed. These furnaces have been built in two rows, six on a side,
the clear passage-way down the centre of the building, which is about
250 ft. long, being 50 ft. in width. Above this central passage is the
staging carrying the large lead-mains for the supply of the chlorine
coming from the gasometers. Opposite each retort, and attached to
the main, are situated the regulating valves, connected with lead and
earthenware pipes, for the regulation and passage of the chlorine to
each retort. The valves are of peculiar design, and have been so
constructed that the chlorine is made to pass through a certain depth
of liquid, which not only by opposing a certain pressure allows a
known quantity of gas to pass in a given time, but also prevents any
return from the retort into the main, should an increase of pressure
be suddenly developed in the retorts.
     The mixture with which the retorts are charged is made by
 grinding together hydrate of alumina, salt, and charcoal. This
mixture is then moistened with water, which partially dissolves the
salt, and thrown into a pug mill of the usual type for making
drain pipes, excepting that the mass is forced out into solid cylin
drical lengths upon a platform alongside of which a workman is
 stationed with a large knife, by means of which the material is cut
 into lengths of about 3 inches each. These are then piled on top of the
 large furnaces to dry. In a few hours they have sufficiently hardened
 to allow of their being handled. They are then transferred to largo
 wagons, and are ready to be used in charging the retorts.
     The success of this process is in a great measure dependent—
1st, on the proportionate mixture of materials ; 2nd, on the tem
perature of the furnace ; 3rd, on the quantity of chlorine introduced
in a given time ; and 4th, on the actual construction of the retorts.
I am, however, not at liberty to discuss the details of this part of the
process, which have only a commercial interest. In carrying on the
operation, the furnaces or retorts, when at the proper temperature,
are charged by throwing in the balls until they are quite full, the
fronts are then sealed up, and the charge allowed to remain undis
turbed for about four hours, during which time the water of the
alumina hydrate is completely expelled. At the end of this time
the valves on the chlorine main are opened, and the gas is allowed
to pass into the charged retorts. In the rear of each retort, and con
nected therewith by means of an earthenware pipe, are the condenser

1889.]                         on Aluminium.                          457
boxes, which are built in brick. These boxes are provided with
openings or doors, and also with earthenware pipes connected with
a small flue for carrying off the uucondensed vapours to the large
chimney. At first the chlorine passed into each retort is all absorbed
by the charge, and only carbonic oxide escapes into the open boxes,
where it burns. After a certain time, however, dense fumes are
evolved, and the boxes are then closed, while the connecting pipe
between the box and the small flue serves to carry off the uncon-
densed vapours to the chimney.
    The reaction which takes place is as follows : —
          AlA + 2NaCl + 30 + 6C1 = 2 AlCl3NaCl + SCO.
     The chlorine is passed in for about 72 hours in varying quantity,
the boxes at the back being opened from time to time by the work
men to ascertain the progress of the distillation. At the end of the
time mentioned the chlorine valves are closed and the boxes at the
back of the furnace are all thrown open. The crude double chloride,
as distilled from the retorts, condenses in the connecting pipe and
trickles down into the boxes, where it solidifies in large irregular
masses. The yield from a bench of five retorts will average from
 1,600 to 1,800 Ibs., which is not far from the theoretical quantity.
After the removal of the crude chloride from the condenser boxes,
the retorts are opened at their charging end, and the residue, which
consists of a small quantity of alumina, charcoal, and salt, is raked out
 and remixed in certain proportions with fresh material, to bo used
over again. The furnace is immediately re-charged and the same
operations repeated, so that from each furnace upwards of 3,500 Ibs.
 of chloride are obtained weekly. With ten of the twelve furnaces
 always at work the plant is easily capable of producing 30,000 Ibs.
of chloride per week, or 1,500,000 Ibs. per annum.
     Owing to the presence of iron, both in the materials used (viz.,
charcoal, alumina, &c.) and in the fireclay composing the retorts, the
distilled chloride always contains a varying proportion of this metal
in the form of ferrous and ferric chlorides. When it is remembered
 that it requires 10 Ibs. of this chloride to produce 1 Ib. of aluminium
by reduction, it will be quite apparent how materially a very small
percentage of iron in the chloride will influence the quality of tho
resulting metal. I may say that, exercising the utmost care as to
 the purity of the alumina and the charcoal used, and after having the
retorts made of special fireclay containing only a very small per
 centage of iron, it was found almost impossible to produce upon a
 large scale a chloride containing less than 0 • 3 per cent. of iron.
     This crude double chloride, as it is now called at the works, is
 highly deliquescent, and varies in colour from a light yellow to a dark
 red. The variation in colour is not so much due to the varying per
 centage of iron contained as to the relative proportion of ferric or
 ferrous chlorides present, and although a sample may be either very
 dark or quite light, it may still contain only a small percentage of

    458                         Sir Henry Rosroe                      [May 3,
    iron if it bo present a8 ferric salt, or a very large percentage if it is
    in the ferrous condition. Even when exercising all possible precau
    tions, the average analysis of the crude double chloride shows about
    0 • 4 per cent. of iron. The metal subsequently made from this chloride
    therefore never contained much loss than about 5 per cent. of iron,
    and, as this quantity greatly injures the capacity of aluminium for
    drawing into wire, rolling, &c., the metal thus obtained required to
    be refined. This was successfully accomplished by Mr. Castner
     and his able assistant Mr. Cullen, and for some time all the metal
     mado was refined, the iron being lowered to about 2 per cent.
         The process, however, was difficult to carry out, and required
    careful manipulation, but as it then seemed the only remedy for
    effectively removing the iron, it was adopted and carried on for some
     time quite successfully, until another invention of Mr. Cnstner
    rendered it totally unnecessary. This consisted in purifying the
    double chloride before reduction. I cannot now explain this process,
  • but I am able to show some of the product. This purified chloride,
    or pure double chloride, is, as you see, quite white, and is far less
    deliquescent than the crude, so that it is quite reasonable to infer
    that this most undesirable property is greatly due to the former
    presence of iron chlorides. I have seen large quantities containing
    upwards of 1£ per cent. of iron, or 150 Ibs. to 10,000 of the chloride,
    completely purified from iron in a few minutes, so that, whilst the
    substance before treatment was wholly unfit for the preparation of
    aluminium, owing to the presence of iron, the result was, like the
    sample exhibited, a mass containing only 1 Ib. of iron in 10,000,
    or 0'0l per cent. The process is extremely simple, and adds little or
    no appreciable cost to the final product. After treatment, this pure
    chloride is melted in large iron pots and run into drums similar to
    those used for storing caustic soda. As far as I am aware, it was
    generally believed to be an impossibility to remove the iron from
    anhydrous double chloride of aluminium and sodium, and few if
    any chemists have ever seen a pure white double chloride.
                             Aluminium Manufacture.
         I now come to the final stage of the process, viz., the reduction of
    the pure double chloride by sodium. This is effected, not in a tube
    of Bohemian glass, as shown in Mr. Barlow's lecture in 1856, but in
    a large roverberatory furnace, having an inclined hearth about 6 feet
    square, the inclination being towards the front of the furnace, through
    which are several openings at different heights. The pure chloride
    is ground together with cryolite in about the proportions of two to
    one, and is then carried to a staging erected above the reducing
    furnace. The sodium, in large slabs or blocks, is run through a
    machine similar to an ordinary tobacco-cutting machine, where it is
    cut into small thin slices ; it is then also transferred to the staging
    above the reducing furnace.
,

1889.]                         OM Aluminium.                         459
    Both materials are now thrown into a large revolving drum, when
they become thoroughly mixed. The drum being opened and partially
turned, the contents drop out into a car on a tramway directly below.
The furnace having been raised to the desired temperature, the
dampers of the furnace are all closed to prevent the access of air, the
heating gas also being shut off. The car is then moved out on the roof
of the furnace until it stands directly over the centre of the hearth.
The furnace roof is provided with large hoppers, and through these
openings the charge is introduced as quickly as possible. The
reaction takes place almost immediately, and the whole charge quickly
liquefies. At the end of a certain time the heating gas is again
introduced and the charge kept at a moderate temperature for about
two hours. At the end of this period the furnace is tapped by driving
a bar through the lower opening, which has previously been stopped
with a fire-clay plug, and the liquid metal run out in a silver stream
into moulds placed below the opening. When the metal has all been
drawn off, the slag is allowed to run out into small iron wagons and
removed. The openings being again plugged up, the furnace is
ready for another charge. From each charge, composed of about
 1200 Ibs. of pure chloride, 600 Ibs. of cryolite, and 350 Ibs. of
sodium, about 115 to 120 Ibs. of aluminium is obtained.
    The purity of the metal entirely depends upon the purity of the
chloride used, and without exercising more than ordinary care the
metal tests usually indicate a purity of metal above 99 per cent. • On
the table is the metal run from a single charge, its weight is 116 Ibs.,
and its composition, as shown by analysis, is !M)-U aluminium,
0*3 silicon, and 0*5 iron. This I believe to be the largest and the
purest mass of metal ever made in one operation.
    The result of eight or nine charges are laid on one side, and then
melted down in the furnace to make a uniform quality, the liquid
metal, after a good stirring, being drawn off into moulds. These
large ingots, weighing about 60 Ib. each, are sent to the casting shop,
there to be melted and cast into the ordinary pigs, or other shapes, as
may be required for the making of tubes, sheets, or wire, or else used
directly for making alloys of either copper or iron.
    The following table shows approximately the quantity of each
material used in the production of one ton of aluminium :—
             Metallic sodium                        6,300 Ibs.
             Double chloride                       22,400 „
             Cryolite                               8,000 „
             Coal                                       8 tons.
    To produce 6,300 Ibs. of sodium is required : —
             Caustic soda                          44,000 Ibs.
             Carbide made from pitch, 12,000 lbs.,\ - nnn
               and iron turnings, 1,000 Ibg       / ''      "
             Crucible costings                          2'. tons.
             Coal                                      75 „
    VOL. XII.     (No. 83.)                                      2 i

460                           Str Henry Roscoe                    [May 3,
    For the production of 22,400 Ibs. double chloride is required : —
             Common salt                             8,00011)8.
             Alumina hydrate                        11,000 „
             Chlorine gns                           15,000 „
             Coal                                       180 tons.
    For the production of 15,000 Ibs. of chlorine gas is required :—
             Hydrochloric neid                     180,000 Ibs.
             Limestone dust                         45,000 „
             Lime                                   H0, 000 „
             Loss of manganese                       1,000 „
    (These figures were rendered more evident by the aid of small
blocks, each cut a given size so as to represent the relative weights of
the different materials used to produce one unit of aluminium.)
    It might seem, on looking over the above numbers, as if an
extraordinary amount of waste occurred, and as if the production is
far below that which ought to be obtained, but a study of the figures
will show that this is not the case. I would wish to call attention to
one item in particular, viz. fuel, it having been remarked that the
consumption of coal must prevent cheap production. I think when it
is remembered that coal, such as used at the works, cost only 4*. per
ton, while the product is worth 2210J. per ton, the cost of coal is
not an item of consequence in the cost of production. The total cost
of the coal to produce one ton of metal being 50Z. ; the actual cost
for fuel is less than sixpence for every pound of aluminium produced.
The ratio of cost of fuel to value of product is indued less than is the
case in making either iron or steel. In concluding my remarks as to
the method of manufacture and the process in general, I may add
that I do not think it is too much to expect, in view of the rapid
strides already made, that in the future, further improvements and
modifications will enable aluminium to be produced and sold even
at a lower price than appears at present possible.
                          Properties of Aluminium.
    In its physical properties aluminium widely differs from all the
other metals, Its colour is a beautiful white, with a slight blue tint.
The intensity of this colour becomes mere apparent when the metal
has been worked, or when it contains silicon or iron. The surface
may be made to take a very high polish, when the blue tint of the
metal become manifest, or it may bo treated with caustic soda and
then nitric acid, which will leave the metal quite white. The
extensibility or malleability of aluminium is very high, ranking with
gold and silver if the metal be of good quality. It may be beaten
out into thin leaf quite as easily as either gold or silver, although it
requires more careful annealing.
    It is extremely ductile and may be easily drawn, especial care
only being required in the annealing.

 1889.]                           on Aluminium.                        4G1
       The excessive sonorousness of aluminium is best shown by example
 (large suspended bar being struck). Faraday has remarked, after
 experiments conducted in his laboratory, that the sound produced by
 an ingot of aluminium is not simple, and one may distinguish the
 two sounds by turning the vibrating ingot.
       After being cast it has about the hardness of pure silver, but
 may be sensibly hardened by hammering.
       Its tensile strength varies between 12 and 14 tons to the inch (test
 sample which was shown having been broken at 13 tons or 27,000
 Ibs.), ordinary cast iron being about 8 tons. Comparing the strength
 of aluminium in relation to its weight, it is equal to steel of 38 tons
 tensile strength. The specific gravity of cast aluminium is 2 • 58, but
 after rolling or hammering this figure is increased to about 2 '68.
      The specific gravity of aluminium being 1, copper is 3-6, nickel
 3 • 5, silver 4, lead 4 • 8, gold 7 • 7.
      The fusibility of aluminium has been variously statad as being
 between that of zinc and silver, or between 600 ani 1000° C.
      As no reliable information has ever been male public on this
 subject, my friend, Professor Carnelley, undertook to determine it.
 I was aware, from information gained at the works at Oldbury, that
 a small increase in the percentage of contained iron materially raised
 its point of fusion, and it has been undoubtedly due to this cause that
 such wide limits are given for the melting point. Under these cir
 cumstances two samples were forwarded for testing, of which No. 1,
 containing J per cent. of iron, had a melting point of 700° C. ; whereas
 No. 2, containing 5 per cent. of iron, does not melt at 700° and
 only softens somewhat above that temperature but undergoes incipient
 fusion at 730°.
      According to Faraday, aluminium ranks very high among
 metallic conductors of heat and electricity, and he found that it
 conducted beat better than either silver or copper. The specific heat
 is also very high, which accounts for length of time required for an
 ingot of the metal to either melt or get cold after being cast.
      Chemically, its properties are well worthy of study.
      Air, either wet or dry, has absolutely no effect on aluminium at the
 ordinary temperature, but this property is only possessed by a very
 pure quality of metal, and the pure metal in mass undergoes only
 slight oxidation even at the melting point of platinum.
      Thin leaf, however, when heated in a current of oxygen, burns
 with a brilliant, bluish white light. (Experiment shown). If the
metal be pure, water has no effect on it whatever, even at a red-heat.
Sulphur and its compounds also are without action on it, while,
under the same circumstances, nearly all metals would bo discoloured
with great rapidity. (Experiment shown using silver and aluminium
under the same conditions.)
      Dilute sulphuric acid and nitric acid, both diluted and concen
trated, have no effect on it, although it may be dissolved in either
hydrochloric acid or caustic alkali. Heated in an atmosphere of
                                                              2 t 2

462                           Sir Henry Koscoe                      [May 3,
chlorine it burns with a vivid light, producing aluminium chloride.
 (Experiment shown). In connection with the subject it may bo of
 interest to state the true melting point of the double chloride of
 aluminium and sodium, which has always been given at 170° to 180° (.'.,
 but which Mr. Baker, the chemist to the works, finds lies between
 125° and 130° C.
                             1'iv-x of Aluminium.
     Its uses, unalloyed, have heretofore been greatly restricted. This
 is, I believe, alone owing to its former high price, for no metal
 possessing the properties of aluminium could help coming into larger
 use if its cost were moderate. Much has been said as to the impossi
 bility of soldering it being against its popular use, but I believe that
 this difficulty will now soon be overcome. The following are a few
 of the purposes to which it is at present put: telescope tubes, marine
 glasses, eye glasses and sextants, especially on account of its lightness.
 Fine wire for the making of lace, embroidery, &c. Leaf in the place
 of silver leaf, sabre sheaths, sword handles, &c., statuettes and works
 of art, jewellery and delicate physical apparatus, culinary utensils,
 harness fittings, metallic parts of solders' uniforms, dental purposes,
 surgical instruments, reflectors (it not being tarnished by the pro
 ducts of combustion), photographic apparatus, aeronautical and
engineering purposes, and especially for the making of alloys.
                           Alloys of Aluminium.
     The most important alloys of aluminium are those made with
copper. These alloys were first prepared by Dr. Percy, in England,
and now give promise of being largely used. The alloy produced by
the addition of 10 per cent. of aluminium to copper, the maximum
amount that can be used to produce a satisfactory alloy, is known
as aluminium bronze. Bronzes, however, are made which contain
smaller amounts of aluminium, possessing in a degree the valuable
properties of the 10 per cent. bronze. According to the percentage
of aluminium up to 10 per cent., the colour varies from" red gold to
pale yellow. The 10 per cent. alloy takes a fine polish, and has the
colour of jewellers' gold. The 5 per cent. alloy is not quite so hard,
the colour being very similar to that of pure gold. I am indebted to
Prof. Roberts Austen for a splendid specimen of crystallised gold,
as also for a mould in which the gold at the mint is usually cast,
and in this I have had prepared ingots of the 10 and 5 per cent. alloy,
so that a comparison may be made of the colour of these with a gold
ingot cast in the same mould, for the loan of which I have to thank
Messrs. Johnson, Matthey, & Co., all of which are before you.
     I Inivc also ingots of the same size, of pure aluminium, from which
mi idea of the relative weights of gold and aluminium may be
obtained.
     To arrive at perfection in the making of these alloys, not only is

 1889.]                      en Aluminium,                          4.63
it required that the aluminium used should be of good quality, but
also that the copper must be of the very best obtainable. For this
purpose only the best brands of Lake Superior copper should be used.
Inferior brands of copper or any impurities in the alloy give
 poor results. The alloys all possess a good colour, polish well, keep
their colour far better than all other copper alloys, are extremely
malleable and ductile, can be worked either hot or cold, easily
engraved, the higher grades have an elasticity exceeding steel, are
easily cast into complicated objects, do not lose in remelting, and are
possessed of great strength, dependent, of course, on the purity and
percentage of contained aluminium. The 10 per cent. alloy, when
cast, has a tensile strength of between 70,000 and 80,000 Ibs. per
square inch, but when hammered or worked, the test exceeds
100,000 Ibs. (A sample shown broke at 105,000 Ibs.).
    An attempt to enumerate either the present uses or the possible
future commercial value of these alloys is beyond my present purpose.
I may, however, remark that they are not only adapted to take the
place of bronze, brass, and steel, but they so far surpass all of those
metals, both physically and chemically, as to make their extended
use assured. (Sheets, rods, tubes, wire, and ingots shown.)
    But even a more important uso of aluminium seems to be its em
ployment in the iron industry, of which it promises shortly to become
a valuable factor, owing to certain effpcts which it produces when
present, even in the most minute proportions. Experiments are now
being carried on at numerous iron and steel works, in England, on the
Continent, and in America. The results so far attained are greatly
at variance, for whilst in the majority of cases the improvements
made have encouraged the continuance of the trials, in others the
result has not been satisfactory. On this point I would wish to say
to those who may contemplate making nse of aluminium in this
direction, that it would be advisable before trying their experiments
to ascertain whether the aluminium alloy they may purchase actually
contains any aluminium at all, for some of the so-called aluminium
alloys contain little or no aluminium, and this may doubtless
account for the negative results obtained. Again, others contain such
varying proportions of carbon, silicon, and other impurities, as to
render their use highly objectionable.
    It seems to be a prevailing idea with some people, that because
aluminium is so light compared with iron, that they cannot be directly
alloyed, and furthermore, that for the same reason, alloys made by
the direct melting together of the two metals would not be equal to
an alloy where both metals are reduced together. Now, of course,
this is not the case, and the statement has been put forward by those
who were only able to make the alloys in one way.
    Aluminium added to molten iron and steel lowers their melting
points, consequently increases the fluidity of the metal, and causes it
to run easily into moulds and set there, without entrapping air and
other gases, which serve to form blow-holes and similar imper

 461                 Sir Henry Roscoe on Aluminium.             [May 3,
 fut-tiuns. It is already used l,y l1 large number of steel founders,
 aHd seems to render the production of souud steel castings more
 certain and easy than is otherwise possible.
      One of the most remarkable applications of this property which
 aluminium possesses of lowering the melting-point of iron has been
 made use of by Mr. Nordenfelt in tbe production of castings of
 wrought iron.
     Aluminium forms alloys with most other metal*, and although
 each possess peculiar properties which in the future may be utilised,
 at present they are but little need.
     In conclusion, I beg to call your attention to the wood models on
 the tublo, one being representative of aluminium, the other aluminium
 bronze. The originals of these models are now in the Paris Exhibi
 tion, each weighing 1000 Ibs. With regard to aluminium bronze, I
 cannot speak positively, but the block of pure aluminium is un
 doubtedly the largest casting ever made in this most wonderful metnl.
 I have to thank the Directors of the Aluminium Company, and
 especially Mr. Cnstner, for furnishing me with the interesting series
 of specimens of raw and manufactured metal for illustrating my
discourse.
                                                           [H. E. R.]
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, May 6, 1889.
Siu ,1 AMI-S CIUCHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President, in
                                the Chair.
     The following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year were
announced :—
         Sir Frederick Abel, C.B. D.C.L. F.B.S.
         Sir James Crichton Browne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
         William Crookes, Esq. F.R.S.
         Colonel James A. Grant, C.B. C.S.I. F.R.S.
         William Huggins, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
         John Rne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
         Henry Pollock, Esq. Treasurer.
         Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart. D.C.L. F.K.S. Hon. Secretary.

1889.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                            465
               W. L. A. Bartlett Burdott-Coutts, Esq. M.P.
               James J. Fellows, Esq.
               Henry Parry GiIbey, Esq.
               Colonel George Edward Gouraud,
               Henry Arthur Hunt, Esq.
               Thomas Stuart Kennedy, Esq. J.P.
               Arthur Lucas, Esq.
               Major-General Eardley Maitland, C.B. R.A.
               Frederick Schwann, Esq.
               Colonel William Brooke Thomson,
               Charles Wilson Vincent, Esq. F.R.S.E. F.C.S. F.I.C.
               R. W. Wallace, Esq.
               Ernest Watney, Esq.
were elected Members of the Koyal Institution.
     The decease of Dr. WARREN DB LA RUE, D.C.L. F.R.S. Manager
and Vice-President, on April 19th, was announced from the Chair.
    The following Resolution passed by the Managers at their
Meeting this day was read : —
    Resohed, "That the Managers of the Royal Institution of Great Britain
have with much sorrow to record their profound sense of the loss sustained by
the Institution, by themselves, and by the whole scientific world, in the decease
of their friend and colleague, Dr. Warren de la Hue, who had been a valuable
Member of the Institution for nearly thirty-eight years.
    "Dr. Warren de la Rue's high position in regard to science is universally
recognised. The fruits of his invaluable researches in the various departments of
Practical Astronomy, Solar and Lunar Physics, Celestial Photography, Electricity,
Chemistry, and Meteorology, are fully recorded in the ' Transactions ' of the Royal
Society, the Royal Astronomical Society, the Chemical Society, the Academy of
Sciences, Paris, and in many other Scientific Journals.
    "Dr. Warren de la Rue became a Member of the Royal Institution in 1851.
Previous to his election he was much interested in the objects of the Institution,
 and zealously assisted Professor Faraday in his researches and lectures whenever
 an opportunity presented itself. He was first elected a Manager in 1856, and
closely attended the meetings of his colleagues until the end of his life. In
 1879 he became Honorary Secretary, and held that office till 1882. During his
long connection with the Royal Institution he was specially interested in the.
aifairs of the laboratory, and was a liberal contributor to the Fund for the
Promotion of Experimental Research, first started in 1863. He also frequently
presented valuable apparatus, and eagerly embraced every opportunity of munifi
cently contributing towards the supply of whatever was needed by the Professors.
His discourse on ' The Phenomena of the Electric Discharge, with 14,000 Chloride
of Silver Cells,' delivered at the Royal Institution on January 21, 1881, will bo
long remembered by those who had tie good fortune to hear it and witness his
brilliant experiments. Besides the great pleasure he derived from the prosecution
of his own researches, for which he received many well-merited Honours both at
home and abroad, Dr. de la Rue wus happy in liberally aiding the labours of his
fellow-workers, and contributed invaluable services to the Royal Institution while
discharging the duties of Honorary Secretary and Manager and Vice-President.
 His genial manner and unvaried courtesy endeared him to all with whom he
was personally connected, and his kindly presence will long be missed.

466                         General Monthly Meeting.                     [May 6,
    " The Managers farther desiru to be permitted to offer to Mrs. DE LA RUE and
her family the expression of their most sincere sympathy with them in their
bereavement."
    Resolved, "That the Honorary Secretary be requested to communicate this
Resolution to the family."
     The Honorary Secretary was requested to convey the grateful
thanks of the Members to Mrs. de la Rue for the generous spirit
which prompted her to present the philosophical apparatus of the
late Dr. Warren de la Rue, F.R.S. to the Royal Institution, and to
inform her that this valuable gift will be carefully preserved as the
historical collection commemorative of the important scientific work
of Dr. Warren de la Rue, and of the eminent position which he has so
long occupied as a promoter of Science, and of the special objects of
the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were given to Mr. JOHN
YOUNG for his valuable gift of a portrait of Sir Humphry Davy,
presented by him in the name of his sou, Mr. James Young, grandson
of the late Dr. James Young, F.R.S. of Kelly, the distinguished
chemist and former owner of the portrait, and the Honorary Secretary
was requested to inform Mr. John Young that the Members have
groat satisfaction in receiving such a valuable addition to the collec
tion of historic portraits in the Royal Institution, and that they are
gratified in the presentation being associated with the name of the
family of the late Dr. Young.
     JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. was elected Honorary
Professor of Natural Philosophy.
     The Right Hon. LOBD RATLEIOH, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. was
elected Professor of Natural Philosophy.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz :—
     FROM
The Governor- General of India—Geological Survey of India : Records, Vol. XXII.
     Parti. 4to. 1889.
Accademia dei Lincei, Heale, Roma— A.tti, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. 1° Semes-
     tre, Vol. IV. FabC. 11, 12; Vol. V. Fasc. 1, 2, 3. 8vo. 1889.
Astronomical Society, ftoyal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLIX. No. 5. 8vo. 1889.
Bankert, Institute of—lourual. Vol. X. Part 4. 8vo. 1881).
Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Sitzungsberichte, 1888, Heft 3; 1889, Heft 1, 2.
     8vo. 1889.
Bernayt, Albert J. Etq. Ph.D. F.C.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Notes on Analytical
     Chemistry.
Boston S')ciety of Natural History—Proceedings, Vol. XXIII. Parts 3 and 4.
     8vo. 1888.
British Museum (Natural HMory)—Catalogue of Fossil Fishes, Part 1. 8vo.
     1889.
  Catalogue of Fossil Cephalopoda, Part 1. 8vo. 1888.
  Catalogue of Marsupialia and Monotrcmata. 8vo. 1888.
  Catalogue of the Chflonians, Rhynchocephaliuns, ami Crocodiles. 8vo. 1889.

 1889.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                       467
 Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. VI. Part 5. 8vo. 1889.
 Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. VIII. No. 3. 8vo. 1889.
Chemical Society—Journal for April, 1889. 8vo.
 Cram-vie, L'Academie des Sciences—Bulletin, 1889. 8vo.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for April, 1889. 8vo.
   Analyst for April, 1889. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for April, 1889. 4to.
   Chemical News for April, 1889. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for April, 1889. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for April, 1889. fol.
   Engineer for April, 1889. fol.
   Engineering for April, 1889. fol.
   Horological Journal for April, 1889. 8vo.
   Industries for April, 1889. fol.
   Iron for April, 1889. 4to.
   Murray's Mngnzine for April, 1889. 8vo.
   Nature for April, 1889. 4to.
   Photographic News for April, 1889. 8vo.
   Revue Scientifique for April, 1889. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for April, 1889. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for April, 1889. 4to.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 760. 8vo. 1889.
 ffolmee-Forbes, A. W. Esq. M.A. M.R.I, (the A uihor) — Know Thyself; or
      Psychology for the People. 8vo. 1889.
 Iowa Laboratories of Natural History—Bulletin, Vol. I. No 1. 8vo. 1888.
 Latzina, M. F. (the Compiler)—Censo General de la Cuidad de Buenos Aires,
      1887. 8vo. 1889.
Mnrvin, Charles, Esq. (the Author)—The Coming Oil Age. 8vo. 1889.
Meriden Scientific Association—Transactions, Vol. III. 8vo. 1887-8.
Meteorological Office—Hourly Readings, 1886, Part 2. 4to. 1889.
   Quitrte'rly Weather Reports, 1876, Part 4. 4to. 1889.
 Meteorological Society, .RoyaZ—Quarterly Journal, No. 69. 8vo. 1889.
   Meteorological Record, No. 81. 8vo. 1889.
 Ministry of Public Worlts, Rorne—Giornale del Genio Civile, Serie Quiata
      Vol. III. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. And Disegni. fol. 1889.
 North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
      Vol. XXXVIII. Parts 1-2. 8vo. 1889.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for April, 1889. 8vo.
Physical Society of London— Proceedings, Vol. X. Part 1. 8vo. 1889.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften— Sitzungtberichte, Nos. 38-52. 8vo.
      1888.
Royal College of Physicians, Ediiiburgh—Reports from the Laboratory, Vol. I.
     8vo. 1889.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 277. 8vo. 1889.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Rnyal—Mathemalisch-physische Classe : Abhandlung.
     Band XV. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. 1889.
Skinner, W. R. Esq. (the Editor)—The Mining Manual for 1888. 8vo.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. I. Nos. 9, 10. 8vo. 1889.
Society of Arts—Journal for April, 1889. 8vo.
St. Oallen, Geographifch Commerciellen Gesettechaft—Mitteilungen, 1889, Heft 1.
     8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. LII. Part 1. 8vo. 1889.
   Index to Vols. XXVI.-L. (1873-87). 8vo.
Telegraph Engineers, Society of—Journal, No. 78. 8vo. 1889.
 Vereins sur Beforderung des Geicerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandluugen, 1889:
     Heft IV. 4to.
Zoological Society—Transactions, Vol. XII. Part 8. 4to. 1889.
   Proceedings, 1888, Part 4. 8vo. 1889.

463                         Profesior Deuar                         [May 10,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 10, 1889.
     WILLIAM CUOOKES, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in tho Chair.
               PROFESSOU DEWAB, MA. F.B.S. M.R.I.
                Optical Properties of Oxygen and Ozone.
 IN the course of experiments on the spectra of gases at high pressures,
Professor Livcing and I have made observations on the absorption-
 spectrum of oxygen which confirm and extend the observations of
 Egoroff and Jansen. The interest of this spectrum is so great, on
account of the important part which oxygen plays in our world, and
its free condition in our atmosphere, that it deserves a separate
notice.
     In order to include the ultra-violet rays in our observations we
have had to contrive windows of quartz to the apparatus containing
the gases. A strong steel tuho, 165 centimetres long and 5 centi
metres wide, was fitted with gun-metal ends, bearing by curved
                                  FIG. 1.
                          STEEL  TUBE                ! T   Quartz.
                                                         - (>uu-laclal.
                    Section through one end of the tube.
 surfaces upon the conical openings of the tube, and forced home by
 powerful screw-caps. Each gun-metal end was pierced centrally by
 a conical opening fitted with a quartz stopper, 2'1 centimetres thick,
 and of the same diameter, with plane polished ends. A small amount
 of wax was interposed between the stopper and the gun-metal for the
 purpose of ensuring a uniform bearing for the quartz, which is very
 brittle. Trial proved that the tube thus fitted would sustain, without
 leakage, a pressure of upwards of 260 atmospheres. The tube had,
besides, near each end, a screw-plug valve for admitting the gases.
About the centre of the tube was placed a quartz lens, rather less
in diameter than the tube, held in place by three springs which
pressed against the walls of the tube. This lens had a focal
length of about 46 centimetres ; so that when a source of light was

1889.]        an Optical Properties of Oxygen and Ozone.            469
placed about 10 centimetres from one end of the tube, an image
of it was formed on the slit of the spectroscope at ab iut the siime
distance from the other end of the tube, and thereby loss of light,
BO far as it was due to the distance of the source, was reduced to a
minimum.
    Ordinary oxygen was let into the tube from an iron bottle until
the pressure reached 85 atmospheres, and on viewing an are light
through the tube the following absorptions were visible :—
    (1) A very dark band sharply defined on its more refrangible
side, gradually fading out on its less refrangible side, and divided
into two parts by a streak of light, occupying the position of A of
the solar spectrum.
    (2) A much weaker, but precisely similar band in the position of
B of the solar spectrum.
    (3) A dark band very diffuse on both edges, extending from
about X 6360 to X 6225, with a maximum intensity at about X 6305.
    (4) A still darker band a little above D. beginning with a diffuse
edge at about X 5810, rapidly coming to a maximum intensity at
about X 5785, and then gradually fading on the more refrangible
side, and disappearing at about X 5675.
    (5) A faint narrow band in the green at about X 5350.
    (6) A strong band in the blue, diffuse on both sides, extending
from about X 4795 to X 4750.
    When photographs were taken of the ultra-violet part of the
spectrum of the arc and of the iron spark, the gas appeared to be
quite transparent for violet and ultra-violet rays up to about X 2745.
    From that point the light gradually diminished, and beyond
X 2664 appeared to be wholly absorbed.
    The pressure of the oxygen in the tube was then increased to 140
atmospheres. This had the effect of increasing sensibly the darkness
of all the bands above described ; but brought out no new bands,
except a faint band in the indigo at about X 4470. In the ultra
violet the absorption appeared to be complete for all rays beyond
about X 2704.
    The foregoing observations were mad* with a spectroscope of
small dispersion. We next brought to bear on the spectrum a large
instrument with one of Rowland's gratings. Even with the high
dispersion of this instrument, the bands at A could not be resolved
into lines; they remained two diffuse bands; though the red
potassium-lines, which were produced by sprinkling the electrode of
the arc with a potassium-salt, were sharply defined and widely
separated. None of the other bands were resolvable into lines. This
we attribute to the density of the gas, by which the lines are expanded
so as to obliterate the Interspaces ; and this supposition is confirmed
by the observation of Angstrom, that the band in the solar spectrum
which appears to be identical with that observed by us a little above
D, was resolved into fine lines when the sun was high, but appeared
as a continuous band when the sun was near the horizon.

470                            Professor Dewar                     [May 10,
    On letting down the pressure the bands were all weakened ; A,
though weaker, became more sharply defined at the more refrangible
edge. The faint band in the indigo X 4470 remained just visible
until the pressure fell below 110 atmospheres. At 90 atmospheres
A and B were still well seen and sharp, but all the other bands
weaker. B remained visible until the pressure fell to 40 atmospheres.
A was then still well seen, the band just above D very faint, and the
others almost gone. At 30 atmospheres A was still easily seen, and
there was a trace of the band above D. At 25 atmospheres this band
had gone, but A remained visible until the pressure fell to less than
20 atmospheres. Hence an amount of oxygen not greater than that
contained in a column of air 150 metres long at ordinary pressure, is
sufficient to produce a visible absorption at A. The quantity of
oxygen in the tube at the highest pressure we used falls, however, far
short of the quantity traversed by the solar rays in passing through
the atmosphere when the sun is vertical.
    It will be noted that the bands, if we except the faint two in the
green and indigo respectively, appear ta be Oidentical with those
terrestrial bands in the solar spectrum which Angstrom found to be
as strong when the air was dried by intense frost as at other times.
At least the positions of the maxima agree closely, and that near D
shows the same peculiarity in having its maximum near the less
refrangible end. We did not, however, observe a, which would be
fainter than B, and if, like A and B, unresolvable, would be lost in
the diffuse band which covers that region. The bands above
numbered 3, 4, 5, 6, agree also with those observed by Olszewski,*
to be produced by a layer of liquid oxygen 12 millimetres thick.
The point also at which the absorption of the ultra-violet rays begins,
agrees with that at which the absorption by ozone begins, as observed
by Hartley f ; but the oxygen, as we used it, did not appear to
transmit the more refrangible rays beyond 2320, which seem to pass
through ozone. Egoroff J found that A remained visible when he
looked through 80 metres of atmosphere, but 3 kilogrammes of
atmosphere failed to produce o.
    When the pressure in our tube was reduced, a cloud was always
formed which rendered the contents of the tube nearly opaque ; the
faint light which was then transmitted had always a green tinge.
    It is remarkable that the compounds of oxygen do not show any
similar absorptions. Angstrom thought it improbable that oxygen
should have a spectrum of such a character, since he failed to
obtain an emission spectrum resembling it ; and suggested that the
absorptions might be due to carbonic ncid gas or to ozone, or possibly
to oxygen in the state in which it becomes fluorepcent.g Neither
carbonic acid gas nor nitrous oxide, at a pre-sure of 50 atmospheres
in our tube, show any sensible absorption in the visible spectrum ;
   * Wied. 'Ann.,' xxxiii. p. 570.       t Mourn. Chcm. Sno.,' xxxix. p. 57.
   J 'Comptes Rendus,' err p. 1144.      § 'Sprct. Norm.,' p. 41.

 1889. 1 '     on Optical Properties of Oxygen and Ozone.            471
 and the absorption of the ultra-violet rays by the latter gas begins at
 a higher point, namely about A. 2450, than that of uncombined
 oxygen. In fact, we see the anomalies of the selective absorption by
 compounds as compared with that of their elements when we take the
 case of water, which has a remarkable transparency for those ultra
 violet rays for which oxygen is opaque.
      These observations show that all stellar spectra observed in our
 atmosphere, irrespective of the specific ultra-violet radiation of each
 star, must be limited to wave-lengths not less than X 2700, unless we
 can devise means to eliminate the atmospheric absorption by observa
 tions at exceedingly high altitudes.
     We have extended our observations to much longer columns of
 oxygen. A steel tube IS metres long (see Fig. 2) was fitted with the
 same quartz ends as had been used with the shorter tube, and with
two quartz lenses symmetrically placed inside the tube, one near
                                  FIG. 2.
                           Section of Steel Tube.
each end, so that when an arc lamp was placed about 14 centimetres
from one end of the tube, the image of it was formed on the slit of
the spectroscope at the same distance from the other end.
     When the tube was filled with air only at ordinary pressure, no
absorptions could be detected, but when the air was replaced by
oxygen at the pressure of the atmosphere the absorption of A was just
visible, though neither B nor any other absorption-band could be
traced. As the pressure of the oxygen was increased, A became much
darker and more distinct, and B came out sharply defined. The
absorption-band about X 5785 was next seen, and the dark bands
about X 6300 and X 4770, were just visible when the pressure reached
20 atmospheres.
     At a pressure of 30 atmospheres A was very black, B also strong
and sharply defined, and the forementioned bands were all quite
strong and had the same general characters as when seen through the
shorter tube ; the band about X 5350 also could be seen, but there
was only a bare trace of that in the indigo about X 4470. At 60
atmospheres these last two absorptions could be well seen, all the
other bands were very stiong, B still quite sharp, but A somewhat
obscured by a general absorption at the red end. At 90 atmospheres
this general absorption at the red end seemed to extend to about one-
third of the distance between A and B ; but A could still be seen,
when the slit was wide, as a still darker band on a dark red back
ground ; B was still sharp, and the other absorptions all strengthened

  472 Profeator Deirar [May 10,
•

1889.]        on Optical Properties of Oxygen and Ozone.               473
and somewhat expanded. The diffuse edges of several bands now
oxtende Ifrom about -( I) A. 6410 to 6190, (2) X 5865 to 5635, (3) A. 5350
to 5280, (4) A. 4820 to 4710, A. 4480 to 4455.
     Photographs taken when the pressure of the oxygen was 90 atmo
spheres show a flint absorption-band about L of the solar spectrum,
a stronger band extending from about A. 3600 to 3640, a broad diffuse
band about the place of the solar lino 0, and complete absorption
above P. The accompanying diagram, Fig. 3, represents the ab
sorption of 18 metres of ordinary oxygen at a pressure of about 97
atmospheres.
     The absorbent column in the tube at the highest pressure used con
tained a mass of oxygon about equal to that in a vertical column of the
earth's atmosphere of the same section as the tube ; but the intensity
of the bands produced by the compressed gas was far greater than that
of the corresponding bands in the solar spectrum with a low sun.
When the arc light was replaced by a piece of white paper reflecting
light from the sky through the tube, it appeared to the naked eye to
have a faint blue tint, similar to that of liquid oxygen, which, com
paring our observation with Olszewski's, seems to have the same
absorptive powers as the dense gas, if we except A. This exception
is probably only apparent, and due to the difficulty of observing A
 under the circumstances of Olszewski's experiment.
     The greatly increased intensity of the absorption-bands at high
pressures bears out Jansen's observation, that in this group the
absorption is proportional to the product of the thickness of the
absorbent stratum into the square of its density, while the absorptions
 to which A and B belong vary directly as the density.
     The appearance, on looking through the tube when gas at high
 pressure is streaming into it, is very much like that of a black and
 a colourless liquid, which do not mix, being stirred together, and the
 tube soon ceases to transmit any light. Transparency returns as the
 dens ty becomes uniform. Currents produced by heating the tube at
 one or two points produce a similar effect, and show that such currents
 in the atmosphere of a star may stop all rays coming from its
 interior.
      We hope before long to get the tube fitted with rock-salt ends
 and lenses, and to determine the total absorption of radiation by
 similar masses of oxygen, nitrogen, and hydrogen.

474                    Professor Silvanus P. Thompson                  [May 17,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 17, 1889.
     JOHN RAE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
        PBOFESSOB SILTANUS P. THOMPSON, B.A. D.Sc. M.R.I.
                               Optical Torque.*
SETENTY-EIGHT years have elapsed since the first discovery, by Arago,
of the remarkable chromatic effects produced by slices of quartz
crystals upon light, previously polarised, which was caused to traverse
them. These effects were shown, one year later, by Biot, to be caused
by a peculiar action of the quartz in rotating the plane of polarisation ;
the amount of the rotation being different for lights of different
colours. Ever since then, the rotation of the plane of polarisation of
light has been a topic familiar to physicists. It has stimulated the
devotee of research to an endless variety of experiments and sug
gestive speculations : it has lured on the mathematician to problems
which tax his utmost skill : it has afforded to the lecturer an array
of beautiful and striking illustrations. Here, in this place, made
classical by the researches and expositions of Thomas Young, of
Michael Faraday, and of William Spottiswoode, and last, but not
least, by the labours of those eminent men whom we rejoice still to
number amongst the living—here, I say, on this classic ground, the
rotation of the plane of polarisation of light is almost a household
word, and its phenomena are amongst the most familiar. We know
now that not only certain actual crystals, such as quartz, bromate of
soda, and cinnabar, rotate the plane of polarisation, but that many
non-crystalline bodies—liquids, such as turpentine, oil of lemons,
solutions of sugar and of various alkaloids, and even certain vapours,
such as that of camphor—possess the same property.
   In 1845, at the very culminating point of his unique career of
research, Faraday opened a new field of inquiry, linking together for
the first time the science of optics with that of magnetism, by his
discovery that the rotation of the plane of polarisation of light could
be effected by the application of magnetic forces. This effect he
observed first in his peculiar " heavy-glass," when it lay in a powerful
magnetic field. Subsequently he found other bodies to possess
similar properties : some of these being magnetic liquids, such as
solutions of iron, others being diamagnetic. Time will only permit
me in passing to refer to the researches of Verdet, and those of Lord
Rayleigh and of Mr. Gordon upon the numerical values of the
   * The blocks of the woodcuts illustrating this discourse have been kindly lent
by the publishers of Nature.

1889.]                     on Optical Torque.                       475
magneto-optic rotation in these substances. H. Becquerel has ex
tended them to gases, and has shown how the magnetism of the earth
rotates the plane of polarisation of the light which, previously polar
ised by reflection from the aerial particles which give the sky its
blue tint, passes earthward through the oxygen of the air.
    Other experimenters have dealt with the rotatory effects (whether
crystalline, molecular, or magnetic) in relation to lights of different
colours, and have studied the dispersion which arises from the
greater actual angle of optical torsion which is produced upon waves
of short wave-length (violet and blue) than that which is produced
under the influence of equal rotatory forces upon the waves of longer
wave-length (red and orange). It has also been demonstrated that
the plane of polarisation of waves of invisible light, whether those of
the infra-red, or those of the ultra-violet species, if they have been
previously polarised, can be rotated just as can that of waves of
visible light.
    In 1877, Dr. Kerr, of Glasgow, discovered a point which Faraday
had sought for, but fruitlessly—namely, that in the act of reflection
at the pole or surface of a magnet, there is a rotation of the plane of
polarisation of light. This discovery -was completed in 1884 by
Km nit, of Strasburg, by the further demonstration, also dimly fore
seen by Faraday, that a magneto-optic rotation of the plane of polari
sation is caused by the passage of previously polarised light through
a normally magnetised film of iron so thin as to be transparent.
    Lastly, in this brief enumeration, we were shown a month ago, by
Oliver Lodge, how the magnetic impulses generated by the rapid
oscillatory discharges of the Leyden jar can produce corresponding
rapid oscillatory rotation in the plane of polarisation of the waves
of previously polarised light.
    You will not have failed to notice the cumbrous phrase which,
whether in speaking of the purely optical effects (of quartz, or sugar,
or turpentine), or in speaking of the magneto-optic efiects of more
recent discovery, I have employed to connote a very simple fact.
"You may have wondered that any lover of simple English speech
should indulge in such sesquipedalian words.
    Of course, at this period of the nineteenth century it is no longer
open to debate that light consists of waves. The plane of polarisation
of the waves of light is the plane of polarisation of the light itself.
The rotation of the plane of polarisation is the rotation of the polar
ised waves, and therefore of the polarised light itself. Yet 1 must
draw attention to the fact that in all the array of discoveries which
I have enumerated, that which had been observed was the rotation—
whether by crystalline, molecular, or magnetic means—not of
natural light, but of light which had by some means been previously
polarised. It was not known to Arago or to Biot, to Fresnel, to
Faraday, nor even to Spottiswoode or to Maxwell, that natural
unpolarised light could be rotated. They may have inferred so, but
it was not in their time even demonstrable that a beam of circularly-
    VOL. XII. (No. 83.)                                      2 K

476                   Professor Silvanus P. Thompson                    [May 17,
polarised light could be rotated upon itself in the same sense as that
in which a beam of plane-polarised light can be rotated.
     That light of any and every kind, however completely polarised or
devoid of that which is called polarisation, can be, and in fact is,
rotated when it passes across a slice of quartz or along a magnetic
field, is a wider generalisation of more recent date ; but one of the
reality of which I hope to convince you before the warning finger
of the clock puts a period to my discourse.
    In order the better to enable this audience to comprehend the
ultimate significance of this discovery, I must claim the indulgence
of those amongst them who are already familiar with the subject of
the polarisation of light, whilst I go back to the most simple ele
mentary matters. Having illustrated the fundamental facts about the
plane of polarisation of light and its twisting, I shall then go on to
methods of precisely measuring the amount of optical torsion pro
duced by the various substances under various conditions. And after
dealing with the magnetic as well as the crystalline and molecular
methods of producing optical torsion in the case of light that has been
previously polarised into a given plane, I shall be in a position to
speak of the nature of the torque,* or twisting force, which in the
several cases produces the torsion ; and shall finally endeavour to
indicate the scope of the researches by which it is now definitely
ascertained that the very same optical forces which are capable of
impressing a rotation upon light which has been artificially polarised
into a definite plane, are also capable of impressing a rotation upon
natural non-polarised light.
     At the outset, to elucidate to any who may not comprehend the
meaning of the term polarisation as applied to wave-motion, I will
show a simple apparatus, constructed from my designs by Mr. Groves.
In this there are two sets of movable beads, fixed upon stems which
pass into a box containing a piece of mechanism actuated by means
of a handle. These beads, when I turn the handle, oscillate to and
fro in definite directions, and, by their successive motions, give rise
to progressive waves. One set of beads, tinted red, executes move
ments in a plane inclined 45° to the right, another set, silvered,
simultaneously executes movements at 45° to the left. There are
therefore here two waves, the planes of polarisation of their move
ments being at right angles to one another. Their velocity of march
is equal ; but in this model, as a matter of fact, their phases differ by
one-quarter—that is to say, each successive wave of the one set is
always a quarter of a wave-length behind the corresponding wave of
the other set. [Model exhibited.]
    * The convenient term Torque was first proposed by Prof. James Thomson, of
Glasgow, for the older and more cumbrous phrase " moment of couple," or
" angular force." Its general acceptance by engineers justifies the extension of the
term to optics. As a mechanical torque is that which produces or tends to
produce mechanical torsion, so optical torque may be defined as that which
produces or tends to produce optical torsion.

1889.]                       on Optical Torque.                       477
     Now, in the case of waves of natural light from all ordinary
sources— sun, stars, candles, gas-flames, or electric lights—the waves
emitted are not found to be polarised. That is to say, their motions
are not executed in any particular plane, nor even in any particular path
of any kind ; they appear to be absolutely heterogeneous at least so far
as this, that no vibration of the millions of millions emitted in a second
of time is followed by more (on the average) than about 50,000 vibrations
of a similar sort, executed along a similar path—the plane of the polari
sation, if any, changing after the lapse of such an incredibly short
time that for most purposes the vibrations in different directions are as
inextricably mixed as if they had all been simultaneously jumbled up.
 Since, then, natural light is non-polarised or miscellaneous, the pro
 duction of polarised light must be brought about by the employment of
 polarising apparatus or agents which will so operate on or affect the
 mixed waves as to bring their vibrations into one direction—or, what
 amounts to the same thing, transmit the light whilst destroying or
 absorbing those parts of the vibrations which arc executed across the
 desired line of vibration. So we have polarisers consisting of tour
 maline slices ; oblique bundles of thin glass plates ; black - glass
 reflectors ; and Nicol prisms cut from calc-spar. About the two
 latter I may be permitted a passing word presently. These objects
 polarise, i. e. turn into one plane, the vibrations of light falling upon
 them. A rough mechanical illustration may here be permitted me.
 A long indiarubber cord is passed through the open ends of a box
 provided with vertical partitions. Fig. 1 shows the arrangement.
  These partitions confine the motion of the cord, and effectually polarise
 the vibrations which I now impart to the cord by shaking the end of
  it to and fro. If the partitions are vertical, the box polarises, into
  vertical vibrations only, the miscellaneous vibrations which are sent
  to it. If rotated until its partitions are horizontal, it polarises the
  vibrations into a horizontal position.
      Let us now turn to the optical analogue of this experiment. The
 large Nicol prism which I introduce into the field of the electric-
 light lantern, polarises the light, so that the vibrations are executed
  simply in an up-and-down direction. Tour eye will not detect this,
  the motion being millions of times too rapid. To detect the direction
 an analyser is necessary. For this purpose a second apparatus of
 the same sort is used, for then, by crossing the positions of the two,
  the whole of the light is cut off; the second Nicol prism, if set so as
 to transmit only horizontal vibrations, cutting off the vertical
 vibrations that are sent through the first prism. So, while the first
  prism serves as a polariser, the second serves as an analyser to detect
  by cutting them off when turned to the proper position, the direction
  of the polarisation which had been previously impressed by the first
 prism.
       Here I may illustrate the action of the analyser for determining
  the plane of polarisation of the vibrations by the extinction which it
  produces when turned to the crossed position. For this purpose I
                                                             2 E 2

478 Professor Silvanus P. Thompson [May 17,
1889.] on Optical Torque.  479
                          I

480                  Professor Silvanus P. Thompson            [May 17,
have refined upon the box with partitions, using instead parallel
plates of glass mounted in wooden cylinders, whilst for the cord
swung by hand I am using Professor SchwedofFs device, and am
producing the vibrations in this silken cord by means of an electri
cally-driven tuning-fork (Fig. 2). At the first nodal point of the
stretched cord a pair of parallel glass plates act as a polariser, the
cord beyond that point vibrating in the plane thus imposed upon it. I
can alter this plane at will by rotating the polariser. This polariser,
P, consisting of a pair of glass plates, is mounted in a cylindrical
mount, and is provided with an arrow to indicate their direction.
If now at any subsequent node I introduce a second such device, it
will act as an analyser, A. This excellent suggestion is due to M.
Mace de Lepinay. In Fig. 2 the polariser and analyser are parallel.
You see (Fig. 3) how the vibration is extinguished when the positions
of analyser and polariser are crossed. Half a degree of error in the
position of the analyser produces something less than perfect extinc
tion of the vibrations. Hence it is possible, by this analyser, to
determine the plane of the vibrations to the accuracy of half a
degree. I should say that the whole of this model has been con
structed by my assistant Mr. Eustace Thomas.
    Now let me show you the optical effect which corresponds to this.
Placing a second Nicol prism as analyser in the path of the polarised
waves, I turn it to the position where it cuts off the polarised
light. The " dark field" so produced by the crossed Nicol prisms
corresponds to the motionless cord beyond the crossed analyser of
the acoustic apparatus.
    Returning for a moment to two well-known forms of polarising
apparatus, viz. the black glass reflector and the Nicol prism, I may be
permitted to refer to some recent attempts to improve upon these
devices.
    The Nicol prism, as is well known, consists of a rhomb of
Iceland spar cut into two pieces, which are reunited by a film of
                           Canada balsam. As originally devised,
          Fio. 4.          it had oblique end faces (Fig. 4) and a
                           comparatively narrow angle (19°) of
                           aperture. These may be noticed in the
                           small example which I here exhibit, which
                           is an original constructed by William
                           Nicol himself. It also has the disad
                           vantage of giving a field in which the
                           directions of the planes of polarisation
                          '»> «* strictly parallel to one another
                           throughout its whole extent. Consequently
                           there is never complete extinction of light
all over the field at one time. Hartnack and others have
attempted to remedy this by giving the prism a different form
and using other materials than Canada balsam. I have from time
to time made many attempts to improve upon the original construction.

 1889.1J                       on Optical Torque.                        481
 First, I have made the end faces principal planes of section (Fig. 5) ;
 secondly I have made the axis of vision cross the crystallographic
 axis at right angles, so getting a flatter field, a shorter length, a
 wider angle, and less loss of light by reflection. Mr. Ahrens, the
 prism-cutter, on whose able assistance I have relied during the last
 six or seven years in cutting these prisms, has aided me with his
 ingenuity in devising a method of cutting up the spar so as to give
 these advantages with a minimum waste of material. He has further
 devised a method of putting a polarising prism together in three
                FIG. 5.                                FIG. 6.
 8. P. Thompson's modiBeation of the Nicol prism. Ahrens'a triple prism.
 instead of two pieces—illustrated in the diagram (Fig. 6)—which
 gives a still wider angle. The prism which I shall use as analyser
 in the next experiments is one of these forms.
      Unfortunately at present there is a spar-famine, pieces of Iceland
 spar of a size and purity suitable for the making of large polarisers
 such as that I employ being not now procurable at any price. To
 avoid the excessive cost of large Nicola I have lately got Mr. Ahrens
 to construct for me a large reflection-polariser, on the plan of
Delezenne, but modified by Mr. Ahrens in detail. In this prism the
light is first turned to the proper polarising angle by a large total-
reflection prism of glass, and then reflected back, parallel to its
original path, by impinging upon a mirror of black glass covered by
a single sheet of the thinnest patent plate glass to increase the
intensity of the light. This form of polariser, depicted in Fig. 7, is
quite equal for projection purposes to a Nicol prism of equal aperture,
and is much less costly. This one has 2J inches clear aperture.
      Having so far reviewed the apparatus for polarising and analysing
I will return to the apparatus set with its prisms crossed, so that the
analyser completely extinguishes the polarised light emitted from the
polariser.
     If in the space between polariser and analyser anything be intro
duced which can either resolve obliquely the polarised vibrations or
twist them bodily round, then there will not be complete extinction ;
the amount of light passing the analyser depending in the one case
on the obliquity of the resolution, in the other upon the degree to
which the vibrations are twisted or rotated upon themselves.

482                  Professor Silvanus P. Thompson             [May 17,
    The effect of oblique resolution I may illustrate by introducing a
slice of tourmaline between the crossed Nicols, and rotating it till it
stands at 45° ; or, in the acoustic model, by introducing an oblique
pair of guide pins.
    The other case—namely, that of producing a bodily twist of the
vibrations, rotating the plane of polarisation around the path of the
wave—is not so easily illustrated by the model. But it is optically
perfectly simple: all that is requisite is to introduce between the
                                    Fio. 7.
                          Ahrens's reflecting polariser.
crossed Nicols a thin slice of that crystal—namely, quartz—in which
this effect of rotating the plane of polarisation was first observed.
     I take a clear plate of quartz, just 1 millimetre in thickness, and
interpose it between the crossed Nicol prisms. You will note how
the introduction of this plate of quartz brings some light into view.
     Suppose we now turn the analyser to try and obtain extinction :
we get tinting. If we put in a coloured gkss so as to work with one
kind of light only, we shall get extinction at a particular angle. The

1889.]                       on Optical Torque.                         483
table of data to which I invite your attention states this amount for
the different colours.
              OPTICAL TORSION PRODUCED BY PLATE OP QUARTZ.
                                   l millimetre.     3-75 millimetre!!.
             Red                        19                   71-2
             Orange                     21-5                 80-6
             Yellow                     24                   90
             Green                      29                  108-7
             Peacock                    31                  116-2
             Blue ..                    85 -5              133
             Violet ..                  42-8               161
    If we use a piece of quartz so thick that it rotates any
particular tint just 90°, that tint will be cut off by the crossed
analyser, and all others will—in greater or less proportion—be
transmitted, so that the resulting tint will be complementary to
that cut off. For example, a slice so thick as to twist yellow
waves round 90° must be just 3-75 millimetres thick. (I may
remark, for the benefit of those who think it easier to express this
exact thickness in fractions of a British inch, that the quartz which
rotates yellow light 90° must have a thickness equal to one-eighth,
plus three-sixteenths of an eighth, plus one sixty-fourth of an eighth of
an inch.) When such a quartz is placed between the crossed Nicols
the light shown is yellow ; but if placed between parallel Nicols (i. e.
in the bright field) it shows a rich purplish-violet colour, the comple
mentary of the yellow. This particular tint Biot found to be
excessively sensitive, the smallest inaccuracy in adjustment between
the prisms at once producing a change, the colour appearing too red or
too blue, according to the directions in which the analyser has been
turned out of exact adjustment. This tint is accordingly known as the
" transition tint " or " sensitive tint," its accurate definition being due
to the fact that the human eye is more sensitive to the presence or
absence of the complementary yellow than to any other tint in the
whole spectrum. If we take, however, a quartz plate twice as thick
as this—namely, 7J millimetres thick—it will give the yellow light a
torsion of 180°. Hence this thickness gives the purple transition tint
in the dark field, and yellow in the bright field. A quartz plate 11J
millimetres thick gives again a transition tint in the bright field. I
shall recur presently to the question of the transition tints of the
several orders.
    One of the familiar facts in this subject is that there are two kinds
of quartz crystals, optically alike in every other respect, differing
only in this, that one kind produces a right-handed twist, the other
kind a left-handed twist. All the pieces of quartz I have so far em
ployed are right-handed specimens. I now introduce two small
slices of crystal, each 3 -75 millimetres thick, giving the yellow tint
when the Nicols are exactly crossed, but you will notice that when
we are using the right-handed crystal, the tint grows reddish as the

484                    Professor Silvanus P. Thompson                 [Hay 17,
analyser is turned towards the left, and greenish when the analyser
is turned towards the right; whereas, when I substitute the left-
handed slice, the tint grows greenish as the analyser is turned towards
the left, and reddish when it is turned towards the right. If the
analyser is turned through an exact right-angle, we get an extinction
of the yellow light, the remaining blue and red rays combining to
give us the purple transition tint.
     You will have noticed that the way in which we have (approxi
mately) measured the angle of rotation has been first to set the
analyser to extinction, then to introduce the substance which has the
property of rotating the beam, then to turn the analyser again to ex
tinction, and read off its angle. For, of course, the angle through
which the analyser is turned measures the angle through which the
plane of polarisation has been turned.
     It is possible, however, to show in the lautorn something like a
more obvious rotation of the light by introducing between the Nicols
                                         a crystal star, built up of radial
               FIG. 8.                   pieces of mica, twenty-four in number
                                         (Fig. 8). You see in the bright
                                         field a white cross with black sectors
                                         at 45°. Or, in the dark field we have
                                         a black cross with vertical and
                                         horizontal arms, the sectors next to
                                         those that are black seeming dusky.
                                         If now I put in a quartz plate
                                         between the star and the analyser,
                                         you see the cross shift round, and
                                         it shows colours, because the blue
                                         rays are twisted round more than
                                         the green, the green than the
                                         yellow, the yellow than the red.
                                          Repeating the experiment with
                                          the 3 '75 millimetre quartz which
     Mica disk of twenty-four rays,       turns yellow waves round just 90°,
  showing black cross in the dark field. we get this gorgeous radiation of
                                          colours, and our black cross is turned
 into a yellow one. With the 7 '5 millimetre quartz, the black cross
 is replaced by one of " transition " tint.
     The black crosses seen in certain sections of natural crystals,
 sphaeroliths, sections of stalactites, crystallisations of salicine and of
 Epsom salts, may also be used instead of the 24-raycd star of mica.
 But best of all I find to be the beautiful black cross which is seen by
 polarised light in the prepared crystalline lens taken from the eye of
 a fish. You notice how, when the fish-lens is projected and the quartz
 introduced, the cross turns round.
     This is, however, a rough-and-ready way of displaying the rotation,
 and it is of vast practical importance that precise methods of measur
 ing the angle of rotation should be available—of vast importance,

1889.]                      on Optical
because in several large industries this optical process is applied as a
method of rapid analysis. I have named a solution of sugar as being
an " active " substance. In the industry of sugar-refining, as in that
of brewing, the strength of sugar in the liquids is directly measured
by measuring its optical effect. Consequently there has been deve
loped a special instrument, the polarimeler, for this express purpose.
     I have here examples of several practical forms of polarimeters ;
there are diagrams of several more upon the walls.
     The problem of finding the best polarimeter naturally leads to
the inquiry what special means there are for making the observation
of the angle more precise than by merely observing the extinction of
the light, its restoration when the active substance is interposed, and
the subsequent renewal of extinction when the analysing prism is
turned.
     Biot considered that much greater accuracy could be attained by
watching for the restoration of the sensitive tint than by watching for
the mere restoration of extinction of the light. Accordmgly we will
use the plate of quartz 7 • 5 millimetres thick, giving the purple tint,
to enable us to measure the rotation produced by the tube of sugar
solution which is now inserted in the beam of polarised light. You
 notice how the tint has changed. But I have only to turn the
 analyser to an amount equal to that to which the light has been
 twisted by the sugar, and again I obtain the sensitive transition tint.
     The eye is not always, however, alive to minute changes of colour
in a single coloured patch ; it much more readily distinguishes a
minute difference between two tints when both are present at once.
 Hence Soleil devised the well-known biquartz arrangement, consisting
of two pieces of crystal, equal in thickness, but possessing opposite
rotations. Ton will notice how the slightest inaccuracy in placing
 the analyser causes the two halves of the field to differ in tint. This
is especially marked when the tint chosen is the transition purple.
     It will be convenient here for me to refer to some researches, not yet
published, which I have made, as to the various orders of transition
 tints, with the view of ascertaining which of them is the most sensitive
—which of them, in fact, shows the greatest change of tint for the
 smallest amount of rotation. Reference to the diagram on the wall
 displaying Newton's tints will make clear what I mean by the transi
 tion tints of the several orders. The tints obtained from quartzes of
 varying thicknesses may be considered as approximately identical
 with the tints of Newton's rings, provided we remember that the air-
 film which gives any particular tint in Newton's rings is about
 1/300,000 part as thick as the quartz which yields the corresponding
 tint in the polariscope. Better far than any painted diagram, because
 richer and purer, are the tints now thrown upon the screen by intro
 ducing into the field a thin wedge of selenite, displaying the whole of
 the colours of the first three orders of Newton's scale. You will
 notice the successive recurrence of purple tints, both in the
 colours seen in the bright field, and in those seen in the dark field.

486                      Professor Silvanug P. Thompson              [May 17,
     First I will show you the transition tints of the first and second
orders in the bright field. That of the second order is much less
intense than that of the first ; and yet it is very sensitive, turning to
a green tint whilst the first order purple has only turned to a blue.
On the other hand, with reversed rotation of the analyser it turns to
red less rapidly than does the tint of the first order.
     Next I take the transition tints of orders I., II., and III. in the
dark field. These, though arranged, by means of superposed half-
disks of " quarter-wave " plates, to be optically equivalent to biquartzes
of two rotations, are really built up of sclenite and mica. You will
notice how the tint of order I. surpasses in sensitiveness both
the others. I cannot here show you on the screen the means
by which I have compared the tint of order I. in the dark field with
that of order I. in the other set. Suffice it to say that I find the tint
of order I. in the dark field—corresponding to 7 • 5 millimetres thick
ness—more sensitive than that of order I. in the bright field, which
corresponds to 3 • 75 millimetres thickness.
     A method which was at one time supposed to be more precise,
was that of placing a spectroscope (or its prism) in front of the
analyser, and watching the motion along the spectrum of the inter
ference bauds which are then seen. My three pieces of crystal remain.
I introduce a slit in front of them, also a single film of quarter-wave
                                                  mica, and then a prism to
                    Fro. 9.                       give the spectrum. This
                                                  prism (Fig. 9), by the way,
                                                  is a new sort of direct-
                                                  vision prism, having a
                                                  single very wide -angled
                                                  prism of Jena glass inclosed
                                                  in a cell with parallel ends
                                                  containing cinuamic ether
                                                  (first recommended by
                                                  Wernicke), a liquid which
                                                  has the same mean refrac
                                                  tive power but widely differ
                                                  ent dispersion. It is pre
  Direct-vision prism for projection of spectrum. ferable to bisulphide of
                                                  carbon in several respects ;
its odour is a delicate reminiscence of cinnamon ; it is barely
volatile ; and it is whiter than bisulphide. This prism, which is
shown also in plan in Fig. 10, was constructed for me by Messrs. R.
and J. Beck. It will be seen that the dark bands in the spectrum
are nebulous and ill-defined. It was proposed to secure accuracy
by turning the analyser until they shift along to a definite point.
 But their want of definition prevents precision. There is no advan
 tage in using the higher orders of tints which give more bands ; for,
 though the bands are certainly better defined, their progression across
 the spectrum for a given amount of rotation is proportionally smaller.

1889.]                          on Optical Torque.                              487
     Another suggestion, due to Senarmont, is to use two sets of super
posed wedges of right- and left-handed quartz. Such you now see
before you. Instead of starting with extinction you start with coinci-
                                      FIG. 10.
      Direct-vision prism. A, wide-angled prism of Jena glass; C, cinnamic ether.
 dence between the upper and lower set of bands. Any rotation of the
 light shifts the bands, one set moving to left, the other to right.
 By turning the analyser through an equal angle coincidence is again
 obtained.
      Another method, used by Wild in his polaristrobometer, is to
 produce the phenomenon known as Savart's bands (due to the intro
 duction of two crossed slices of quartz cut at a particular angle).
 The bands disappear when the analyser is set in a particular direction.
 Anything that twists the plane of polarisation causes them to reap
 pear ; but they again fade out when the analyser is turned through
 an equal angle.
      There is another method in exact polarimetry, due to Soleil, in
  which the optical torsion duo to the sugar is counterbalanced or
  compensated by introducing a pair of sliding wedges of quartz of
  the opposite rotation. This device is known as a " compensator."
  By sliding the quartzes over ono another a greater or less thickness
  of quartz is introduced at will. But I must not stop to illustrate this
  elegant device.
      Yet one other method must be mentioned, and this is certainly
  the most preferable. It consists in aiding the eye to recognise with
  precision a particular degree of extinction, by the device, first suggested
  in 1856 by Pohl, of covering a portion of the visible field with some
  thing which slightly alters tho initial plane of polarisation, so that
  complete blackness is not obtained at once over both parts of the
  field. A common device is to cover half the field with a slice of some
  thin crystal—mica or quartz—so that only one half can be perfectly
  black at any instant. As an example, here is the field covered half
  over with a plate of mica of the thickness known as half-wave. The
  result is that when one half of the field is black the other is light.
  Adjust the analyser now to equality. Now introduce something that

488                   Professor Sikanus P. Thompson                    [May 17,
rotates the light—say a tube with sugar solution in it. At once
the balance is upset, and I must, in order to get equality of illumi
nation, turn my analyser through an angle equal to that of tbo
optical torsion.
     Of the same class are the polarimeters with special prisms made
in two parts slightly inclined to one another. The earliest of these
was devised by the late Professor Jellett, of Dublin, and has been
followed by imitations of the same plan by Cornu, by Lippich, and
by Schmidt and Haensch. The beautiful " shadow polarimeter," by
the latter firm, which I here exhibit, has the divided prism, and a
quartz compensator.
     I have suggested two simpler methods of accomplishing the same
end. In the first place, I have proposed to use twin-prisms. These
are made on a plan suggested to me by finding that Mr. Ahrens's
method of cutting calc-spar for prisms was admirably adapted for
making such prisms, either with wide or narrow angles between the
respective planes of polarisation in the two parts of the visible field.
Two such twin-prisms, one with 90°, the other with 2J°, between the
prisms, are here on the table. In the second place, I have essayed a
 polarimeter, an example of which is before you, in which an arrange
 ment of twin-mirrors (each set at the polarising angle, but slightly
 inclined to one another) is made to yield a half-shadow effect.
      Before I leave the subject of quartz I must refer to the famous
 mathematical theory of Fresnel, who endeavoured to explain its action
                                      FIG. 11.
  Model illustrating recompoeition of rectilinear motion from two opposite circular
                                       motions.
  upon light by supposing that the plane-polarised wave on entering it
  is split into two waves, consisting of oppositely circularly-polarised
  light, which traverse the crystal with different speeds. On emerging
  they recombine to form plane-polarised light, the plane of which, how
  ever, depends on the retardation of phase between the two components.
  I here introduce a mechanical model to illustrate one of the points in
  this theory—namely, the recombination of two circular motions to
  form a straight-line motion. These two disks (Fig. 11), which turn
  in opposite senses, but at equal rates, represent two circularly-polarised
  beams of light. The linkages, which connect two pins on these disks,
  compound their motions at the central point, P, which executes, as

1889.]                           on Optical Torque.                            489
you see, a straight line. But now, suppose one of those circular
motions to be retarded behind the other, an effect which I can imitate
by shifting one of the pins to another position on the disk. Still the
resultant motion is a straight line, but it is now executed in a direc
tion oblique to the former. In other words, its plane has been rotated.
Of course this model must not he taken as establishing the truth of
Fresne1's ingenious theory ; it is at best a rough kinematical represen
tation of it.
     We have, however, the puzzling fact still to account for that there
should be two kinds of quartz crystals, right- and left-handed. Sir
John Herschel first showed that natural crystals of quartz themselves
often indicated their optical nature, by the presence of certain little
secondary faces or facets which lay obliquely across the corners of
the primary faces. These are indicated in the diagrams (Figs. 12
and 13), and may be seen in two of the specimens of quartz crystals
 Quartz crystal, showing characteristic       Quartz crystal, showing characteristic
          facets : right-handed.                      facets : left-handed.
 which lie upon the table. The largest of these is right-handed. The
 wider generalisations of Pasteur, respecting the crystalline form of
 optically active substances, show that those substances which exercise
 an optical torque, whether as crystals or in solution, belong to the
 class of forms which the crystallographer distinguishes as possessing
 non-superposable hemihedry. In other words, they all show skew
 symmetry, as if in the growth of them they had been built up in some
 screw-fashion around an axis, and must therefore be either right-
  handed or left-handed screws. By piling up a number of wooden
 slabs in skew-symmetric fashion, I am able roughly to illustrate
  (Figs. 14 and 15) the difference between the right-handed and the
 left-handed structure. It is a curious fact, if I am rightly informed,
 that down to the present date the only substances possessing this skew
  symmetry are natural substances ; that those which the chemist can
  produce by artificial synthesis are all optically inactive. It is per

  490                   Professor Silvanus P. Thompson              [May 17,
  haps equally significant that as yet no inorganic substances have been
  found which will in the liquid state rotate the light. This appears
  to be a property possessed solely by certain compounds of carbon.
                 FIG. 14.                                      15.
   Skew-symmetrical arrangement :            Skew-symmetrical arrangement :
            right-handed.                               left-hauded.
 Quartz fused in the blowpipe or dissolved in potash shows no trace
 of rotatory power.
     Yet we can have little doubt that this property is bound up in
 the yet unravelled facts of atomic and molecular structure. In the
 case of the liquids, such as turpentine, and sugar solution, there must
 be some skew symmetry in the grouping of atoms in the molecule to
 produce the result. In the case of quartz, there must be a skew in
 the building of the molecules ; there must—to borrow a phrase from
 the architect—be an oblique Landing of the minute bricks of which its
transparent mass is builded. Though we cannot even rebuild it from
its solution, we know this must be so, for we can reproduce all the
optical phenomena which it exhibits by an actual skew building of
thin slices of another non-rotatory crystal. Here is an artificial ob
ject (I built it myself) constructed on Heusch's plan, from sixteen
thin slips of mica built up in staircase fashion—right-handedly one
above the other, and set symmetrically at equal angles of 45° to one
another, the whole set making a cork-screw of two complete turns.
In the lantern it behaves just as a quartz of about 9 millimetres thick
ness would do. It even gives tolerably perfect rings, as quartz does,
when viewed by convergent light.
     I must now pass hastily onwards to the great discovery of Fara
day. Here (Fig 16) is a magnetising coil of wire M, having about
8300 turns, and enclosed in an iron jacket. When it is traversed by
a powerful electric current from the dynamo machine, it produces an
intense magnetic field along its axis. In this axial position lies a bar
of heavy glass, not quite so dense as that which Faraday himself used,

   1889.]                         on Optical Torque.                                 491
  but nearly so. The bar lies along the line of light from our lantern,
  but the polariser P (the Ahrens reflector, Fig. 7), and analyser A
  (the Ahrens triple spar prism, Fig. 6), are crossed, so that here is the
  Hark field. On turning on the current, light is at once restored,
  being twisted to the right when the current circulates right-handedly.
  To measure the rotation, I must turn the analyser ; and now I find
  that, owing to the greater rotation of blue waves than of red, complete
  extinction does not occur. Introducing a half-shadow plate, and
   usint; coloured glasses, it is very easy to verify the greater amount of
  rotation for blue light, and to show that reversing the current reverses
   the rotation. You will perhaps better understand it if I use (as in
   Fig. 16) the 24-ray star 8, which I have previously employed. It is
   now obvious to you that there is a large rotation —over 50° in fact—
   which is reversed when I reverse the magnetising current. We have
   here the fundamental experiment of magneto-optics. But now we meet
   with another consideration. Reflect that the circulation of current, if
   it be taken as right-handed when regarded from one end of the coil,
   will be left-handed when regarded from the other end of the coil.
                                           Fro. 16.
Projection of magnetic rotation of light. C, condensing lenses ; P, reflecting polariser ;
  magnetising coil surrounding bar of heavy glass ; S, mica star of twenty-four rays ;
                          A, analyser (Ahrens's triple prism).
 This is, therefore, no case of skew symmetry ; it clearly indicates that
 something is going on in the glass which tends to twist the light quite
 irrespective of which way the light enters.
      The next magneto-optic phenomenon is that discovered by Dr. Kerr
 of the rotation of the plane of polarisation by reflection at the surface
 of a magnet. To observe this at all requires good apparatus and a
 keen eye. So far as I am aware, it has never been projected on the
 screen. If I can succeed in doing so, it will only be because I have
 special means of the most favourable character for so doing. We
 withdraw the bar of heavy glass from the coil, and replace it
 (Fig. 17) by an iron core polished at its coned end. This will be
 intensely magnetised when the current is turned on.
     Now we must throw the beam of light obliquely down the hollow
 of the coil, polarising it by one of my improved Nicol prisms P, as
      VOL. XII. (No. 83.)                       "     '                   2 L

492                    Professor Silvanus P. Thompson                       [May 17,
it goes down. After reflection it is focussed by a lens which sends it
through the analysing prism A. You see the dim spot of reflected
                                      Fio. 17.
  Apparatus for projecting rotation of plane of polarisation by reflection at pole of
    magnet. P, polariser ; M, magnetising coil with coned iron core ; A, analyser.
light upon the screen. Now for the current : " on," " off," " on,"
" off." Reversing its direction ought to double the amount of torsion.
     Whilst Mr. Thomas ia making the needful arrangements for the
next experiment, I may mention that it was found by Kerr that the
effect was approximately proportional to the magnetic induction
through the iron. I have myself tried some further experiments : for
example, using a bar of lodestone instead of an iron core. The light
reflected from lodestone is also twisted. I should expect the ferro-
aluminium alloy which Sir H. Roscoe showed us a fortnight ago to do
the same thing, because that alloy is, as I have found, susceptible of
magnetisation. But I should not expect manganese steel to rotate the
light, because of its singularly non-magnetisable nature.
     The experiment of Kundt, transmitting polarised light through a
thin transparent film of iron, magnetised normally whilst the light is
passing through it, is another difficult of repetition before an
audience. The small disks here are covered with films of iron, kindly
prepared for me by Mr. Crookes, by squirting them electrically in a
high vacuum. But the thin ones barely transmit enough light to
make the observation of the effect possible, even to the solitary
observer. I have observed the effect projected on the screen, using
this very coil and these transparent mirrors. It requires, however,
an absolutely dark room, and is at best so faint that it would be
 hopeless to attempt to show it to a large audience. Professor Kundt
has not only observed similar rotations in other magnetic films of nickel
 and cobalt but has even shown that the degree of rotation of the light
is proportional not to the magnetising force, but to the resulting mag
netic induction. This is a result of utmost importance in considering
 the theory of the phenomenon. He has further shown that whereas the
 magnetic rotations in elementary bodies, whether magnetic or dia-
 magnetic, are in the same sense as that in which the current circulates,
 the magnetic rotations in compound magnetic bodies, such as a
 solution of sulphate of iron in water, are in the opposite sense.

 1889.]                     on Optical Torque.                       493
     These experiments with transparent mirrors of iron raise interest
ing speculations as to the probable nature of a transparent magnet, if
 such there could be. It is one of the cardinal points of Maxwell's
celebrated electro-magnetic theory of light, that the better a body
conducts electric currents, the greater is its tendency to absorb light
and become opaque. Now, suppose it were possible to obtain a
 substance such as to possess greater electric conductivity in one
direction than in another, such a substance ought to absorb those
vibrations of light which aie executed in the direction of the greater
electric conductivity more than those in the direction at right angles.
In other words, such a substance ought, like the tourmaline, to
polarise light by absorption. Now, since the researches of Sir W.
Thomson in 1856, we have known that the electric conductivity of iron
is altered in the direction of the magnetic lines of force, when it is
powerfully magnetised. More recently it has been discovered—I
myself observed it in tinfoil, and announced the discovery to the
Physical Society a few days before the announcement of the same fact
by Righi—that non-magnetic metals alter their resistance in the
magnetic field. Notably so do bismuth and tellurium. I had therefore
conceived it possible that a film of iron or possibly of tellurium, if
strongly magnetised in its own plane, might exhibit polar absorption
and act like a tourmaline. Unfortunately, if the effect exists it is
so faint as to be yet undiscovered, though I have made many efforts
to find such. I have further tried to obtain a similar result by making
a transparent magoet out of a film of magnetic oxide of iron, precipi
tated chemically. In this too 1 have not succeeded. I have tried to
precipitate a transparent film of magnetic oxide in the midst of a
transparent jelly. And I have mixed particles of precipitated oxide
with melted gelatine so as to get a film. In this way I hoped to get,
by placing the preparation in a strong magnetic field, a sort of mag
netic structure which would operate upon waves of light. That such
a task was not hopeless was shown by two facts : first, that many mere
vegetable and animal structures can act as polarisers ; and second, that
a mere film of paint, such as indigo, can, if a proper mechanical drag
is given to it so as to produce structure, also act as a polariser.
     The film of indigo-carmine which I have here, acts nearly as
strongly, though not quite as evenly, as a tourmaline slice, and costs
but a fraction of a penny.
   Well, my films of jelly enclosing particles of magnetic oxide of iron
do faintly act on polarised light ; but their action is not as marked
as that of films of jelly enclosing actual small scraps of iron.
This film, when placed across the poles of this electromagnet, between
two crossed Nicols at 45°, shows an action when the magnet is turned
on, as you see by the way in which it flashes into light in the dark
field. When the jelly is fresh, and of the proper consistency, the
action is very strong, but with the rather dry sample before you I
fear we can only call the effect a succes d'estime.
     Incidentally, in the course of these experiments on magnetic films,
                                                            2 L 2

494                  Professor Sihanus P. Thompson              [May 17,
I came across a new magnetic body unknown hitherto, I believe, to
the chemist, namely, a magnetic double oxide of cobalt and iron—a
ferroso-cobaltic oxide, I think—a black powder, a sample of which I
have here.
    It also occurred to me, as a matter of speculation, that if I could
strongly magnetise a crystal of ferrous sulphate or nickelous sulphate,
whilst viewing it by convergent polarised light, I might find some in
teresting phenomena, which should, if they existed, show some sort
of a relation between the direction of the optic axis and that of the
lines of the magnetic field. I thought that a longitudinal magneti
sation might possibly set up a rotatory phenomenon like that in
quartz in so far as to disturb the central field between the arms of
the black cross ; however, not by the most powerful magnetising
could I discover any such effect. Again,! thought that by magnetis
ing transversely to the optic axis I might possibly succeed in turning
the uniaxial crystal into a biaxial, or producing by magnetism an
effect resembling the action of heat on crystals of selenite. Owing
probably to the small depth of any crystals that can be obtained, I
have failed so far to obtain any such effect, though I am convinced
that it must exist.
    An effect precisely analogous to the magnetic effect which I vainly
sought has, however, been lately discovered by Prof. Rontgen. I
sought a distortion of the optic axis by transversely magnetising, and
I sought it in crystals of sulphate of nickel ; he has found a distortion
of the optic axis by transversely electrifying, and he has found it in
crystals of quartz.
    Suppose a piece of quartz crystal is cut as a square prism, its long
faces being principal planes of section respectively parallel to and at
right angles to two of the natural faces of the hexagonal prism. Fig.
18 shows the form of the portion cut. The + and - signs in this
                 FIG. 18.                        FIG. 19.
figure refer to the pyro-electric poles of the crystal. Such a piece
viewed by convergent light shows the usual rings and black cross
with a coloured centre (Fig. 19). If now two opposite faces be covered
with tinfoil, and the crystal be electrified transversely, the rings are
distorted into lemuiscates, the direction of the distortion changing
with the sign of the electrification. It is necessary to use a red

 1889.]                       on Optical Torque.                    495
 glass, or still better sodium light, to observe the changes in form on
 reversing the sign of the charges. Figs. 20 and 21, 22 and 23, show
 the changes of form, but these sketches grossly exaggerate the effects.
 As you see upon the screen, when the charges imparted by this fine
 Wimshurst machine are rapidly reversed, there is a decided distortion
 of the rings, but it is small in amount.
                FIO. 20.                            Fio. 21.
                  Fio. 22.                         FIG. 23.
    Returning to the phenomena of the rotation impressed by magnet
ism on polarised light, I may point out that the torque which a
magnetic field exerts on the light waves appears to be really an action
upon the matter through which the light-waves are passing. It is as
though the magnetic field were really a portion of space rotating
rapidly on itself, or perhaps as though the ether were there rotating,
and that this rotation in some way dragged the particles of matter
along with it. It has long been supposed necessary, in order to
account for the refractive and dispersive properties of transparent
bodies, to consider that their particles are in some way concerned in
and partake of the vibrations going on in the ether within them or
between their molecules. It is impossible to explain the phenomena
of magneto-optic rotation by the supposition that any skew structure
is imparted to the medium ; for these phenomena unlike those of
quartz, do not exhibit skew symmetry. There seems to be no other
way of explaining the magneto-optic torsion of light than by suppos
ing that the molecules of matter in the magnetic field are actually
subjected to rotatory actions ; as indeed was suggested long ago by
Sir ^yilliam Thomson.
    However, there is room here not only for speculation but for ex
periment. Some day, when facts enough have been collected, we shall

 49G                  Professor Silcttnun P. Thompson           [May 17,
 be ready to build thereon the wider generalisation which at present
 seems to escape us.
     So far we have been applying an optical torque to previously
 polarised light, and producing a torsion of it. It remains for me yet
 to describe the means by which, in the hands of Professor Abbe and
 Professor Sohncke, it has been demonstrated that natural, non-polarised
 light is actually rotated when subjected to an optical torque.
     The way of doing this is to make use of the principle of in
 terference. Here is the slit from which a narrow beam of light-waves
 issues. At a point a little distance away is a Fresne1's biprism
 which splits up the light (without polarising it) into two beams, just
 as if we had two slits or sources of light. These two beams pass
 along, and meet upon this distant screen, and give us—what ? A set
 of interference fringes having a bright line down the middle, because
 this part of the screen is exactly equidistant from the two sources of
 light.
    But these dark interference fringes that lie right and left can only
exist because, in the first place the vibrations have travelled uneq-ial
 paths differing by an odd number of half wave-lengths ; and secondly,
 because (owing to the method adopted of using two images of one slit)
the phases of the emitted waves from the two sources are identical.
     This being so, let us now introduce across the two interfering
 beams of light a special biqunrtz, made of right-and-left handed
quartz of only 1-88 mm. thick. This will rotate—if it rotates
natural light at all—the yellow light in one beam 45° to the right
 and that of the other beam 45° to the left. The angles will be a
little more for green and blue, a little less for red and orange. Con
sequently we shall not get quite a perfect result for all kinds of
colours. But for the main body of the light the result is this : that
because the two beams have had their respective vibrations turned so
that, whatever their primitive positions, they are now at right angles
to one another, they cannot interfere. In other words, if it be true
that the quartz rotates natural light, the interference bands will die
out. [Experiment shown.]
     Here I have the light passing through the biprism only, and
giving us this narrow series of interference bands. You must notice
carefully—with opera-glasses if you have them —the narrow bright
and dark stripes. Now I shift this little diaphragm so that the light
passes through the biquartz as well. Instead of sharp interference
bands we have merely a dull line of nebulous light. The disappear
ance of the fringes proves that quartz does twist the non-previously
polarised waves of light.
     That the magnetic field can also exert a magnetic torque on non
polarised light is readily proved, at least when one already has the
biquartz. Two strips of heavy glass of exactly equal length and
similar quality, such as those I hold in my hand, must be introduced
in the respective paths of the two beams : and one at least of them
must be surrounded by a magnetising coil. The biquartz has wiped

1889.]                     on Optical Torque.                       497
out the interference fringes ; but on magnetising one of the two
pieces of heavy-glass, or on magnetising the two in opposite senses,
the interference bands can be made to reappear. It is in this way
that Professor Sohucke's experiment—hardly suitable for a lecture
theatre—was performed. It is in this way that we establish upon an
experimental basis the fact that light itself, and not merely the plane
of its polarisation, experiences an optical torsion when subjected to
those forces which, whether crystalline, molecular, or magnetic, exert
upon it an optical torque.
                                                          [8. P. T.]

498                        Rev. S. J Perry                   [May 24,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, May 24, 1889.
  SIB JAMES CBICHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                             in the Chair.
The Rev. 8. J. PEBBT, D.So. F.R.S. F.R.A.S. Director of Stonyhurst
                         College Observatory.
             The Solar Surface during the Last Ten Years.
THE solar surface is a subject on which so mnch has been written of
late years, that it would be highly unsatisfactory to attempt in one
short hour even a brief enumeration of the results obtained and the
theories advanced by the many eminent men who have devoted atten
tion to this branch of solar physics. The end which I propose to
myself this evening, and which, I venture to think, is most in accor
dance with precedent in these discourses, is to lay before you, in as
clear a manner as I am able, the results obtained at the observatory
to which I am attached, in so far as they enter into our present
subject, and to touch upon the work of others in such a manner only
as to complete the picture, by showing the bearing of our labours on
the general result.
     For the last ten years I have been anxiously endeavouring to
make Stonyhurst as efficient an observatory for solar physics as the
means at my disposal would admit, so I was naturally desirous not to
undertake any work that would be a mere repetition of what was being
done better elsewhere. From the outset, therefore, I excluded from
my programme a daily photograph of the sun, as this had been already
undertaken at the Royal Observatory, assisted by other Government
observatories in India and at Mauritius, and the most I could have
hoped for in this direction would have been to fill up a few gaps in
an almost perfect series. My choice, therefore, lay between drawings
made at the telescope by aid of a solar eye-piece, and the use of a
sketch-board on which the sun's image could be projected. The
object in view being to procure the most complete and faithful repre
 sentation of nature, I had no hesitation in rejecting all forms of
solar eye-pieces, as by this method of observation too much is left to
the imagination of the draughtsman ; although a solar prism is not
unfrequently of great advantage in supplementing other methods of
attack, especially when delicate details require verification. The
sketch-board, on the other hand, may be so used as to leave very little
indeed to the ideas or bias of the observer. To effect this the follow
ing method has been adopted. A circle ten and a half inches in

1889.]       on the Solar Surface during the Last Ten Ye.irs.       499
diameter is first traced upon a piece of drawiug paper, which is pinned
to a board just rigid enough to hold the paper firmly, and then the
whole is clamped on to the eye-end of the telescope. The eye-piece
and board are each capable of fine adjustment, so that the sharpest
image of the sun may be made just to fill the 10^-inch circle, and a
marked diameter of the picture is brought into precise coincidence
with the direction of the daily motion. The clock-work of the equa
torial then keeps the image fixed in position on the paper, whilst an
accurate outline is traced of the umbra and penumbra of every spot
visible on the disk. When the sky is clear this outline can be made
as correct as the finest point of a hard pencil can delineate it ; and
even when, as so often happens, the transparency of the atmosphere is
changing every moment, a short time at the instrument will generally
enable the observer to verify the perfect accuracy of his sketch. The
details are then filled in as quickly as tho nature of the sky permits,
each portion of the drawing being over and over again brought into
coincidence with the projected image, in order to detect and remove
the slightest difference between them. By this means the final picture
gives the advantage of all the best moments of seeing that occur
during the progress of the observation, and not merely the result at
one single moment, which may be far from the best for definition even
on the finest day. Immediately the spots have been completed the
faculae are traced, and their details reproduced as nearly as possible.
By the advice of Prof. Stokes, P.R.S., a red pencil is used in drawing
the faculae, and thus the difference between bright and dark markings
and their connection with each other, stand out much more boldly
than if the same black pencil Were used throughout. Finally, when
the sky is good for definition, the general surface of the sun is care
fully scrutinised for some time, and any peculiarities noted.
    The sun's image having thus been sketched and examined, the
drawing-board is replaced by an automatic spectroscope of six prisms
of 60°, through each of which the light may be made to pass twice,
and to which may be added a Hilger-Christie half-prism, raising the
total available dispersion to about 36 prisms of 60°. The chromo
sphere is measured with the slit radial, a dispersion of six prisms
being generally used ; and when the definition is very good, a sweep
is made round the limb, with 12 prisms and a tangential slit, to
study the forms of the prominences and the direction of the currents in
the chromosphere. Spot-spectra have been occasionally observed with
tho same instrument ; but lately (in a room adjoining the equatorial
dome) a large grating has been mounted, with which it is proposed
to take daily photographs and eye-measurements of the spectra of sun-
spots. A heliostat and a 5^-inch object-glass of Alvan Clark are
used in connection with the grating spectroscope. The combination
of this solar observatory with an establishment supplied with a com
plete set of self-recording meteorological and magnetic instruments,
affords a ready opportunity of comparing solar results with the daily
photographic records of terrestrial phenomena.

500                         Rev. S. J. Perry                    [May 24,
    As it is most important, before referring to any conclusions that
may be drawn from onr observations, to test severely the fidelity of
which solar drawings are capable, I will throw upon the screen• a
number of sun-pictures drawn at Stonyhurst, and enable you to
contrast them with sketches of the same spots made by experienced
astronomers in England, and at Brussels, Palermo, and Ealocsa, and
also with photographs taken at Dehra Dun and at Mendon ; and I
think these few examples will amply suffice to vindicate a high
character for solar drawings. But 1 have not been satisfied with
this ready comparison, and lately this solar work has been put to a
more rigid test of accuracy by placing side by side the measurements
of areas obtained from drawings and photographs ; and here again
the hand-sketch by projection seems to bear well the scrutiny.
    The method of projection not only permits the area covered by
spots and faculae to be accurately determined, but it also furnishes
precise data for finding the heliographic co-ordinates of any mark
upon the solar surface. These, however, are now given so fully in
the annual publications of the Royal Observatory, and each in
dividual epot can be so readily identified, that an independent
calculation would be a mere waste of time and energy. The results,
therefore, dependent on position alone, are deduced immediately
from the Greenwich Tables.
    The decade of years which we are now considering, covers
almost an entire solar cycle, that period of eleven years the proof of
whose existence was the fruit of the unwearied labours of Baron
Schwabe, in his daily observations from 1826 to 1868. The present
cycle falls much below that which preceded it in the extent of its
spotted area, but it is remarkable for the duration of its maximum
period. The last minimum occurred about November 1878, and
therefore, if we accept the mean values 3 • 7 and 7 • 4 as the number of
years from minimum to maximum and from maximum to minimum
respectively, we obtain 1878-9 +3-7 = 1882-6 as the date of the
maximum of the cycle, and 1882-6 + 7-4 = 1890-0 as the epoch of
the approaching minimum. Many facts seem to support this con
clusion. Thus, the greatest sun-spot area occurred on April 21,
1882, and the largest individual spot was at its maximum on
November 18 of the same year, when it covered almost one four-
hundredth of the visible hemisphere. The total spot area in April
reached, however, the much higher figure of one one-hundred-and-
eightieth, or about 6,000,000,010 square miles, which on the
following day had diminished to something under 4,000,000,000,
showing the marvellous activity of the solar forces at that epoch.
In the same year also the mean monthly amount of umbra was
grcater in April and in November than at any other time of the
cycle, making it highly probable that the disturbances then pene
trated more deeply below the surface of the photosphere. Again, if
we consider the mean latitude of the spotted area, its value at the
maximum seems also to favour the claims of 1882 ; and these are

1889.]      on the Solar Surface during the Last Ten Years.          501
still more strengthened by the number of times in which the spectral
T'nes have been found contorted in the observations of the chromo
sphere. But, on the other hand, it may be urged, that if we reckon
the days without spots, we find very little change from 1880 to the
beginning of 1885 ; and the monthly mean area of sun-spots was
slightly in excess in July 1883 of what it had been in the previous
year ; and even as late as June 1885 we meet with days on which the
spotted area was larger than the mean extent for any month in 1882
or 1883. May it not be possible that the great comet of 1882, which
passed so deep within the limits of the corona, and which seems to
be but one of a numerous family, may have exercised some
disturbing influence, and been a partial cause of this prolonged
maximum ?
     The limits are rather wide for the periods separating maximum
from maximum, but there is much more steadiness in the lapse of
time between successive minima, and if we may judge from the
present rapid increase in the number of days without spots, the next
minimum should be fast approaching, and may not be far removed
from the computed epoch of January 1890. Thus, against one
spotless day in 1884, we have 10 for 1885, 61 for 1886, 106 for
1887, 160 for 1888, and more than half the days that have been fit
for observation since the beginning of the present year. The im
portant law connecting the mean latitude of sun-spots with their
extent of area, first published by Carrington, and afterwards so
vividly represented in curves by Prof. Sporer, has received a fresh
verification in the present cycle. In close relation to this is the
distribution of spots in the two hemispheres, and this can be well
illustrated by aid of curves and by mapping each spot in its true
heliographic position. Thus we find that the greater activity of the
southern hemisphere since 1883 is strongly marked, and there seems
to be very little evidence that successive spots tend to form along
meridians, although examples of this are not wholly wanting. A
general glance at spot distribution shows that an outhreak may bo
expected on any meridian, but that at certain times spots congregate
more thickly in one longitude than in another. Thus in 1881 and
1882 the longitudes most favoured lie between 180° and 270°, whilst
in 1887 more spots appeared between 0°and 90°. The preponderance
of southern spots in this year is very striking.
     The variability of the sun-spot area which we have been so far
considering, is a point of the greatest interest in solar physics, and it
may even become of great practical importance, if the supposed
connection between certain terrestrial phenomena and solar cycles is
once clearly established. But apart from this, the study of spots in
themselves, their wonderful chauges, and their individual history, may
be highly instructive and teach us much concerning the nature of the
solar surface. The spots seen first in March and April 1884, and
which reappeared in May and June and July, furnish excellent examples
of the formation of companion groups, the principal spot acquiring a

   502                        Rev. S. J. Perry                   [May 24,
   regularity of outline when it stands alone in middle life, and re
   gaining new companions as it hurries on to its final extinction.
       The last few years have also afforded some striking instances of
   the repulsion and proper motion of spots, so clearly brought out in
   the researches of Carrington. Perhaps the most remarkable change
   of this nature recorded at Stonyhurst occurred between May 27
   and 28 in 1884, when a spot of considerable size, situated between
   two others, moved through a great part of the distance separating its
   two companions.
       Another class of observations consists in noting the variety of
   tints connected with the bridges and other bright portions of intricate
   spots, and which are seen only from time to time. Thus, in 1884, on
   the 5th of May and the 6th of July, there were outhursts of a
   crimson hue in the centre of spots. Such appearances vary in dura
   tion as much as in colour. On one occasion a reddish brown tint,
   very noticeable on the bright separations of the umbra of a spot, did
   not remain constantly visible, but was intermittent. At another date
   a yellowish green tint remained visible for several days on the bridge
   crossing a spot. In each case the coloured portion was carefully
   compared with other parts of the disk, so as to ascertain whether the
   effect might not be due to the object-glass or eye-piece.
       Some useful hints in view of future theory can certainly be gained
   by a careful study of the peculiar forms assumed occasionally by
   the penumbra of spots, not when the whole area is in a state of violent
   commotion, for then it is conceivable that any form may possibly
   present itself, but when the umbra is regular and the spot quiet. I
   would especially draw attention to some examples of multiple
   penumbras observed in 1882 and 1883, which seem to indicate that
   such disturbances are due to successive impulses from a common
   centre. Or, again, I would point to the penumbral matter extending
   from the nucleus of certain spots in 1884, which might reasonably be
   adduced as evidence of an apparent outflow of a floating substance.
   It is doubtless fascinating to argue in support of some exhaustive
   theory, complete in itself, and able alone to offer a satisfactory
   explanation of every observed appearance ; but may it not be possible
   that several true causes concur in the production of solar phenomena ?
   And if this be admitted, then a line too hard and fast may easily
    staud in the way of the true explanation of spot formation. Might
    not the last mentioned observations suggest the question, whether
   absorbent vapours may not sometimes be cast up from the seething
   mass beneath, although a down-rush be the prevailing feature of a
   sun-spot ?
       The study of the bright markings on the solar surface is perhaps
   somewhat less interesting, although almost equally important as that
   of the spot area, but the state of the sky interferes much more
   seriously with the former class of observation than with the latter.
   The clustering of faculae about nascent spots, their spreading as the
   spots gets older, their lingering long after the parent spots have
*-

 1889.]       on the Solar Surface during the Last Ten Years.          503
 disappeared, the apparition of fresh spots in their midst, are facts of
 constant recurrence. That faculae are the first evidence of a coming
 disturbance has never been observed at Stonyhurst, but a region
 where faculse abound has always been found to have previously been
 occupied by a group of spots. Such an observation as that of the
 birth of the great November spot of 1882, and other similar instances
 are not wanting, in which a few dots, in a region of perfect calm,
 suddenly developed into a vast centre of disturbance, is a strong
 proof that the law which regards facube as the constant forerunners
 of spots, cannot be accepted as universal. Do not such instances as
 these give some additional weight to the opinion that large spots
 owe their origin rather to an external cause, as the prime mover,
 than to the internal forces of heat and pressure and chemical affinity ?
 Might not the latter forces, however great, hold each other almost in
 equilibrium until their energies are freed by the advent of an external,
 though perhaps lesser, disturbing force? The periodicity of sun-
 spots, their total absence for months, nay almost even for years, com
 bined with their enormous development and rapid changes about the
 epoch of maximum area, seems to preclude the possibility of internal
 forces, in a gaseous body, being the sole cause of such phenomena ;
 although there appears to be no reason why these forces should not
 exercise an overwhelming influence when called into play by an
 external agent.
     The distribution of faculse, especially of small isolated patches, is
much more general than that of spots, many being visible even near
the sun's poles, and this has been forced upon my attention more and
more of late as we have approached nearer the minimum of the cycle.
     Another point, which is often accepted as established, is the lagging
 of faculffi, and it is sometimes adduced as a proof that faculao are cast
up from a lower level, for thus, in possessing a less linear velocity
than the surrounding photosphere, they would naturally be left
behind. The observations of the present cycle can scarcely be said
to add to the stringency of this argument, as out of more than 4000
cases recorded in the Greenwich Tables, 74 per cent, lean neither
way, and of the remainder 5 • 7 per cent. show the faculae preceding,
against 20 • 3 per cent., which alone are in direct confirmation of the
assumed law.
     The general surface, with its ever varying aspect, can never be
adequately represented by the pencil, but in this case recourse must
be had to the instantaneous photograph. And yet it is true to say
that even in this branch of the subject much may be done by the
method of projection, and light may thus be thrown on many points
which could scarcely be settled by photography alone. I refer
particularly to any possible variation of tint in definite regions of the
solar disk, to rapid and continuous changes, and to such appearances
as the smugged areas in the photographs, which suggest at first bad
definition, but which are in reality evidence of a new form of distur
bance not indicated by other phenomena. Watching the image of

  504                         Rev. S. J. Perry                    [May 24,
  the sun as it depicts itself upon the drawing-board, we soon perceive
  that no part of the surface is long at rest. Everywhere are seen
  small dark shadowy objects, attracting special attention now in one
  place and then in another, sometimes forming groups, and at other
  times almost companion! ess, affecting no special zone, and combining
  with no other form of solar marking, except occasionally with a few
  bright faculae.
       These dim ill-defined objects seem first to have been observed in
   1875 by Trouvelot, who gave them the name of veiled spots. They
  soon forced themselves into notice when our daily sun-work was
  started at Stonyhurst, and ever since they have never failed to be
  carefully watched. At first they were divided, for convenience, into
   three classes, but on further examination there seems to bo no need
   of more than a single distinction. When they first catch the eye all
   present much the same general appearance, resembling small frag
   ments of ill-defined penumbra, but their position on the disk, and
   still more their duration, soon enable the observer to distinguish the
   class to which they belong. Those of the first class appear in all
   heliographic latitudes, and never remain visible for more than two or
   three minutes ; whilst the others, which have been called sub-permanent
   spots, are confined exclusively to the spot zones on either side of the
   equator, and this class may remain on the disk for two or more days.
  Sub-permanent spots are not always to bo found on the surface of the
  sun, their tint is a shade less dull than that of the other veiled spots,
  and occasionally there is almost the appearance of an umbra in their
  midst, though this rarely could be mistaken for a true umbra. For
  even when their shading is in some parts more intense than in others,
  the whole remains always ill-defined, and the limits of its several
  parts are hard to distinguish. Frequently these dim objects show
  themselves in considerable cumbers in the neighbourhood of fully
  developed spots, but then the latter are generally approaching their
  time of dissolution. They may, perhaps, aptly be described as
  imperfectly developed, or penumbral spots, and consequently be
  included in the ordinary spotted area. But it is quite otherwise
  with the first class of veiled spots, which except for their diminished
  brilliancy would have nothing in common with the fully developed
  sun-spots. Seen in all solar latitudes, they are never absent from the
  sun, being, with good definition, as frequent and as visible at the
  epoch of spot maximum as at minimum, but catching the eye more
  readily when markings more intense are absent from the surface.
  The most striking characteristic of this class of spots is the rapidity
  with which they invariably disappear ; but although no individual
  spot ever lasts mi, re than about three minutes, the first seen may be
  joined in quick succession by a multitude of others similar to itself,
  and thus transform vast areas, and give to portions of the solar surface
  that blurred appearance which is so marked a feature in Janssen's
  magnificent sun-pictures. The general distribution of these faint
  objects, their evanescent character, and their ill-defined appearance,
x

1889.]       on the Solar Surface during the Last Ten Years.         505
seem to connect them more immediately than any other feature of the
solar surface with the vertical convection currents which form so
important a part of the sun's internal economy.
    One exceptional observation of the formation of veiled spots may
be of interest, as showing the strange phenomena we may occasionally
witness by a lengthened examination of the solar image. At l0h.
15m. one morning a group of spots was visible on the sun, and
presented no very special feature ; less than half an hour later the
leader of the group had apparently shot out a number of minute
bodies, and then five minutes sufficed for all these to be transformed
into veiled spots, which disappeared as rapidly as usual.
     Instances have not been wanting of other moving bodies seen
upon the solar surface, always rapid in their course, and sometimes
disappearing without crossing the limb. I refer, of course, only to
observations in which every precaution was taken to test the objective
nature of these bodies, as false images might so easily deceive a
tired retina, especially after exposure to a strong light. But there
would be little use in dwelling upon even well-established cases of
this nature, as they all probably find their explanation in the
passage of bodies between the sun and the observer, and promise
very little additional light for an inquiry iuto the nature of the
solar photosphere.
     Before concluding these few words on a series of solar obser
vations of the last ten years, I may be expected by some to add one
more to the already long list of solar theories, or at least to pass in
rapid review the most plausible theories that np to the present time
have been advanced for reducing to harmony all the well-established
facts regarding the sun with which we are acquainted. But con
sidering the scope of my discourse, which has dwelt mostly on the
work done at a single observatory, and, even so, has only treated in
detail one method of examining the solar photosphere, I should not be
warranted in advancing any theory of my own, or in judging of the
theories of others, without first considering the many important facts
connected with our subject which the spectroscope has taught us and
also extending my researches to the solar chromosphere and the corona.
It is only by diligently collating the facts laboriously accumulated by
telescope and spectroscope in every known region of the sun that we
may hope at last to build up a complete and satisfactory solar theory.
Much has already been achieved in this direction, and we are in
possession not only of reliable data, but also of important deductions
therefrom, which may serve as a solid foundation for some future
superstructure.
    I may have added, perhaps, some little towards the completion of the
edifice, if I have convinced you this evening, that by the persevering
and judicious use of the pencil we may yet hope to throw some light
on questions of solar physics, that might notj[so readily have been
secured by any other means.                                 [8. J. P.J

 500                          Dr. D. Mendeleeff                         [May 31
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, May 31, 1889.
      SIB FREDERICK ABEL, C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                       D. MENDELJCEFF, Esq. LL.D.
            PKOFE8SOR OF CHEMISTKT IN THE UNITERSITY OP ST. PETERSBURG.
   An Attempt to apply to Chemistry one of the Principles of Netoton's
                             Natural Philosophy.
NATURE, inert to the eyes of the ancients, has been revealed to us as
full of life and activity. The conviction that motion pervaded all
things, which was first realised with respect to the stellar universe,
has now extended to the unseen world of atoms. No sooner had the
human understanding denied to tho earth a fixed position and
launched it along its path in space, than it was sought to fix immov
ably the sun and the stars. But astronomy has demonstrated that
the sun moves with unswerving regularity through the star-set
universe at the rate of about 50 kilometres per second. Among the
so-called fixed stars are now discerned manifold changes and various
orders of movement. Light, heat, electricity—like sound—have been
proved to be modes of motion ; to the realisation of this fact modern
science is indebted for powers which have been used with such
brilliant success, and which have been expounded so clearly at this
lecture table by Faraday and by his successors.. As in the imagination
of Dante, the invisible air became peopled with spiritual beings, so
before the eyes of earnest investigators, and especially before those of
Clerk Maxwell, the invisible mass of gases became peopled with
particles : their rapid movements, their collisions, and impacts became
so manifest that it seemed almost possible to count the impacts and
determine many of the peculiarities or laws of their collisions. The
fact of the existence of these invisible motions may at once be made
apparent by demonstrating the difference in the rate of diffusion
through porous bodies of the light and rapidly moving atoms of
hydrogen and the heavier and more sluggish particles of air. Within
the masses of liquid and of solid bodies we have been forced to
acknowledge the existence of persistent though limited motion of their
ultimate particles, for otherwise it would be impossible to explain, for
example, the celebrated experiments of Graham on diffusion through
liquid and colloidal substances. If there were, in our times, no belief
in tho molecular motion in solid bodies, could the famous Spring have
hoped to attain any result by mixing carefully dried powders of
potash, saltpetre, and acetate of soda, in order to produce, by pressure,
a chemical reaction between these substances through the interchange

1889.]            on an attempt to apply to Chemistry, tic.           507
of their metals, and have derived, for the conviction of the incredulous,
a mixture of two hygroscopic though solid salts —nitrate of soda and
acetate of potash ?
     In these invisible and apparently chaotic movements, reaching
from the stars to the minutest atoms, there reigns, however, a
harmonious order which is commonly mistaken for complete rest, but
which is really a consequence of the conservation of that dynamic
equilibrium which was first discerned by the genius of Newton, aud
 which has been traced by his successors in the detailed analysis of
 the particular consequences of the great generalisation, namely,
relative immovability in the midst of universal and active movement.
     But the unseen world of chemical changes is closely analogous to
the visible world of the heavenly bodies, since oar atoms form distinct
portions of an invisible world, as planets, satellites, and comets form
distinct portions of the astronomer's universe ; our atoms may there
fore be compared to the solar systems, or to the systems of double or
of single stars, for example, ammonia (NH3) may be represented in
the simplest manner by supposing the sun nitrogen surrounded by
its planets of hydrogen ; and common salt (NaCl) may be looked
upon as a double star formed of nitrogen and chlorine. Besides, now
 that the indestructibility of the elements has been acknowledged,
 chemical changes cannot otherwise be explained than as changes of
motion, and the production by chemical reactions of galvanic currents,
 of light, of heat, of pressure, or of steam power, demonstrate visibly
 that the processes ot chemical reaction are inevitably connected with
enormous though unseen displacements, originating in the movements
of atoms in molecules. Astronomers and natural philosophers, in
 studying the visible motions of the heavenly bodies and of matter on
the earth, have understood and have estimated the value of this store
of energy. But the chemist has had to pursue a contrary course.
Observing in the physical and mechanical phenomena which accom
pany chemical reactions the quantity of energy manifested by the
atoms and molecules, he is constrained to acknowledge that within
the molecules there exist atoms in motion, endowed with an energy
which, like matter itself, is neither being created nor is capable of
being destroyed. Therefore, in chemistry, we must seek dynamic
equilibrium not only between the molecules but also in their midst
among their component atoms. Many conditions of such equilibrium
have been determined, but much remains to be done, aud it is not
uncommon, even in these days, to find that some chemists forget that
there is the possibility of motion in the interior of molecules, and
therefore represent them as being in a condition of death-like
inactivity.
     Chemical combinations take place with so much ease and rapidity ;
possess so many special characteristics, and are so numerous, that
their simplicity and order was for a long time hid from investigators.
Sympathy, relationship, all the caprices or all the fancifulness of
human intercourse, seemed to have .found complete analogies, in
     VOL. XII. (No. 83.)                                      -2 u

508                           Dr. D. Mendeleeff                 [May 31,
chemical combinations, but with this difference, that the characteristics
of the material substances—such as silver, for example, or of any other
body—remain unchanged in every subdivision from the largest masses
to the smallest particles, and consequently their characteristics must
be a property of its particles. But the world of heavenly luminaries
appeared equally fanciful at man's first acquaintance with it, so much
so, that the astrologers imagined a connection between the in
dividualities of men and the conjunctions of planets. Thanks to the
genius of Lavoisier and of Dalton, man has been able, in the unseen
world of chemical combinations, to recognise laws of the same simple
order as those which Copernicus and Kepler proved to exist in the
planetary universe. Man discovered, and continues every hour to
discover what remains unchanged in chemical evolution, and how
changes take place in combinations of the unchangeable. He has
learned to predict, not only what possible combinations may take
place, but also the very existence of atoms of unknown elementary
bodies, and has besides succeeded in making innumerable practical
applications of his knowledge to the great advantage of his race, and
has accomplished this notwithstanding that notions of sympathy and
affinity still preserve a strong vitality in science. At present we
cannot apply Newton's principles to chemistry, because the soil is
only being now prepared. The invisible world of chemical atoms is
still waiting for the creator of chemical mechanics. For him our age
is collecting a mass of materials, the inductions of woll-digosted facts,
and many-sided inferences similar to those which existed for Astronomy
and Mechanics in the days of Newton. It is well also to remember
that Newton devoted much time to chemical experiments, and while
considering questions of celestial mechanics, persistently kept in view
 the mutual action of those infinitely small worlds which are concerned
 in chemical evolutions. For this reason, and also to maintain the
 unity of laws, it seems to me that we must, in the first instance, seek
 to harmonise the various phases of contemporary chemical theories with
 the immortal principles of the Newtonian natural philosophy, and so
 hasten the advent of true chemical mechanics. Let the above con
 siderations serve as my justification for tho attempt which I propose
 to make to act as a champion of the universality of the Newtonian
 principles, which I believe are competent to embrace every pheno
menon in the universe, from the rotation of the fixed stars, to the
interchanges of chemical atoms.
     In the first place I consider it indispensable to bear in mind that,
up to quite recent times, only a one-sided affinity has been recognised
in chemical reactions. Thus, for example, from the circumstance
that red-hot iron decomposes water with the evolution of hydrogen,
it was concluded that oxygen had a greater affinity for iron than for
hydrogen. But hydrogen, in presence of red-hot iron scale, appro
priates its oxygen and forms water, whence an exactly opposite
conclusion may be formed.
     During the last ten years a gradual, scarcely perceptible, but

1889.]            on an attempt to apply to Chemistry, ttc.            509
most important change has taken place in the views, and consequently
in the researches of chemists. They have sought everywhere, and
have always found systems of conservation or dynamic equilibrium
substantially similar to those which natural philosophers have long
since discovered in the visible world, and in virtue of which the
position of the heavenly bodies in the universe is determined. There
where one-sided affinities only were at first detected, not only secondary
or lateral ones have been found, but even those which are diametri
cally opposite, yet among these, dynamical equilibrium establishes
itself not by excluding one or other of the forces, but regulating them
all. So the chemist finds in the flame of the blast furnace, in the
formation of every salt, and, with especial clearness, in double salts,
and in the crystallisation of solutions, not a tight ending in the
victory of one side, as used to be supposed, but the conjunction of
forces; the peace of dynamic equilibrium resulting from the action of
many forces and affinities. Carbonaceous matters, for eiample, burn
at the expense of the oxygen of the air, yielding a quantity of heat
and forming products of combustion, in which it was thought that the
nffinities of the oxygen with the combustible elements were satisfied.
But it appeared that the heat of combustion was competent to de
compose these products, to dissociate the oxygen from the combustible
elements, and therefore, to explain combustion fully, it is necessary to
take into account the equilibrium between opposite reactions, between
those which evolve, and those which absorb heat.
    In the same way, in the case of the solution of common salt in
water, it is necessary to take into account, on the one hand, the
formation of compound particles generated by the combination of salt
with water, and tm the other the disintegration or scattering of the
new particles formed, as well as of those originally contained. At
present we find two currents of thought, apparently antagonistic to
each other, dominating the study of solutions : according to the one,
solution seems a mere act of building up or association ; according to
the other, it is only dissociation or disintegration. The truth lies,
evidently, between these views ; it lies, as I have endeavoured to
prove by my investigations into aqueous solutions, in the dynamic
equilibrium of particles tending to combine and also to fall asunder.
The large majority of chemical reactions which appeared to act
victoriously along one line have been proved capable of acting as
victoriously even along an exactly opposite line. Elements which
utterly decline to combine directly may often be formed into com
paratively stable compounds by indirect means, as for example in the
case of chlorine and carbon ; and consequently the sympathies and
antipathies, which it was thought to transfer Irom human relations to
those of atoms, should be laid aside until the mechanism of chemical
relations is explained. Let us remember, however, that chlorine,
which does not form with carbon the chloride of carbon, is strongly
absorbed, or, as it were, dissolved by carbon, which leads us to
suspect incipient chemical action even in an external and purely
                                                             2 M 2

 510                        Dr. D. MendeUeff                   [May 31,
 surface contact, and involuntarily gives rise to conceptions of that
 unity of the forces of nature which has been so energetically insisted
 on by Sir William Grove and formulated in his famous paradox.
 Grove noticed that platinum, when fused in the oxyhydrogen flame,
 during which operation water is formed, when allowed to drop into
 water decomposes the latter and produces the explosive oxyhydrogen
 mixture. The explanation of this paradox, as of many others which
 arose during the period of chemical renaissance has led, in our time,
 to the promulgation by Henri St. Claire Deville of the conception of
 dissociation and of equilibrium, and has recalled the teaching of
 Berthollet, which, notwithstanding its brilliant confirmation by
 Heinrich Rose and Dr. Gladstone, had not, up to that period, been
 included in received chemical views.
     Chemical equilibrium in general, and dissociation in particular,
 are now being so fully worked out in detail, and applied in such
 various ways, that I do not allude to them to develop, but only use
 them as examples by which to indicate tho correctness of a tendency
 to regard chemical combinations from points of view differing from
 those expressed by the term hitherto appropriated to define chemical
 forces, namely, "affinity." Chemical equilibria dissociation, the
 speed of chemical reactions, thermo-chemistry, spectroscopy, and,
 more than all, the determination of the influence of masses and the
 search for a connection between the properties and weights of atoms
 and molecules ; in one word, the vast mass of the most important
 chemical researches of the present day, clearly indicates the near
 approach of the time when chemical doctrines will submit fully and
 completely to the doctrine which was first announced in the Principia
of Newton.
     In order that the application of these principles may bear fruit it
is evidently insufficient to assume that statical equilibrium reigns
alone in chemical systems or chemical molecules: it is necessary to
 grasp the conditions of possible states of dynamical equilibria, and to
apply to them kinetic principles. Numerous considerations compel us
to renounce the idea of statical equilibrium in molecules, and the
recent yet strongly supported appeals to dynamic principles consti
tute, in my opinion, the foundation of the modern teaching relating
to atomicity, or the valency of the elements, which usually forms
the basis of investigations into organic or carbon compounds.
     This teaching has led to brilliant explanations of very many
chemical relations and to cases of isomerism, or the difference in the
properties of substances having the same composition. It has been
so fruitful in its many applications and in the foreshadowing of
remote consequences, especially respecting carbon compounds, that
it is impossible to deny its claims to be ranked as a great achieve
ment of chemical science. Its practical application to the synthesis
of many substances of the most complicated composition entering into
the structure of organised bodies, and to the creation of an unlimited
number of carbon compounds, among which the colours derived from

1889.]          on on attempt to apply to Chemistry, dc.              511
coal tar stand prominently forward, surpass the synthetical powers of
Nature itself. Yet this teaching, as applied to the structure of carbon
compounds, is not on the face of it directly applicable to the investi
gation of other elements, because in examining the first it is possible
to assume that the atoms of carbon have always a definite and equal
number of affinities, while in the combinations of other elements this
is evidently inadmissible. Thus, for example, an atom of carbon
yields only one compound with four atoms of hydrogen and one with
four atoms of chlorine in the molecule, while the atoms of chlorine
and hydrogen unite only in the proportions of one to one. Simplicity
is here evident and forms a point of departure from which it is easy
to move forward with firm and secure tread. Other elements are of
a different nature. Phosphorus unites with three and with five atoms
of chlorine, and consequently the simplicity and sharpness of the
application of structural conceptions are lost. Sulphur unites only
with two atoms of hydrogen, but with oxygen it enters into higher
orders of combination. The periodic relationship which exists among
all the properties of the elements, such, for example, as their ability
to enter into various combinations, and their atomic weights,
indicate that this variation in atomicity is subject to one perfectly
exact and general law, and it is only carbon and its near analogues
which constitute cases of permanently preserved atomicity. It is
 impossible to recognise as constant and fundamental properties of
 atoms, powers which, in substance, have proved to be variable. But
by abandoning the idea of permanence, and of the constant saturation
 of affinities—that is to say, by acknowledging the possibility of free
 affinities—many retain a comprehension of the atomicity of the
 elements " under given conditions " ; and on this frail foundation they
 build up structures composed of chemical molecules, evidently only
 because the conception of manifold affinities gives, at once, a simple
 statical method of estimating the composition of the most complicated
molecules.
     I shall enter neither into details, nor into the various consequences
 following from these views, nor into the disputes which have sprung
 up respecting them (and relating especially to the number of isomers
 possible on the assumption of free affinities), because the foundation
 or origin of theories of this nature suffers from the radical defect of
 being in opposition to dynamics. The molecule, as even Laurent
 expressed himself, is represented as an architectural structure, the
 style of which is determined by the fundamental arrangement of
 a few atoms, while the decorative details, which are capable of
 being varied by the same forces, are formed by the elements entering
 into the combination. It is on this account that the term " structural "
 is so appropriate to the contemporary views of the above order, and
 that the "constructors" seek to justify the tetrahedric, plane, or
 prismatic disposition of the atoms of carbon in benzole. It is evident
 that the consideration relates to the statical position of atoms and
 molecules and not to their kinetic relations. The atoms of tho

                            Dr. T). Mcwleticff                  [May 31,
structural type are like the lifeless pieces on a chess beard : they are
endowed but with the voices of living beings, and are not those living
beings themselves ; acting, indeed, according to laws, yet each
possessed of a store of energy, which, in the present state of our
knowledge, must be taken into account.
    In the days of Haiiy, crystals were considered in the same statical
and structural light, but modern crystallographers, having become
more thoroughly acquainted with their physical properties and their
actual formation, have abandoned the earlier views and have mado
their doctrines dependent on dynamics.
    The immediate object of this lecture is to show that, starting
with Newton's third law of motion, it is possible to preserve to
chemistry all the advantages arising from structural teaching, with
out being obliged to build up molecules in solid and motionless
figures, or to ascribe to atoms definite limited valencies, directions of
cohesion, or affinities. The wide extent of the subject obliges me to
treat only a small portion of it, namely of mbstituticms, without
specially considering combinations and decompositions, and, even
then, limiting myself to the simplest examples, which, however, will
throw open prospects embracing all the natural complexity of chemi
cal relations. For this reason, if it should prove possible to form
groups similar, for example, to H4 or CH6 as the remnants of mole
cules CH4 or C2H6 we shall not pause to consider them, because, ns
far as we know, they fall asunder into two parts, H2 -f- H2 or CH4
 + Ha, as soon as they are even temporarily formed, and are capable
of separate existence, and therefore can take no part in the elemen
tary act of substitution. With respect to the simplest molecules
which we shall select—that is to say, those of which the parts have
no separate existence, and therefore cannot appear in substitutions—
wo shall consider them according to the periodic law, arranging them
in direct dependence on the atomic weight of the elements.
    Thus, for example, the molecules of the simplest hydrogen
compounds-—
             HF                 H20           H3N             H4C
     hydrofluoric acid         water        ammonia         methane
correspond to elements the atomic weights of which decrease
consecutively,
                   F = 19, 0 = 16, N = 14, C = 12.
Neither the arithmetical order (1, 2, 3, 4 atoms of hydrogen) nor
the total information we possess respecting the elements will permit
us to interpolate into this typical series one more additional element ;
and therefore we have here, for hydrogen compounds, a natural base
upon which are built up those simple chemical combinations which
we take as typical. But even they are competent to unite with each
other, as we see, for instance, in the property which hydrofluoric acid

1889.J          on an attempt to apply to Chemistry, &c.             513
has of forming a hydrate, that is of combining with water ; and the
similar attribute of ammonia, resulting in the formation of a caustic
alkali, NH3H2O, or NH'OH.
    Having made these indispensable preliminary observations, I may
now attack the problem itself and attempt to explain the so-called
structure, or rather construction of molecules, that is to say, their
constitution and transformations without having recourse to the
teaching of " ttrnctionists," but on Newton's dynamical principles.
    Of Newton's three laws of motion, only the third can be applied
directly to chemical molecules when regarded as systems of atoms
among which it must be supposed that there exist common influences
or forces, and resulting compounded relative motions. Chemical
reactions of every kind are undoubtedly accomplished by changes in
these internal movements, respecting the nature of which nothing is
known at present, but the existence of which, the mass of evidence
collected in modern times, forces us to acknowledge as forming part
of the common motion of the universe, and as a fact further
established by the circumstance that chemical reactions are always
characterised by changes of volume or the relations between the
atoms or the molecules. Newton's third law, which is applicable to
every system, declares that, " action is always associated with reaction,
and is equal to it." The brevity and conciseness of this axiom was,
however, qualified by Newton in a more expanded statement, " the
action of bodies one upon another are always equal, and in opposite
directions." This simple fact constitutes the point of departure for
explaining dynamic equilibrium, that is to say, systems of con
servancy. It is capable of satisfying even the dualists, and of
explaining, without additional assumptions, the preservation of those
chemical tyIes which Dumas, Laurent, and Gerhardt created unit
types, and those views of atomic combinations which the structionists
express by atomicity or the valeucy of the elements, and, in connec
tion with them, the various numbers of affinities. In reality if a
system of atoms or a molecule be given, then in it, according to the
third law of Newton, each portion of atoms acts on the remaining
portion in the same manner, and with the same force as the second
set of atoms acts on the first. We infer directly from this considera
tion that both sets of atoms, forming a molecule, are not only equiva
lent with regard to themselves, as they must be according to Dalton's
law, but also that they may, if united, replace each other. Let there
be a molecule containing atoms ABC, it is clear that, according to
Newton's law, the action of A on B C must be equal to the action of
B C on A, and if the first action is directed on B C, then the second
must be directed on A, and consequently then, where A can exist in
dynamic equilibrium, B C may take its place and act in a like manner.
In the same way the action of C is equal to the action of A B. In
one word every two sets of atoms forming a molecule are equivalent
to each other, and may take each other's place in other molecules, or,
having the power of balancing each other, the atoms or their comple

514                        Dr. D. MendeUeff                     [May 31,
ments are endowed with the power of replacing each other. Let us
call this consequence of an evident axiom " the principle of substitu-
tution," and let us apply it to those typical forms of hydrogen
compounds, which we have already discussed, and which, on account
of their simplicity and regularity, have served as starting points of
chemical argument long before the appearance of the doctrine of
structure.
     In the type of hydrofluoric acid, HF, or in systems of double
stars, are included a multitude of the simplest molecules. It will be
sufficient for our purpose to recall a few : for example the molecules
of chlorine, Cl2, and of hydrogen, H2, and hydrochloric acid, HCL,
which is familiar to all in aqueous solution as spirit of salt, and
which has many points of resemblance with HF, HB2, HI. In
these cases division into two parts can only be made in one way, and
therefore the principle of substitution renders it probable that ex
changes between the chlorine and the hydrogen can take place, if
they are competent to unite with each other. There was a time when
no chemist would even admit the idea of any such action ; it was then
thought that the power of combination indicated a polar difference of
the molecules in combination, and this thought set aside all idea of
 the substitution of one component element by another.
     Thanks to the observations and experiments of Dumas and
Laurent fifty years ago, such fallacies were dispelled, and in
this manner, this same principle of substitution was exhibited.
 Chlorine and bromine acting on many hydrogen compounds, occupy
 immediately the place of their hydrogen, and the displaced hydrogen,
 with another atom of chlorine or bromine, forms hydrochloric acid or
 bromide of hydrogen. This takes place in all typical hydrogen
 compounds. Thus chlorine acts on this principle on gaseous hy
 drogen—reaction, under the influence of light, resulting in the forma
 tion of hydrochloric acid. Chlorine acting on the alkalis, constituted
 similarly to water, and even on water itself—only, however, under
 the influence of light and only partially because of the unstability
 of HC1O—forms by this principle bleaching salts, which are the same
 as the alkalis, but with their hydrogen replaced by chlorine. In
 ammonia and in methane, chlorine can also replace the hydrogen.
 From ammonia is formed in this manner the so-called chloride of
 nitrogen, NCI3, which decomposes very readily with violent explosion
 on account of the evolved gases, and falls asunder as chlorine and
 nitrogen. Out of marsh gas, or methane, CH4, may be obtained con
 secutively, by this method, every possible substitution, of which chloro
 form, CHOP, is the best known, and chloro-carbonic acid, CC1* the
 most instructive. But by virtue of the fact that chlorine and bromine
 act, in the manner shown, on the simplest typical hydrogen compounds,
 their action on the more complicated ones may be assumed to be the
 same. This can be easily demonstrated. The hydrogen of benzole,
 C'H", reacts feebly under the influence of light on liquid bromine, but
 Gustavson has shown that the addition of the smallest quantity of

1889.]            on an attempt to apply to Chemistry, tfc.          515
metallic aluminium causes energetic action, nHd the evolution of
large volumes of bromide of hydrogen,
    If we pass on to the second typical hydrogen compound, that is
to say water, its molecule, HOH, may bo split up in two ways : either
into an atom of hydrogen and a, molecule of oxide of hydrogen, HO,
or into oxygen, O, and two atoms of hydrogen, H ; and therefore,
according to t he principle of substitution, it is evident that one atom
of hydrogen can exchange with oxide of hydrogen, HO, and two atoms
of hydrogen, H, with one atom of oxygen, O.
     Both these forms of substitution will constitute methods of
oxidation, that is to say, of the entrance of oxygen into the com
pound— a reaction which is so common in nature as well as in the
arts, taking place at the expense of the oxygen of the air or by
the aid of various oxidising substances or bodies which part easily
with their oxygen. There is no occasion to reckon up the unlimited
number of cases of such oxidising reactions. It is sufficient to
state that in the first of those oxygen is directly transferred, and the
position, the chemical function, which hydrogen originally occupied
is, after the substitution, occupied by the hydroxyl. Thus ammonia,
NH3, yields hydroxylamine, NH2(OH), a substance which retains
many oi the properties of ammonia.
    Methane and a number of other hydrocarbons yield, by substi
tution of the hydrogen by its oxide, methylic, CH3(OH), and other
alcohols. The substitution of one atom of oxygen for two atoms of
hydrogen is equally common with hydrogen compounds. By this
means alcoholic liquids containing ethyl alcohol, or spirits of wine,
C2H5(OH), are oxidised till they become vinegar or acetic acid,
C2H30(OH). In the same way caustic ammonia, or the combination
of ammonia with water, NH:)H2O, or NH4(OH), which contains a great
deal of hydrogen, by oxidation exchanges four atoms of hydrogeu for
two atoms of oxygen, and become converted into nitric acid NOa(OH).
This process of conversion of ammonia salts into saltpetre goes on
in the fields every summer, and with especial rapidity in tropical
countries. The method by which this is accomplished, though
complex, though involving the agency of all-permeating micro
organisms, is, in substance, the same as that by which alcohol is
converted into acetic acid, or glycol, C2H*(OH)2, into oxalic acid,
if we view the process of oxidation in the light of the Newtonian
principles.
     But while speaking of the application of the principle of substi
tution to water, we need not multiply instances, but must turn our
attention to two special circumstances which are closely connected
with the very mechanism of substitutions.
     In the first place, the replacement of two atoms of hydrogen by
one atom of oxygen may take place in two ways, because the hydrogen
molecule is composed of two atoms, and therefore, under the influence
of oxygen, the molecule forming water may separate before the oxygen
has time to take its place. It is for this reason that we find, during

516                         Dr. D. MendcUeff                   [May 31,
the conversion of alcohol into acetic acid, that there is an interval
during which is formed aldehyde, C2H4O, which, as its very name
implies, is "alcohol dehydrogenatum," or alcohol deprived of hydrogen.
Hence aldehyde combined with hydrogen yields alcohol ; and united
to oxygen, acetic acid.
    For the same reason there should be, and there actually are,
intermediate products between ammonia and nitric acid, NO*(HO),
containing either less hydrogen than ammonia, less oxygen than
nitric acid, or less water than caustic ammonia. Accordingly we
find, amoug the products of the de-oxidisation of nitric acid and the
oxidisation of ammonia, not only hydroxylamine, but also nitrous
oxide, nitrous and nitric anhydrides. Thus, the production of nitrous
acid results from the removal of two atoms of hydrogen from caustic
ammonia and the substitution of the oxygen for the hydrogen, NO
(OH) ; or by the substitution, in ammonia, of three atoms of hydrogen
by hydroxyl, N(OH)3. and. b7 the removal of water; N(OH)3-H2O
= NO(OH). The peculiarities and properties of nitrons acid, as,
for instance, its action on ammonia and its conversion, by oxidation,
into nitric acid, are thus clearly revealed.
    On the other hand, in speaking of the principle of substitution as
applied to water, it is necessary to observe that hydrogen and
hydroxyl, H and OH, are not only competent to unite, but also to
form combinations with themselves, and thus become Hz and H202 ;
and such are hydrogen and the peroxide thereof. In general, if a mole
cule AB exists, then molecules AA and BB can exibt also. A direct
reaction of this kind does not, however, take place in water, therefore
undoubtedly, at the moment of formation hydrogen reacts on the
peroxide of hydrogen, as we can show, at once, by experiment ; and
further because the peroxide of hydrogen, H202, exhibits a structure
containing a molecule of hydrogen, H'2, and one of oxygen, O2, either
of which is capable of separate existence. The fact, however, may
now be taken as thoroughly established, that, nt the moment of
combustion of hydrogen or of the hydrogen compounds, peroxide of
hydrogen is always formed, and not only so, but in all probability its
formation invariably precedes the formation of water. This was to
be expected as a consequence of the law of Avogadro and Gerhardt,
which leads us to expect this sequence in the case of equal interactions
of volumes of vapours and gases ; and in the peroxide of hydrogen
we actually have such equal volumes of the elementary gasos.
    The instability of peroxide of hydrogen—that is to say. the ease
with which it decomposes into water and oxygen, even at the mere
contact of porous bodies—accounts for the circumstance that it does
not form a permanent product of combustion, and is not produced
during the decomposition of water. I may mention this additional
consideration that, with respect to the peroxide of hydrogen, we
may look for its effecting still further substitutions of hydrogen by
means of which we may expect to obtain still more highly oxidised
wnter-compounds, such as H203 and H-0*. These SchonbeiH and

1889.]             on an attempt to apply to Chemistry, ttc.                     517
Bunsen have long been seeking, and Berthelot is investigating them
 at this moment. It is probable, however, that the reliction will stop
 at the last compound, because we find that, in a number of cases, the
 addition of 4 atoms of oxygen seems to form a limit. Thus, OsO4,
 KC104, KMnO', K2SO', NaW, and such like, represent the highest
 grades of oxidation.*
     As for the last 40 years, from the times of Berzelius, Dumas,
 Liebig, Gerhardt, Williamson, Frankland, EoIbe, Eekule, and
 Butlerow, most theoretical generalisations have centred round organic
or carbon compounds, so wo will, for the sake of brevity, leave out
 the discussion of ammonia derivatives, notwithstanding their sim
 plicity in respect to the doctrine of substitutions ; we will dwell more
 especially on its application to carbon compounds, starting from
 methane, ('II', as the simplest of the hydrocarbons, containing in its
molecule one atom of carbon. According to the principles enume
rated we may derive from CH4 every combination of the form CH3X,
 CH2X2, CHX3, and CX«, in which X is an element, or radical,
equivalent to hydrogen, that is say, competent to take its place or to
 combine with it. Such are the chlorine substitutes mentioned
 already, such is wood-spirit, CH3(OH), in which X is represented by
 the residue of water, and such are numerous other carbon derivatives.
 If we continue, with the aid of hydroxyl, further substitutions of
the hydrogen of methane we shall obtain successively CH2(OH)2,
CH(OH)3, and C(OH)4. But if, in proceeding thus, we bear in
mind that CH5(OH)* contains two hydroxyls in the same form as
 peroxide of hydrogen, H2O2 or (OH)*, contains them—and moreover
 not only in one molecule, but together, attached to one and the same
atom of carbon—so here we must look for the same decomposition as
 that which we find in peroxide of hydrogen, and accompanied also
by the formation of water as an independently existing molecule ;
    * Because more than four atoms of hydrogen never unite with one atom of
the elements, nnd because the hydrosen corn| ounds (e. g. HC1, H2S, H3P, H'Si)
always form their highest oxides with four atoms of oxygen, and as the highest
funns of oxides (OSO* RO') also contain four of oxygen, and eight groups of the
periodic system, corresponding to the highest basic oxides R2O, RO, R;03, RO*,
RIOE, RO3, R2O', and RO', imply the above relationship, and because of the
nearest analogues among the elements— such as Mg, Zn, Cd, nnd Hg; or Cr, Mo,
W and U ; or Si, Ge, Sn, and Ft ; or F, Cl, Br, and J and so forth—not more than
four are known, it seems to me that in these relationships there lies a deep
interest anil meaning with regard to chemical mechanics. But because, to my
imagination, the idea of unity uf design in Nature, either acting in complex
celestial systems or among chemical molecules, is very attractive, especially
because the atomic teaching at once acquires its true meaning, I will recall the
following facts relating to the solar system. There are eight major planets,
of which the four inner ones are not only separated from the four outer by aste
roids, but differ from them in many respects, as for example in the smallness of
their diameters and their greater density. Saturn with his ring has eight satellites,
Jupiter and Uranus have each four. It is evident that in the solar systems also we
meet with these higher numbers four and eight which appear in the combination of
chemical molecules.

518                           Dr. D. Mendcleef                   [May 31,
therefore CH2(OH)! should yield, as it actually does, immediately
water and the oxide of methylene, CH*O, which is methane with
oxygen substituted for two atoms of hydrogen. Exactly in the
same manner out of CH(OH)3 are fo/med water and formic acid,
CHO(OH), and out of C(OH)* is produced water and carbonic
acid, or directly carbonic anhydride, CO2, which will therefore be
nothing else than methane with tho double replacement of pairs of
hydrogen by oxygen. As nothing leads to the supposition that the
four atoms of hydrogen in methane differ one from the other, so it docs
not matter by what means we obtain any one of the combinations
indicated—they will be identical ; that is to say, there will be no case
of actual isomerism, although there may easily be such cases of
isomerism as have been distinguished by the term metamerism.
     Formic acid, for example, has two atoms of hydrogen, one attached
to the carbon left from the methane, and the other attached to the
oxygen which has entered in the form of hydroxyl, and if one of them
be replaced by some substance X it is evident that we shall obtain
bodies of the same composition, but of different construction, or of
different orders of movement among the molecules, and therefore
endowed with other properties and reactions. If X be methyl, CH3,
that is to say, a group capable of replacing hydrogen because it is
actually contained with hydrogen in methane itself, then by substi
tuting this group for the original hydrogen, we obtain acetic acid,
CCH30(OH), out of formic, and by substitution of the hydrogen in
its oxide or hydroxyl we obtain methyl formiate, CHO(OCH3). These
bodies differ so much from each other physically and chemically
that, at first sight, it is hardly possible to admit that they contain the
same atoms in identically the same proportions. Acetic acid, for
example, boils at a higher temperature than water, and has a higher
specific gravity than it, while its metamer, formo-methylic ether, is
lighter than water, and boils at 30°, that is to say, it evaporates very
easily.
     Let us now turn to carbon compounds containing two atoms of
carbon to the molecule, as in acetic acid, and proceed to evolve
 them from methane by the principle of substitution. This principle
 declares at once that methane can only be split up in the four
following ways :—
     1. Into a group CH3 equivalent with H. Let us call changes of
 this nature rnethylation.
     2. Into a group CH2 and H2. We will call this order of
substitutions methylenation.
     3. Into CH and H3, which commutations we will call acetylena-
tion.
     4. Into C and H4, which may be called carbonisation.
     It is evident that hydrocarbon compounds containing two atoms of
 carbon, can only proceed from methane, CH4, which contains four atoms
 of hydrogen by the first three methods of substitution ; carbonising
 would yield free carbon if it could take place directly, and if the

 1889.]          on an attempt to apply to Chemistry, Ac.            519
 molecule of free carbon—which is in reality very complex, that is to
 say strongly polyatomic, as I have long since been proving by various
 means—could contain only C2 like the molecules O2, H2, N2, and so on.
     By methylation we should evidently obtain from marsh gas,
 ethane, CH3CH3 = C2H6.
      By methylenation, that is by substituting group CH2 for H2,
 methane forms ethylene, CH2CH2 = C2H4.
     By acetylenation, that is by substituting three atoms of hydrogen,
 H3, in methane, by the remnant CH, we get acetylene CHCH = C2!!2.
     If we have applied the principles of Newton correctly, there should
 not be any other hydrocarbons containing two atoms of carbon in the
 molecule. All these combinations have long been known, and in
 each of them we can not only produce those substitutions of which
 an example has been given in the case of methane, but also all the
 phases of other substitutions, as we shall find from a few more
 instances, by the aid of which I trust that I shall be able to show the
great complexity of those derivatives which, on the principle of sub
stitution, can be obtained from each hydrocarbon. Let us content
ourselves with the case of ethane, CH3CH3, and the substitution of
the hydrogen by hydroxyl. The following are the possible changes.
     1. CH3CH2(OH) : this is nothing more than spirit of wine, or
ethyl alcohol, C2H5(OH) or C2H6O.
     2. CH2(OH)CH2(OH) : this is the glycol of Wurtz, which has
shed so much light on the history of alcohol. Its isomer may be
CH3CH(OH)2, but as we have seen in the case of CH(OH)2, it
decomposes giving off water, and forming aldehyde, CEPCHO, a body
capable of yielding alcohol by uniting with hydrogen and of yielding
acetic acid by uniting with oxygen.
     If glycol CH*(OH)CH1!(OH) loses its water, it may be seen at
once that it will not now yield aldehyde, CH3CHO, but its isomer,
CEPCll*
     „ , the oxide of ethylene. I have here indicated in a special
manner the oxygen which has taken the place of two atoms of the
hydrogen of ethane taken from different atoms of the carbon.
     3. CH3C(OH)3 decomposed as CH(OH)3, forming water and acetic
acid OH3CO(OH). It is evident that this acid is nothing else than
formic acid, CHO(OH), with its hydrogen replaced by methyl.
Without examining further the vast number of possible derivatives,
I will direct your attention to the circumstance that in dissolving
acetic acid in water we obtain the maximum contraction and the
greatest viscosity when to the molecule CH3CO(OH) is added a
molecule of water, which is the proportion which would form the
hydrate CH3C(OH)3. It is probable that the doubling of the mole
cule of acetic acid at temperatures approaching its boiling point has
some connection with this power of uniting with one molecule of
water.
    4. CH2(OH)C(OH)3 is evidently alcoholic acid, and indeed this
compound, after losing water, answers to glycolic acid, CH2(OH)CO

520                           Dr. D. Mendeli'ejf                          [May 31,
(OH). Without investigating all the possible isomers, we will note
only that the hydrate CH(OH)*CH(OII)S has the same composition
as CH2(OH)C(OH)3, and although corresponding to glycol, and
being a symmetrical substance, it becomes on parting with its water
aldehyde of oxalic acid, or the glyoxal of Debus, CHOCHO.
     5. CH(OH)*C(OH3), from the tendency of all the preceding,
corresponds to glyoxylic acid, aldehyde acid, CHOCO(OH), because
the group CO(OH), or carboxyl, enters into the compositions of
organic acids, and the group CHO defines the aldehyde function.
     6. C(OH)3C(OH)3 through the loss of 2rTO yields the bibasic
oxalic acid CO(OH)CO(OH), which generally crystallises with
2H*0, following thus the normal type of hydration characteristic of
ethane.*
     Thus, by applying the principle of substitution, we can, in the
simplest manner, derive not only every kind of hydrocarbon com
pound, such as the alcohols, the aldehyde alcohols, aldehydes, alcohol
acids, and the acids, but also combinations analogous to hydrated
crystals which usually arc disregnrded.
    But even those unsaturatod substances, of which ethylene, CIPCH2,
and acetylene, CHCH, are types, may be evolved with equal sim
plicity. With respect to the phenomena of isomerism, there are
many possibilities among the hydrocarbon compounds containing
two atoms of carbon, and without going into details it will be
sufficient to indicate that the following formulae, though not identical,
will be isomeric substantially among themselves :— CIPCHX* and
CH'XCH'X, although both contain C'H'X4, or CH'CX2 and
CHXOHX, although both contain O'H'X', if by X we indicate
chlorine or generally an clement capable of replacing one atom of
hydrogen, or capable of uniting with it. To isomerism of this kind
belongs the case of aldehyde nnd the oxide of othyloHe, to which we
have already referred, because both have the composition C2H4O.
    * One more isomer, CH:CII (OH), is possible, that is secondary rinvlnlcohn],
which is related to ethylene, CH2CH2, but derived by the principle of (substitution
from CH4. Other isomers of tho, composition C'H'O, such, for example, as
CHCH3 (OH), are impossible, because it would correspond to the hydrot-arbon
CHCH3 - C'-'H4, which is isomeric with ethylene, and it cannot be derived from
mothane. If such an isomer existed, it would be derived from CH2, but
such products are up to the present unknown. In such cases the insufficiency of
the points of departure of the statical structural teaching is shown. It first
admits constant atomicity and then rejects it, the facts si rving to establish either
one or the other view ; and therefore, it seems to me, that we must come to the
conclusion that the structural method of reasoning, having done a service to
science, has outlived the age, and must be regenerated as, in their time, was the
teaching of the electro-chemists, the radicalisl*. and the adherents of the doctrine
of types. As we cannot now lean on the views above stated, it is time to abandon
the "structural theory. They will all be united in chemical mechanics, and the
principle of substitution must be looked upon only as a preparation for the coming
epoch in chemistry, where such cases as the isomerism of fumaric and rnalcic
ncids, when explained dynamically, as proposed by Le Bel and Van't Hoff, may
yield points of departure.

1889.J            on an attempt to apply to Chemistry, dc.                  521
     What I have said appears to mo sufficient to show that the
principle of substitution adequately explains the composition, the
isomerism and all the diversity of combination of tho hydrocarbons,
and I shall limit the further development of these views to preparing
a complete list of every possible hydrocarbon compound containing
three atoms of carbon in the molecule. There are eight in all, of
which only five are known at present.*
     Among those possible for C3H6 there should be two isomers,
propylene and trimethylene, and they are both already known. For
C3H4 there should be three isomers: allylene and allene are known,
but the third has not yet been discovered ; and for C3H2 there should
be two isomers, though neither of them are known as yet. Their
composition and structure is easily deduced from ethane, ethylene,
and acetylene, by methylation, methyleuation, by acetylenation and
by carbonisation.
     1. C3H8 = CH3CH2CH3 out of CH3CH3 by methylation. This
hydrocarbon is named propane.
     2. C3H6 = CIFCHCH* out of CH3CH3 by methylenation. This
substance is propylene.
     3. C3H8 = CH2CH!CH2 out of CIFCH3 by methylenation. This
substance is trimethylene.
     4. C3H4 = CH:)CCH out of CH3CH3 by acetylenation or from
CHOH by methylation. This hydrocarbon is named allylene.
     5. C3H4 = CHCH out of CH3CH3 by acetylenation, or from
                    CH2
CH'CH* by methylenation, because CH2CH = CHCH. This body
                                               CH           CH*
is as yet unknown.
     6. C3H4 = CH2CCH3 out of CIPCH2 by methylenation. This
hydrocarbon is named allene, or iso-allylene.
     7. C3H* = CHCH out of CH3H3 by symmetrical carbonisation,
                      C
or out of CH2CH2 by acetylenation. This compound is unknown.
     8. C3H" = CO out of CH3CH3 by carbonisation, or out of CHCH
                  OH"
by methylenation. This compound is unknown.
     If we bear in mind that for each hydrocarbon serving as a type
in the above tables there are a number of corresponding derivatives,
and that every compound obtained may, by further methylation,
methylenation, acetylenation, and carbonisation, produce new hydro
carbons, and these may bo followed by a numerous suite of derivatives
and an immense number of isomeric bodies, it is possible to under
stand the limitless number of carbon compounds, although they all
    * Conceding variable atomicity, the strueturiski must expect an incomparably
larger number of isomers, and they cannot now decline to acknowledge tho change
of atomicity, were it only for the examples HgCl and HgCl*, CO and CO2 PC1J
and PCI5. "

  522                            Dr. D. Mendeleef                       [May 13,
 have the one substance, methane, for their origin. The number of
 substances is so enormous that it is no longer a question of enlarging
 the possibilities of discovery, but rather of finding some means of
 testing them, analogous to the well-known two which for a long
 time have served as gauges for nil carbon compounds.
      I refer to the law of even numbers and to that of limits, the
 first enunciated by Gerhardt forty years ago, with respect to hydro
 carbons, namely, that their molecules always contain an even number
 of atoms of hydrogen. But by the method which I have used of
 deriving all the hydrocarbons from methane, CH4, this law may be
 deduced as a direct consequence of the principle of substitutions.
 Accordingly, in methylation, CH3 takes the place of H, and there
 fore CH2 is added. In methylenation the number of atoms of hydrogen
 remains unchanged, and at each acetylenation it is reduced by two,
 and in carbonisation by four atoms, that is to say, an even number
 of atoms of hydrogen is always added or removed. And because
 the fundamental hydrocarbon, methane, CH4, contains an even number
 of atoms of hydrogen, therefore all its derivative hydrocarbons will
 also contain even numbers of hydrogen, and this constitutes the law
 of even numbered parts.
      The principle of substitutions explains with equal simplicity the
 conception of limiting compositions of hydrocarbons, CMP"1"*, which
 I derived, in 1861,* in an empirical manner from accumulated
 materials available at that time, and on the basis of the limits to
 combinations worked out by Dr. Frankland for other elements.
      Of all the various substitutions the highest proportion of hydrogen
 is yielded by methylation, because in that operation alone does the
 quantity of hydrogen increase ; therefore, taking methane as a point
 of departure, if we imagine methylation effected (n — 1) times we
 obtain hydrocarbon compounds containing the highest quantities of
 hydrogen. It is evident that they will contain
                      CH4 + (»-!) CH*, or C'H2"+Z,
because methylation leads to the addition of CHS to the compound.
     It will thus be seen that by the principle of substitution—that is
to say, by the third law of Newton—we are able to deduce, in the
simplest manner, not only the individual composition, the isomerism,
and relations of substances, but also the general laws which govern
their most complex combinations, without having recourse either to
statical constructions, to the definition of atomicities, to the exclusion
of free affinities, or to the recognition of those single, double, or treble
ties which are so indispensable to structurists in the explanation of
the composition and construction of hydrocarbon compounds. And
yet, by the application of the dynamic principles of Newton, we can
    * ' Eseai d'une the'orie sur les JimiteB des combinaisone organiques," par
D. Mendeleeff, ?./!! aofit 1861, 'Bulletin de TAcatleaiie i. d. Sc. de St. Pelers-
     ft,' t. v.

1889.]           on an attempt to apply to Chemistry, ttc.          523
attain to that chief and fundamental object—the comprehension of
isomerism in hydrocarbon compounds, and the forecasting of the
existence of combinations as yet unknown, by which the ediace
raised by structural teaching is strengthened and supported. Besides,
and I count this for a circumstance of special importance, the process
which I advocate will make no difference in those special cases which
have been already so well worked out, such as, for example, the
isomerism of the hydrocarbons and alcohols, even to the extent of not
interfering with the nomenclature which has been adopted, and the
structural system will retain all the glory of having worked up, in a
thoroughly scientific manner, the store of information which Gerhardt
had accumulated about the middle of the fifties, and the still higher
glory of establishing the rational synthesis of organic substances.
Nothing will be lost to the structural doctrine, except its statical
origin; and as soon as it will embrace the dynamic principles of
Newton, and suffer itself to be guided by them, I believe that we shall
attain, for chemistry, that unity of principle which is now wanting.
Many an adept will be attracted to that brilliant and fascinating
enterprise, the penetration into the unseen world of the kinetic rela
tions of atoms, to the study of which the last twenty-five years have
contributed so much labour and such high inventive faculties.
    D'Alembert found in mechanics, that if inertia be taken to repre
sent force, dynamic equations may be applied to statical questions
which are thereby rendered more simple and more easily understood.
    The structural doctrine in chemistry has unconsciously followed
the same course, and therefore its terms are easily adopted ; they may
retain their present forms provided that a truly dynamical, that is to
say, Newtonian meaning be ascribed to them.
    Before finishing my task and demonstrating the possibility of
adapting structural doctrines to the dynamics of Newton, I consider
it indispensable to touch on one question which naturally arises, and
which I have heard discussed more than once. If bromine, the atom
of which is eighty times heavier than that of hydrogen, takes the
place of hydrogen, it would seem that the whole system of dynamic
equilibrium must be destroyed.
     Without entering into the minute analysis of this question, I
think it will be sufficient to examine it by the light of two well-
known phenomena, one of which will be found in the department of
chemistry, and the other in that of celestial mechanics, and both will
serve to demonstrate the existence of that unity in the plan of
creation, which is a consequence of the Newtonian doctrines.
Experiments demonstrate that when a heavy element is substituted
for a light one, in a chemical compound—an atom of magnesium in
the oxide of that metal, for example, for mercury, the atom of which
is 8^- times heavier—the chief chemical characteristics or properties
are generally though not always preserved.
     The substitution of silver for hydrogen, than which it is
108 times heavier, does not affect all the properties of the substance,
    VOL. XII. (No. 83.)                                      2 N

524:                       Dr. D. Mendeleeff                    [May 31,
though it docs some. Therefore chemical substitutions of this kind,
the substitution of light for heavy atoms, need not necessarily entail
changes in the original equilibrium ; and this point is still further
elucidated by the consideration that the periodic law indicates the
degree of influence of an increment of weight in the atom as affecting
the possible equilibria, and also what degree of increase in the
weight of the atoms reproduces some, though not all, the properties
of the substance.
     This tendency to repetition, these periods, may be likened to
those annual or diurnal periods with which we are so familiar on the
earth. Days and years follow each other : but, as they do so, many
things change : and in like manner chemical evolutions, changes in
 the masses of the elements, permit of much remaining undisturbed,
 though many properties undergo alteration. The system is main
 tained according to the laws of conservation in nature, but the
 motions are altered in consequence of the change of parts.
     Next, let us take an astronomical case, such for example as the
earth and the moon, and let us imagine that the mass of the latter is
 constantly increasing. The question is, what will then occur ? The
 path of the moon in space is a wave-line similar to that which
 geometricians have named epicycloidal, or the locus of a point in a
 circle rolling round another circle. But in consequence of the
 influence of the moon, it is evident that the path of the earth itself
 cannot be a geometric ellipse, even supposing the sun to be im
 movably fixed ; it must be an epicycloidal curve, though not very
 far removed from the true ellipse, that is to say, it will be impressed
 with but faint undulations. It is only the common centre of gruvity
 of the earth and the moon which describes a true ellipse round the
 sun. If the moon were to increase, the relative undulations of the
 earth's path would increase in amplitude, those of the moon would
 also change, and when the mass of the moon had increased to an
 equality with that of the earth, the path would consist of epicycloidal
 curves crossing each other, and having opposite phases. But a
 similar relation exists between the sun and the earth because the
 former is also moving in space. We may apply these views to the
 world of atoms, and suppose that, in their movements, when heavy
 ones take the place of those that are lighter, similar changes take
 place provided that the system or the molecule is preserved through
 out the change.
     It seems probable that in the heavenly systems, during incalculable
 astronomical periods changes have taken place and are still going
 on similar to those which pass rapidly before our eyes during the
chemical reaction of molecules and the progress of molecular me
chanics, may— we hope will—in course of time, permit us to explain
those changes in the stellar world which have more than once been
noticed by astronomers, and which are now so carefully studied. A
coming Newton will discover the laws of these changes. Those
laws, when applied to chemistry, may exhibit peculiarities, but these

  1889.]              on an attempt to apply to Chemistry, d-c.                   525
  will certainly be mere variations on the grand harmonious theme
  which reigns in nature. The discovery of the laws which produce
  this harmony in chemical evolutions will only be possible, it seems
  to me, under the banner of Newtonian dynamics which have so long
  waved over the domains of mechanics, astronomy, and physics. In
  calling chemists to take their stand under its peaceful and catholic
  shadow I imagine that I am aiding in establishing that scientific
  union which the managers of the Royal Institution wish to effect,
  who have shown their desire to do so by the flattering invitation
  which has given me — a Russian — the opportunity of laying before
  the countrymen of Newton an attempt to apply to chemistry one of
  his immortal principles.
                                                                         \D. M.]
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, June 3, 1889.
 SIR JAMBS CRICHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President, in
                                      the Chair.
                               Miss Beatrice Harvey,
                               Reginald Ward, Esq.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      The Honorary Secretary reported the decease of Mr. HENBY
 POLLOCK, Treasurer and Vice-President, on the 15th of May last.
      The following Resolution passed by the Managers at their
 Meeting this day was read : —
     Resolved, " It is with the deepest regret that the Managers have to record the
 loss of their Treasurer aud Vice-President, Mr. Henry Pollock.
     " Elected a Member of the Royal Institution thirty-five years ago, he hus evor
since shown the warmest interest in the prosperity of the Institution, and has
devoted himself to its advancement in every way. Several years he was a
Manager, and for the last three years he has been our Treasurer, and in that
capacity, has most materially benefited the Institution by his business aptitude
and by his close attention to its aftaire.
     "Although during a period of some two years the state of his health has not
permitted him to be present at our Meetings, he has nevertheless, for the greater
part of that time, still attended to our interests, by going over the accounts at
his own house, and by seeing, from time to time, the Secretary and Professor
Uewar, whim occasion has arisen for consultation upon any important matter.
    "The Managers feel that, in the loss of a colleague so very earnest for the
welfare of the Institution ; so thoroughly able ii> the discharge of his duties ; and
                                                                     2 N 2

526                         General Monthly Meeting.                    [June 3i
BO kindly and courteous to nil, the Institution has been deprived of one of its
most proved and useful Members."
     Resolved, " That the Honorary Secretary do transmit to Mrs. Henry Pollock
a copy of the foregoing Resolution, together with an expression of the deep
sympathy entertained by the Managers witli her in her great bereavement."
      The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
following Donations to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
Research :—
           Mrs. J. Gibbs                                        £1010
           Ludwig Mond, Esq                                      100 0
      The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on tho
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz :—
      FROM
Secretary of State for India—Report on Public Instruction in Bengal, 1887-8.
      fol.
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia —Proceedings, 1888* Part 2. 8vo.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal— Journal, Vol. XXV. Part 1. 8vo. 1889.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLIX. No. 6. 8vo. 1889.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. X. Part 5. 8vo. 1889.
Berlin Bibliographic Office—Bibliographisch-kritischer Anzeiger fur romaniscbo
       Sprachen und Literaturen, Band I. 8vo. 1889.
 Bolton, H. Carrington, Esq, Ph.D. (the Author)—Ancient Method of Filtration.
       8vo. 1880.
    Catalogue of Chemical Periodicals. 8vo. 1 885.
    Abstracts of Papers (New York Academy of Sciences). 8vo. 1888.
 Britiih Architect*, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1888-9, Nos. 13, 14. 4to.
 Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. VIII. No. 4. 8vo. 1889.
 Chemical Society—Journal for May 1889. 8vo.
 Costa Rica Legation—Case and Arguments of the Republic of Nicaragua. 8vo.
       1887-8.
 Cracovie, L'Academie des Sciences—Bulletin, 1889, No. 4. 8ro.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for May, 1889. 8vo.
    Analyst for May, 1889. 8vo.
    Athenseum for May, 1889. 4to.
    Chemical News for May, 1889. 4to.
    Chemist and Druggist for May, 1889. 8vo.
    Electrical Engineer for May, 1889. fol.
    Engineer for May, 1889. fol.
    Engineering for May, 1889. fol.
    Horological Journal for May, 1889. 8vo.
    Industries for May, 1889. fol.
    Iron for May, 1889. 4to.
    Murray's Magazine for May, 1889. 8vo.
    Nature for May, 1889. 4to.
    Photographic News for May, 1889. 8vo.
    Revue Scientifique for May, 1889. 4to.
    Telegraphic Journal for May, 1889. 8vo.
    Zoophilist for May, 1889. 4to.
 Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, No. 79. 8vo. 1889.
  Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 761. 8vo. 1889.
  Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. XI. No. 5.        8vo.
       1889.

1889.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                        527
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1889, No. 4-6. 8vo.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 178. 8vo. 1889.
Hall, Rev. A. J. (the Author) —Grammar of the Kwagintl Language (Trans. Roy.
      Soe. Canada, Vol. VI. 1888). 4to. 1889.
Harlem, Socifle Hollandaise des Sciences— Archives Neerlandaises, Totae XXIII.
      Liv. 2. 8vo. 1889.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 132, 173. 8vo. 1889.
Liverpool Polytechnic Society—Journal, Nos. 50, 51. 8vo. 1887-8.
Madrid Royal Academy of Sciences—Anuario, 1889. 8vo.
Major, Frederick, Esq. (the Author)—Spacial and Atomic Energy, Part 1. 8vo.
      1889.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions. Vol. XX. Parts 5-8. 8vo. 1889.
Meteorological Office—Hourly Readings, 1886, Part 3. 4to. 1889.
   Report of the Meteorological Council, Sept. 1888. 8vo.
   Weekly Weather Reports, NOs. 1-21. 4to. 1889.
Middlesex Hospital—Reports, 1887. 8vo. 1888.
National Life-Boat Institution, Royal—-Annual Report, 1889. 8vo.
Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXI. Nos. 6, 7.
      New Series. 8vo. 1888.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, May, 1889. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XIII. No. 5. 8vo. 1889.
Richards, Admiral Sir G. H. K.C.B. F.R.S. &c. (the Conservator)—Report on the
      Navigation of the River Mersey, 1888. 8vo. 1889.
Ilio de Janeiro Observatory—Revista, No. 3. 8vo. 1889.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 278. 8vo. 1889.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. I. No. 11. 8vo. 1889.
Society of Arts—Journal for May, 1889. 8vo.
St. Petcrshourg Academic Impfriales des Sciences—Memoires, Tomo XXXVI.
     Nos. 12, 13. 4to. 1888.
   Bulletin, Tome XXXIII. No. 1. 4to. 1889.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 147. 8vo. 1889.
University of London—Calendar, 1889-90. 8vo.
Vereins zur BefSrderung dee Gewerhjleises in Preussen— Verhandlungen, 1889 :
     Heft, 4. 4to.
Vernon-Harcourt, L. F. Esq. M.A. (the Author)—The Principles of training
     Rivers through Tidal Estuaries (Proc. Roy. Soc. 45). 8vo. 1889.
Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 88. 8vo. 1889.
Wright & Co. Messrs. John (the Publishers)—Lectures on Massage and Electricity.
     By T. S. Dowse. 8vo. 1889.

528                          Mr. Archibald Geikie                        [Juno 7,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, June 7, 1889.
   COLONEL JAMES A. GRANT, C.B. C.S.I. F.R.S. Vice-President, in
                                    the Chair.
                 ABCHIBALD GEIKIE, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S.
         DIRKCTOK-GKXERAL Of THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE UNITKD KINGDOM.
   Recent Researches into the Origin and Age of the Highlands of
                     Scotland and the West of Ireland.
 THE records of geological history, like those of the human race,
 become more fragmentary and illegible, the farther back we truce
them into the past. While the younger rocks of the earth's crust have
 been made to yield a more or less connected story of geographical
and biological evolution, the oldest rocks have till comparatively
lately been neglected, or have been tacitly left to mere speculation
and conjecture. Only within the last few years have these ancient
 formations been seriously and sedulously attacked by scientific
methods of inquiry. Though the progress of investigation has
 necessarily been slow, a steady advance in knowledge can be
 chronicled. There is a curious fascination in this department of
 geology. These venerable rocks reveal to us the oldest known part
 of the outer shell of our planet. The palimpsest of the earth's
 surface has been written over again and again during the long ages
 of geological history ; but down among these bottom-rocks we reach
 the earliest recognisable inscriptions, and come as near towards the
 beginning of things as geological evidence by itself is ever likely to
 lead us. These records carry us back to a time anterior to that of
 the oldest fossiliferous formations, possibly to an epoch that pre
 ceded the appearance of vegetable or animal life on the globe. They
 reveal to us the very foundations of the earth's crust, on which all
 other known rocks rest, and out of the waste of which the greater
 part of these rocks has been formed.
     Within the last ten years, after prolonged misconception and
 neglect, the most ancient rocks of the British Isles have come to
 occupy a foremost place among the researches of the geologists of
 this country. The tracts where they are now exposed to view, often
 among the wildest mountains, or " placed far amid the melancholy
 main," have become favourite geological hunting grounds, and have
 furnished a notable amount of material for those disputes and com
 bats which seem to form a necessary element in geological progress.
 Avoiding, as far as possible, matters of controversy, I propose this
 evening to offer a brief outline of the actual state of knowledge, up
 to the present time, of the history of those ancient crystalline masses

 1889.]     on the Highlands of Scotland and the West of Ireland.            529
 of which onr north-western mountains are composed.* The story is
 a somewhat involved and complicated one. But its main points may
 perhaps be conveniently grasped, if we bear in mind that they
 naturally group themselves into four sections ; 1st, the Archaean
period ; 2nd, the Cambrian period ; 3rd, the Lower Silurian period ;
 4th, the period of the younger Schists.
     Let me at the outset remark that in the investigation of these
 early ages of geological history we enjoy in this country a special
 advantage. The British Isles stand on the oceanic border of a
 great continental region. They are therefore placed along that
 critical belt where not only have terrestrial disturbances been
 especially numerous and violent from the earliest geological times,
 but where an oscillation upward or downward of a few hundred feet
 has sufficed to make all the difference between land and sea. In the
 heart of a continent, as, for example, over the vast plains of Russia,
 long cycles of geological time have passed without serious dis
 turbance of any kind. To this day some of the ancient Palaeozoic
 sediments in that region, for hundreds of square miles in extent, lie
 as level as when they were deposited on the sea-floor. They have
 been uplifted bodily into laud, but still remain little more than mere
 hardened mud and sand. In Western Europe, on the other hand,
 where from the remotest geological antiquity the oscillations and
 dislocations have been innumerable, every successive continental
 uplift has recorded itself in some crumpling or fracture of the rocks.
 Hence in the geological map of that region the various formations
form a pattern of exceeding complexity, while in the maps of Eastern
Europe each of them covers a broad unbroken expanse.
                          I. THE ARCHAEAN PERIOD.
     The oldest known rocks of Europe, now generally termed
Archaean, are well exposed along the north-western borders of the
continental area from the extreme north of Scandinavia, by the west
coast of Scotland, to Galway Bay in the west of Ireland, a total
distance of some 1600 miles. They give rise to topographical
features which, where fully developed, strongly distinguish them from
all younger formations. Nowhere else can such extraordinary un-
evenness of surface be found. Knobs, hummocks, and ridges of bare
or almost bare rock, separated by narrow gullies or by wider winding
valleys, roughen the ground in every direction. In the hollows lie
innumerable tarns and lakes, or flat tracts of bog where lakes once
were. In some districts, indeed, there is as much water as land in a
given number of square miles. On a large scale, this type of scenery
is perLaps best displayed in Finland ; on a small scale, it is repeated
    * It would be obviously out of place to include here references to the
voluminous literature of the subject. A condensed summary will be found iu the
Report by the officers of the Geological Survey, ' Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc." vol.
xliv. 1888.

630                        Mr. Archibald Geikie                 [June 7,
all through the chain of the outer Hebrides, as well as on the
Archaean areas of the mainland. The most southerly points in
Scotland where it con be recognised are the island of lona and the
Ross of Mull. It reappears, however, far to the south in Ireland ;
standing out in the bold cliffs from Erris Head to Achill Island in the
west of Mayo, and finally covering an area of more than 500 square
miles in south-western Galway. In this last named district, as
Professor Hull has shown, so completely are the scenic features of
the north-west of Scotland reproduced, down even to the minutest
details, that the geologist, even before he stands on the rocks, has ZiO
difficulty in deciding that they can only be Archaean.
     What, then, are these most ancient rocks of north-western Europe,
and what has been their history ? Unfortunately the answer to these
questions cunuot be succinctly and definitely given. Owing to the
antiquity of the masses, and the prolonged series of geological revolu
tions which they have undergone, their original characters have been
somewhat effaced. In those areas where they have been least altered,
and where, therefore, they approach nearest to their primitive structure,
they have been found by my colleagues of the Geological Survey to
 be crystalline rocks, such as gabbros, diorites, and other highly basic
 compounds. These occur in zones or bosses surrounded by and
passing into rocks which have acquired the peculiarly banded struc
 ture characteristic of gneiss. That these various rocks were eruptive,
 that is, that they originally formed portions of igneous material that
rose in a molten or plastic condition from below, can hardly be
 doubted. They remind us of the deep-seated portions of some of the
 eruptive bosses so abundantly intruded into the crust of the earth, and
 now so plentifully exposed at the surface after prolonged denudation.
 Like these, they show a rudely striped or banded arrangement
 suggestive of the planes of movement or flow-structure seen in
 consolidated igneous material. They have probably resulted from
 successive protrusions of eruptive rocks at some depth within the
 crust of the earth.
     Nowhere, however, in the region to which I am referring has any
 trace of superficial eruption yet been detected. There are no true
 volcanic ejections, nor any evidence that the rocks, though certainly
 of eruptive origin, were ever connected with the ordinary explosive
 operations of volcanic vents. Not only so, but after the most careful
 search from Sutherland to Galway not a vestige have we yet found
 of any unquestionable sedimentary material. There are no con
 glomerates, no sandstones, no shales ; nor even any materials that
 might bo supposed to represent these in a metamorphosed condition.
 Of the actual surface of the earth these Archaean rocks afford no
 recognisable trace. They obviously did not form the superficial
 layer themselves. They must have lain deep under a cover of other
 material, under which they acquired their crystalline structure, and
 by the subsequent removal of which they have been exposed to the
 light.

1889.]    on Ute Highlands of Scotland and the West of Ireland.            531
    One of the most impressive features of onr recent researches
 among these rocks is the evidence of the magnitude of the interval of
time between their original protrusion and the formation of the next
group of rocks overlying them. Of the many breaks in the geological
record, none is more complete than this. We pass at one step from
Archsean rocks, dating no doubt from an early stage in the consoli
dation of the crust of the planet, to the gravelly and sandy deposits
of an inland sea, which already present all the familiar characters of
the sedimentary accumulations of later geological time.
    Some of the more prominent events in this protracted interval
may be more or less clearly discerned ; others can only be dimly
conjectured. Arranging in chronological order the more important
which have lately been recognised by the Geological Survey, I would
direct your attention to four main episodes in the Archaean history of
our north-western Highlands.*
    In the first place, the crust of the earth over that region was
thrown into a series of low arches or folds, the axes of which ran in
a general north-east and south-west direction. Its component rocks
were crushed and sheared, so as to acquire the banded and crumpled
structure of typical gneiss. Perhaps we may trace to these primeval
terrestrial movements the first shaping of the European continent,
which certainly has grown from north to south. At all events, it is
interesting to note that the undulations into which the rocks were
thrown took that north-easterly trend which is still so marked in the
long belt of crystalline schists from the North Cape all the way to
the west of Ireland.
    In the second place after these early disturbances, and probably
long after them, a remarkable series of manifestations of plutonic
energy occurred. The region extending from the north-west of
Scotland to the west of Ireland was convulsed by the production of
innumerable dislocations in the solid terrestrial crust, having a
general west-north-west direction. Up these gaping rents molten
basic lava rose from some subterranean reservoir, and solidified
in broad dykes of black basalt. Some of these dykes can be traced
for ten or twelve miles till they run out to sea at the one end and
pass under younger overlying formations at the other. Yet again at
a somewhat later period another series of fissures was opened slightly
oblique to the direction of the first, and in these still more basic lava
formed a second series of dykes trending nearly east and west. Nor
was this all, for there followed a third period of convulsion which
gave birth to a series of huge dykes of granite.
    Whether or not any of the eruptive material that filled these suc
cessive fissures ever rose to the surface and flowed out there, or gave
rise to the explosive phenomena of true volcanic vents cannot be
certainly affirmed. But an interesting piece of evidence points to the
   • Those who wish fuller details on this subject will fiud Uicm in the Survey
Report already quoted.

  532                        Mr. Archibald Geikie                 [June 7,
  probability that suck a connection with the surface was really esta
  blished. In some of the conglomerates of the next succeeding group
  (Cambrian or Torridon sandstones), there occur fragments of highly
  vesicular lavas, which show that at some time previous to the deposit
  of these coarse sediments, active volcanic vents existed somewhere in
  the region of the north-west of Scotland. As yet, however, no trace
  has been discovered of any of the lava-streams which flowed out at
  the surface.
      Although volcanic energy has long been quiescent over the
  British Isles, probably no area in Europe exhibits within so
  limited a space so long and varied a record of volcanic eruptions.
  There is, therefore, a peculiar interest about these traces of the
  ancient volcanoes which in Archsean time rose along the Atlantic
  border in the north-west of Scotland, for they stand at the very be
  ginning of that long history. Moreover, so far as we can interpret
  their remains, they seem in a curious way to have anticipated the
  characteristics of the last great volcanic episode in Britain-—that to
  which we owe the Tertiary basaltic plateaux of Antrim and the Inner
  Hebrides. In both cases, the distinguishing feature was the fissuring
  of the terrestrial crust and the uprise of basic lava in the rents, with
  the consequent production of innumerable parallel dykes trending in
  a general north-westerly direction.
      In the third place, after the production of the basic dykes, there
  came another prolonged interval, during which a series of remarkable
  terrestrial disturbances affected the north-west of Scotland. The
  crust of the earth in that part of Europe was once more dislocated by
  innumerable fissures, produced probably at successive epochs of
  paroxysm, for they can bo grouped into three distinct series. Of
  these, one runs approximately parallel with the north-west dykes, the
  second trends east and west, and the third runs north-east and south
  west, or north and south. So far as yet discovered, no lava of any
  kind welled upwards into those fissures. They are ruptures, but not
  dykes. They were accompanied, however, by the manifestation of
  another form of terrestrial energy, the geological efficacy of which
  has only recently been recognised. The lines of vertical fracture
  became also lines of horizontal or oblique movement during the vast
  strain of terrestrial contraction. One side was driven past the other
  side, and with such irresistible force that the rocks for some distance
  on either side were dragged into the line of movement, crushed down,
  and forced to assume a new crystalline arrangement of their materials.
  The basalt dykes, reduced sometimes from a width of 50 or G0 yards
  to only four feet or less, were changed into diorites, and where the
  shearing was greatest, into hornblende-schists. The gneiss, in like
  manner, was thrown into sharp folds, and had a newer foliation
  developed in it parallel with the new planes of movement.
      In the fourth place, during the prolonged succession of changes
  which 1 have thus briefly summarised, there must have been in pro
  gress a continuous denudation of the surface of the Archaeau land in
,

1889.J OH the Highlands of Scotland and the West of Ireland.         533
the north-west of Europe. Doubtless, each of the subterranean dis
turbances more or less aS'ected the surface. The land was by degrees
ridged up above the sen, and its height and breadth were probably
from time to time increased by local uplifts accompanying the
disturbances. But as soon as the laud appeared, it began to be
attacked by the waves, the air, rain, and running water. Terrestrial
convulsions were intermittent, but superficial waste continued uninter
rupted. Whatever may have been the character of its topography,
the first formed land, as soon as it rose, became a prey to the denuding
forces, and had its original surface gradually stripped off. We
have no means of telling how great a thickness of material was in
this manner removed from the land before the time of the next geo
logical period, nor for how vast a time this slow process of denuda
tion went on. All that we can now discover is a series of detached
fragments of the surface of this primeval Europe, which have been
preserved by being buried under the pile of material formed out of
the waste of the Archaean rocks. From these fragments we learn that
the rocks had been enormously denuded so as to lay bare to the surface
some of their deep-seated parts, the land shaped out of them having
been carved into dome-shaped hills and basin-like hollows, not very
different from those which are so characteristic of the Archaean
tracts to-day.
                      II. THE CAMBRIAN PERIOD.
    We now reach the base of the stratified formations of the British
Isles, and enter upon a series of records which deal not with subter
ranean but with superficial changes, and in which the earliest
geographical conditions of our area are more or less fully chronicled.
These records consist of a pile of dull-red sandstones, conglomerates,
and breccias, with grey, green, and black mndstones, marls and
shales, attaining a maximum thickness of perhaps 10,000 feet.
This great accumulation, chiefly of coarse sediment, was derived from
the waste of the Archaean laud. The pebbles in its conglomerates are
fragments of that land, and enable us to form some conjecture as to
the nature of the materials that composed its surface. An examina
tion of these pebbles brings to light the important fact that besides
the detritus of the gneiss and other Archaean rocks which can now
be seen in situ, the conglomerates are made up of materials derived
from some still older sedimentary formations which have entirely
disappeared from our area. These included such rocks as quartzite,
greywacke, shale, and limestone, besides abundant pieces from the
lavas, which I have already referred to as having probably been
erupted to the surface in pre-Cambrian time. The destruction of
these intervening deposits, and the chance discovery that they once
existed because fragments of them have been found in later con
glomerates, serve to impress upon us the imperfection of the
Geological Record and the vastnoss of the intervals of time which
may sometimes separate two successive groups of rock.

534                             Mr. Archibald Geikie                    [June 7,
      The thick mass of red sandstone and conglomerate, which rests
directly on the Archaean gneiss, forms some of the most singular
scenery in the north-west of Scotland. Owing to vast denudation,
which began before the next group of strata was deposited, it has
been worn down into isolated mountains, which rise like a chain of
colossal pyramids along the western shores of Sutherland and Ross.
The almost level lines of stratification give to these eminences a look
of architectural symmetry, in striking contrast with the more tumul
tuous aspect of the other rocks of the region, while their red tone
of colour marks them out boldly from the wastes of grey gneiss below
and the crags of white quartzito beyond. From the far northern cliffy
of Sutherland these massive red sandstones can be followed almost
continuously to the southern headlands of Skye. They reappear in
great force in the island of Rum, beyond which they are not certainly
traceable. A group of highly altered grits and schists, seen under
tlic. great basaltic plateau of Gribun, on the west side of the island of
Mull, may mark their extreme southerly limits.* The red sandstones
certainly do not come so far south as lona, and not a trace of them
has been met with in Ireland. They extend westwards across the
Minch, for a small portion of them skirts the eastern shore of the
Long Island. How far they may have stretched eastward cannot
now be determined, for their limits in that direction have been
obscured or effaced by the extraordinary series of gigantic earth-
movements to be afterwards referred to. There can be little doubt,
however, that they did not reach the district east of the line of the
Great Glen, though they not improbably lay in thick mass over
much of the country to the west of that valley.
      We cannot now trace the original limits of these red rocks, yet we
can hardly doubt that they never covered an area at all comparable
in extent to that of the rocks below and above them. They appear,
indeed, to have been accumulated in one or more basins, shut off from
free communication with the open sea, where the deposition of ferru
ginous precipitates among the ordinary mechanical sediment could go
on during the deposition of many thousand feet of rock. Such con
ditions of sedimentation were not very favourable to the existence of
life in the waters of these enclosed basins. Nevertheless, that the
waters were not entirely lifeless is shown by the discovery of organic
remains on two widely separated horizons among the sandstones.
These remains occur in grey and dark shales, the colour and compo
sition of which suggest a temporary influx of water from without
and the cessation for a time of the deposition of the iron-oxide. At
the lower horizon the fossils consist of calcareous rods, the organic
grade of which is still in dispute ; at the higher they include some
     * My attention was called to these rocks by the Duke of Argyll, who himself
suggested their possible Cambrian ago I visited them this spring, and found
them to be greatly metamorphosed. They do not appear in lona, where the base
of the sedimentary series is found resting on the Archooan guoiss.

1889.]     on the Highlands of Scotland and the West of Ireland.   535
doubtful impressions and the casts of worms. The fossiliferous bands
are to be more thoroughly searched this summer, and it is hoped that
something more deteruiinable may be obtained from them.
    Nevertheless, indistinct though these relics undoubtedly are, they
may claim the interest which arises from their being at present the
very oldest traces of organised existence yet found within our islands.
Murchison classed the red sandstones of western Sutherland and Ross
as " Cambrian," inasmuch as he found them to underlie unconformably
strata containing what he believed to be Lower Silurian fossils. It
is not improbable, however, that, they belong to an older time than
any of the Cambrian rocks of Wales.
    That the red sandstones of the north-west of Scotland were laid
down in shallow water seems to be clearly indicated by their current-
bedding and ripple-marks, as well as by the occurrence of bands of
conglomerate among them on many successive horizons. Yet they
retain these characters throughout a depth of some 10,000 feet. We
can walk over their edges and count every successive stratum for a
thickness of more than 300U feet along the sides cf a single mountain.
How, then, could such a continuous mass of shallow-water deposits
be accumulated ? I am not sure that any wholly satisfactory answer
can be given to this question, which is one that arises in the investi
gation of various epochs of geological history. That the basins must
have been due to local subsidence can hardly be doubted. We may
suppose that this downward movement continued at the same
time that the ridges which bounded the hollows continued to be
forced upward. New shore-lines would thus be brought to the level
of the water, and coarse shingle might be swept down upon pre
viously deposited fine sediment. If occasionally the barrier between
the basins and the open sea were partially submerged, the muddy
ferruginous water of the enclosed tracts might be cleared out and the
denizens of the sea might for a time enter them. Possibly the grey
and dark shales may mark these irruptions of the ocean.
    That similar conditions of geography prevailed at that period in
the extreme north-west of Europe is indicated by the fact that in
Norway a group of red sandstones and conglomerates known as the
" Sparagmite rocks " is interposed between the Archsean gneiss and
the oldest of the fossiliferous formations. In these Scandinavian
rocks we probably see traces of the extension of similar enclosed
water-basins along the eastern border of the primeval Atlantic Ocean
northwards among the hollows of the Archaean land.
    Before the next great geological period these basins had been
entirely effaced, and the geography of the region had wholly changed.
This transformation is probably traceable to two causes. First, the
terrestrial movements which led to the formation and continuance of
the basins may in the end have caused their extinction by raising
them into land, and possibly at the same time by folding and fissuring
their accumulated deposits. Secondly, as soon as these deposits,
whether split open or not, were exposed to the atmosphere they would

53(!                        Mr. Archibald GeHie                   [June 7,
begin to be worn down. That erosion took place during a pro
longed period, and to a vast extent, is shown by the fact that in some
places the thick cake of sandstone was hollowed out down to the
Archaean platform below it before the next succeeding formations
were deposited. Here again we are presented with a striking example
of the imperfection of the Geological Record.
                        III. THE SILURIAN PERIOD.
     After the long interval of time represented by the elevation of the
red sandstones into dry land, and their entire removal from some
places by denudation, the north-west of Scotland, and probably a
large tract lying around it, sank under the sea. The depression
seems to have been slow and gradual, aud to have continued until the
site of the Cambrian basins and of the surrounding region was covered
with a considerable depth of clear open sea-water. The records of
this subsidence are contained in a scries of strata having a total
thickness of somewhere about 2000 feet, and divisible into two chief
groups—a Lower, composed of quartzites, grits, and thin con
glomerate, about 500 feet in total depth, and an Upper, consisting
almost wholly of limestone. Perhaps the most striking feature iu
this series of stratified rocks is the abundance of their organic remains.
The quartzites are crowded with the tubes formed by sea-worms when
the material existed as soft white sand on the sea-bottom. The lime
stones are made up of the remains of calcareous organisms, among
which the most conspicuous that now remain are chambered shells
and gasteropods. Throughout these limestones worm-casts are present
 almost everywhere, and in such abundance as to show, as Mr. Peach
 has pointed out, that " nearly every particle of the calcareous mud
 must have passed through the intestines of worms." A large collec
 tion of fossils has been made by the Geological Survey from these
 limestones, which, though not yet specifically determined, amply con
 firm the original generalisation of Salter, made more than thirty
 years ago, that the aspect or facies of organic remains in the lime
 stones of the north-west of Scotland resembles that of the older parts
 of the Lower Silurian formations of Canada rather than that of the
 corresponding rocks in Wales. So marked is the resemblance to the
 American type as to indicate that some shore-line must once have
 stretched across the North Atlantic, in order to afford a platform for the
 free migration of marine life between the two areas. The contrast
 with the Welsh type has been explained by the probable existence of
 some barrier that separated the sea-bed over the north-west of Scotland
 from that of southern Scotland, England, and Wales. That such a
 barrier existed is tolerably certain, and I shall presently refer to some
 indications of its probable position. At the same time it may be
 open to question whether the Durness limestones can be properly
 correlated as homotaxial equivalents of any Lower Silurian rocks in
 AVales. My own impression is that they may be older than the

1889.J    on the Highlands of Scotland and the West of Ireland.     537
         Arenig rocks, and may be equivalent to some part of the
" Primordial Silurian " or Cambrian series. Tbis, however, is a
question that must remain unsettled until a thorough critical exami
nation of the fossils has been completed.
    The area within which these Silurian quartzites and limestones
can be certainly recognised, forms a narrow belt extending for about
110 miles along the north-west coast of Scotland, from the northern
coast of Sutherland to the south of thu island of Skye. Throughout
that extent of ground the rocks exhibit remarkable persistence in the
character and thickness of their several subdivisions, whence the
inference may legitimately bo drawn that the area within which they
are now visible forms but a small part of the region over which they
were originally deposited.
    It was claimed by Murchison, and generally conceded by geologists,
that the quartzites and limestones of the north-west pass upward into
a younger series of schists, representing metamorphosed sedimentary
rocks. This order of succession appeared to be established by the
evidence of many clear natural sections along the whole tract from
Durness to Skye. It was first adopted and afterwards opposed by
Nicol, who in his later papers maintained that the supposed younger
schists were merely the old or Archaean gneiss brought up again by
great faults, and pushed over the younger formations. But he failed
to account for the striking difference in petrographical character
between the old gneies and the younger schists, and for the remark
able coincidence between the general dip of the latter and that of
the Silurian stratified rocks on which they seemed to rest conformably.
During the last ten years various geologists have renewed the investi
gation of the question, among whom I may specially mention Dr. Hicks,
Professor Bonney, Dr. Callaway, Professor Lapworth, and the members
of the Geological Survey, particularlv Messrs. Peach, Home, and
Clough. The result of their labours has been, in the first place, the
discovery of one of the most complicated pieces of geological structure
at present known in any country ; in the second place, the abandon
ment of all further controversy, and the attainment of complete
harmony regarding the order of geological succession in the north
west Highlands.
    Murchison's view that there is a regular upward passage from the
quartzitcs and limestones into the upper schists is proved to be
erroneous, while Nico1's contention that the old gneiss is brought up
again above the Silurian rocks is found to be so far correct. But the
structure is now seen to be infinitely more complex than Nicol
imagined, while, on the other hand, Murchison's belief that the
younger schists were evidence of a gigantic metamorphism later than
Lower Silurian time is undoubtedly true, though in a sense very
different from that in which he looked at the question.
    Nowhere in the north-west Highlands can any rock be seen resting
in its original and natural position above the limestones. The highest
limestone of Durness is the youngest rock of that region about the

538                      Mr. Archibald GciMe                    [June 7,
geological position of which there is any certainly. At present wo
know absolutely nothing of other sedimentary strata which followed
that limestone. That such strata continued to be deposited is certain,
for the changes which the quartzites and limestones have undergone
could not have taken place save under the pressure of a thick mass of
overlying material. But this superincumbent mass has been entirely
obliterated in the extraordinary series of terrestrial movements whieji
I have now to describe.
              IV. THE PERIOD OF THE YOUNGER SCHISTS.
     Without entering into details, which are only intelligible with the
help of a large map and sections, and oven with this aid involve ruach
disquisition of a technical kind, I may briefly say that after the
deposition of the limestone and of the missing strata, whatever these
may have been, which covered them, the whole region was convulsed
 by a series of disturbances, to which there has since been no parallel
 within our borders. By a series of intermittent movements the
terrestrial crust, for thousands of feet downward, over the north-west
 Highlands, was fissured and pushed bodily westward. The various
 geological formations of that district — Archaean, Cambrian, aud
 Silurian—were disrupted and driven over each other. Thus masses
 of rock, not more than a few hundred feet thick, were piled up so as
 to appear multiplied tenfold. The youngest strata were doubled
 under the oldest, and large slices of the ancient Archaean gneiss were
made to rest on the Silurian limestones.
     Fortunately the strongly marked characters of the different
members of the Silurian series, the striking contrast between them
and the Cambrian sandstones and Archaean gneiss, and the manner in
which all these rocks are now laid bare on coast cliffs and rugged
hill-sides, have rendered possible the task of unravelling this laby
rinthine structure. The large maps, on the scale of 6 inches to a mile,
on which this structure has been worked out by the Geological Survey,
are by far the most complicated which the Survey has yet produced ;
indeed, I am not aware that such mapping has ever before been
attempted.—[Some specimens of these maps were exhibited.]
     On exposed rock-faces we see a thin group of strata repeated
again and again by small reversed faults, the lower beds being made
to rest on the higher till they occupy a great breadth of ground, and
appear of considerable thickness. Further examination will generally
 show that they have been all pushed westwards, and that their trun
 cated under ends rest upon a platform of undisturbed rock along
 which they have travelled. We may further observe them to be
 abruptly cut off at a higher level by a sharp line, on which perhaps
stands another series of piled-up beds. This piling up and trunca
tion of the rocks is followed by a still more gigantic displacement.
Lower and lower portions of the geological series have been torn
up and thrust westward until at last the Archaean platform has given

1889.]    on the Highlands of Scotland and the West of Ireland.      539
way, and masses of it, many hundreds of feet in thickness and many
miles in length, have been driven over the younger formations. The
horizontal distance to which this removal has reached can sometimes
be shown to have amounted to at least ten miles ; perhaps it may have
been sometimes even greater.
    In studying this complicated system of dislocations we soon meet
with evidence that the movements were not all effected at one time,
but that on the contrary they took place at intervals, the earlier
being disrupted by the later. The lines of maximum thrust override
those of lesser size, and the roost easterly of these lines passes suc
cessively across all the others till it rests directly on unmoved rocks.
The period of terrestrial disturbance was probably a prolonged one,
and this inference is strengthened by other evidence to be afterwards
adduced.
     The direction of movement has been on the whole from the
E.S.E. Bordering the west coast of Sutherland and Ross there is a
strip of ground about 10 or 15 miles broad and some 90 miles
long, in which the rocks have not been displaced. East of that strip,
along a belt of dislocation varying up to five or six miles in breadth,
the disturbances become increasingly numerous and powerful to
wards the interior, until at last a gigantic thrust-plane is encountered,
 above and beyond which the rocks have been so crushed and altered,
 that it is for the most part no longer possible to tell what their
 original character has been. They are now flaggy schists—the
younger " quartzose and gneissose flagstones " of Murchison, " the
Moine schists " of the Geological Survey.
     The enormous amount of fracturing, displacing and crushing
 caused by these terrestrial disturbances has resulted in the develop
 ment of regional metamorphism on an extensive scale. Every stage
 can be traced from a sandstone or conglomerate into a perfect schist,
 and from the most typical coarse Archaean gneiss into a fine lami
 nated slate.
     Where the feeblest amount of alteration has taken place, the rock
 has been merely somewhat crushed, its larger crystals or pebbles
 have been fractured, and the separated portions have been recemented.
 A further stage is shown where the fine material of the rock has
 been more comminuted and has been drawn out round the flattened
 and elongated crystals or pebbles. The latter give way in proportion
 to their power of resistance. The felspars and hornblendes are first
 left as " eyes " and then crushed down till they disappear in the
 general matrix. The harder quartz-pebbles of the conglomerates
 have resisted longer; but they too, in the planes of great movement,
 are found to be pulled out to twice or four times their length, or to
 be flattened out into mere thin plates like pennies. One of the most
 singular proofs of this internal movement of the component particles
 of even so obdurate a rock as quartzite is shown by the deformation
 of the worm-tubes. As these tubes come within the influence of the
 movement their vertical position changes into an inclined one, and they
      VOL. XII. (No. 83.)                                      2 o

540                       Mr. Archibald Geikie                   [June 7,
become gradually flatter and more drawn out till at last, before they
cease to be traceable, they appear as mere long ribbons on the surface
of the rock, which then becomes a quartz-schist. Along the planes
of intense crushing the original structure of a rock is entirely effaced,
its crystals or grains are ground into fragments, and it acquires a
streaked laminated structure like a shale or slate.
     But for the most part, concomitant with the mechanical destruc
tion of the various rocks, there has been a chemical and mineralogical
re-arrangement of their particles. Out of their broken-down
materials new minerals have crystallised, and this process of recon
 struction has, in the most thoroughly altered masses, proceeded so far
that the whole new structure is now crystalline. In this manner,
 mica, quartz, felspar, hornblende, and other minerals, have been
 developed, and have arranged themselves along the lines of movement
 in the crushed rock. These lines, approximating to the surfaces of
 the great thrust-planes, may be utterly discordant from the structure-
 lines, such as those of foliation or bedding, in the original mass.
 Rocks of this character are true schists, and I know of no internal or
 external signs by which, apart from field-evidence, they are to be
 distinguished from Archsean schists as to the derivation of which we
 can only guess, and which, therefore, mast in the meantime be con
 sidered as original rocks.
     By the aid of the microscope, much assistance is obtained in
 tracing out the mineral transformations which have taken place in
 the course of this regional metamorphism. To show the larger features
 of the change, so far as they can bo judged of in hand-specimens, I
 exhibit on the table a series of pieces of the crushed gneiss, quartzite,
 and conglomerate ; and to illustrate the internal changes I show a
 selection of slides on the screen, photographed from thin slices of
 the rocks as seen under the microscope.
      The importance of the discovery of this belt of extreme compli
 cation in the north-west Highlands can hardly be overestimated. It
 gives us the key to the geological structure, not only of the Highlands,
 but of all the areas of younger crystalline schists in our own area,
 and will doubtless be found to explain much in the geological struc
 ture of Scandinavia. The lines of maximum thrust-planes can be
 followed for 100 miles, from the north of Sutherland into Skye ; but
 this is only a small part of their extent. They can be picked up
 again in the west of Mayo and Donegal, a total distance of some
  400 miles. That similar lines of movement have affected Scandi
 navia and produced the distinctive strike of the rocks there can
 hardly be doubted, so that the total length of disturbed country in
  north-western Europe probably exceeds 1600 miles, trending in a
  general north-north-east direction.
      How far the influence of the great terrestrial movements extended
  eastwards from what now appears as the belt of maximum dis
  turbance, and what effect it had upon the configuration of the surface,
  are questions to which as yet no satisfactory answer can be given.

1889.]      on the Highlands of Scotland and the West of Ireland.    541
It is difficult to suppose that such colossal displacements and frac
tures of the crust should not have powerfully affected the superficial
topography of the time. They may have produced a high mountain
range, or a succession of parallel ranges, extending along the north
west of Europe. The existence of some such mass of land is needed
to account for the vast piles of sediment of which the Palaeozoic,
Secondary, and Tertiary formations have been built up. So great,
however, is the antiquity of these terrestrial movements, so continual
and gigantic has been the denudation, and so repeated have been the
oscillations of level, that the upheaved land has been reduced to the
fragments that now form the Highlands and Islands of the west of
Ireland, of Scotland, and of Scandinavia.
    It is quite clear that during the disturbances in the north-west
region the main thrust came from the eastward. It will be interesting
to discover how far towards the east these disturbances affected the
structure of the rocks beneath. That it reached across the whole
breadth of the Scottish Highlands, that is for a distance of 100 to
130 miles, can be conclusively proved. That it extended much
further and embraced within its area the whole of the Silurian regions
of the three kingdoms can, I think, be shown to be highly probable.
     To understand this part of the problem it is necessary to consider
the structure of the ground immediately to the east of the belt of
extreme complication in the north-west Highlands. I have said that
the displacements and metamorphism increased in intensity from
west to east, until at last, by a final gigantic thrust, a series of re
constructed schists has been driven over rocks whose origin can still
be determined. Among these eastern schists it is occasionally possible
to detect more or less reliable traces of the original rocks out of the
crushing down of which they have been formed. Thus we find in
the northern part of the area slices of Archaean and eruptive rocks,
and in the south an increasing amount of material which has been
derived from the destruction of the red Cambrian sandstones. It is
tolerably evident that in the broad band of country which extends
from the belt of complication eastwards to the Moray Firth and the
line of the Great Glen, and embraces the mountainous tracts of
Sutherland, Boss, western Inverness-shire, and north-western Argyll
shire, the lower parts of the Geological Record are repeated again
and again. It is mainly the Archsean platform, with its covering of
 Cambrian sandstones, and possibly the lower parts of the Silurian
series, which have been broken up, plicated, crushed, and converted
 into the series of crystalline schists that form the picturesque heights
 of Ben Hope and Ben Klibric southward to Moidart and Morven.
 Nevertheless when this wild tract of country comes to be mapped out
 in detail, there will probably be found intercalated bands of higher
 formations which have here and there been caught in folds of thu
lower rocks.
     But when we pass eastwards from the Great Glen into the moun
 tains of eastern Inverness-shire, Perthshire, and the south-western
                                                            2 o 2

 542                        Mr. Archibald Geikie                [June 7,
 Highlands, we encounter a totally different series of rocks. Though
 greatly plicated, dislocated, crushed, and metamorphosed, these rocks
 can be recognised as unquestionably, in the main, of sedimentary
 origin. They must be many thousands of feet in thickness, including
 among their members such rocks as conglomerate, pebbly grit,
 quartzite, black slate, andalusite slate, phyllite, mica-schist, fine
 flaggy gneiss, and limestone, together with intrusive sheets and bosses
 of various eruptive rocks. Some of the groups of this series can
 be followed and mapped for long distances with nearly as much ease
 as the members of a succession of unaltered Palaeozoic or Secondary
 formations. There is a bolt of limestone, for example, which has
 been traced by the Geological Survey almost continuously from the
 coast of Banffshire to the west of Argyllshire, through the very heart
 of the Highlands—a total distance of not much less than 200 miles.
 These limestones have for the most part become so thoroughly crys
 talline that fossils can hardly be expected to be found in them,
 though there are occasional less altered portions of rock which may
 eventually prove to be fossiliferous. The limestones are associated
 with quartzitcs and schists, as unaltered limestones are with sand
 stones and shales. I cannot myself doubt that they have been formed
 by the aggregation of the remains of calcareous organisms. The
 same rocks are prolonged into the north of Ireland, where one of the
 dark limestones at Culdaff has lately yielded certain bodies which
 some palaeontologists have declared to be the remains of a coral
 (Favorites). The black slates which so closely resemble the dark
 carbonaceous shales of the Lower Silurian region of south Scotland
 have afforded in Donegal some curious pyritous markings strongly
suggestive of graptolites.
     Out of this enormous mass of metamorphosed sedimentary strata
 the Scottish Highlands east of the Great Glen are built up, as well
as the region which extends southwards across the north-west of
 Ireland as far as the centre of County Galway. The first question
that requires an answer with regard to it has reference to its relation
to the fossiliferous quartzites and limestones of the north-west.
Murchison, who led the way in the investigation of the stratigraphy
of the Highlands, believed that the quartzites and limestones of the
Central Highlands lay towards the base of the whole series of post-
Cambrian rocks, and were the south-eastward extensions of those of
Sutherland. But recent investigations throw some doubt on this
view, which at the time it was promulgated seemed BO natural and
simple. We know that the quartzites and limestones of the Central
Highlands, so far from being near the bottom of the vast series of
schists, are underlain by many thousand feet of other metamorphosed
sedimentary strata, and that the actual base is nowhere reached in
that region.
    During the last two years, in concert with some of my colleagues
of the Geological Survey, I have devoted some time to the task of
endeavouring to find the bottom of these crystalline schists of Scot

 1889.]      on the Highlands of Scotland and the West of Ireland.         5-13
 land and Ireland, as a necessary foundation for placing them on their
 true geological horizon, and at length this spring our efforts have
 been successful beyond our expectations. Last year in the north-west
 of the island of Islay I found a group of scarcely altered shales,
 grits, and thin limestones emerging from beneath the black slates
 which underlie the schists, limestones, and quartzites of that region.
 So little have these s'rata sHffered from the metamorphism which has
 affected the rocks lying above and to the east of them, that I quite
 anticipate that fossils will be found in them. This year, in company
 with Mr. C. T. Clougb, I came upon a somewhat similar group of
 little metamorphosed black slates and grits at the north-east end of the
 island of lona. I am hopeful that these strata will yield fossils ; I
 myself found in them some short black lines, which at once recalled
 the form and condition of the fragments of the central rods of grapto-
 lites so commonly met with in the black shales of the Southern
 Uplands of Scotland. The discovery of recognisable fossils in these
 strata would fix the geological age of the rocks of the Central High
lands and of the north-west of Ireland.
     An interesting feature about these slates of lona is that they lie
at the very bottom of the series of younger schists. Immediately
under them are a coarse grit (arkose) and conglomerate, formed out of
the Archaean gneiss, which comes out in great force from underneath
them and forms the main part of the island.* Thu uprise of an axis
of the old gneiss so far to the east of the line of great complication,
and at the base of the vast sedimentary masses of the Central
Highlands, is a fact of great importance. We seem to find here a
fragment of the old barrier which separated the American province
in which the Durness limestones were deposited, from the area of
Western and Central Europe in which the other Silurian formations
of Britain were laid down. Prolongations of the same ridge towards
the north-east are possibly to be traced even as far as the mountains
between the head of the rivers Nairn and Findhorn, where some of
my colleagues think that there is probably another core of the
Archaean gneiss.
     The search for a base to the same great series of schists as they
are developed in the north-west of Ireland has been equally success
ful. Along the west of County Mayo Archsean gneiss has been
recognised by us,f exhibiting the typical characters of the same rock
in the north-west of Scotland. In Achill Island we found the
base of the quartzite and schist series in the form of a coarse quartz-
conglomerate resting on the gneiss. But all these rocks have come
within the influence of the intense regional metamorphism. The
conglomerate in particular has had its quartz-pebbles pulled out in
    * The existence of a slight displacement at the actual junction does not
obscure the evidence of the true relation of the rocka.
    t In my recent traverses in the west of Ireland I had the advantage of the
company and assistance of my colleagues, Mr. Peach, Mr. M'Henry, and
Dr. Jfyhind.

544                        Mr. Archibald Geikie                  [June 7,
the direction of movement, and its paste has been converted into a
fine kind of gneiss.
     Having thus traced an original westward boundary to the younger
crystalline schists of Ireland and Scotland, I saw that it would be
important to follow their eastern boundary as far as it had not been
concealed by later formations. In Galway we found that the quartz-
ites, limestones, and schists are succeeded to the south by the large
area of Archaean gneiss already referred to. But the boundary between
the two groups of rock is one of extreme complication, somewhat like
that of the north-west Highlands. Along a line running east and west
through the heart of this county from Mannin Bay to Lough Corrib,
the two groups have been so dislocated and so thrust between and
over each other that much time and patience, with the use of large-
scale maps, would be required to map out their respective areas. But
the important fact is readily perceptible that in Galway the uprise
of a large Archaean area gives us a southern limit for the basin in
which the younger schists of the north-west of Ireland were deposited.
     To the east and north-east of the Galway urea the country has
been overspread with Old Red Sandstone and Carboniferous strata, so
that for a long space the older rocks are concealed. Far to the
north-east in Tyrone, on the southern borders of the groat area of
 crystalline schists, a mnss of dark hornblendic rocks was mapped
 some years ago by Mr. Nolan of the Geological Survey of Ireland,
 and referred doubtfully to a pre-Cambrian age. A more recent ex
 amination of this mass, with the experience gained over so wide a
 region among the older crystalline rocks, has enabled us to identify
 it without hesitation as a characteristic portion of the Archaan gneiss.
 It rises as a long north-east ridge along the south-eastern margin of
 the chloritic schists of Londonderry which were deposited against
 and over it. We discovered moreover that these schists have at their
 base, resting on the old gneiss, a thick volcanic series consisting of
 amygdaloidal basic lavas, tuffs, and coarse volcanic agglomerates.
 The green chloritic material of the schists, not improbably represents
 the original magnesiau silicates in the finer volcanic dust that mingled
 with the ordinary sediment of the sea-bottom.
     From the evidence now adduced, it is, I think, manifest that the
 crystalline schists of the Scottish Highlands east of the Great Glen,
 as well as their continuation into the north-west of Ireland, cannot
 be regarded as merely the equivalents of the quartzites and limestones
 of Sutherland and Eoss. They are enormously thicker and more
 varied in their component members than those north-western strata.
 Whether even any part of them represents the sedimentary rocks of
 the north-west seems to me open to serious doubt. My own impres
 sion is that they are probably younger than these rocks, and that they
 once stretched far to the north-west and covered them to a depth of
many thousands of feet. That the fossiliferous strata of the north
 west Highlands were originally buried under a thick pile of other
sediments I have already shown.

 1889.]     on the Highlands of Scotland and the West of Ireland.    545
     The last question on which I propose to touch is the geological
 date of the extraordinary terrestrial disturbances to which the crystal
 line schists of the Highlands of Scotland and the north-west of
 Ireland, owe their characteristic structures. The limit of its antiquity
 is easily fixed. As these disturbances involve rocks containing fossils
 of Lower Silurian age, they must obviously have taken place after
 some part at least of the Lower Silurian period. In Scotland their
chronological limit in the other direction is determined by the fact
 that the conglomerates of the Lower Old Red Sandstone, are largely
composed of the crystalline schists of the Highlands. They must
consequently have occurred before the deposition of some part at
least of the Lower Old Red Sandstone. Here, then, is a long geo
logical interval within which the gigantic upthrusts and meta-
morphism began and ended.
     But the evidence obtained in Ireland enables us to fill up this
interval with a little more definiteness. In southern Mayo and
northern Galway, as Professor Hull has pointed out, the Upper
Silurian rocks rest upon and contain abundant fragments of the
younger crystalline schists which stretch into these counties from
Donegal. And the inference has naturally been drawn that the great
terrestrial disturbances and metamorphism occurred before the Upper
Silurian period. But a recent more critical examination of the
ground has satisfied me that this inference, though to a certain extent
correct, does not embrace the whole truth.
     Those who have visited Connemara may remember the singular
group of mountains, which hem in the Killary fjords, and rise in
Mweelrea and its neighbouring ridges to a height of more than 2600
feet above the sea that frets their base. These massive buttresses of
rock owe their distinctive forms to the thick beds of coarse grit and
conglomerate of which they are in great measure built up. An
abundant series of fossils proves that this mass of deposits is of Upper
Silurian age. It is the base of these exceedingly coarse sediments
which along their southern margin can be seen to rest upon the
upturned edges of the crystalline schists, and to be there largely
made up of fragments derived from that metamorphic platform.
The numerous bands of coarse conglomerate upon successive horizons
serve to indicate considerable terrestrial disturbance during their
deposition. That the commotion continued after that time is further
shown by the remarkable way in which the rocks have been dislocated.
These Upper Silurian sediments have been broken up into large
mountainous blocks which have been thrown on end or actually
pushed over each other. So violent has the movement been along
certain lines, that the bands of greywacke and shale have been
intensely crumpled and puckered, and have actually been converted
locally into fine micaceous schists.
     Hence it seems tolerably certain that though in the west of
Ireland the chief plications, fractures, and metamorphism were
completed before Upper Silurian time, and though a vast interval

  546 Mr. Archibald Geikie on the Highlands of Scotland, &c.   [June 7,
  must have elapsed during which the progress of denudation laid bare
  the younger schists and thereby provided materials for the Upper
  Silurian conglomerates, the terrestrial disturbances nevertheless
  continued during the deposition of these conglomerates, and were
  renewed with increased vigour afterwards.
       If we compare the geological structure of the Silurian tracts of
  England, Wales, the south of Scotland, and the east of Ireland, with
  that of the areas of the younger crystalline schists, many points of
  resemblance will be seen to occur between them. Towards the north
  and north-west we find that the Archaean, Cambrian and oldest
  Silurian rocks, now exposed there by the progress of denudation,
  have been subjected to the intensest mechanical deformation, and
  have assumed the most completely schistose structures. Coming
  southward, we trace the younger crystalline schists of the central
  Highlands and of Donegal thrown into innumerable north-east
  and south-west folds, and becoming less and less metamorphosed as
  they are followed towards the lower grounds. Still further south the
   Lower and Upper Silurian rocks, plicated, crumpled and dislocated,
   repeat the familiar structure of the southern Highlands, but with
   only partial and feeble metamorphism. I am disposed to look upon
   the whole of these structures as the result of one great succession
   of terrestrial movements which began and reached their maximum of
   intensity during some part of Lower Silurian time, but which con
   tinued to repeat themselves at intervals with greater or less vigour
   through a long series of geological ages, down to the early part of
   the Old Red Sandstone period.
        As the consequence of this prolonged disturbance the Archaean
   and older Palaeozoic rocks have been thrown into those north-east
   and south-west folds, which have in large part determined the trend
    of the land in the north-west of Europe. The shaping of our
   mountains into their present forms has been brought about by ages
   of subsequent sculpture in which the agencies employed by nature
   have operated mainly on the surface, but the carving of their
    features has been guided by the internal structures developed by
    those subterranean movements which we have been considering.
                                                              [A. G.]
\

1889.]              Mr. C. V. Boys on Quartz Fibres.                 547
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, June 14, 1889.
    WILLIAM HUOOINS, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                        C. V. BOYS, Esq. F.R.S.
                              Quartz Fibres.
IN almost all investigations which the physicist carries out in the
laboratory, he has to deal with, and to measure with accuracy, those
subtle, and, to our senses, inappreciable forces to which the so-called
laws of nature give rise. Whether he is observing by an electrometer
the behaviour of electricity at rest, or by a galvanometer the action
of electricity in motion ; whether in the tube of Crookes he is investi
gating the power of radiant matter, or by the famous experiment of
Cavendish he is finding the mass of the earth—in these and in a host
of other cases he is bound to measure, with certainty and accuracy,
forces so small that in no ordinary way could their existence be
detected ; while disturbing causes, which might seem to be of no
particular consequence, must be eliminated if his experiments are to
have any value. It is not too much to say that the very existence of
the physicist depends upon the power which he possesses of producing
at will, and by artificial means, forces against which he balances
those that he wishes to measure.
    I had better, perhaps, at once indicate in a general way the
magnitude of the forces with which we have to deal.
    The weight of a single grain is not to our senses appreciable,
while the weight of a ton is sufficient to crush the life out of any one
in a moment. A ton is about 15,000,000 grains. It is quite possible
to measure, with unfailing accuracy, forces which bear the same
relation to the weight of a grain that a grain bears to a ton.
    To show how the torsion of wires or threads is made use of in
measuring forces, I have arranged what I can hardly dignify by the
name of an experiment. It is simply a straw hung horizontally by a
piece of wire. Resting on the straw is a fragment of sheet-iron
weighing ten grains. A magnet, so weak that it cannot lift the iron,
yet is able to pull the straw round through an angle so great that the
existence of the feeble attraction is evident to every one in the room.
    Now it is clear that if, instead of a straw moving over the table
simply, we had here an arm in a glass case and a mirror to read the
motion of the arm, it would be easy to observe a movement a hundred
or a thousand times less than that just produced, and, therefore, to

548                             Mr. C. V. Boys                         [June 14,
measure a force a hundred or a thousand times less than that exerted
by this feeble magnet.
    Again, if instead of wire as thick as an ordinary pin, I had used
the finest wire that can be obtained, it would have opposed the move
ment of the straw with a far less force. It is possible to obtain wire
ten times finer that this stubborn material, but wire ten times finer
is much more than ten times moro easily twisted. It is ten thousand
times more easily twisted. This is because the torsion varies as the
fourth power of the diameter, so we say 10 X 10 = 100 ; 100 X 100
= 10,000. Therefore, with the finest wire, forces 10,000 times
feebler still could be observed.
    It is, therefore, evident how great is the advantage of reducing the
size of a torsion wire. Even if it is only halved, the torsion is
                                        6                  10
                                        I
   Scale of l000ths of an inch for Figs. 1 to 7. The scale of Figs. 8 and 9 U
                                   much finer.
     FIG. 1.                   FIG. 2.                         FIG. 3.
    R&'lv.
reduced sixteen-fold. To give a better idea of the actual si/es of
such wires and fibres as are in use, I shall show upon the screen a
series of photographs taken by Mr. Chapman, on each of which a
scale of thousandths of an inch has been printed.
    The first photograph (Fig. 1) is an ordinary hair—a sufficiently

1889.]                       on Quartz Fibres.                     549
familiar object, and one that is generally spoken of as if it were
rather fine. Much finer than this is the specimen of copper wire now
on the screen (Fig. 2), which I recently obtained from Messrs. Nalder
Brothers. It is only a little over one-thousandth of an inch in
diameter. Ordinary spun glass, a most beautiful material, is about
one-thousandth of an inch in diameter, and this would appear to be
an ideal torsion thread (Fig. 3). Owing to its fineness, its torsion
would be extremely small, and the more so because glass is more
easily deformed than metals. Owing to its very great strength, it can
carry heavier loads than would be expected of it. I imagine many
physicists must have turned to this material in their endeavour to
find a really delicate torsion thread. I have so turned, only to be
disappointed. It has every good quality but one, and that is its
imperfect elasticity. For instance, a mirror hung by a piece of spun
glass is casting an image of a spot of light on the scale. If I turn
the mirror, by means of a fork, twice to the right, and then turn it
back again, the light does not come back to its old point of rest, but
oscillates about a point on one side, which, however, is slowly chang
ing, so that it is impossible to say what the point of rest
really is. Further, if the glass is twisted one way first, and Fla *•
then the other way, the point of rest moves in a manner
which shows that it is not influenced by the last deflection
alone : the glass remembers what was done to it previously.
 For this reason spun glass is quite unsuitable as a torsion
 thread ; it is impossible to say what the twist is at any time,
 and, therefore, what is the force developed.
    So great has the difficulty been in finding a fine torsion
thread, that the attempt has been given up, and in all the
most exact instruments silk has been used. The natural
cocoon fibres, as shown on the screen (Fig. 4), consist of
two irregular lines gummed together, each about one two-
thousandth of an inch in diameter. These fibres must be
separated from one another and washed. Then each com
ponent will, according to the experiments of Gray, carry
nearly 60 grains before breaking, and can be safely loaded
with 15 grains. Silk is, therefore, very strong, carrying at
the rate of from 10 to 20 tons to the square inch. It is
further valuable in that its torsion is far less than that of a
fibre of the same size of metal or even of glass, if such could
be produced. The torsion of silk, though exceedingly small,
is quite sufficient to upset the working of any delicate in
strument, because it is never constant. At one time the
fibre twists one way, and at another time another, and the
evil effect can only be mitigated by using large apparatus in which
strong forces are developed. Any attempt that may be made to
increase the delicacy of apparatus by reducing their dimensions is at
once prevented by the relatively great importance of the vagaries of
the silk suspension.

   550                           Mr. C. V. Boys                     [June 14,
       The result, then, is this. The smallness, the length of period,
   and therefore delicacy, of the instruments at the physicist's disposal
   have until lately been simply limited by the behaviour of silk. A
   more perfect suspension means still more perfect instruments, and
   therefore advance in knowledge.
       It was in this way that some improvements that I was making in
   an instrument for measuring radiant Leat came to a deadlock about
   two years ago. I would not use silk, and I could not find anything
                                         else that would do. Spun glass,
                  ^IQ' **•               even, was far too coarse for my
    VL                                   purpose ; it was a thousand times
                                         too stiff.
                                              There is a material, invented
                                         by Wollaston long ago, which,
                                         however, I did not try, because it
                                         is so easily broken. It is platinum
         * I                             wire which has been drawn in
                                         silver, and finally separated by
                                         the action of nitric acid. A speci
                                         men about the sizu of a single line
                                         of silk is now on the screen, show
                                         ing the silver coating at one end
                                         (Fig. 5).
                                              As nothing that I knew of
                                          could be obtained that would be
                                          of use to me, I was driven to the
                •                         necessity of trying by experiment
               tflj       i               to find some new material. The
                                          result of these experiments was the
                                          development of a process of almost
                                          ridiculous simplicity, which it
                                          may be of interest for me to show.
                             L .              The apparatus consists of a
                                          small cross-bow, and an arrow
                                          made of straw with a needle point.
                 (.                       To the tail of the arrow is attached
                                          a fine rod of quartz, which has
                                          been melted and drawn out in the
                                          oxyhydrogen jet. I have a piece
                                    EH of the same material in my hand,
                                          and now, after melting their ends
    and joining them together, an operation which produces a beautiful
    and dazzling light, all I have to do is to liberate the string of the bow
    by pulling the trigger with one foot, and then, if all is well, a fibre
    will have been drawn by the arrow, the existence of which can be
    made evident by fastening to it a piece of stamp-paper.
        In this way threads can be produced of great length, of almost
    any degree of hnencsp, (if extraordinary uniformity, and of enormous
-.

1889.]                       on Quartz Fibres.                      551
strength. I do not believe, if any experimentalist bad been promised
by a good fairy that he might have anything he desired, that he would
have ventured to ask for any one thing with so many valuable
properties as these fibres possess. I hope, in the course of this
evening, to show that I am not exaggerating their merits.
    In the first place, let me say something about the degree of fine
ness to which they can be drawn. There is now projected upon the
screen a quartz fibre one five-thousandth of an inch in diameter
(Fig. 6). This is one which I had in constant use in an instrument
and carrying about 30 grains. It has a section only one-
sixth of that of a single line of silk, and it is just as FIG. 6. FIG. 7.
strong. Not being organic, it is in no way affected by
changes of moisture and temperature, and so it is free
from the vagaries of silk which give so much trouble.
The piece used in the instrument was about 16 inches
long. Had it been necessary to employ spun glass, which
hitherto was the finest torsion material, then, instead of
16 inches, I should have required a piece 1000 feet long,
and an instrument as high as the Eiffel tower to put it in.
     There is no difficulty in obtaining pieces as fine as this
yards long if required, or in spinning it very much finer.
There is upon the screen a single line made by the small
garden spider, and the size of this is perfectly evident
(Fig. 7). You now see a quartz fibre far finer than this,
or, rather, you see a diffraction phenomenon, for no true
image is formed at all ; but even this is a conspicuous
object in comparison with the tapering ends, which it is
absolutely impossible to trace in a microscope. The next
two photographs, taken by Mr. Nelson, whose skill and
resources are so famous, represent the extreme end of a
tail of quartz, and though the scale is a great deal larger
than that used in the other photographs, the end will be
visible only to a few. Mr. Nelson has photographed here
what it is absolutely impossible to see. What the size
of these ends may be, I have no means of telling. Dr.
Royston Piggott has estimated some of them at less than one-millionth
of an inch, but whatever they are, they supply for the first time ob
jects of extreme smallness, the form of which is certainly known,
and therefore I cannot help looking upon them as more satisfactory
tests for the microscope than diatoms and other things of the real
shape of which we know nothing whatever.
     Since figures as large as a million cannot be realised properly, it
may be worth while to give an illustration of what is meant by a fibre
one-millionth of an inch in diameter.
     A piece of quartz an inch long and an inch in diameter would, if
drawn out to this degree of fineness, be sufficient to go all the way
round the world 658 times ; or a grain of sand, just visible—that is,
one-hundredth of an inch long and one-hundredth of an inch in

552                           Mr. C. V. Boys                   [June 14,
diameter—would make 1000 miles of such thread. Further, the
pressure inside such a thread, due to a surface tension equal to that of
water, would be 60 atmospheres.
    Going hack to such threads as can be used in instruments, I have
made use of fibres one ten-thousandth of an inch in diameter, and with
these the torsion is 10,000 times less than that of spun glass.
    As these fibres are made finer, their strength increases in pro
portion to their size, and surpasses that of ordinary bar steel,
reaching, to use the language of engineers, as high a figure as 80
tons to the inch. Fibres of ordinary size have a strength of 50 tons
to the inch.
    While it is evident that these fibres give us the means of pro
ducing an exceedingly small torsion, and one that is not affected by
weather, it is not yet evident that they may not show the same
fatigue that makes spun glass useless. I have therefore a duplicate
apparatus with a quartz fibre, and you will see that the spot of light
comes back to its true place on the screen after the mirror has been
twisted round twice.
    I shall now for a moment draw your attention to that peculiar
property of melted quartz that makes threads such as I have been
describing a possibility. A liquid cylinder, as Plateau has so
beautifully shown, is an unstable form. It can no more exist than
can a pencil stand on its point. It immediately breaks up into a
series of spheres. This is well illustrated in that very ancient
experiment of shooting threads of resin electrically. When the resin
is hot, the liquid cylinders which are projected in all directions
break up into spheres, as you see now upon the screen. As the resin
cools, they begin to develop tails; and when it is cool enough, i.e.
sufficiently viscous, the tails thicken, and the beads become less, and
at last uniform threads are the result. The series of photographs
show this well.
    There is a far more perfect illustration, which we have only to go
into the garden to find. There we may see in abundance what is
now upon the screen—the webs of those beautiful geometrical spiders.
The radial threads are smooth, like the one you saw a few minutes
ago, but the threads that go round and round, are beaded. The
spider draws these webs slowly, and at the same time pours upon
them a liquid, and still further to obtain the effect of launching a
liquid cylinder in space, he, or rather she, pulls it out like the string
of a bow, and lets it go with a jerk. The liquid cylinder cannot
exist, and the result is what you now see upon the screen (Fig. 8).
A more perfect illustration of the regular breaking up of a liquid
cylinder, it would be impossible to find. The beads are, as Plateau
showed they ought to be, alternately large and small, and their
regularity is marvellous. Sometimes two still smaller beads are
developed, as may be seen in the second photograph, thus completely
agreeing with the results of Plateau's investigations.
    I have heard it maintained that the spider goes round her web

1889.]                        on Quartz Fibres.                    553
and places these beads there afterwards. But since a web with about
360,000 beads is completed in an hour—that is, at the rate of about
100 a second—this does not seem likely. That what I have said is
true, is made more probable by the photograph of a           u
beaded web that I have made myself by simply strok- I0-            •
ing a quartz fibre with a straw wetted with castor-oil
(Fig. 9). It is rather larger than a spider line ; but
I have made beaded threads, using a fine fibre, quite
indistinguishable from a real spider web, and they
have the further similarity that they are just as good
for catching flies.
    Now, going back to the melted quartz, it is evident
that if it ever became perfectly liquid, it could not
exist as a fibre for an instant. It is the extreme viscosity
of quartz, at the heat even of an electric arc, that
makes these fibres possible. The only difference be
tween quartz in the oxyhydrogen jet, and quartz in the
arc, is that in the first you make threads, and in the
second are blown bubbles. I have in my hand some
microscopic bubbles of quartz, showing all the per
fection of form and colour that we are familiar with
in the soap bubble.
    An invaluable property of quartz is its power
of insulating perfectly, even in an atmosphere saturated
with water. The gold leaves now diverging, were
charged some time before the lecture, and hardly show
any change, yet the insulator is a rod of quartz only
three-quarters of an inch long, and the air is kept
moist by a dish of water. The quartz may even be
dipped in the water, and replaced with the water upon it, without
any difference in the insulation being observed.
    Not only can fibres bo made of extreme fineness, but they are
wonderfully uniform in diameter. So uniform are they, that they
perfectly stand an optical test so severe that irregularities invisible
in any microscope would immediately be made apparent. Every one
must have noticed, when the sun is shining upon a border of flowers
and shrubs, how the lines which the spiders use as railways to travel
upon from place to place glisten with brilliant colours. These colours
are only produced when the fibres are sufficiently fine. If you take
one of these webs and examine it in the sunlight, you will find, that
the colours are variegated, and the effect consequently is one of
great beauty.
     The quartz fibre of about the same size shows colours in the
same way, but the tint is perfectly uniform on the fibre. If the
colour of the fibre is examined with a prism, the spectrum is found
to consist of alternate bright and dark bands. Upon the screen are
photographs taken by Mr. Briscoe, a student in the laboratory at
South Kensington, of the spectra of some of these fibres at different

554                          Mr. C. V. Boy»                    [June 14,
angles of incidence. It will be seen that coarse fibres have more
bands than fine, and that the number increases with the angle of
incidence of the light. There are peculiarities in the march of the
bands as the angle increases which I canuot describe now. I may
only say that they appear to move not uniformly but in waves, pre
senting very much the appearance of the legs of a caterpillar walking.
     So uniform are tho quartz fibres, that the spectrum from end to
end consists of parallel bands. Occasionally a fibre is found which
presents a slight irregularity here and there. A spider line is so
irregular that these bands are hardly observable ; but, as the photo
graph on the screen shows, it is possible to trace them running up
and down the spectrum when you know what to look for.
     To show that these longitudinal bands are due to the irregularities,
I have drawn a taper piece of quartz by hand, in which the two edges
make with one another an almost imperceptible angle, and the spectrum
of this shows the gradual change of diameter by the very steep angle
 at which the bands run up the spectrum.
     Into the theory of the development of these bands I am unable to
enter ; that is a subject on which your Professor of Natural Philosophy
is best able to speak. Perhaps I may venture to express the hope,
as the experimental investigation of this subject is now rendered
possible, that he may be induced to carry out a research for which he
is so eminently fitted.
     Though this is a subject which is altogether beyond me, I have
been able to use the results in a practical way. When it is required
to place into an instrument a fibre of any particular size, all that has
to be done is to hold the frame of fibres towards a bright and distant
light, and look at them through a low-angled prism. The banded
spectra are then visible, and it is the work of a moment to pick out
one with the number of bands that has been found to be given by a
fibre of the desired size. A coarse fibre may have a dozen or more,
while such fibres as I find most useful have only two dark bands.
Much finer ones exist, showing the colours of the first order with one
dark band ; and fibres so fine as to correspond to the white, or even
the gray, of Newton's scale, are easily produced.
     Passing now from the most scientific test of the uniformity of
these fibres, I shall next refer to one more homely. It is simply this ;
the common garden spicier, except when very young, cannot climb up
one of the same size as the web on which she displays such activity.
She is perfectly helpless, and slips down like a bead upon a wire.
After vainly trying to make any headway, she finally puts her hands
(or feet) into her mouth, and then tries again, with no better success.
I may mention that a male of the same species is able to run up one
of these with the greatest ease, a feat which may perhaps save the
lives of a few of these unprotected creatures when quartz fibres
are more common.
     It is possible to make any quantity of very fine quartz fibre with
out a bow and arrow at all, by simply drawing out a rod of quartz

 1889.]                          on Quartz Fibres.                         555
 over and over again in a strong oxyhydrogen jet. Then, if a stand
 of any sort has been placed a few feet in front of the jet, it will be
 found covered with a maze of thread, of which the photograph on the
 screen represents a sample. This is hardly distinguishable from the
 web spun by this magnificent spider in corners of greenhouses and
 such places. By regulating the jet and the manipulation, anything
 from one of these stranded cables to a single ultro-microscope line
 may be developed.
     And now that 1 have explained that these fibres have such valu
 able properties, it will no doubt be expected that I should perform
 some feat with their aid which, up to the present time, has been
 considered impossible, and this I intend to do.
     Of all experiments, the one which has most excited my admiration,
 is the famous experiment of Cavendish, of which I have a full-size
 model before you. The object of this experiment is to weigh the
earth by comparing directly the force with which it attracts things
 with that due to large masses of lead. As is shown by the model,
any attraction which these large balls exert on the small ones will
 tend to deflect this six-foot beam in one direction, and then if the
balls are reversed in position, the deflection will be in the other
direction. Kow, when it is considered how enormously greater the
earth is than these balls, it will be evident that the attraction due to
 them must in comparison be excessively small. To make this evident,
the enormous apparatus you see had to be constructed, and then,
using a fine torsion wire, a perfectly certain but small effect was
produced. The experiment, however, could only be successfully
carried out in cellars or specially protected places, because changes
of temperature produced effects greater than those due to gravity.*
     Now I have, in a hole in the wall, an instrument no bigger than
a galvanometer, of which a model is on the table. The balls of the
 Cavendish apparatus, weighing several hundredweight each, are re
placed by balls weighing 1J Ib. only. The smaller balls of If Ib.
are replaced by little weights of 15 grains each. The 6-foot beam
is replaced by one that will swing round freely in a tube three-
quarters of an inch in diameter. The beam is, of course, suspended
by a quartz fibre. With this microscopic apparatus, not only is the
very feeble attraction observable, but I can actually obtain an effect
eighteen times as great as that given by the apparatus of Cavendish,
and, what is more important, the accuracy of observation is
enormously increased.
     The light from a lamp passes through a telescope lens, and falls
on the mirror of the instrument. It is reflected back to the table,
and thence by a fixed mirror to the scale on the wall, where it comes
to a focus. If the mirror on the table were plane, the whole move
ment of the light would be only about eight inches, but the mirror is
    * Dr. Lodge has been able, by an elaborate arrangement of screens, to make
this attraction just evident to an audience.—C. V. B.
     VOL. XII.       (No. 83.)                                    2 p

  556                 Mr. C. V. Boyi on Quartz Fibres.      [June 14, '89.
   convex, and this magnifies the motion nearly eight times. At the
   present moment the attracting weights are in one extreme position,
  and the line of light is quiet. I will now move them to the other
  position, nnd you will see the result—the light slowly begins to move,
  and slowly increases in movement. In forty seconds it will have
  acquired its highest velocity, and in forty more, it will have stopped
  at 5 feet 8J inches from the starting point, after which it will slowly
  move back again, oscillating about its new position of rest. It has
  moved up to and stopped exactly at the division indicated.
      It is not possible at this hour to enter into any calculations; I
  will only say that the motion you have seen is the effect of a force of
  less than one ten -millionth of the weight of a grain, and that with
  this apparatus I can detect a force two thousand times smaller still.
  There would be no difficulty even in showing the attraction between
  two No. 5 shot.
      And now, in conclusion, I would only say that if there is any
  thing that is good in the experiments to which I have this evening
  directed your attention, experiments conducted largely with sticks,
  and string and straw and sealing-wax, I may perhaps be pardoned if
  1 express my conviction that in these days we arc too apt to depart
  from the simple ways of our fathers, and instead of following them,
  to fall down and worship the brazen image which the instrument-
  maker hath set np.
                                                             [0. V. B.]
      NOTE.—I have since learnt that in 1841 M. Gaudin melted quartz
  and drew it out by hand into threads. I have given an abstract of
  his experiments in the ' Electrical Heviow ' of July 19th.
-

1888.]       Professor Dewar on Phosphorescence and Ozone.            557
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, June 8, 1888.
  SIB FREDERICK BRAMWELL, D.C.L. F.B.S. Honorary Secretary and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
                PROPESSOB DEWAB, M.A. F.R.S. AT.R.I.
                       Phosphorescence and Ozone.
IN spectroscopic observations the experimenter is often much puzzled
by the phenomena presented in high vacua, and the perplexity is
largely due to the fact that we are unacquainted with the chemical
changes which take place under such conditions. Special apparatus
has to be devised for the purpose of attempting to solve some of these
questions. Friction, heat, light, and electricity, will stimulate certain
bodies, and cause them to become phosphorescent, and cooling the
body may prevent the continuance of the luminosity. Again, by
cooling the centre of a plate which has been coated with sulphide of
calcium, light will make it phosphorescent everywhere but in the place
it has been cooled. Heat increases the luminosity at first, but it after
wards dies out more quickly than where the plate has not been
heated.
    Geissler was the first to discover that phosphorescence is sometimes
set up in residual gases in vacuum tubes. This was illustrated by
sending a discharge through a series of vacuum buIbs, in which the
traces of gas remained luminous for abont five seconds after the dis
charge had ceased ; when one of the buIbs was heated, on passing the
discharge once more, that buIb alone remained dark. Becquerel and
others investigated these phenomena ; some of the inquirers came to
the conclusion that they were produced only by oxygen compounds ;
others thought them to be due to some drying ageut used in the
construction of the buIbs.
    Ozone is a very unstable body, which cannot be kept unless
produced at a low temperature ; its boiling-point is about — 100° C.,
and at this temperature it is a blue liquid which exhibits high
absorbent powers in the luminous part of the spectrum. At low
temperatures substances may be dissolved in it, with which it explodes
at high temperatures ; bisulphide of carbon is one of these substances.
On a former occasion I have shown that at — 150° (J. phosphorus does
not combine with liquid oxygen, neither does sodium nor potassium, so
that the absence of chemical combination between ozone and oxidisable
substances is another proof of the negation of chemical combination
at low temperatures. Smell is one of the most delicate tests of the
presence of ozone, but inapplicable in the instance of the contents
of a vacuum tube ; the investigator has then to resort to chemical
means and the study of the absorption spectra. In making ozone
from oxygen, low pressures and the presence of moisture favour the
                                                            2 v 2

558                         Professor Dewar                   [Juno 8,
action, and that such conditions should favour chemical changes is
contrary to what might have been expected.
    In order to carry out the following experiments a good and
powerful air-pump is required, and the Institution is fortunate in
possessing a specially constructed instrument generously presented
by the inventor, William Anderson, Esq. M.I.C.E. Director-General
of Ordnance Factories.
                                FIG. 1.
                      Phosphorescent Gases Apparatus.
    The more essential part of the apparatus is represented in
Fig. 1. Common air is first dried and purified by passing through
one vessel containing calcium chloride, and another containing caustic
potash ; the latter absorbs the carbonic acid. The air is next filtered
by passage through a U-tube filled with cotton wool, after which it
enters through a carefully adjusted small top, the two-buIbed vacuum
tube represented in the cut. The narrow channel between the buIbs
is necessary ; the glow is concentrated thereby, and this seems to
have something to do with the effects obtained. It makes no dif
ference whether platinum, charcoal, or aluminium poles be used
inside the vacuum tube. The lower part of the tube opens into a tall
glass vessel, connected below with the exhaust pump and a mercurial
pressure gauge.
    Wben the current of highly attenuated air blows downwards
through the vacuum tube (which is surrounded by a box to prevent
any light being seen from the electrical discharge) a luminous glow,

1888.]                on Phosphorescence and Ozone.                   559
about two feet in length, resembling to the eye the tail of a comet,
appears in the large glass vessel below. This phosphorescent glow
is connected in some way with ozone, a* it occurs only with oxygen
compounds; impure air is fatal to success in the experiments,
the glow being very sensitive to traces of organic matter, especially
to the vapour of essential oils and substances which have a smell.
Hydrogen extinguishes the light ; pure oxygen increases it, and
makes the glow shorter, with a tendency to break up at the lower
end ; carbonic acid gives a glow not so bright as air, and ozone
is produced from its decomposition. Nitrous oxide gives a very
bright brush. The phosphorescence disappears at once when a
pocket-handkerchief containing any odoriferous matter is brought
near the air inlet, and afterwards much time is lost in getting the
apparatus to work as before. It is no easy matter to get the brushes
back again ; this was first found out accidentally—for days and
weeks they had been puzzled in the laboratory to understand why one
tube worked better than another. Bisulphide of carbon is an organic
body, and is the only one, so far discovered, which allows the glow
to be obtained in its presence. That these downward luminous
brushes contain ozone is proved by means of the iodide of potassium
starch test (and others), which darken in the brushes, but are not
acted upon when placed outside them near the inner sides of the
lower glass vessel. By suddenly altering the rate of oxygen supply
passing through the vacuum tube most beautiful effects of apparent
explosions of phosphorescent glows can be produced. It is re
markable that the rate of oxygen or air supply can be so regulated
that the luminous emission seems to come from a steady current of
gas passing down the middle of the tube, of almost uniform diameter,
and blending very little with the surrounding space.
    It is usually supposed that ozone is destroyed by heat, and can
only be produced at a low temperature, yet in these vacuum tubes it
is produced at a white heat. The piece of apparatus represented in
Fig. 2 enables the chemist to demonstrate that ozone can be con
tinuously produced by heating pure oxygen to a temperature of
about 1600° C. The apparatus consists of a glass tube bent at its
lower end, and passing up the centre of a tube of platinum ; a little
hole in the latter is placed just above the top orifice of the glass tube.
The upper part of the apparatus is covered with an outer tube of
platinum, which at the top very nearly touches the inner one. In
action a regulated current of water flows up the inner platinum tube,
then passes down the central glass tube, which is made longer than
the platinum tube; consequently it sucks in and carries down air,
which it draws through the little hole in the top of the inner platinum
tube. The top of the outer tube is then raised to near the melting-
point of platinum, by means of an oxyhydrogen flame, and the oxygen
beneath raised to this temperature is suddenly withdrawn and cooled
by the water current, and carried down to a collecting vessel for
examination. When tested, it is found to contain ozone ; hence ozone

560       Professor Dewar on PhospJwreseence and Ozone. [June 8, '88.
has two centres of stability, and one of them is at about the melting-
point of platinum. In this experiment ozone is formed by the action
of a high temperature, owing to the dissociation of the oxygen
molecules and their partial recombination into the more complex
                                  FIG. 2.
                             Ozone Apparatus.
molecules of ozone. We may conceive it not improbable that some
of the elementary bodies might be formed somewhat like the ozone
in the whole experiment, but at very high temperatures, by the col
location of certain dissociated constituents and with the simultaneous
absorption of heat.
                                                             [J. D.]

1889.]       Sir W. Thomson on Electrostatic MeasuremeiU.             561
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 8, 1889.
 SIB FBEDEBIOK BBAMWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Honorary Secretary
                   and Vice-President, in the Chair.
         SIB WILLIAM THOMSON, D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                       Electrostatic Measurement.
A FUNDAMENTAL requisite of a measuring instrnment is that its
application to make a measurement shall not alter the magnitude
of the thing measured. When this condition is not fulfilled (as is
essentially the case with an electric measuring instrument not kept
permanently in or on the electric circuit or system to which it is
applied), it is the magnitude as influenced or modified by the mea
suring instrument which is actually measured, and the measurement
is to be interpreted on this understanding, whatever may be the
circumstances.
    The nearest approach in electric measuring instruments to the
fulfilment of this condition, of not altering the magnitude of the
thing measured, is attained by the electrometer when applied to
measure differences of potential between different points of a wire, or
metallic mass of any shape, in which electricity is kept flowing by a
battery or dynamo or other electromotive apparatus. The insulation
of any practical electrometer is so nearly perfect that the conduction
of electricity through the instrument does not sensibly diminish the
difference of potentials of the points touched by the electrodes, and
the consumption of energy is therefore practically nil. In this respect,
therefore, the quadrant electrometer would be ideally perfect : but it
is only available for potentials of a few volts, and in its most sensitive
adjustment indicates about yj^ of a volt. The lecturer has therefore
designed for ordinary use in connection with electric lighting and the
other practical applications of electric energy, a series of instruments
which will measure by electrostatic force potentials of from 40 volts
to 50,000 volts. The construction of the various types of this series
was fully explained.
    The standardisation of these instruments up to 200 or 300 volts
is made exceedingly easy, by aid of his ceutiampere balance and
continuous rheostat, with a voltaic battery of any kind, primary or
secondary, capable of giving a fairly steady current of T^ of an ampere
through it and the platinoid resistance in series with it. The accuracy
of the electro-magnetic standardisation, within the range of the direct
application of this method, is quite within ^ per cent'. A method
of multiplication by aid of condensers, which was explained, gives an
accuracy quite within J per cent. for the measurement in volts up to

562          Sir W. Thomson on Electrostatic Measurement.        [Feb. 8,
2000 or 3000 volts ; and with not much less accuracy, by aid of an
intermediate electrometer, up to 50,000 volts.
     He also explained, and illustrated by a drawing, an absolute elec
trometer which he had constructed for the purpose of measuring " v"
the number of electrostatic units of potential or electromotive force
in the electro-magnetic unit of potential. This number " o " is
essentially a velocity, and experiments have proved it to be so nearly
equal to the velocity of light that from all the direct observations
hitherto made we cannot tell whether it is a little greater than, or a
little less than, or absolutely equal to, the velocity of light.
     The determination was made by comparing the electro-magnetic
with the electrostatic value, in C. G. S. units, as given by the balance,
for a potential of 10,000 volts : but hitherto he has not been able to
make sure of the absolute accuracy of the electrostatic balance to
closer than ^ per cent.
     The results of a great number of measurements which had been
made in the Physical Laboratory of the University of Glasgow during
the previous two months gave the required number, " v," within ^ per
cent. of 300,000 kilometres per second ; the velocity of light is
known to be within ^ per cent. of 300,000 kilometres per second.
Results of previous observers for determining " v " had almost
absolutely proved at least as close an agreement with the 300,000,000
metres. He expressed his obligations to his assistants and students
in the Physical Laboratory of Glasgow University, Messrs. Meikle,
Shields, Sutherland, and Carver, who worked with the greatest
perseverance and accuracy, in the laborious and often irksome
observations by which he had attempted to determine " v " by the
direct electrometer method, as exactly as, or more exactly than, it has
been determined by other observers and other methods.
                      Note added March Uth, 1889.
     The measurement of " « " by Sir William Thomson and Profs.
Ayrton and Perry, commnnicated to the British Association at Bath,
was too small (292) on account of the accidental omission of a
correction regarding the effective area of the attracted disk in the
absolute electrometer. When this correction is applied their result is
brought up to 298, which exactly agrees with Profs. Ayrton and
Perry's previous determination by another method, in Japan. Prof.
J. J. Thomson's result is 296-3. It is understood that Rowland has
found 299. The result of Sir William Thomson's latest observations,
founded wholly on the comparison of electrometric and electro
magnetic determinations of potential in absolute measure, is 30*1
legal ohms, or 30-04 Rayleigh ohms. Assuming, as is now highly
probable, that the Rayleigh ohm is considerably nearer than the legal
ohm to the true ohm, the result for " » " is 300,400,000 metres per
second. Sir William does not consider that this result can be trusted
as demonstrating the truth within .'. per cent.

1889.]                          General Monthly Meeting.                        563
                     GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                 Monday, July 1, 1889.
        WILLIAM CROOKES, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
             Robert Kaye Gray, Esq.
             James Mactear, Esq. F.R.S.E. F.C.S.
             William James Russell, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S. Pros. C.S.
             James Miln Small, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      The following Letter from Mrs. HENBY POLLOCK was read :—
                                                 "HALL lYArR, CRANLMGH, GUILDFORD,
                                                           "June lltk, l889.
"Mv DEAR SIB FREDERICK,
       " Although you ask me not to acknowledge it, I cannot refrain from answer-
" ing your very kind letter, dud thanking you and my husband's colleagues at the
 ' Hoyal Institution with all my heart for the warm expression of the regard and
 ' appreciation felt for him contained in the resolution and in your letter. The
  ' interest my husband felt in the Institution was very deep. It was his greatest
 ' pride nnd pleasure to be your Treasurer, and to do all he could to the last. I
 ' am rejoiced to know how affectionately he was regarded by those with whom he
    worked and for whom he cared so much. The interest he felt in the Royal
    Institution was shared and always will be by my daughter and myself, and wo
  'arc deeply grateful for the sympathy now felt for us in our sorrow. May I
 " ask you to convey my earnest thanks to the Board, and thanking you again
 " moat truly for your letter,
                                          " Believe me,
                                                 " Very sincerely yours,
                                                             "AMELIA POLLOCK."
       SIB JAMES CRIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. was elected
Treasurer of the Royal Institution in the room of HENBY POLLOCK,
Esq. deceased.
       The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
       FROM
The Governor-General of India—Geological Survey of India : Records, Vol. XXII.
       Part 2. 4to. 1889.
Accademia del Lincei, Rente, Rnrna—Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. 1° Semes-
       tre, Vol. V. Fasi-. 4, 5. 8vo. 1889.
    Memorie. Vols. III. and IV. 4to. 1886-7.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Vol. LVI. Part 2, No. 5 ; Vol. LVII. Part 2,
       No. 4. 8vo. 1888-9.
    Proceedings, 1889, Parts 9, 10. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLIX. No. 7. 8vo. 1889.
Bankers, Inatitute of—Journal, Vol. X. Part 6. 8vo. 1889.
British Architect, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1888-9, Nos. 15, 16. 4to.
California, University of—Publications, 1881-9. 8vo.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. VIII. No. 5. 8vo. 1889.
Chemical Society—Journal for June, 1889. 8vo.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, Vol. XCVL 8vo. 1888-9.

 564                          General Monthly Meeting.
 Cornwall Polytechnic Society, Rnyal—Annual Report for 1888. 8vo. 1889.
 Crisp,' Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. &c. M.H.I, (the Editor)—Journal of the Royal
      Microscopical Society, 1889, Fart 3. 8vo.
 East India Association—Journal, Vol. XXI. No. 2. 8vo. 1880.
 Editors—American Journal of Scionre for June, 1889. 8vo.
   Analyst for June, 1889. 8vo.
   Atheaaeum for June, 1889. 4to.
   Chemical News for June, 1889. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for June, 1889. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for June, 1889. fol.
   Engineer for June, 1889. fol.
   Engineering for June, 1889. fol.
   Horolngical Journal for June, 1889. 8vo.
   Industries for June, 1889. fol.
   Iron for June, 1880. 4to.
   Ironmongery for June, 1889.
   Murray's Magazine for June, 1889. 8vo.
   Nature for June, 1889. 4to.
   Photographic News for June, 1889. 8vo.
   Revue Scientifique for June, 1889. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for June, 1889. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for Juno, 1889. 4to.
Electrical Engineers, Institution o/—Journal, No. 80. 8vo. 1889.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 762. 8vo. 1889.
 Geographical Society, Royal— Proceedings, New Scries, Vol. XI. No. 6. 8vo.
      1889.
 Oeorgofili, Reale Accademia—Atti, Vol. XII. Disp. 1. 8vo. 1889.
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 170. 8vo. 1889.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, 1889, No. 1. 8vo.
Meteorological Office—Weekly Weather Reports. Nos. 23, 24, 25. 4to. 1889.
Meteorological Society, Royal—Quatcrly Journal, No. 70. 8vo. 1889.
   Meteorological Record, No. 32. 8vo. 1889.
Ministry of Public M'orks, Home—Giornalu del Genio Civile, Serie Quinta,
      Vol. III. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. And Disegni. fi.l. 188t).
Mitchell, C. Pilfield, Esq. (the Author)—Dissolution and Evolution, and the Science
      of Medicine. 8vo. 1888.
Perry, Rev. S. J. F.R.S.—Results of Meteorological and Magnetical Observations
      for 1888. 8vo. 1889.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, June, 1889. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XIII. No. 8. 8vo. 1889.
Radeli/e Observatory—Observations for 18S5. 8vo. 1889.
Richardson, B. W. M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—'ihe Asclepiad, Vol. V.
      No. '22.  8vo.   1889.
Rio de Janeiro Obtervnlory— Revista, No. 5. 8vo. 1880.
Royal Historical and Archaological Association of Ireland—Journal, Vol. IX.
     (4th Series) No. 78. 8vo. 1889.
Royal Society of London— Proceedings, No. 279. 8vo. 1889.
Rust, Arthur, Esq. (the Author)—Thermo-Eleetridty. 8vo. 1889.
Saxon Society of Sciences, lioyal—Mathematisch-physische Classe :
   Abhandlung. Band XV. No. 5. 8TO. 1889.
   Berichte, 1889, No. 1. 8vo. 1889.
Society of Arts—Journal for June, 1889. 8vo.
 United Service Institution, lioyal—Journal, No. 148. 8vo. 1889.
Upsal University—Bulletin de 1'Observutuire Meteorologique, Vol. XX.           4to.
      1888-9.
Veneto, L'Ateneo—Revista, Sept. 1887 to Oct. 1888 8vo.
Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleises in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1889:
     HeftS. 4to.
Zoological Society—Proceedings, 1889, Part 1.     8vo.

  1889.]                    General Monthly Meetitifft^^;^^^'               565
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, November 4, 1889.
   SIB JAMES CBICHTON BROWNB, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                         Vice-President, in the Chair.
      The Honorary Secretary announced that His Grace The President
 had nominated Lord Arthur Rassell a Vice-President for the ensuing
 year.
                   Thomas Browning, Esq. C.B.
                   Latimer Clark, Esq. F.R.S. M. Inst. C.E.
                   Charles Pitfield Mitchell, Esq. M.B.C.S.
                   Maurice Powell, Esq. M.A.
                   Delisle Powles, Esq.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     EDWARD POLLOCK, Esq. was elected a Manager of the Royal
 Institution in the room of SIB JAMES CBIOHTON BROWNE, M.D.
 resigned ; and JAMES EDMUNDS, M.D. F.C.S. was elected a Visitor
 in the room of EDWABD POLLOCK, Esq. resigned.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Professor
 DEWAB, F.R.S. M.R.I, for his valuable present of a Portrait of the
 late Mr. Henry Pollock.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to the Rev.
 JOHN MACNAUGHT, M.R.I, for his second donation of £50 for improve
 ments in the Building.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FEOM
 The Governor-General of India—Geological Survey of India : Records, Vol. XXII.
     Part 3. 4to. 1889.
The French Government—Documents Incdits BUT 1'Histoire de France: Lettrea
     du Cardinal Mazarin. Par A. Cheruel. Tome V. 1653. 4to. 1889.
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1889, Part 1. 8vo.
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. lo Semes-
     tre, Vol. V. Fasc. 7-12. 8vo. 1889.
American Association for the Advancement of Science—Proceedings, 37th Meeting
     held at Cleveland, 1888. 8vo. 1889.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XXVI. No. 129. 8vo. 1889.
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. XII. No. 3. 8vo. 1889.
Asiatic Society, Royal (China .BrancA)--Journal, Vol. XXIII. Parts 2, 3. New
     Soriea. 8vo. 1889.

  566                        General Monthly Meeting.                       [Nov. 4,
  Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLIX. No. 8. 8vo. 1889.
  Australian Museum, Sydney—Report for 1888.        4to. 1889.
  Bankers, Iwtitute of—Journal, Vol. X. Parts 7, 8. 8vo. 1889.
  Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Abhandlungen, Band XVI. Abth. 3. 4to. 1889.
     Sitzungsberichte, 1888, Heft 3; 1889, Heft 1. 8vo. 1889.
  Belgique, Acud&nie des Sciences. &c.—Me"moires, Tome XLVII. 4to. 1888.
     Me'moircs oouronne's et des savans etrangere, Tome XLIX. 4to. 1889.
     Me'moirea oouronnes et autres memoires. Tomes XL.-XLII. 8vo. 1889.
     Bulletins de 1'Academic, Tomes XIV.-XVII. 8vo. 1889.
     Annuairesde 1888 et 1889. 8vo. 1889.
  Birmingham Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. VI. Part 1. 8vo. 1889.
  British Architects, Royal Institute o/—Proct-ediugs, 1888-9, Nos. 17-20. 4to.
     Calendar, 1889 -M0. 8vo. 1889.
  British Museum (Natural History)—Catalogue of Fossil Reptilia and Amphibia,
       Part 2. 8vo. 1889.
     Catalogue of Hindustani Printed Books. By J. F. Blumhardt. 4to. 1889.
  California, University of— Register, 1888-9. 8vo.
  Canadian Institute—Proceedings, 3rd Series, Vol. VI. Fas. 1. 8vo. 1889.
  Chemical Industry, Society of—Journul, Vol. VIII. Nos. 7-9. 8vo. 1889.
  (Chemical Society—-Journal for July-October, 1889. 8vo.
  Chief Signal Officer, U.S. Army—Annual Report for 1888. 8vo. 1889.
  Civil Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, Vol. XCVII. 8vo. 1888-9.
  Colonial Institute, Jloyal— Proceedings, Vol. XX. 8vo. 1889.
  Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. XXII. 8vo. 1889.
  Cracovie, VAcademie des Science*—Bulletin, 1889, No. 6. 8vo.
  Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. Ac. M.R.I, (the Editor)—Journal of the Royal
       Microscopical Society, 1889, Part 4. 8vo.
  Devonshire Association for Advancement of Science, Literature, and Art—Report
       and Transactions, Vol. XXI. 8vo. 1889.
     Devonshire Domesday, Part VI. 8vo. 1889.
  Dyer, F. W. Esq. (the Author)—The Lingualumina : a Language for International
       Communication, Part 1. 8vo. 1889.
  East India Assoniation—Jouma], Vol. XXI. Nos. 3, 4, 5. 8vo. 1889.
  Editors—American Journal of Science for July-October, 1889. 8vo.
    Analyst for July-October, 1889. 8vo.
    Athenaum for July-October. 1889. 4to.
    Chemical News for July-October, 1889. 4to.
    Chemist and Druggist for July-October, 1889. 8vo.
    Electrical Engineer for July-October, 1889. fol.
     Engineer for July-October, 1889. fol.
     Engineering for July-October, 1889. fol.
     Horological Journal for July-October, 1889. 8vo.
     Industries for July-October, 1889. fol.
     Iron for July-October, 1889. 4to.
     Ironmongery for July-October, 1889.
     Murray's Magazine for July-October, 1889. 8vo.
     Nature for July-October, 1889. 4to.
     Photographic News for July-October, 1889. 8vo.
     Revue Scientifique for July-October, 1889. 4to.
     Telegraphic Journal for July-October, 1889. 8vo.
     Zoophilist for July-October, 1889. 4to.
  Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, No. 81. 8vo. 1889.
  Florence Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale—Bolletino No. 91. 8vo. 1889.
    Indice Cataloghi, 1 Codici Palantina VII. Vol. I. Fas. 2 ; IV. Vol. I. Fas. 9-10.
       8vo. 1889.
  Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 763-766. 8vo. 1889.
  Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. XI. NOs. 7-11. 8vo.
       1889.
    Supplementary Papers, Vol. II. Part 4. 8vo. 1889.
-

1889.]                         General Monthly Meeting.                      567
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlnngen, 1889, Nos. 7-9. 8vo.
   Jahrl.uch. Band XXXIX. Heft 1, 2. 8vo. 1889.
Geological Society— Quarterly Journal, No. 179. 8vo. 1889
Georgofili Reale Accademia—Atti, Qiairta Serie, Vol. XII. Disp. 2,3. 8vo. 1889.
Goppelsroeder, Dr. F. (the A «//ior)— Uber Capillur-Analyse. 8vo. 1889.
   Farbelectro-Chemische Mitthcilungen. 8vo. 1889.
Harlem, Socifte Hollandaise det Sciences —Archives Neerlandaises, Tome XXIII.
      Liv. 3, 4. 8vo. 1889.
   (Euvres completes de C. Huygens. Tome II. 1657-9. 4to. 1889.
   Dagh-Resister, 1659. 8vo. 1889.
   Tijdschrift voor In lische Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde, Deel XXXII. Af. 6.
      8vo. 1889.
   Notulen van de Algemeene en Bestuurs-Vergaderingen, Deel XXVI. Af. 4.
      8vo. 188!».
Uofmann, llerr A. W. van (the Author)—Zur Erinnerung an Vorangegangeno
      Freumie. 8 vols. 8vo. 1888.
Iron and Steel Institute—Journal for 1889, Vol. I. 8vo. 1889.
John Hopkins University—American Chemical Journal, Vol. XI. Nos. 1-6. 8vo.
      1889.
   American Journal of Philology. Vol. IX. No. 4, and Vol. X. No. 1. 8vo. 1889.
   University Circulars, Nos. 09-75. 4to. 1889.
   Studies in Historical and Political Science, 7th Series, Nog. 2-9. 8vo. 1889.
 Kansas Academy of Sciences—Transactions. Vol. X. 1S85-6. 8vo. 1887.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 122, 133-135, 171. 8vo. 1889.
    Index to Journal, 1838-80. 8vo. 1888.
   Transactions: Zoology, Vol. II. Part 18; Vol. IV. Part 3; Vol. V. Parts 1-3.
                     Botany, Vol. II. Part 16.
 Lisbon Academy of Sciences—Historia do Infante D. Duarte. POP J. Ramos
      Coelho. Tomo I. 8vo. 1889.
 Madrid Itoyal Academy of Sciences—Memorias Tomo XIII. Parts 2, 3. 4to. 1889.
    Hevista, Tomo XXII. Nos. 5-7. 8vo. 1889.
Manchcster Gmlvjieal Society—Transactions, Vol. XX. Parts 9-10. 8vo. 1889.
 Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs and Proceedings, Vol. II.
      N.S. 8vo. 1889.
 Manchesler Steam Useri' AxSO'nation—Boiler Explosions Act, 1882. Report,
       Nos. 224-283*. 4to. 18S9.
Manila Unimrtidad de Sto. Tuinds —Discnrso, For el R. P. Fr. Jaime Andrew.
      4to. 188.).
 Mecluinical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, 1889, No. 2. 8vo.
 Mensltrugghe, M. G. Van der (the Author)—La Couche Superficielle libre d'uu
       Liqu'ide. 8vo. 1889.
    Un (ionro Particulier d'Experiences Capillaires. 8vo. 1889.
 Meteorological Office—Hourly Readings, 1886, Part 4. 4io. 1889.
    Meteorological Observations at Stations of Second Order for 1885. 4to. 1889.
    Weekly Wcnther Reports, Nos. 26-43. 4to. 1889.
 Meteorolugical Society, lineal—Quarterly Journal, No. 71. 8vo. 1889.
    Meteorological Itcconl, No. 33. 8vo. 1889.
 Minittry of I'lihlic Wurks, Home—Gioruale del Geuio Civile, Seria Quinta,
       Vol. I'll. Nos. 5, 6, 7. And Disegni. fol. 1889.
 Musical Atiociation— Prooeeilings, loth Session, 1888-89. 8vo. 1889.
 Neie York Academy of Sciencet—Transactions, Vol. VIII. Parts 1-4. 8vo. 1889.
    Annals. Vol. IV. Parts 10-11. 8vo. 1889.
 North at' Knglaud Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineert—Transactions,
       Vol. XXXVIII. Part3. 8vo. 1889.
 Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journul, 1889, Parts 1-2. 8vo. 1889.
 Odontological Society of Great Britain—-Transactions, Vol. XXI. No. 8. New
       Series. 8vo. 18S8.
 Pennsylvania Geological Sarm'y—Atlases to Report, 1889. 8vo.
    Museum Catalosue, Part III. 8vo. 1889.

    568                         General MontMy Meeting.                  [Nov. 4,
    Pharmaceutical Society of Grent Britain—Journal, July-October, 1889. 8vo.
    Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XIII. No. 9; Vol. XIV. No. 1. 8vo. 1889.
    Preutfuche Akademie der Wisietucluijteit—Sitzungsberichte, Nos. L-XXXVIII.
         8vo. 1889.
    Richardson, B. W. M.D. F.R.S. SI.R.I. (the Author)—the Asclepiad, Vol. VI.
          No. 23. 8vo. 1889.
    ^2/o de Janeiro Observatory —Revista, No.-t. 6-8. 8vo. 1889.
    Jfoyal Cullege of Surgeons in Ji'ngland—Calendar, 1889. 8vo. 1889.
    Royal Dublin Sor.iety—Transactions, Vol. IV. Parts 2-5. 4to. 1889.
       Proceedings, Vol. VI. Paits 3-6. 8vo. 1889.
    Royal Historical and Archaeological Association of Ireland—Journal, Vol. IX.
         (4th Series), No. 79. 8vo. 1889.
    Royal Irish Academy—Transactions, Vol. XXIX. Parts 6-11. 4 to. 1889.
    Royal Society of Canada— Proceedings ami Transactions, Vol. VI. 4to. 1888-9.
    Royal Society of London— Proceedings, Nos. 280-283. 8vo. 1889.
    Hoyal Society of New South Wales—Jourmil and Proceedings, Vol. XXII. Part 2.
         8vo. 1889.
    Saxby and Farmer, Messrs, (the Publishert)—Railway Safety Appliances, fol.
          1889.
    Saxon Society of Scienres, Royal—Mathematisch-physischc Classe :
       Abhantllung. liand XV. No. 6. 8vo. 1889.
       Berichte, 1889, No. 1. 8vo. 18S9.
    Smithsonian Institute—Annual Report, 1 886, Part 1. 8vo. 1889.
    Socitte Archdologique du Midi de la France—Bulletin, Nouvellc Series, No. 3.
         8vo. 1889.
    Society of Arts— Journal for July-October, 1889. 8vo.
    Statistical Society— Journal, Vol. LI I. Parts 2-3. 8vo. 1889.
    Stevens, W. Le Conte, Esq. (the Author)—The Diffraction of Sound. (Jour.
          Franklin Inst.) 8vo. 1889.
    St. Ptfersbourg Academic Impe'riales des Sciences—Me'moircs, Tome XXXVI.
          Nos. 14-16. 4to. 1889.
    Surgeon-General, U.S. Army—Index Catalogue of Library, Vol. X. 4to. 1889.
     Tuyler Museum—Archives, Serie II. Vol. III. Partie 3. 4to. 1889.
     United Sen ice Institution, Royal—Journal, Nos. 149-150. 8vo. 1889.
     United States Navy—(ieneral Information Series, No. 8. 8vo. 188!I.
     Uruguay Consulate—General Description and Statistical Data of Uruguay. 4to.
           1889.
     Vereins zur Befdrderung des Gewcrhfleiises in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1889:
          Heft 6, 7.   4to.
     Victoria Institute—Transactions, Nos. 81)-90. 8vo. 1889.
     Vincent, Benjamin, Esq. Hon. Librarian K.l. (the Editor)—Hadyu's Dictionary of
           Dates. 19th Edition. 8vo. 1889.
     Wright & Co. Messrs. John (the Publishers)—Health Troubles of City Life.   By
           G. Herechell. 8vo. 1889.
     Zoological Society—Proceedings, 1889, Parts 2, 3. 8vo.
        Transactions, Vol. XII. Part 9. 4to. 1889.
-
  ,

 1889.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                      569
                     GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, December 2, 1889.
  SIR JAMES CBICHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                           Vice-President, in the Chair.
              Charles Vernon Boys, Esq. F.R.S. A.R.S.M.
              Frederick Bayard Wiggins, Esq.
              Alfred Fernandez Yarrow, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    Tho MANAGERS reported that they had re-appointed Professor
JAMES DEWAR, M.A. F.R.S. as Fullerian Professor of Chemistry.
     The following Lecture Arrangements were announced :—
    PROFESSOR A. W. RIVCKER, M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I. Professor of Physics in the
Normul School of Science and Royal School of Mines, South Kensington. Six
Lectures (adapted to a Juvenile Auditory) on ELECTRICITY. On Dee. 28
(Saturday'), Dec. 31, 1889 ; Jan. 2, 4, 7, 9, 1890.
    OEORGE JOHN ROMANES, Esq. M.A. LL.D. F.R.S. X.P.I. Fullerian Professor
of Physiology, R.I. Ten Lectures, constituting the third part of a Course on
BEFORE AND AFTER DARWIN (The Poet-Darwinian Period). On Tuesdays,
Jan. 21 to March 25.
    EDWIN ROSCOE MCLLINS, Esq. Three Lectures on SCULPTUBE IN RELATION
TO THE AGE. On Thursdays, Jan. 23, 30, Feb. 6.
    THE RKT. CANON AINGER, M.A. LL.D. Three Lectures on THE THREE
STAGES OF SHAKSFEAHE'S ART. On Thursdays, Feb. 13, 20, 27.
    FREDERICK NIECKS, Esq. Author of the ' Life of Chopin.' Four Lectures on
THE EARLY DETELOPMENTS OF THE FORMS OF INSTBUMKHTAL Music (with Musical
Illustrations). On Thursdays, March 6, 13, 20, 27.
    PROFESSOR FLOWER, C.B. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. Three Lectures on THE
NATURAL HISTORY OF THE HORSE AND OF ITS EXTINCT AND EXISTING ALLIES.
On Saturdays, Jan. 25, Fob. 1, 8.
    THE RIGHT HON. LORD RAYLEIGH, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I. Pro
fessor of Natural Philosophy, R.I. Seven Lectures on ELECTRICITY AND
MAGNETISM. On Saturdays, Feb. 15, 22, March 1, 8, 15, 22, 29.
    The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
t;ible, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      FROM
Accademia del Lincei, Rente, Poma—Atti Serir Qnarta : Rendiconti. 2° Semes
      Ire, Vol. V. Vase. 3, 4. 8vo. 1889.
Antiquaries, Society of—Archseologia, 2nd Series, Vol. I. 4to. 1889.
Ari'totelian Society—Proceedings, Vol. I. No. 1. 8vo. 1889.
Asiatic Society, Iioi/al(Hombay Brancli)—Journal, Vol. XVII. No. 47. 8vo. 1889.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XLIX. No. 9. 8vo. 1889.
Australian Museum, Sydney—Supplement to Report for 1888. 4to. 1889.
Jtimla-rs, Institute of—Journal. Vol. X. Part 9. 8vo. 1889.
Jlritifh Architects. Royal fnrtitute o/—Proceedings, 1889-90, Nos. 1-3. 4to.
   Transactions, Vol. V. N.S. 4to. 1889.
llrilish Association fur tin'. Adranccment of Science—Report of Meeting held nt
      Hath, 1888. 8vo. 18S9.

 570                       General Monthly Meeting.             [Dee. 2, 1889.
Jiritirh Museum (\atural History)—Lepidoptera Heterocera, Part VII.        4to.
      loo J.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Transactions, Vol. XIV. Part 4. 4to 1889
   Proceedings, Vol. VI. Part 6. 8vo. 1889.
 Canada, Gcologieul and Natural History Surrey of—Canadian Palawntolo^v
      Vol. I. Part 2. 8vo. 1889.
 Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vnl. VIII. No. 10. 8vo. 1889.
 Chemical Society—Juurnal for November, 1889. 8vo.
 Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.D. F.L.S. &c. M.R.I, (the Editor)—Journal of the Roval
      Miciosoopieul Society, 1889, Purl 5. 8vo.
Editors—Arnerit-an Journal of Science for November, 1889. 8vo.
   Analyst for November, 1889. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for November, 1889. 4to.
   Chemical News for November, 1889. 4to.
   Chemist anil Druggist for November, 1889. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for November, 1889. fol.
   Engineer for November, 1889. fol.
   Engineering for November, 1889. fol.
   Horologieal Journal for November, 1889. 8vn.
   Industries fur November, 1889. fol.
   Iron for November, 1889. 4to.
   Ironmongery for November, 1889.
   Murray's Magazine for November, 1889. 8vo,
   Nature for November, 1889. 4to.
   Photographic News for November, 1889. 8vo.
   Revue Scientifique for November, 1889. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for November, 1889. 8vo.
   /oophilist for November, 1889. 4to.
franklin Institute—Journal, No. 767. 8vo. 1889.
Geological Society— Quarterly Journal, No. 180. 8vo. 1889.
Harlem, SociM Hollandaise des Sciences--Archives Ne'erlandaisee Tome \XII
     Liv. 5. 8vo. 1889.
Junior Engineering Society—Addresses. &c. 8vo. 1885-8.
Madras Government Central Museum—Report, 1888-9. fol. 1889.
Marvin, Charles, Esq.—OUT Unappreciated Petroleum Empire. 8vo. 1889
Maryland Medical and Chirurgical Faculty—Transactions, 91st Session, April,
     1889. 8vo. 1889.
Meteorological Office—Weekly Weather Reports, Nos. 44-47. 4to 1889
Ministry of Public Works. Home—Giornale del Genio Civile Seria Quinta
     Vol. III. Nos, 8, 9. And Disegni. fol. 1889.
Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1889, Part 3. 8vo. 1889.
Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol XXII No 1 New
     Series. 8vo. 1889.
Physical Society of London—Proceedings, Vol. X. Part 2. 8vo 1889
RicJiardson, IS. W. M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Asclepiad Vol VI
     No. 24. 8vo. 1889.
Rio de Janeiro Observatory—Revista, No. 9. 8vo. 1889.
Royal Institution of Cornwall1—Journal, Vol. IX. Part 4. 8vo. 1889.
Royal Society of Tasmania—Papers and Proceedings for 1888. 8vo. 'l889
Seismological Society of Japan—Transactions, Vol. XIII. Part 1. 8vo 1889
Society of Architects— Proceedings, Vol. II. Noa. 1, 2. 8vo 1889.
Society of Arts—Journal for November, 1889. 8vo.
St. Petenbourg Acade-mie Impifriales ties #t?/>Mce«-Mc'moires, Tome XXXVI
     No. 17 ; Tome XXXVII. No. 1. 4to. 1889.
 Vcreins zur llefiirderung des Gewerljleises in Preussen—Verhandlun"en 1889 •
     Ilett 8. 4to.
 IVeyher C. L Esq. (the Author)—Sur les Tourbillons Trombes. Tempetcs et
     Spheres TournanteH. 2nd edition. 8vo. 1889.

                    Mr. A. Gordon Salomon on Yeast.                     571
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 29, 1889.
      WILLIAM CBOOKES, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
       A. GORDON SALAMON, Esq. A.R.S.M. F.I.C. F.C.S. M.E.I.
                                   Yeast.
" FOB the first time in the history of the science, we are justified in
 entertaining the sanguine, nay the certain hope, that medicine, so far
as epidemic illnesses are concerned, will soon be rescued from em
piricism and placed upon a sound scientific basis. When this great
day shall arrive, mankind will, in my opinion, acknowledge that to
you is due the greatest share of its gratitude."*
     These words were penned in this building by Professor Tyndall
just thirteen years ago, and were addressed to M. Pasteur. The
reflection that they had reference mainly to researches which the
great French investigator had carried out during several years in
connection with the subject of this evening's discourse, will suffice to
constitute for it a sufficient claim upon your attentive consideration.
     It will be within the knowledge of those who have closely fol
lowed the work of Pasteur, and have noted how contracted is the
circle of actual experiment, how expanded—yet how accurately traced
—the sphere of legitimate induction, that the results arising out of
his examination into the nature and properties of yeast constituted
the weapons which demolished the mischievous doctrine of spon
taneous generation, fashioned the modern views respecting putrefac
tive decomposition, and prepared the way for the prosecution of those
investigations which have already revolutionised the theory and
practice of Hygiene, Therapeutics, and Surgery.
     All this was not effected without concomitant controversy of the
keenest kind. Indeed, the protracted dispute which Pasteur sus
tained with Liebig, and also with Fremy, regarding the rationale of
the decomposition of sugar solutions by yeast must always rank
among the most brilliant of his efforts.
    But, perhaps, the most interesting feature in connection with his
experiments upon yeast is that his abstruse physiological researches
should have been capable of direct translation into terms of industrial
utility ; and but for other work which he himself has done in this
direction, and but for that of Hansen, which I propose to consider this
evening, it would probably be unique in the history of technology.
    As regards the value of that work, when considered from a com-
   * M. L. Pasteur, 'Etudes sur la Biere,' p. 382. Taris, Gauthier-Villars,
J876.
    VOL. XII.     (No. 83.)                                    2 Q

   672                         Mr. A. Gordon Sdlamon                       [March 29,
   mercial standpoint, it may, so far as this country alone is concerned,
   most undoubtedly be estimated by millions sterling ; and when all
   those problems which have arisen out of the investigation—and
   which have of necessity been taken in hand by others—shall have
   been solved, it will be found that the saving due to it will have
   reached a total which, in terms of pounds, shillings, and pence, would
   appear truly colossal.
        For this to be possible, yeast must have a very important role to
   perform in connection with certain of our industries, and indeed t»
   used in quantity which is really somewhat astonishing when the figures
   are cast up for the first time.
       I have endeavoured, with the assistance of my friends, Mr. Ban
   nister, Deputy Principal of the Laboratory of Somerset House, and
   Mr. Frank Wilson, the head brewer to Messrs. Combe and Co., to
   calculate the amount of yeast (reckoned as pressed dry yeast) which is
   annually produced and used in the United Kingdom. The results are
   given in the following table, the figures of which, though in some cases
  necessarily estimated, may, I think, be regarded as very nearly accurate.
         YEAST ANNUALLY USED AND PRODUCED IN THE UNITED KINGDOM.
                             (Calculated as Pressed Yeast.)
        In Brewing—                                                 Tons.
          Used for " Pitching "                                    4,250
          Produced in addition to above *                         25,500     Ton«.
                                                                            29,750
        In Distilling—
          Used for "Pitching"                                                3,100
       In Vinegar-making—
          Used in " Pitching " and produced                                    125
       In Baiting—
          Used for making " Sponge " f                                      14,000
                                 Total                                      46,975
          * Maiuly employed for use in foreign distilleries, and having
        value to brewers of about                                         £127,500
          t Average imports of foreign yeast especially grown and
       prepared for use in baking, 12,594 tons, having declared
       average value to importer of                                       £684,156
          Approximate amount annually paid by merchants for yeast
       used in the United Kingdom                                         £911,500
       Now this great quantity of yeast—and when we regard yeast, as we
  shall do here, as a cultivated fungus, it is a great quantity—is used
  in virtue of the property it possesses of decomposing certain of the
  carbohydrates into alcohol and carbonic acid.
       In the production of beer and spirit it is employed with the object
  of producing alcohol ; in vinegar-making with the same object, the
  alcohol being subsequently oxidised by means of another organism
  into acetic acid. In each of these cases the carbonic acid gas is a
  valueless bye-product ; but in bread-making the conditions are
  reversed, the yeast being primarily employed with a view to the dis-
x

1889.]                           on Yeast.                           573
engagement of carbonic acid gas. It is through its agency that the
production of a light and vesicular bread is ensured. The yeast
being brought into intimate contact with carbohydrates suitable for
decomposition, effects the generation of carbonic acid gas, which, as it
is disengaged, makes an effort to force its way through the dough.
This is resisted by the very plastic gluten of the flour. The result
is to effect what is termed the raising of the " sponge."
    It will be unnecessary to remind yon that this decomposition of
carbohydrates into alcohol and carbonic acid gas by means of yeast
constitutes one phase of the phenomenon of alcoholic fermentation. It
is somewhat difficult to ascertain when it was first conjectured that
this was due to the growth of yeast ; but it is clear that Caignard de
la Tour had formed a strong opinion on the subject more than sixty
years ago, for he wrote, " if yeast could thus ferment sugar, it must
surely be by some influence due to its vegetation and its life." Indeed,
there are many passages in his works, as well as in those of that great
observer, Schwann, which indicate that about that period a very firm
grip had been obtained of the theory of fermentation as now accepted ;
but it had to be relinquished, as it clashed with the more speculative
views of Liebig and his supporters. So widespread was the influence
of this great school, that operations and experimental observations
contradictory of its doctrines were so neglected as to be forgotten, or
were combated by so strong a combination of intellect as to be prac
tically untenable.
    It was reserved for Pasteur to rediscover the growth of yeast
previously noted by Caignard de la Tour and Schwann ; to add to
their observations by an abundance of fresh investigations ; and to
formulate a theory of alcoholic fermentation, which has at least the
merit, in contradistinction to others, of being a logical interpretation
of accurate experiment ; one, moreover, which, in my humble judg
ment, is quite capable of ultimate reconciliation with some at least of
the more important views of the German chemist.
    Pasteur's experiments placed it beyond doubt that the decom
position of carbohydrates by means of yeast is neither more nor less
than one of the manifestations of vitality by yeast, a fungoid organ
ism capable of growth and reproduction. Since his results have been
published it has been almost proved that this decomposition takes
plant) within the organism, and in any case it is proved that alcohol
and carbonic acid are to be regarded as products excreted during
phases of its life-history. This being the case, it manifestly becomes
necessary to study the biology of the organism, in order to acquire
further information respecting the nature of the chemical reactions
involved in the decomposition.
     But before doing this, it is advisable, at any rate for the purposes
of this discourse, to restrict the signification of the term ferment ;
otherwise confusion must inevitably result. Even to-day we are
accustomed to speak of two classes of ferments—organised and soluble.
    The alcoholic ferment, yeast, for example, is a cryptogam of definite
                                                             2 Q 2

 574                     Mr. A. Gordon Salamon               [March 29,
 organised structure, and its power of effecting the degradation of
 carbohydrates into alcohol and carbonic acid gas is but one of the
 features connected with its life-history. Moreover, it is one which is
 typical of a whole group of fungi.
     The soluble ferments, on the other hand, are unable to effect this
 radical decomposition, but are endowed with the property of hydro-
 lising, and thereby producing a constitutional modification or partial
 degradation of some carbohydrates and other substances of complex
 composition. They are probably typified by certain molecular group
 ings common to them as a class, but they are not organised, and have
 indeed nothing beyond what I have stated in common with fungi. It
 is true that certain of these soluble ferments are contained in fungi
 which themselves are capable of producing alcoholic fermentation,
 such, for instance, as the invertase in yeast ; but they are not
 contained in all alcohol-producing fungi. Their function, when
 present, would seem to be that of a reserve material, capable, when
 necessary, of effecting the preparation of a saprophytic food by alter
 ative action, so as to adapt it for subsequent radical attack by the
 fungus. In this connection it must not be forgotten that sulphuric
 acid, hydrochloric acid, and indeed most mineral and organic acids,
 can produce the same alterative action upon these carbohydrates, and
 are employed in very large manufacturing operations for the purpose.
 It would therefore seem quite reasonable to include these mineral
 acids among the so-called soluble ferments, if the latter are entitled
 to rank as a distinct class.
     Alcoholic fermentation, although caused by the action of yeast,
which is a fungus, is by no means peculiar to one particular species
or genus of fungi. Indeed, the list of those organisms which, under
certain conditions, will excite alcoholic fermentation, is continually
being augmented. But the life conditions are now tolerably well
 understood. The fungal food must be present in a state of solution ;
the supply of free oxygen must be extremely restricted ; the tem
perature must be maintained within certain limits for each particular
species or variety ; there must bo present an adequate but not too
great a supply of carbohydrate, preferably a sugar, in solution ; and
the fungus must, when immersed in the fluid, be capable of growth
and reproduction.
     With regard to the carbohydrate food, some points of very great
interest are noticeable. All carbohydrates are not equally suitable,
though in most cases the fungus contains within itself the chemical
components that may, when required, adapt it to assimilation. Ordi
nary yeast, for instance, cannot ferment cane sugar ; it has, first of
all, to be transformed, by the invertase contained in yeast, or by
other known means, into what is known as invert sugar. This con
sists of two glucoses present in equal quantity—the one dextrose,
capable, as its name implies, of turning the ray of polarised light to
the right; the other, Iaevulosc, capable of rotating it to a definite
extent to the left. Both these glucoses have the same composition :

1889.]                              on Yeast.                                 575
bnt there is probably a difference in their molecular grouping which
influences their respective actions towards polarised light. If
ordinary yeast—a member of the family of sprouting fungi—be
submerged, under proper conditions, iu a mixture of equal quantities
of these two glucoses, it will be found that it is capable of dis
tinguishing the one from the other, and of exercising a selection with
respect to assimilation ; for it will entirely decompose the dextrose
before attacking the Isevulose. Indeed, if the fermentation be stopped
at the proper point, it is a very good way of obtaining laevulose.
This is by no means the only case in point, as will be seen by reference
to the following table :—
   SELECTITE ACTION OP BOMB SPROUTING FUNGI FOB CARBOHYDRATE FOOD.
Saccharomyccs cerevisins     ..  Can invert cane sugar, and subsequently select
                                   dextrose from Isevulose. Can ferment maltose.
                                   Cannot decompose malto-dextrin.
       „       pastorianus . -\ Can invert sugar, ferment maltose, and decom-
       „       ellipsoideus ../ pose malto-dextrin.
       „       exiguus.. .. Cannot ferment multoee. Can ferment glucose.
       „       apiculatus .. Cannot ferment maltose. Cannot invert cane
                                   sugar. Can ferment dextrin and Isevulose.
Torula                           Can ferment maltose and glucose. Cannot invert
                                   cane sugar.
Monilia Candida                  Cannot invert cane sugar, but can ferment it
                                   \vithout previous conversion into glucose.
     In order that yeast, or any fungus capable of exciting alcoholic
fermentation, may flourish and reproduce, it is necessary that it shall
have an available supply of oxygen. This has to discharge a duty
which Pasteur deems analogous to respiration. If it is deprived of
oxygen, and is not introduced into a fermentable medium, the yeast
will not reproduce, but in a short time will become weak and shrivelled ;
but if, before it is too late, a supply of oxygen be introduced, the
exhausted organism will revive and again be capable of manifesting
all its vitality.
     If the alcoholic ferment be deprived of a sufficiency of oxygen, and
in such circumstances be kept immersed in a medium containing suit
able carbohydrate in solution, it will decompose the latter, in order,
among other things, to obtain the necessary oxygen. This decom
position will result in the production of alcohol and carbonic acid gas
 in strictly definite proportions.
                        2CtiH,208 = 40,^0 + 4CO,.
                         (Glucose)      (Alcohol)  (Carbonic
                                                   anhydride)
     On looking at this equation, one fails to see the available oxygen,
although it may be that the decomposition itself suffices for the
requirements of what has been termed " the respiration " of the
yeast. But what is more likely is, that it is furnished by other
decompositions by which the reaction is always attended. Thus
Pasteur has proved that in addition to alcohol and carbonic anhydride,

   576                         Mr. A. Gordon Salomon                          [March 29,
   small quantities of saccinic acid and glycerin always accompany their
   formation, and in attempting to state this in the form of an equation,
   Monoyer satisfactorily accounts for the liberation of oxygen. Thus—
                            3H20 = C4H604 6C3H 03 2COa + O.
              (Glucose)             (Succinic Add)     (Glycerin)
       Various opinions have been expressed as to whether the presence or
   absence of oxygen does actually influence the decomposition of sugar
   and the formation of yeast to the extent indicated by Pasteur. Adolf
   Mayer, whose opinion upon questions connected with fermentation is
   justly regarded with great respect, made a series of experiments from
   which he inferred that the influence was by no means as great as was
   supposed ; but Schiitzenberger pointed out what certainly looks like a
   flaw in his method of working, and would induce hesitancy in accept
   ing his conclusions. The great difficulty is to ensure the complete
   permeation of the fermenting fluid by oxygen, which has a tendency,
   if not corrected, to exercise its influence only upon layers or strata in
   the fluid. It is found that the rate of fermentation greatly influences
   the depth to which oxygen will permeate and diffuse, and that a slow
   fermentation favours efiicient admixture. These conditions have
   been brought under control by Hoppe-Seyler in a most ingenious and
   satisfactory manner.* His experiments upon the point in question
   may be thus stated and tabulated :—
                                  Unite of      Unite of
             ExperimenI.           Sugar        Alcohol                Remarks.
                                decomposed.     formed.
   1. COa absorbed and re            1             1         Few budding cells ; cell con
        placed by O uniformly                                  tents very granular; alco
        diffused.                                              holic distillate stromjly
                                                               ncid.
   2. Air above fermenting         1-5           2-05        Cell contents normal; alco
        fluid replaced by COz,                                 holic distillate feebly acid.
        which was also passed
        in dnriug fermenta
        tion instead of O.
   3. Normal fermentation          2-74          4-70        Cell contents normal; alco
                                                               holic distillate faintly
                                                               acid.
       Now, from what has been said it will be understood, indeed it
   follows, that the amount of carbonic anhydride evolved is a measure
   of the extent to which the decomposition of the carbohydrate has
   been carried by the alcoholic ferment. But, in order that this state
   ment may hold good, it is necessary that whenever the carbonic
   anhydride is measured, there shall always be present in the fer
   menting fluid an excess of the solution of carbohydrate ; for Pasteur
      * Festschrift von Felix Hoppe-Seyler. Karl J. Trubner, Strasburg, 1881.
--

 1889.]                          on Yeast.                           577
 has proved that, in its absence, the yeast will, when denied free access
 of atmospheric oxygen, and when fermentation has once started,
 decompose a portion of itself in order to obtain the necessary elements
 to maintain its vitality. But given the necessary excess of carbo
 hydrate, and assuming that in two or more flasks undergoing alcoholic
                                  Fig. 1.
fermentation the conditions of culture are the same with respect to
temperature, pressure, food, and amount of ferment added, it follows
that the rate of evolution of carbonic anhydride becomes a measure
of the fermentative activity of the fungus respectively producing it.
I have here an apparatus devised to effect this measurement. It will
be seen to be extremely simple in its working, but I find that it gives
results of surprising constancy.
    As introductory to the working of this apparatus, I will ask your
permission to repeat the well-known experiment which proves that
carbonic anhydride is one of the resulting products of alcoholic
fermentation. [Experiment shown.]
    The two flasks which I have here, contain (represented in the
diagram) equal quantities of the same sugar solution and of the

578            Mr. A. Gordon Salnmon [March 29,
                       Fig. 2.
    &
    k.
    IE-t«   «:
    *  5 is
    ^. V i« »;
    R 5?S
    S
    I
    I
                                         -t*-•
                                          I
                                          5-S
               ^
                       \V

1889.]                           on Yeast.                          579
nitrogenous material which is best calculated to promote fermenta
tion. To each respectively has been added equal weights of two
different kinds of yeast. To one has been added yeast used in the
making of bread, and to the other that employed in the production
of porter. The temperature of the fermenting fluid has been the
same in each case, likewise the time in which fermentation has been
progressing. The two columns of coloured liquid were filled a short
time previous to the commencement of the discourse, and the extent
to which they have been respectively depressed is a measure of the
amount of carbonic anhydride which has in each case been evolved
in the same time. You will notice that there is a marked difference
in the two results.
    The diagram of curves, which embodies the most typical of many
experiments, and in which the abscissas have been determined by
experiment, as shown, renders this difference clearly apparent.
    These results bring us to the heart of the question, and open up a
vast field of inquiry, into which for lack of time we can this evening
only travel a short distance. Granting that yeast is a plant—a
fungus—may prompt the questions as to whether it be one genus,
one species of a genus, or whether there be not many varieties of the
species which can thus give rise to fermentations so different in
character and vigour. To these questions the unrivalled researches
of Hansen, of Copenhagen, have given an answer which leaves no room
for hesitancy or doubt.
     The power of inciting alcoholic fermentation is not confined even
to one genus of fungi, for, although it is essentially typical of the
group known as the sprouting fungi, as opposed to the more widely
distributed hypLal fungi, still it is true of many of the latter, and
Brefeld has proved it to be the case with all the mucorini. It has
been assorted, moreover, that some bacteria are capable of decomposing
sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid, thereby constituting themselves
alcoholic ferments. This latter question, however, is one which
demands further investigation.
     Before considering the morphological distinctions of the different
species and varieties of yeast which have been thus isolated and
examined, it is well to make ourselves acquainted with the nature
and properties of yeast, the latter being now considered as constituting
a generic term. [Various kinds of yeast, as employed in the arts,
were shown, and their morphological peculiarities, as revealed by the
microscope, demonstrated.]
     I am indebted to the great kindness of Dr. Hansen, which 1
desire most cordially to acknowledge, for preparations from pure
cultures of all the species and varieties of yeast hitherto isolated.
These I am enabled to render visible to you to-night, not in the form
of drawings, but by means of lantern slides, which have been prepared
by the skilled hands of Mr. Andrew Pringle from photographs which
he himself took from the preparations furnished me by Dr. Hanfen.
 [Slides exhibited, and the properties of the various specimens

580              Mr. A. Gordon Salomon on Yeast.     [March 29, 1889.
explained and discussed.] The method of obtaining purr cultures of
yeast organisms, as devised and perfected by Dr. Hansen, was next
dealt with, and its industrial importance demonstrated. A full
description of the process and of the apparatus required will be found
in the Cantor Lectures delivered before the Society of Arts (January-
February 1888) by the author.
                                                          [A. G. S.]

             INDEX TO VOLUMES I. TO XII.
ABEL, Sir F. A., Application of Science  Africa, North, Geology of, vm. 594.
  to Military Purposes, iI. 283; in.     African Customs, ix. 391, 395.
  243 ; of Electricity, v. 479.          Agassiz, L., on Glaciers, TIn. 239.
       Explosions and their Military     Aggregation, Material, i. 254; its re
  Applications, HI. 438.                    lation to Radiation, iv. 487.
       Chemical History and Applica      Agrarian Laws of Lycurgus, iv. 268.
  tion of Gun-cotton, iv. 245.           Ainger, Rev. Gmon, True and FaUe
       Substitutes for Gunpowder, iv.       Humour in Literature (no Abstract),
  616 ; TI. 517.                            Xn. 446.
      Accidental Explosions, vH. 390.   Air, Estimation of Organic Matter in,
      Detonating Agents, ix. 62.            m. 89 ; see Atmosphere.
      Dangerous Properties of Dusts, x.         Thermometer, vi. 439.
  88.                                   Airy, G. B., Total Eclipse of 1851, i.
      Accidental Explosions by Non-         62.
  explosive Liquids, xi. 218.                   Eclipse of Thnles, 'tc. i. 243.
      Work of the Imperial Institute,          Pendulum Experiments in Harton
  xn. 99.                                  Colliery, n. 17.
Abncy, Capt., Spectrum Analysis in the          on Solar Eclipse, vi. 292.
  Infra Red of the Spectrum, x. 57.      Akkas, xn. 280.
      Sunlight Colours, xn. 61.         Albert Nyanza Lake discovered, iv.
Absorption of Heat, iv. 487, 489.           503.
Absorption Spectra, ix. 204,493; x.250. Albert, Prince Consort, Present from,
Abyssinia, v. 404.                         in. 163; Address respecting his De
Acetylene, iv. 18.                         cease, rv. 404, 418.
Acids and Salts, m. 234.                Alcohol, Effect on Medusae, TIH. 177.
Acoustic Experiments of M. Lissajous,   Alcohols, vm. 92; of Paraffins, TIH.
  n. 441.                                  86 ; from Flint and Quartz, vn. 107.
Acoustical Phenomena, vm. 536; of       Alexandrian Museum and Libraries, x.
  Gunpowder, &c. 546.                      12.
Action at a Distance, vH. 44.           Alison, 8. 8., Auditory Phenomena,
Actonian Prize (1851), awarded to          m. 63.
  Wharton Jones, i. 54 ; (1858), Sub    Alizarine, TI. 120.
  ject announced, iI. 1 ; No Award,     Alkali Metals discovered, TI. 390.
  526 ; (1865), awarded to G. Waring-   Allcroft, J. D., Donation, iv. 231.
  ton, iv. 399; (1872) to Rev. G.       Allen, Grant, Colour Sense in Insects,
  Henslow, and to B. Thompson              ix. 201.
  Lowne, vi. 561 ; (1879), to G. S.             Ralph, Foetal System, in. 459.
  Boulger, rx. 283 ; (1886), to G. G.   Allman, G. J. A., Coral Islands, TH. 58.
  Stokes, xi. 376.                      Allotropic Changes, i. 133, 201; xn.
Adams, J. C., on Orbit of Meteors, ix.     367.
  44.                                   Alloys, their uses, v. 335 ; properties,
      W. G., Researches on Selenium,       xn. 367.
  vm. 70 ; ix. 527.                     Alphabet, its Origin, vi. 464; Roman,
       Magnetic Disturbance, Aurora        Greek, and Phoenician, TI. 468.
  and Earth Currents, rx. 656.          Alps, Geology of, I. 31 ; of Savoy, TI.
Aeby, C., Nervous Contraction, iv. 589.    142 ; Pre-Miocene, TH. 455 ; Build
^Kolian Harp, TIL 488.                     ing of the, xi. 53.
Aerial Echoes, vm. 556.                 Alumimum-Ethide and Methide, iv.
Aeronautics and Flight, v. U4.             343.

582                                           INDEX
Aluminium, Specimens exhibited, n.                Antagonism, xn. 284.
  79, 85 ; XH. 404 ; Rev. J. Barlow on,           Antipyrine, xi. 460.
   215; Sir H. Roscoe on, xn. 451.                Antiquity of Man, iv. 38.
America, North, Physical Geography,               Antozono, in. 70.
   n. 167, 522.                                   Ants, Habits of, vm. 253; ix. 174.
American Customs, ix. 392.                        Apes, Anthropoid, n. 26; in. 16.
       Organ, vn. 489.                            Aphis, Development of, I. 11, 14; u.
       Picture Writing, vi. 465.                     535.
Ammonia, n. 274; ix. 51.                          Appareil Panlin (Smoke Jacket), vi.
       Compounds of Platinum, vi. 176.               371.
Ampere, A., on Electric Current*, vH.             Appert's Mode of Preserving Food, n.
   49.                                               77.
Analytically formed Substances by the             Appunn's Reed Tonometer, ix. 538.
   Body, rv. 568.                                 Aquarium, n. 403.
Anatomical and Medical Knowledge                  Aqueous Vapour, condensed and frozen,
   of Ancient Egypt, xi. 378.                        iv. 5 ; see Vapours.
Anaxagoras's Philosophy, vi. 314.                 Aquileia, xn. 175.
Anaximander's Philosophy, vi. 305.                Arabia, Eastern and Central, iv. 348.
Anaximenes" Philosophy, vi. 307.                  Arabic Philosophy, Iv. 506.
Anchippodus described, vm. 123.                   Amgo's Discovery in Induction, xi.
Andaman Islands, xn. 269.                            123.
Andamanese, vm. 638; xn. 271.                     Architecture, its relations to Science,
Anderson, Charles, Decease of, iv. 516;              iv. 124; Constructive Principles of
    Prof. Faraday's Remarks on, v. 206.              the Styles, 268.
         W., Mechanical Properties of             Architectural Designs, Logic of, DC.
    Cork, xi. 436.                                   89.
       presents High Vacuum Pump, xn.             Arctic and Sub-Arctic Life, vm. 378.
    181 ; portrait of Mendeleef, XH. 403.         Armada, xn. 307.
 Andes, Minerals of, in. 190.                      Armenia and Ararat, vin. 349.
 Andrews, T., Gaeeous and Liquid                   Armstrong's Time-fuzes, in. 443.
    States
        Researches
             of Matter,onvi.Ozone,
                              356. TI. 549;                Gun, its Construction, in. 240;
                                                      its Powers, 500 ; Gunpowder experi
    Gases, vm. 662.                                  ments, vi. 277.
 Anglo-Saxon Conquest, vi. 116.                    Arnold, M., Equality (no Alstrarf),
 Anhydrous Organic Acids, I. 289.                    vm. 510.
 Aniline, History of, in. 475 ; iv. 437 ;                 Emerson (no Alftract), xi. 43.
    vm. 228.                                       Art and Science, points of contact
 Anima Mundi, Iv. 512.                                between, iv. 9.
 Animal Individuality, I. 184 ; Forms,                    illustrated by Coins, Iv. 306.
    444and; vH.
              Vegetable
                 94 ; Excitability,
                          Kingdoms,x.Limits,
                                          140.            Education, IT. 380.
                                                          pood Taste in, v. 376.
        Life,
    I. 415     Persistent
            ; vm.           Types of, 298.
                    28 ; Structure,    in. 151 ;          Old and New, vi. 103, 534.
                                                   Artificial Illumination, iv. 16.
    in the Deep Sea, 299 ; vi. 72.                        Formation of Organic Substances,
        Magnetism, xi. 25.                            v. 378.
        Quinoidine, iv. 567.                              Reproduction of Volcanic Rocks
 Animals, Earliest Stages of their De                 (in French), xH. 330.
    velopment, in. 315.                            Artistic Judgment, Limits of, vH. 144.
         intermediate between Birds and            Ashby, J. E., Catalytic Action, ii. 66.
    Reptiles, v. 278.                              Asia Minor, a Fortnight in, vH. 117.
        in motion, x. 44.                          Assyrian Excavations, n. 143.
 Annual Meetings (1851 et scq.) I. 61,             Astronomy and Photography, u. 462 ;
    &c.                                               xi. 104, 367; xn. 158.
 Ansdell, Gerard, Researches on                    Abtrophotographic Congress, xn. 158.
    Meteorites, xi. 541.                           Athletic Games and Greek Art, x.
 Ansel1's Detector of Fire Damp, vH.                  272.
    399.                                           Atlantic Telegraph, n. 401 ; v. 45.
 Ansted, D. T., Mud Volcanoes and                  Atlantic, Temperature of, vH. 263.
    Petroleum, iv. 628.                            Atlantis, Theory of an, m. 431.

                                 TO TOLS. I. TO XII.                                  583
Atmosphere, Radiation through, iv. 4 ;      Barlow, Rev. J., resigns the Secretary
   its Opalesceuce, 651 ; its Transpar           ship, in. 290 ; Resolution thereon,
   ency and Opacity, TIL 169 ; in Rela           313 ; Letter from, 329.
   tion to Putrefaction and Infection,                 his Portrait presented, in. 1 ; his
  Tin. 6.                                        Bust presented, vn. 339 ; Pedestal,
Atmospheric Electricity, in. 277.                vm. 4.
Atomic Heats of Metals, vi. 397.                       Mrs., Donation, iv. 177.
       Weights, vi. 398.                    Barometer, Cartesian, I. 426.
Atomicities of the Elements, IT. 275.       Barrett, W. !•'.. engaged as Assistant in
Atoms, ix. 494; x. 185, 250, 259; their         the Laboratory, iv. 156 ; observations
  continuing Power, Iv. 401.                    on Sounding and Sensitive Flames,
Auditory Phenomena, in. 63.                     v. 7, 9.
Aurora, I. 275 ; in. 9 ; ix. 656.           Burrows, in Yorkshire, v. 78.
Austen, R. Godwin, Coal in South            Bascilow (an Educator), vm. 460.
  eastern parts of England, n. 511.         I ! . -i i.i !. Dr., Observations on Bacteria,
Australians, vm. 603 ; Skulls, 612,             ic. vm. 10.
  0lO; Customs, ix. 392.                    Buteman, J. F., Subway to France, vi.
Autotype Process in Photographv, vn.             110.
  220."                                     Bathurst, Earl, presents Bust of Wol-
Averrocs' Philosophy, iv. 510.                  laston, ix. 250.
Avicenna's Philosophy, iv. 507.             Bazley, T., Plea for Cotton, IH. 514.
Ayrton, W. E., Mirror of Japan, ix.         Beacon Lights and Fog Signals, xn. 425.
   25.                                      Becquerel, E., Electrical Researches of,
       Electric Railways, x. 66.                 i. 75, 338, 360 ; vm. 565 ; on Fluores
                                                 cence, in. 160 ; x. 210.
BABYLON and Nineveh, Discoveries at,        Bedouins, vi. 90 ; x. 301.
  I. 84 ; H. 143 ; HI. 536 ; iv. 335.       Beecher, Phlogiston, vi. 317.
Baeyer's Synthesis of Indigo, ix. 580,      Beethoven's Music Characterised, vu.
   585.                                          24.
Baily, Eclipse of Thales, I. 244 ; Baily's  Beetroot (Vinasses), ix. 53.
   Deads, 04.                               Bell, A. G., Speech (no Abstract),
Bain, A., Doctrine of the Correlation            vm. 594.
  of Force in its Bearing on Mind, v.                  Telephone, vm. 503 ; presents
   157.                                          Telephone, ix. 59 ; on Selenium, Ix.
Bain's Printing Telegraph, I. 353.               531 ; Experiments, x. 175.
Baker, B., Bridging the Firth of Forth,                Jacob, presents Gould's Works on
   xa. 142.                                      Birds, in. 154.
        S. W., Sources of Nile, iv. 492 ;              Messrs., present Seven Pounds of
   Abyssinia, or Ethiopia, v. 404 ; Slave        Sodium, iv. 153.
  Trade on the White Nile, vn. 239.         Bell, Great, of Westminster, n. 368.
Baldry Property purchased, iv. 291.         Bells, n. 384 ; ix. 99 ; Music of, 109.
Balfonr, B., Inland of Socotra, x. 296.     Belmontine, n. 507.
Hull, R. S., Distances of the Stars, ix.    Ben Doran (Poem), ix. 553.
  514.                                      Benedict. Sir J., Weber and his Times,
Balloon Ascent, n. 437.                          vH. 199.
         Scientific Experiments, iv. 65,    Bonnet's Experiment on the Impact of
  385.                                           a Beam of Light, iv. 560.
Bancroft on American Customs, ix.           Benzene and its Derivatives, xi. 452.
  394.                                      Benzol discovered by Faraday, m. 482 ;
Bank Notes, Manufacture of, n. 263.              its relation to Mauve, 477.
Burlow, Rev. J., Silica, I. 422.             Berkeley's Philosophy, vi. 341.
        Application of Chemistry to the     Bernouilli's Kinetic Theory, ix. 520.
   Preservation of Food, n. 72.              lierthelot discovers Acetylene, iv. 18.
       Aluminium, n. 21',.                  Berthollet applies Chlorine to Blench
       Woody Fibre and Parchment                 ing, vi. 200.
  Paper, n. 409.                            Berlin's Decomposition Apparatus pre
       Mineral Candles, &c. n. 506.               sented, ix. 359.
       Logograpb, vm. 502.                  Besnnt, W.. Art of Fiction, xi. 70.
       Donations, iv. 153, 347, 516.        Bessel on 61 Cygni, ix. 514.

 584                                     INDEX
Besscmer's Steel, vm. 323.                   Bradbury, H , Printing (no Alutract). ti.
Bezold, Transmission by Nerves, iv.            531.
    585.                                            Present from, H. 147.
Bichat'B View of the Nervous System,         Bradford, W., Greenland, vi. 377.
    XT. 530.                                 Bradley, Rev. G. G., Westminster
Bicycles, xi. 13.                               Abbey, xiI. 217.
Bidwell, S., Selenium, ix. 521 ; Tele        Bratlley's Determination of the Velocity
    photography, 533.                          of Light, vn. 472 ; Discoveries, &c.,
Bigsby, j. J., Lake Superior, I. 151.          x. 117.
•       Donation, iv. 243.                   Braid, Dr., on Mesmerism, xi. 26, 35.
 " Big Tree," vHr. 578.                      Brain of Mun and Apes, m. 407.
 Biogenesis, THI. 20.                               its Unconscious Activity, v. 338.
 Biot, Experiments of, v. 188.                      Surgery in the Stone Ages, HI. 72.
Birds, History of, vm. 347.                  Br.imwell, Sir F., Future of Steel, vm.
Birks, Rev. T. H., Analogies of Physi-
    cul and Moral Science, vH. 12.              311."Thunderer" Gun Explosion, ix.
 Blackheath Pebble-bed, i. 161.                 221 ; Sequel to, 309.
Blackie, J. S., Spartan Constitution and            Channel Tunnel, x. 121.
    Agrarian Laws of Lycurgus, iv. 263.             London (below bridge) N. and S.
        Music of Speech, v. 145.                    A Lecture with,
                                                Commnnieation,     x. 483.and without,
        Popular Myths, vi. 129.
        Pre-Socratio Philosophy, vi. 302.       point (no Abstract), xil. 262.
        Modern Greek Language, vi. 4U3.             Donation, xi. 175.
        Language, &c., of Scottish High             elected Hon. Secretary, xi. 284.
    lands, ix. 547.                          Brande, W. T., Peat, i. 4.
 Blakeley's Gun, m. 216.                            Electro-magnetic Clocks, i. 109.
 Blasting Gelatine, ix. 79 ; Stornge, 81.           Address on resigning his Professor
        of Coal or Rock, x. 110.                ship, i. 168 ; Report respecting, 170 ;
  Bleaching Powder invented, vi. 201.           elected Hon. Professor of Chemistry,
 Blind, Education of the, i. 290 ; Rules        171 ; Decease, iv. 550.
    for their Management, 297.               Branson, F., Nature-Printing, H. 112.
Blue Sky, x. 201, 206.                       Brazil, Emperor of, elected Hon. Mem
 Boileau, Sir J. P., Donation, iv. 153.         ber, vi. H84 ; Letter from, 422.
Boiler presented, ix. 37.                    Breail-making, m. 253.
 Boiling Water, Phenomena of, IT. 158.       Breechloading Small Arms, v. 62.
Bolometer, xi. 273.                          Brett, J. W., Submarine Telegraph, n.
 Bonelli's Electric Silk-Loom, in. 272.         394.
 Bonney, T. G., Building of the Alps,        Bruwster, Sir David, on the Mirror of
    xi. 53.                                     Japan, ix. 27.
 Bonwick, J., on Tasmanians, vm. 621.        Bridges, J. H., Influence of Civilisation
 Boscovioh's Theory, Tn. 49.                    upon Health, v. 470.
 Botfleld, B., Legacy from, iv. 326.         Bridges, x. 485 ; xn. 142.
 Boulger, G. S., obtains Actonian Prize,     Britain, Early Condition and Coinage,
    ix. 283.                                    viI. 477.
 Boussingault's Mode of procuring Oxy        British Empire, Map and Statistic*,
    gen, i. 337. .                              xH. 99, 127.
  Boutigny, M., Ktudes sur les corps a              Seas, Natural History of, I. 17.
    1'e'tat sphe'roidal, I. 179.             Brixham Hill Cavern, m. 149.
 Bowdich's Method of Purifying Coal                 ForeignW.,Wines
                                             Brockedon,              and thei. 42.
                                                                Caoutchouc,     Fungus
    Gas, iv. 17.
 Bowman, Sir W., presents ivory Bust            on the Grape, I. 303.
    of Faraday, vm. 508 ; elected Hon.       Brodhurst, B. E., Donation, iv. 290.
    Secretary, x. 14 ; resigns, xi. 285.     Brodie, B. C., Allotropic Changes, I.
 Boys, C. V., Meters for Electricity, &o.
    x. 235.                                     201.Hydrogen and its Homologues, I.
        Bicycles and Tricycles, xi. 13.         325.
        Quartz Fibres, Xn. 547.                     Melting Points, I. 449.
Bradbury, H., Nature Printing, n. 106.              on Ozone, in. 71 ; vi. 552.
        Bank Notes, n. 263.                  Brodrick, G. C., Land Systems, rx. 559.

                                  TO TOL8. I. TO XIT.                            585
 Bronze Age, iv. 32.                        Calder, on Tasmanians, vm. 622.
        Gun, its Sound, vm. 545.             Calico-Printing, in. 201.
 Brooke, C., Compound Achromatic            Californian Forests, vm. 579.
    Microscope, i. 402.                      Calvert, F. C., Chevreu1's Laws of
 Brookfleld, W. H., Oral Reading, iv.           Colours n. 428.
    241.                                            Influence of Science on Calico-
 Broughton, .).. engaged as Assistant in        Printing, m. 201.
    Laboratory, iv. 156.                    Campbell-Johnston, P. F., presents
 Brown, Crum, Chemical Constitution,            Bust of Sir H. Davy, xn. 201.
    v. 495.                                 Canada, Geology of, n. 522.
 Browne, H. Crichton, In the Heart of       Candle-power of Electrical Machines,
    the Atlas (Abstract deferred), xn. 409.    rx. 12.
        Sir James Crichton, elected         Candles, Manufacture of, i. 21; Mineral
    Treasurer, xn. 563.                        &c., n. 506.
 Browning, J., presents Electric Lamp,      Cannani on the Heart, vm. 493.
    TH. 237.                                Cannon, Construction of, in. 244.
        Oscar, History of Education, vm.    Cafions, x. 268.
    449.                                    Caoutchouc, i. 42 ; m. 250.
 Briinnow on 61 Cygni, rx. 516.             Capillary Attraction, xI. 483.
 Brunton, T. Lauder, Element of Truth       Captain, Iron-plate Vessel, vi. 212.
    in Popular Beliefs, xH. 134.            Carbon Compounds, Spectrum of, ix. 674.
 Bryce, J., Armenia and Ararat, vm.         Carpenter, W. B., Influence of Sug
    349.                                       gestion on Muscular Movement,
 Buchan, A., Weather and Health of             i. 147.
    London, DC. 629.                               Rhizopod type of Animal Life, H.
 Buchanan, Dugald, rx. 553.                    497.
 Buckland, Frank, Culture of Fish, IT.             Relation of the Vital to the
    75.                                        Physical Forces, m. 206.
 Buckle, H. T., Influence of Women on              Temperature and Life of the Deep
    the Progress of Knowledge, n. 504.         Sea, v. 503 ; vi. 63.
Budd, W., on the Germ Theory, vi. 369.             Unconscious Activity of the Brain,
 Buddhism in India, iv. 136.                   v. 338.
Bunsen and Kirchhoffs Spectrum Ob                  Mediterranean, vi. 236.
   servations, tn. 393, 396; vi. 390;              " Challenger " Expedition, and
    rx. 500.                                   the Temperature of the Atlantic,
        and Schischkoff's Experiments on       Tn. 263.
    Gunpowder, vi. 275.                            Land and Sea in relation to Geo
 Bunsen's Measurement of the Hun's             logical Time, rx. 268.
   Chemical Action, iv. 129 ; experi        Carpmael, W., Manufacture of Candles,
   ments on Dissociation, xi. 474.             r. 21.
Burdett-Coutts Geological Scholarship,      Carrick's Respirator, vi. 371.
   m. 264.                                  Carrington on Solar Eclipse, vi. 286.
Burgoyne, J. C., Donation, iv. 231.         Carruthers, W., Cryptogamic Forests of
Busk, George, elected Treasurer, Tn.           the Coal Period, v. 511.
    105 ; resigns, xi. 468.                         British Fossil Cycads (no Jon-
Buys Ballot's Law, vn. 39.                     tracf), xi. 283.
Bye-law suspended, iv. 156, 177 ; re        Castner's Aluminium and Sodium
   pealed or altered, v. 308 ; vm. 663.        Process, xn. 451.
                                            Castor and Pollux, Minerals, vi. 392.
CABLE-LATINO APPLIANCES, vn. 310.           Catacombs, Roman Art in, vn. 316.
Csesalpinus on the Heart, vm. 493.          Catalogue of Library, n. 446 ; x. 169.
Caesium, in. 325 ; vi. 391 ; Spectrum,      Catalytic Action, n. 66.
   rx. 207.                                 Cattle of Britain, n. 259.
Cagniard de la Tour, discovered Yeast-      Cauchy's Colour Theory, x. 198, 202.
   plant, vi. 6; his Experiments on         Cavalli, Col., Fired Gunpowder, vi. 274.
   Liquids, vi. 357.                        Cavendish Balance presented, v. 403.
Cailletel's Experiments on Liquefaction            Experiment on Composition of
   of Gases, vm. 662 ; xi. 148.                Water, vi. 315 ; on the weight of tbe
Calcium, in. 83 ; Spectrum, Ix. 215.           Earth, xH. 555.

   58G                                     INDEX
   Celtic Language, ix. 547.                    Chromium Spectrum, x. 246.
   Uentaurea, x. 158.                           Chronometry of Life, m. 117.
   Cerebral System of Classification, in.       Chronoscopes, iv. 577 ; used to measure
      174.                                         Action of Gunpowder, vi. 278.
   Cetacea, x. 360.                             Chrysalides, Gilded, xn. 33.
   Chalk. x. 123, 132.                          City of London Records, xn. 28.
   "Challenger" Expedition, vn. 203,            Civilisation, its Influence on Health, v.
      354 ; Researches, ix. 271, 274, 331.         470.
   Chameleon, Mineral, in. 89.                  Clairaut's Instrument for Extracting
   Channel Tunnel, vi. 110; x. 121.                Roots, vn. 189.
   Charcoal, a Sanitary Agent, H. 53.           Clark, Latimer, Electrical Quantity
   Charlerois on Niagara, vn. 73.                  and Intensity, in. 337.
   Chatelier's Mode of Arresting Railway        Clark's Process of Purifying Water, n.
      Trains, ix. 316.                             407.
   Chaucer's Life and Works, n. 248.            Clnssical Education, v. 30, 278.
   Chemical Action of Solar Rays. in. 210 ;     Classification of the Elements by the
      of Diffused Daylight, iv. 053.               Atomicities, iv. 275.
          Actions, Rate of, v. 304.             Cleavage of Rocks, &c. H. 208.
          Affinity, i. 416.                     Clermont, Lord, Presents Works of Sir
          Circulation in the Body, iv. 449.        J. Fortescue, vn. 330.
          Constitution, v. 41J5 ; vm. 351.      Clifford, W. K., Mental Development,
          Decomposition, vm. 179.                       Physical Forces (no Abstract), \i.
                                                   v. 311.
          Discoveries from the Groat Exhi
      bition, i. 131.                               83.
          Dynamics, I. 90.                               Calculating Machines (no Abs
          Forces connected with Polarisa            tract), vi. 533.
      tion of Light, i. 45.                             Education of the People, vn. 314.
          Properties of Compounds, I. 451.      Climate of Londen, ix. 631 ; in Town
          Rays and the Light of the Sky,            and Country, x. 17.
      v. 429.                                    Clothing, Principle of, vi. 229.
    Chemistry, Military, n. 283 ; Agricul        C'louil Observations, x. 332.
      tural, 289 ; of Light, 223 ; see Sun.      Clubs, Australian, &c. vn, 513.
          of the Primeval Earth, v. 178.         Coal, Formation of, i. 284 ; in. 510 ; its
          Newton's principles applied to,           Uses, v. 329 ; Contents, ix. 52 ;
      ui. 500.                                          English,
                                                    Supply,        204.59, 511 ; American,
                                                              xn. li.
    Chenofs Steel, vm. 320.
    Chcvreul, M., Laws of Colours, n. 428.           181 ; Power of, 184.
    Children's Voltaic Battery, ix. 1.                   Period, v. 511.
    Chinese Lists of Meteors, m. 143.            Coal-gas, Manufacture of, &c. I. 320 ;
           Library presented, in. 219.              vi. 489.
          Writing, vi. 400.                      Coul-mincs, Probable Exhaustion, v.
           " Elements," vm. 179.                    328.
    —— Customs, ix. 405.                                Explosions, vn. 396.
    Chladni's Theory of Meteorites, xi.          Coal-tar Colours, History of, in. 468;
       332.                                              450 ; SIKtcimens
                                                    xi. Industry,            xH.107;
                                                                   xi. 450 ;of, 483. Sources
    Chlorate of Potash as a substitute for
       Gunpowder, IT. 617.                          of Products, xi. 451; Colours, xi.451;
    Chloride of Lime invented, vi. 201.              xn. 108 ; Antipyretic Medicines, xi.
    Chlorine, Manufacture, &c. vi. 199 ; xn.         459 ; Aromatic Perfumes, XI. 462 ;
      455.                                           Saccharine, XI. 402.
    Cholera : its Cause and Prevention,          Coast Defence, v. 550 ; of England, v.
      XI. 288.                                       458.
    Chorley, H. P.. English Poetry with          Cobbpld, T. S., Natural History
       rot'crence to Music, in. 317.                 Sciences (no A latract), in. 243.
    Christian Belief shown in the Roman          Cobden Club presents its Publications,
       Catacombs, vn. 316.                           ix. 544.
    Christie, W. H. M., Universal Time,          Cohu on Putrefaction and Bacteria,
      xi. 387.                                       vm. 7.
    Chromatic Phenomena, n. 336.              ;  Coinage of Ancient Britons, vn. 476.
•*

                                   TO TOL8. I. TO XII.                             587
 Coins, Representations on, iv. 306 ; x.      Coral Reefs and Islands, vn. 58 ; xn.
    287, 291.                                    251.
Cold: its Production, and Effects on          Cork, xi. 437 ; Applications of its Me
    Microphytes, xi. 305.                       chanical Properties, 444.
Coleman, J. J., Mechanical Production         Cornu, A., Velocity of Light, vn. 472.
    of Cold, xi. 305.                                Optical Study of the Elasticity
Coleridge. S. T., xH. 233.                      of Solid Bodies, ix. 191.
Coles's Shield-vessel, in. 509.               Corona, Solar, vi. 284, 484 ; xi. 202 ;
Collett, H., Donation, xn. 327.                 Photographed, xi. 204.
 Colliery Explosions, x. 94 ; xn. 205.       Correlation of Force in its Bearing on
Colloids, m. 424 ; vi. 30 ; vm. 310.            Mind, v. 157.
 Colne River Water, n. 49.                   Cottager's Stove, n. 423.
 Colonial Organisms, ix. 508.                Cotton, Plea for, in. 514.
Colorado, Grand Canon of, x. 209.                   Wool Respirator, vi. 9.
Colour Vision, vi. 260.                      Cotyledons, xi. 517.
        Blindness, vi. 209 ; xH. 64.          Coulvier-Gravier, Meteors, in. 145.
        of Water, vi. 189.                    Cowper, E., Lighthouses, I. 24 ; Locks
        Senses in Insects, ix. 201.             (no Abstract), 163.
Colour of Bodies in relation to their        Coxwel1's Balloon Ascents, iv. 71.
   state of Aggregation, iv. 489.            Crimean Mud Volcanoes, iv. 628.
Colours, xi. 107 ; xH. 61 ; Laws of,         Crisp, F., Ancient Microscopes (no Abs
    li. 428; the Three Primary, in. 370 ;       tract), xH. 201.
    of Polarised Light, vn. 291 ; Refran-    Critical Temperature and Pressures of
   gibility, x. 196; of Thin Plates, XH.        various Substances, xi. 151.
    81.                                      Crookes, W., Thallium, iv. 62 ; vi. 392.
Coloured Liquids, Action of Heat on,                Mechanical Action of Light, vin.
   vn. 458.                                     44.
Colouring Matters, v. 566 ; ix. 57, 58.             Molecular Physics in High Vacua,
Columbus, Realdus, on the Heart, vm.            ix. 138.
   492.                                             Genesis of the Elements, xn. 37.
Colvin, S., Artistic Judgment, vu. 144.      Crossley, Messrs., present a Gas-
Combustion in Rarefied Air, m. 331.             engine, xH. 372.
Comenius, J. A. (an Educator), vm.           Cryptogamic Forests (Coal Period), v.
   455.                                         511.
Comets, x. 1.                                Crystal Molecule, m. 95.
Common, A. A., Photography as an Aid         Crystal Palace Fire, v. 18.
   to Astronomy, xi. 367.                    Crystals, their Action on Polarised
Compass Deviations in Iron Ships, iv.           Light, vi. 506 ; Iridescent, xn. 447.
   518.                                      Crystallisation, xi. 508 ; of Metals, vi.
Composite Portraits, ix. 163.                   425.
Compressed-air Propulsion, x. 138.           Crystallographic Models, in. 86, 88.
Conolly, J., Condition of the Insane (no     Crystalloids, m. 424 ; vi. 30 ; vm. 310.
   Abstract), i. 303; Characters of In       Culture, Evolution of, vn. 496.
   sanity, 375.                              Cuneiform Characters, early Use of, I.
Conservation of Force, n. 352 ; vm.             84 ; Discovery, in. 536 ; iv. 335.
   217 ; and Organic Nature, in. 347.        Cnvier on Discovery, ix. 22.
Contact Electricity, x. 190, 195.            Cyanogen Compounds, ix. 259.
Continents, Old, vn. 32.                            Flame Spectrum, ix. 679.
Conway, Emerson
            M. D.,and
                   NewhisEngland,
                           views of Nature,
                                    v. 59.   Cycads, x. 221.
                                             Cyclones, Periodicity of, vn. 36.
   x. 217.
Cook, Capt., on Australians, vm. 604 ;       DABOLL'S Fog-horn, vn. 169, 173 ; xn.
   ix. 392; Tasmanians, 021 ; New               441.
   Zealanders, 644 ; Marqueoians, 049.       Dallinger, W. H., Lowly Forms of Life,
Cookery, vi. 231 ; Military, ii. 422.                 391.Drysdale's Experiments on
                                                vin.and
Cope, E. D., Palseontological Dis
   coveries, vm. 103-124.                       Monads, \ in. 31.
Copper-Zinc Couple, vn. 521; vm.             Dampier, on Australians, vin. 603 ; on
   182.                                         American Customs, ix. 392.
      VOL. XII.        No. 83.)                                          2 R

588                                             INDEX
1 i.ian, J. D., on Land and Sea, ix. 276.           Denison, E. B., Modern Gothic Archi
Dannreuther, E., Music of the Future,                  tecture, HI. 32.
   TIT. 22.                                         Derham. Intensity of Sound, vn. 170.
Dante, on, n. 118.                                  Detonating Agents, ix. 62.
Darwin, C., on Glen Roy, vm. 238.                   Deutsch, E., The Talmud, v. 386.
       E. A., Donation, v. 549; vi. 175.            Development of Animals, in. 315.
        G. H., Meteorites and the History           Doville. H. Ste. Claire, Experiments on
    of Stellar Systems, Xn. 379.                       Aluminium, u. 215 ; on Dissociation,
Darwin's Origin of Species considered,                 xi. 474 : elected Hon. M.R.I., n. 413.
    IH. 195,226; Ix. 3(il.                          Devonshire Caverns and Fossil Mam
Darwinian Theory of Instinct, XI. 131.                 malia, in. 149, 150.
Davis, Alfred, Bequeaths 2000*., TI. 183;           Dew, x. 254.
    Donations, v. 24, 270, 451 ; Liberality         Dewar, J., Temperature of the Sun,
    to Royal
        li., Australian
                 Institution,
                            Skulls,
                               Tn. 9. &c. vm.          and the Work of Sunlight, vn. 57-
                                                            Physiological Action of Light,
    620, 036,                                          vn. 360 ; vm. 137.
Davy, Sir. H., proved Chlorine to be an                    Electro-Photometry, vm. 565.
        Discoveries
    Element,            in Royal Institution,
                 vi. 200.                                   Liquefaction of Gases, vm. 657.
                                                            Spectroscopic Investigation, ix.
    vn. 3, 10; his Portrait presented,                 201.
    xn. 466.                                                High Temperatures, ix. 257.
        Battery, ix. 1 ; Lamp, xn. 208.                     Origin and Identity of Spectra, ix.
 Dawson, J. W., Primitive Vegetation of                674.
    the Earth, vi. 165.                                     Researches of H. Ste. Claire De-
Deacon, H., his Process of Manufactur                  ville (no Abstract), x. 87.
    ing Chlorine, vi. 204 ; his experi                      Electric Arc and Chemical Syn
    ments on Vortex Rings, vin. 275.                   thesis (no Abstract), x. 398.
 Death Rate of London, ix. 032.                             Liquefied Gases, xi. 148.
 Deep Sea, Nature of its Bed, in. 209 ;                     Liquid Air and the Zero of
    Temperature, &c. v. 503; TI. 63;                    Absolute Temperature (HO Abstract),
    Dredging, &c. ix. 2(,9, 331.                        xi. 318.
 Defensive Policy of Great Britain, vi.                     Lectures on the Story of a Meteo
    335.                                                rite, xi. 328.
 De Jaager, on Sensation, iv. 590.                           Researches on Meteorites, xi.
 De la Hire, Fired Gunpowder, vi. 273.                  541.
 de la Rue, Warren, his Photographs of                      Light as an Analytic Agent, xn.
    the Moon, n. 462; of the Sun, IT.                  83.
                                                             Phosphorescence and Ozone, xn.
    378.Chemical Discoveries, &c. n. 506,               557.
    508 ; Photographic Eclipse Results,                     Optical Properties of Oxygen and
    in. Electric
          302.       Discharge with 14,400              Ozone, xn. 468.
                                                             elected Fullcrian Professor of
        electedofSecretary,
     Chloride                  ix. 37
                    Silver Cells,         resigns,
                                   ix. ; 461.           Chemistry, vm. 403; re-elected, ix.
                                                        388 ; x. 397 ; xi. 589 ; xn. 569.
     x. 14,
         Donations,
              30.       vn. 92 ; vm. 527 ; x.               Donations, xn. 230 ; presents por
                                                        trait of Mr. H. Pollock, xn. 565.
           ; xi. 175Apparatus,
     214presents      ; xn. 376. in. 418, 540;       " Dhurmsala " Meteorite, xi. 328, 543.
                                                     Dialysis, in. 422 ; vi. 30.
            186, 527,
     vin.Decease       y04 ; ix. 359.
                    ; resolution,  xn. 465 ; his     Diamagnetism, n. 13, 159.
                                                     Diamonds, Nature of, in. 229.
     apparatus presented by Mrs. de la               Dick-Lauder, Sir T.,on Glen Roy, vm.
     Rue, xn. 466.                                      234.
 Delisle, Transits of Planets, vm. 80.               Dickinson, J., Supply of Pure Water for
 Dell, Wm., Donations, v. 24, 276, 451 ;                London, n. 47.
     vi. 61, 209.                                    Dietaries, Table of, i. 316.
  Democritus's Philosophy, vi. 310.                  Diffusion, vn. 155 ; Chemical, in. 423 ;
  Denison, E. B., Great Bell of West                    of Gases, v. 12; vi. 36 ; of Liquids,
     minster,
         Locka,n.H.368.
                      475.                              TI. 28.
                                                     Dilatancy, xi. 354.

                                  TO TOLS. I. TO XII.                            589
 Dioiuea muscipnla, Leaf of, Tn. 332 ;      Durham, A., Sleeping and Dreaming
    x. 147, 159.                               (no Abstract), IH. 430.
 Dioseorides on Indigo, ix. 581, 582.       Dust and Disease, vi. 1.
 Dispersion Theory, x. 198, 202.                   and Smoke, vi. 365 ; xi. 520.
 Dissipation of Energy, vn. 386.            Dusts, Dangerous Properties of, x. 88.
 Dissociation, x. 320 ; Temperatures, xi.   Dynamite, vi. 523 ; ix. 65 ; Production,
   471.                                        87.
 Distancesof the Stars, ix. 514 ; xi. 91.   Dynamo-Electric Current, rx. 334.
 Distribution of Plants, vin. 568.                 Machines presented, rx. 37, 672.
 Dotld, G., Legacy from, iv. 346 ; Dona            Alternating Machine, x. 76.
    tion, iv. 156.
Dollond's Improvement of the Tele           EAR, rx. 123.
   scope, iv. 642.                          Earth, its Magnetism, I. 57 ; Measure
Domville, W. H., Donation, xn. 136.            ment, &c., n. 17, 519 ; Temperature,
 Donation Fund for the Promotion of            &c. in. 139 ; Primeval, T. 178.
   Experimental Researches established,     Earth Currents, ix. 656.
   iv. 151.                                Earthquakes and how to measure
 Donations for Promoting Scientific Re         them, xn. 361.
   searches, iv. 108, 109, &c.                     in South Italy, n. 528.
Doncaster new Churches, in. 40.            Ebelmen's Mode of producing Arti
Donders' Experiments ou the Human             ficial Rubies, &c. I. 83.
   Eye, iv. 572.                           Echoes in Free Air, vm. 556.
Donne, W. B., Chaucer, H. 248.             Eclipse, Phenomena of, I. 65 ; Compu
Donny, on Boiling Water, iv. 158.             tation of, 243.
Doran, J., Opponents of Shakspeare, vn.           of Thales, i. 243 ; of Agathocles,
   218.                                       248; of 1851, &e. 62.
D'Orsey, A. J., English Language, m.              Photographs of, HI. 362.
   307.                                           of the Sun (1870), vi. 284; (1871)
" Doterel " Explosion, xi. 227.               477.
Double Loading of Gun, Lx. 242, 314,       " Economiser " for Grates, xi. 342.
   323.                                    Edinburgh, Duke of, elected Honorary
Douglass, Sir J. N., Wolf Rock Light          Member, iv. 694.
   house, vi. 214.                         Edison's Telephone, vm. 503 ; Electric
       Bearon Lights and Fog Signals,         Lighting, ix. 18 ; Dynamo-Electric
   xn. 425.                                   Machine, 37.
Doulton, Sir Henry, Developments of        Education in Science, n. 556 ; in Art,
   English Pottery, Xn. 212.                  iv. 380; Public School, v. 26, 273 :
        presents two "Doulton" Fire           of the People, vn. 314 ; History of,
   places, xn. 185.                           vin. 449.
Drake, Sir Francis, x. 233 ; xn. 307.      Egeroff, Electro - Chemical Actino-
Dreaming, iv. 207.                            meter, vm. 565.
Dresser, C., Science and Ornamental        Egypt, Anatomy and Medicine, xi. 378.
   Art, n. 350.                                   Biblical Cities of, xi. 384.
Drift Implements, vn. 505.                        Exploration Fund, xi. 384.
Drinking-Water, vi. 195.                   Ehrenberg on Life in Atmosphere, vm.
Druitt, R., Houses in relation to Health,     23.
   m. 133.                                 Elasticity, ix. 520; of Solid Bodies,
Du Bois-Reymond, E., Transmission of          ix. 191.
   Volition and Sensation through the      Electric Arc, rx. 257, 496 ; Spectrum,
   Nervos, iv. 575.                           676, 692.
Du Chaillu. F., Travels in Western                Attraction, x. 190.
   Central Africa (no Abstract), in. 335.         Current, Division, rx. 19.
Duff, M. E. Grant, a Fortnight in Asia            Currents in Plants, I. 75.
   Minor, vn. 117.                                Discharge, Action of Magnetic
Dufour's Observations on Heat, x.             Force on it, m. 169.
   20.                                            Discharge, ix. 461 ; x. 78 ; in
Dumas Pere, ix. 383.                          Vacuum, ix. 142, 461 ; Time quanti
Dnpre, Dr., Chemical Circulation in           ties, 427. See Index, 491.
   the Body, iv. 564.                             Force, I. 217.
                                                                     2 B 2

    590                                       INDEX
     Electric Induction, I. 345.                  Evans, J., Alphabet, vi. 464.
            Light, in. 221 ; ix. 1 ; x. 33.             Coinage of Ancient Britons and
            Meters, x. 236.                         Natural Selection, vn. 476.
            Qunntity and Intensity, in. 337.      Evaporation, vn. 155.
            Hallways, x. 06.                      Evolution of Culture, vn. 496.
            Silk-loom, in. 271.                   KM in:-, J. A., Earthquakes and how to
            Telegraph Wire, Experiments on,         measure them, xn. 3U1.
        I. 340; Piece of, exhibited, 442.         Excitability of Plants and Animals, x.
    .       Telegraph, n. 394, 557.                 14U.
     Electrical Deposition of Dust and            Exhibition of 1851, Remarks on, i. 151.
        Sm»ke, «. 520.                                  of 1862, Discourse on, in. 485.
            Fishes, xH. 139.                      Exner, S., Sensations of Colour, vi. 268.
            Influence Machines, Xn. 300.          Expedition of 1870, vi. 189, 284; of
            Stress, xH. 406.                        1871, vi. 480.
     Electricity, Transmission of, by Flame       Explosions, Causes of, &c. m. 438 ; x.
        and Gases, i. 359 ; Velocity of, in         89 ; Accidental, vn. 390 ; xi. 218.
        different kinds of Wire. 352 ; Heat       Explosives, ix. 62.
        ing Effects of, 119; Employed to          Extinct Animals of North America,
        measure Temperatures, vi. 438 : ap          vin. 103.
        plied to Protection of Life on Rail       Eye, ix. 123; Action of Light upon it,
        ways, vin. 35.                              vm. 137.
            Military Applications of, in. 249 ;
        v. 47.                                    FABLES, their Migrations, vi. 173.
            Atmospheric, in. 277.                 Fabricius on the Heart, vin. 493.
            in Transitu, ix. 427.                 Fairbairn, \\ . Iron and its Resistance
     Electro-biology, I. 147.                       to Projectiles, in. 491.
             magnetic Clocks, i. 109.             Fall, T., Presents Portrait of Faraday,
             Photometry, vm. 565.                   ix. 522.
     Electrostatic Measurement, xH. 561.          Faraday, M., Magnetic Relations of
     Elements, Discovery of, vi. 388 ; Early        Oxygen and Nitrogen, I. 1.
        Notions of, vm. 170.                            Atmospheric Magnetism, I. 56.
            Ultra-Violet Spectra of the, x. 245.        Electric Currents in Plants, i. 75 .
            Genesis of the, xn. 37.                     Artificial Production of the Ruby,
     Ellis, on Dust and Disease, vi. 367.                by M. Ebelmen,
                                                    &c. Schoubeiu's       I. 83.I. 94; and
                                                                      Ozone,
     Emerson and his Views of Nature, x.
        217.                                            Lines ofin.Magnetic
                                                    Antozone,       70.       Force, I. 105,
      Empedocles' Philosophy, vi. 308.
      Encke's Calculations on Pens' Comet,          216,229; vn. 50.
        Iv. 562.                                         Researches of Boussingault and
     Energy, Dissipation of, vn. 386.               others on Oxygen, i. 337.
            denned, xi. 571.                              Electric Induction—Associated
      Engine-power Meter, x. 238.                   cusea of current and static effects,
      English Language, Study of, in. 307.          i. 345.
            Poetry with reference to Music,             Magnetic Hypotheses, i. 457.
        ra. 317.                                        Magnetic Philosophy, ti. 6 ;
      Engravings produced by Light and              Gravity, 10.
         Electricity, n. 343.                           Electric Conduction, n. 123.
      Entasis, Tables of, i. 128.                       Ruhmkorffs Induction Apparatus,
      Eozoiin, Discovery of, iv. 374.                   Magnetic Actions and Affections,
                                                    n. 1H9.
      Erasistratus on the Heart, vin. 486.
      Eskimos, vm. 385.                                 Petitjean's Silvering Process, n.
                                                    H. 196.
      Ether and Matter, vm. 335.
      Ethiopia, v. 404.                              308 ; Divided Gold, n. 310 ; iv. 059.
      Ethnology, Methods and Results of, iv.            Conservation of Force, n. H52.
         461.                                            Relations of Gold to Light, n.
      Ethyl, Production of, I. 326.                  444.
      Etna, Structure of, in. 129.                      Static Induction, n. 470, 490.
      Evans, J., Forgery of Antiquities, iv.            Wheatstone's Electric Telegraph,
         356.                                        &c. nud Scientific Education, n. 555.
-•,

                                   TO TOL8. I. TO XII.                               591
  Faraday, M., Phosphorescence, Fluor          Field, F., Minerals of the Andes, in.
     escence, &c. in. 159.                        190.
           Lighthouse Illumination—the                 Magenta and its Derivative
     Electric Light, in. 220.                     Colours, iv. 437.
         Electric Silk-Loom, m. 271.           Filho1's Observations, ix. 368.
         Platinum, in. 321.                    Films, Liquid, XL 143.
         de la Rue's Photographic Eclipse      Fireballs, iv. 88.
     Results, in. 362.                         Fireman's Respirator, vi. 374.
         Gas-Furnaces, in. 536.                Fireplace Construction, xi. 338.
        his Letter to the Prince of Wales,     Firework Making, Accidents in, vn.
    iv. 3.                                        417.
        Donations, iv. 153, 325, 483.          Fish-culture, iv. 75.
        a Bust of him presented, iv. 14 ;     Fitz-Roy, R., Meteorological Tele
    a Portrait, ix. 522.                          graphy, in. 444.
        Decease announced, v. 193.            Fixed Stars, their Constitution, iv.
        his Legacy of MSS. and Books,             441 ; their distances, xi. 91.
    v. 193 ; MS. Notes, &o. bequeathed        Fizeuu, M., on Photographic Engra
    to the Institution, vi. 1S5 ; first           ving, u. 346 ; Velocity of Light, vn.
    Electric Machine presented, vi.               472.
    185.                                      Flames, Luminous, v. 419 ; Pounding
        Discoveries in Royal Institution,        and Sensitive, v. 6 ; vm. 53a ; xn.
    vii. 5, 10 ; Ix. 4, 300, S34 ; Liquefac       188.
    tion of Gases, vin. 657 ; Mugneto-        Fleming, S., Scheme for Universal
    Electrio Light, ix. 4-6 ; Spark, 24.         Time, xi. 390.
 Faraday, Mrs., Books presented by, v.        Flight in relation to Aeronautics, v. 94.
    194; Pension granted to, v. 276;          Flinders Bar, vin. 592.
    Decease, ix. 37.                          Flint and Quartz, Alcohols from, vn.
 " Faraday as a discoverer," by J. Tyn-          107.
    dull (see Index in vol. v.) v. 199.              Implements of Abbeville, &o. iv.
" Fantday Memorial " Committee, Do               213.
    nation, xn. 136.                          Flour Mill Explosions, vn. 409 ; x. 89.
 " Furaduy " Steamship, vn. 310.              Flower, W. H., Palseontulogical Evi
' Farbenlehre,' ix. 340.                         dence of Gradual Modification of
Farmer, J., Wind applied to String               Animal Forms, vn. 94.
    Instruments, vn. 488.                            Extinct Animals of N. America,
— -Wallace Electric Machine, ix. 15.             vin. 103.
Farrar, Archdeacon, Public School                    Native Races of the Pacific Ocean,
   Education, v. 26, 273.                        vm. 602.
        Society in the 4th Century A.D.,             Fashion in Deformity, EX. 890.
   xH. 75.                                           Whales, x. 360.
Fashion in Deformity, ix. 390.                      Wings of Birds, si. 364.
Faulhorn, Physiology of its Ascent, iv.             Pygmy Races of Men, xn. 266.
   572.                                      Fluid Motion, vin. 272.
Fauna of the Sea-shore, xi. 168.             Fluids and Solid Metals, xi. 395.
Fawcett, H., Wealth (no Abstract), iv.       Fluorescence, m. 160; iv. 564; x. 208,
   434.                                         210,
Fellows, Lady, bequeaths Drawings of         Fluorescent Screen, x. 245, 258.
   Watches, vn. 336.                         Fogs, iv. 50 ; x. 25 ; Fog-signals, iv. 52 ;
Fergusson, J., Holy Sepulchre and the           vn. 169; vin. 543; xn. 442; Fog-
   Temple at Jerusalem, in. 426 ; iv.           bell, TI. 221 ; xn. 441.
   366 ; Tree and Serpent Worship, v.        Folk-Lore of the Russians, vi. 326.
   453.                                      Food of Man, I. 313; in relation to his
Ferns (fossil), x. 223.                         Work, iv. 431, 681-3.
Feudal Property, vin. 126.                          Preservation of, u. 72.
Few, W. R., presents Photograph of           Forbes, E., Natural History of the
   Orion, xn. 181.                              British Seas, I. 17.
Fick, Dr., Source of Muscular Power,                Analogy between the Life of an
   iv. 654 et seq.                              Individual and the Duration of a
Fiction, Art of, xi. 70.                        Species, i. 193.

592                                      INDEX
Forbes, E., British Geology, i. 816.         Frozen Meat, xi. 308.
       Manifestation of Polarity in the      Fruits, ix. 595.
  Distribution of Beings in Time, i.         Fuller, Francis, Promoter of Crystal
  428.                                          Palace Building, v. 23.
       J. D., Laws on Vibrations and                John, Gift of 10,000l., vn. 9.
  Tones of Heated Bodies, i. 356.            Fullerian Professors of Physiology
       Theory of Glaciers, li. 320, 545.           elected :—
Force, Conservation of, n. 352 ; in. 347.       T. Wharton Jones, i. 101.
       Tyndall on, in. 527.                     T. H. Huxley, u. 147 ; iv. 468.
       Magnetic, in. 98, 169 ; vH. 50.          R. Owen, n. 561.
Forecasting of Weather, x. 323.                 John Marshall, in. 526.
Forgery of Antiquities, iv. 356.                M. Foster, v. 549.
Forster, on Polynesians, vin. 629.              W. Rutherford, vi. 544.
Forth Bridge, xn. 142.                          A. H. Garrod, vn. 444.
Fossil Vegetation, x. 220.                      E. A. Schiifer, vin. 665.
Fossils in Nova Scotia Coal-fields, I.          J. G. McKendrick, ix. 712.
   281.                                         A. Gamgee, xi. 153.
Foster, M., elected Fullerian Professor         G. J. Romanes, xn. 201.
   of Physiology, v. 549.                     Fullerian Professors of Chemistry
Foucault's Pendulum Experiment, i. 70.             elected :—
Fox, Col. Lane, Evolution of Culture,           W. Odling, v. 424.
   vn. 496.                                     J. H. Gladstone, vn. 302.
Frankland, E., Artificial Illumination,         J. Dewar, vin. 403.
   i. 319 ; iv. 16 ; v. 419.
       Chemical Properties of Compounds
   and the Electrical Character of their     GAELIC Language, ix. 548 : Literature,
   Constituents, i. 451.                         555.
        Production of Organic Bodies, n.     Gaine, W. E., Invention of Porehmeut
   538.                                         Paper, u. 409, 411.
        Combustion in Rarefied Air, in.       Galen, on the Heart, vin. 487.
   331.                                       Gale's Method of rendering Gunpowder
        Glacial Epoch, iv. 166.                  non-explosive, rv. 618.
        Researches in the Royal Insti         Galibert's Respirator, vi. 376.
    tution, iv. 309, 465; vn. 6, 11.          Galileo's Triiil, Enigma in, vn. 304.
        Source of Muscular Power, iv. 661.    Galloway's Experiments with Safety
        Water Supply, v. 109, 346.               Lamp, vH. 4, 400 ; with Coal Dust,
        River Pollution, vn. 370.                x. 96.
        Climate in Town and Countrv,          Gallon,Typical
                                                        F., Men
                                                              Laws
                                                                 of Science,  vn. 227.
                                                                     of Heredity,   vin.
    x. 17.
        elected Professor of Chemistry,          282.
    rv. 109.                                         Generic Images, ix. 161.
 Franklin, B., Absorption of Heat by                 Visions of Sane Persons, ix.
    Coloured Bodies, iv. 489.
 Fraunhofer's Lines, in. 326.                    614.Personal Identification and Du-
 Freeman, E. A., Principal Styles of             scription, xn. 346.
    Architecture, I. 268.                            Captain D., Donation, iv. 549.
 Freezing Machines, ix. 56 ; xi. 306.         Games, History of, ix. 125.
 Fremy's Researches on Ozone, vi. 547.        Gamgee, A., on Physiological Effects
 French Government presents ' Docu                   elected Fullerian
                                                 of Vanadium,   vin. 225. Professor of
    ments Ine"tiits sur 1'Hiatoire de
    France,' in. 241, 290, &e.                   Physiology, xi. 153.
 Freshfield, Edwin, Unpublished Re            Garnett, T., Portrait of, ix. 329.
    cords of the City of London, xn. 28.      Garrick as an Actor, xi. 304.
 Fritsche, on Indigo, ix. 584.                Garrod, A. H., Heart and Sphygmo-
 Frog, Development of, I. 9.                         elected
                                                 graph,       Fullerian Professor of
                                                         vH. 214.
 Kroude, J. A., Science of History, iv.
    180.                                         Physiology, vn. 444.
        W., Sea Waves, vi. 355.               Gases, Transmission of Heat through,
        Resistance of Ships, vin. 1S8.           in. 155, 295, 404 ; iv. 147.

                                    TO TOL8. I. TO ill.                            593
Gases, Comparison of various Lumi             Glaciers, n. 320, 545 ; HI. 72, 269 ; vi.
   nous, I. 320-4.                               155, 378.
       in Metals, v. 159 ; in Waters,         Gladstone, J. H., Chemical Affinity,
   v. 365 ; in Meteorites, x. 6, 7 ; Move        i. 416.
   ments under Pressure, Effusion, and               Gunpowder, n. 99.
   Transpiration, vi. 33 : Diffusion, 36 ;          Chromatic Phenomena by Trans
   Passage through Colloid Septa, 44 ;          mitted Light, n. 336.
   Occlusion through Metal:*, 48 ; Lique            Colours of Shooting Stars and
   fied, vHl. 657 ; xi. 148 ; Solidified, xi.   Meteors, in. 143.
   550 ; producing Sound, x. 177.                   Fogs and Fog-signals, iv. 49.
Gas Engine, Donations for, x. 214, 266.             Light, v. 371.
Gas-fuel, in. 537.                                  Crystallisation, vi. 425.
Gas-furnaces, Hl. 536 ; xi. 471.                     Science in Elementary Schools,
Gaskell, S., Donation, iv. 516.                 Tn. 449.
        W. H., Sympathetic Nervous                   Copper-zinc Couple, vn. 521.
   System, xi. 530.                                 Chemical Decomposition, vn. 179.
Gaslight Improvements, Iv. 17.                       Chemical Constitution and Re
Gassiot, J. P., Experiments on Vacua,            fraction of Light, vin. 351.
   in. 7, 172.                                       elected Fullerian Professor of
•      presents Bust of Mrs. Somerville,         Chemistry, vn. 302.
   vn. 30.                                           Donation, rv. 156.
       Donations, iv. 153, 325, 516 ; v.      Glaisher, J., Aerial Scientific Research,
   24, 276.                                      iv. 65, 385.
Gautier, Solar Spots, I. 238.                 Glass Furnaces, in. 538.
Geikio, A., Canons of the Far West, x.               Manufacture, xi. 413.
   268.                                              Fibres, vm. 61 ; xn. 549.
       Origin and Age of the Highlands        Glen-Roy, Parallel RoaJs of, m. 341 ;
   of Scotland and Ireland, xn. 528.             vm. 233.
       on Land and Sea, Ix. 2C0, 281.         Glyoxilin, ix. 78.
Gemmation, n. 534.                            Goethe, on Light, vin. 69.
Generic Images, Ix. 161.                             ' Fnrbenlehre,' ix. 340.
Geographical Circumstances and Poli           Gold and Light, Relations of, n. 310,
   tical Charucter, vin. 529.                   444.
Geological Results of Challenger Expe                 Extraction of, from its Ores, i.
   dition, vn. 354 ; ix. 268.                   205; LargeNugget from California, 3.
       Time, i. 287, 428 ; HI. 109 ; vin.     Goldfussia, x. 155.
   129; Ix. 208.                              Good Shepherd in the Catacombs, vn.
Geology of, the Alps, i. 31 ; Lake Su           322, 323.
   perior, 154; Lomlou, 164; Ingle-           Goodenough, Captain, on Melanesiana,
   borough, 278 ; Nova Scotia, 281 ;            vm. 630, 631.
   Isle of Wight, &c. 310 ; of the High       Gorilla, m. 10.
   lands of Scotland, &c. xn. 528.            Gosse, E., Leigh Hunt, xn. 409.
Geranium, ix. 596.                            Gothic Architecture, in. 32 ; ix. 95.
Gerhardt's Discovery of Anhydrous Or                Period of Art, vi. 56.
   ganic Acids, i. 239.                             Ornament, ix. 447.
German Gunpowder, iv. 617.                    Graham. T., Researches on Dialysis, in.
Germ Theory of Disease, vi. 7; TIn.             422; Diffusion and Occlusion of Gases,
  6, 15.                                        v. 12, 159 ; Meteoric Iron, Ix. 48.
Geysers of Iceland, i. 332.                         Life and Works, vi. 15.
Gibbs, Mrs. J., Donation, xn. 526.            Grailich's Researches in Crystallo
Gibraltar Current, vi. 246; Geology,            graphy, in. 98.
   vin. 594.                                  Gramme Electric Machine, ix. 12-14.
Gill, D., Distance of the Fixed Stars,        Grand Canon District, x. 209.
   xi. 91.                                    Grant, J., Military Cookery, n. 422.
       Applications of Photography in               Cooking Apparatus, in. 251.
   Astronomy, xn. 158.                              Col. J. A.. Donation, x. 214.
Gillett, W. S., Microscopes, i. 403-5.              R., Proper Motions of the Stars,
Oilman, on Solar Eclipse (1870) vi. 287.        x. 115.
Glacial Epoch, iv. 166.                       Grape-fungus, Oidium Tucktri, l. 305.

594                                      INDEX
Graphite, xi. 545.                           Hamilton, W. R., presents Lepsius'
Gratiolet's Researches on the Braiu,            'Egypt,' H. 414.
   in. 408.                                  Hamlet, on, v. 295.
Gray, A., on N. American Flora, vin.         Hancock, C. F., presents Littrc's Dic-
   573.                                         tionnaire, vn. 30.
       E., Telephone, vm. 503.               Harooart, A. Vernon, Rate at which
Greek Art, x. 272 : Painting, x. 292.           Chemical Actions tnke place, v. 304.
       (Joins and Greek Art, iv. 30U.               Coal Gas, vi. 489.
       Mythology, vi. 129.                          Value of different Modes of Light
       Language, its Vitality, vi. 403 ;        ing (no Abstraet), x. 120.
   its Pronunciation, vi. 504 ; Music        Hartley, W. N., Action of Heat on
   of Speech, v. 145.                           coloured Liquids, vn. 458.
Greenland Flora, vin. 575.                   Harton Colliery Experiments, H. 17.
Greenwell, W., Yorkshire Wold                 Harvey, W. and his Discoveries, vin.
   Tumuli, v. 78.                               485.
Grog, \V. !{., Life ut High-Pressure,        Haswell Collieries Explosion, x. 94.
   vH. 368.                                  Haughton, S., Shot Drill Physiological
Groombridge Star (1830), ix. 517;               Experiments, iv. 678.
   (1618) .r)18.                             Haweis, Rev. II. H., Bells, Ix. 99.
Grove, Sir W. R., Heating Effects of                Old Violins, 305.
   Electricity and Magnetism, I. 1 1'J.      Hawksley, 0., Donation, vin. 589.
        TruMHmissiou of Electricity by       Hawkyns, J. and the Armada, xn.
   Flame and Gases, I. 350.                     307.
•—— Perpetual Motion, H. 152.                Health and Houses, in. 133.
        Molecular Impressions by Light       Heart, Tn. 214; vin. 485.
   and Electricity, iI. 458.                 Heat,and    Light, Analogies
                                                      Conduction  of, i. 254. of, I. 172 ;
       Electrical Discharge in Rarefied
   Media, Hl. 5.                                     Application of, to Cookery, n.
                                                vi. 417.
       Boiling Water, iv. 158.
       Antagonism, xn. 284.
       presents Bust of Rev. 3. Barlow,         422.in relation to Crystallography, in.
   Tn. 339.                                     99 ; its Transmission through Gases,
       Donations, vin. 4 ; xi. 319.
 Grubb, H., Telescopic Objectives and                  the Sun, in. 531 ; xH. 1 ; of the
                                                155,of295.
    Mirrors, xi. 413.                           Moon, vii. 139.
Gull, W. W., Physiology of Voluntary                of Oxyhydrogen Flame, v. 391.
   Movement, I. 37.                                  Rumford's Researches, vi. 231,
 Gun-cotton, Historv, &c. iv. 245; vi.          232 ; x. 445.
   518; vn. 413; ix. 62; Mechanical                 (Atomic) of Metals, vi. 297.
   Nature, Hl. 292 ; iv. improved, 622 ;            its Action on Coloured Liquids,
   its Application to Shells, vi. 519;          vin. 458.
   Storage, vi. 531 ; vn. 423 ; Ix. 77 ;            of Electric Light, ix. 2, 20, 21.
   Acoustic Powers, vin. 546, 547. ;                Nature of, x. 253.
   Explosion, ix. 221, 309.                  Heath, V., Autotype Process, &c. vn.
 Gunpowder nnd its Substitutes, n. 99;          220.
   iv. 616; vi. 517; Tn. 415, 419, 424;      Heating Effects of Electricity and
   ix. Tension
        72 ; x. 444.
                 of Fired, vi. 273 ; Acuus-     Magnetism, I. 119.
                                             Heavenly Bodies, Spectrum Analysis
    tio Power, vin. 546.                        applied to, v. 475.
 Guthrie, F., Solid Water, vin. 302.         Hebrew Alphabet, vi. 470.
                                             Heliograph, in. 363.
 HALES, Stephen, Evaporation of Plants,      Hclmholtz, H., Law of the Conserva
   vn. 159.                                     tion of Force applied to Organic
 Halicarnassus, Discoveries at. in. 385.            on Transmission
                                                Nature,                  by the Nerves,
                                                          in. 347 ; iv. 675.
 Hallcr, Nervous Agent, iv. 577.
 Halley's Observations of Stars, x.             iv. 578 ; his Myographion, iv. 582 ;
    116.                                        Fluorescence in the Human Eye, iv.
 Hamilton, J. B., Wind applied to j             571 ; Conductivity of Heat by Metals,
    String Instruments, vn. 488.                vHi. 75.

                                   TO TOL8. I. TO XII.                             595
Helps, T. W., Donations, iv. 516; v.          Homeric Poems and Art, x. 275.
   76, 370, 549; vi. 175,301.                 Hooke, R., on Conduction of Sound,
Henderson's Observations of Stars, xi.          vin. 501.
   95.                                        Hooker, Sir J. D., Distribution of
Hennepin on Niagara, TH. 73.                    North American Flora, vin. 568.
Henrici's Model of Peaucellier's              Hooper, A., Donation, rv. 316.
  Apparatus, vn. 190.                         Hopkins, W., the Earth's Internal
Henry, Joseph, Researches on the Ley-           Temperature, &c. in. 139.
         Jar, and
   denPaul          Prosper, Astronomical
              xH. 418.                               Motion of Glaciers, in. 410.
                                              Horizontal Shell-Firing, in. 504.          ,
   Observations, xn. 162.                     Horsley and Ehrhardt, Substitutes for
       W. C., Donation, iv. 290.                Gunpowder, iv. 617.
Henslow, Rev. G., obtains Actoniau            Horsley, Victor, Motor Centres of the
   Prize, vi. 561.                              Brain, and the Mechanism of tin-
Heraclitus's Philosophy, vi. 470.               Will,    xi. 250.
                                                     Brain   Surgery in the Stone A ges,
Heredity, Typical Laws of, vm. 282.
Herschfil, A. 6., Luminous Meteors,             xH. 72.
        iv. 87. Stars, 1865-7, &c. iv.
   &c. Shooting                               Horticulture by Electric Light, ix.
                                                338.
   645Eclipse
        ; T. 104.of the Sun (no Abstract),    Hoskinsr, W., Ventilation by the
                                                Parlour Fire, I. 76.
   v. 450.                                    Houses in relation to Health, in. 133.
       on Star-grouping, vi. 143.             Huefter, F., Musical Criticism, ix. 437.
       Sir J., on Chemical Rays of Light,     Hugging, W., Fixed Stars and Nebulas,
   I. 259.                                      Iv. 441.
Hertz's Researches, Xn. 417.                            Spectrum Analysis of the
Heteromita, Monads, MIL 31.                     Heavenly Bodies, v. 475.
Hieroglyphical Researches, vi. 466 ;                   Photographic Spectra of the
   xi. 574.                                     Stars, ix. 285.
High Temperatures, ix. 257.                          Comets, x. 1.
Hill, M. D., Post-office, m. 457.                    Solar Corona, xi. 202.
Hills, T. H., Donation, iv. 177.              Hughes, D. E., Theory of Magnetism,
Hindu Law, Ix. 540 ; x. 143.                    xi. T.1. Mt=K., Geological Measures of
Hirsch, NervousAgent, iv. 586, 590, 592.
History, Science of, iv. 180; Influence         Time, vm. 129.
   of the Imagination on, v. 394.             Human Proportion, x. 278.
Hochstadter's Substitute lor Gun              Humboldt on November Meteors, ix.
   powder, iv. 617.                             43.
Hodgkin, T., Aquileia, the Precursor          Hume on Shakspeare, rx. 597.
   of Venice, xH. 175.                        Humphry, G. M., Sleep, vi. 424.
Hodmadods (Hottentots), vin. 604.             Hunt, T. Sterry, Chemistry of the
Hofmann,
       Mauve  A.and
                  W., Magenta,
                       Ammonia,in.li.468.
                                      274.       Primeval Earth, v. 178.
                                              Hunter's Theory respecting Rainfall
        Combining Power of Atoms, iv.            and Sun Spots, vm. 424.
   401.                                       Huntsman's Cast Steel, vm. 319.
Holland, Sir H., Letter and Donations         Huxley, T. H., Animal Individuality,
   from, in. 107, 382, 526 ; iv. 177, 316,       i. 18'4.
   464, 060; v. 186, 403, 451,605; TI.                Identity of Structure of Plants
    175, 364, 544; vH. 154; elected              and Animals, I. 298.
    President, 431 ; Decease of, vn. 164 ;           Common Plan of Animal Forms,
    Resolution, Hi6: his " Fragmentary           I. 444.
    Papers " presented, 384.                          Development of Annual Life in
        Sir II. T., Letter from, TH. 212.        Time, n. 82.
Holmes' Magneto-Electric Light Ap                    Natural History, n. 187.
   paratus, in. 222; iv. 17; ix. 5, 11;              our Knowledge of Nerve, n. 432.
    Xn. 437.                                         Gemmation, n. 534.
 Holtz Electrical Machine, Xn. 302.                  Persistent Types of Animal Life,
Holy Sepulchre ut Jerusalem, Site of,                  151. and Races, in. 195.
                                                 in. Species
   HI. 426 ; iv. 366.

  596                                          INDEX
  Huxley, T. H., Earliest Stages in the            Induction, xi. 119.
     Development
         Fossil Remainsof Animals,
                             of Man,in.in.315.
                                            420.   Induction Coil Experiments, vin.
                                                      359.
          Methods and Results of Ethno             Ingleborough, Geological Sketches
     logy, iv. 461.                                   round, i. 278.
         Animal intermediate between               Insanity, Characters of, I. 375.
     Birds and Reptiles, v. 278.                   Insects, Metamorphoses of, in. 375;
             Pedigree of the Horse (no                iv. 551.
     Abstract), vi. 129.                                  and Wild Flowers, vn. 351.
         Dp. Berkeley and the Metaphysics          Insect-catching Plants, vH. 332 ; x. 147,
     of Sensation, vi. 341.                           159.
            ' Challenger ' Expedition and          Instinct, Theory of, xi. 131.
     Geology, vn. 354.                             Integrators, x. 237.
         Border Territory between Animal           Invisible Rays, Combustion by, rv.
     and Vegetable Kingdoms, vin. 28.                 329.
         History of Birds, vm. 347.                Iridescent Crystals, xn. 447.
          William Harvey, vin. 4K5.                Irish Land System, ix. 572 ; Tenants,
         Structure of Sensiferous Organa,             ix. 567.
     ix. (Joming
           115.      of Age of the ' Origin of     Iron, Manufacture of, I. 434 ; vin. 315;
                                                      xn.and103.its Resistance lo Projectiles,
          Oysters
     Species,'        361. Oyster Question, x.
                  ix.and
                                                      m. 491, 500.
     336.                                                 Wulls of F.ngland, in. 503.
           elected Fullerian Professor of                 Age, iv. 33.
      Physiology, n. 147; IT. 4 68.                       Smelting, Chemistry of, vn. 264.
  Hydration of Compounds, vi. 24.                         Spectrum, x. 246.
  Hydrocarbons, n. 63 ; vin. 80.                   Ironclad Ships, vi. 95.
  Hydrocyanic Acid, ix. '257.                      Italian   Art, vi.
                                                          Rivers,       59.
                                                                    vi.56.
  Hydrogen and its Homolngues, I. 325.
          absorbed by Palladium, vi. 50.
  Hydrogenium alloyed with Palladium,              JABLOCHKOFF Candle, ix. 17.
      vi. 54.                                      Jacquard Loom, in. '271.
  Hylozoists, Philosophers, vi. 304.               James, Sir H., Ordnance Survey, n.
  Hypnotism, xi. 26.                                  516 ; of Jerusalem, iv. 52(J.
                                                   Jamieson, T. F., on Glen Roy, vin.
   ICE, Physical Properties of, n. 454, 545 ;         244.
      of Greeuland, vi. 377.                       Japanese Art, iv. 99; Myths, ix. 26;
  Iceland, Eruptive Phenomena of, i.                   Mirrors, 25.
      329.                                         Jekyll, E., Siege Operations, ii. 42.
   Iguunodon, Structure of, I. 141.                Jenkin, H. C. Flceming, Submarine
   Illumination, Artificial, iv. 16.                   Cables, v. 574.
          by Chemical Light, I. 319.                Jerusalem, Discoveries at, &c. rv. 23,
   Imagination, its influence on History,              366, 526.
      v. 394.                                       Jervois, W. F. D., Coast Defences of
   Imitation and Copying, vi. 536.                     England, v. 458.
   Imperial Institute, xn. 99 ; Subscrip                  Defensive Policy, vi. 335.
      tions for, xn. 73.                            Jesuit Education, vin. 456.
   Indian Mythology and Temples, vn.                Jctoline, Marking Ink, vin. 229.
      67.                                           Juvons, W. S., Exhaustion of our Coal
           Famines, vin. 407.                          Mines, v. 328.
           Vegetable Food, vHl. 421.                Johnston, II. H., Kilima-njaro (no
           Customs, ix. 399.                           Abstract), x. 469.
   Indin-Rubber, Properties and Applica             Jones, H. B., Wines, I. 381.
      tions of, I. 42 ; in. 250.                           Ventilation, n. 236.
   Indigo, ix. 580; Artificial, xi. 459.                   Chemical Circulation in the Body,
   Indium, Discovery of, iv. 284 ; vi.                      Existence in the Textures of
                                                       iv. 449.
       393.
    Individuality, Animal, I. 184, 193.                 Animals of a Fluorescent Substance
    Indophenol, xi. 457.                                resembling Quinine, iv. 561.
.

                                 TO TOL8. I. TO XII.                                 597
Jones, H. B., elected Hon. Secretary, in.   Lake Superior described, I. 154.
   293 ; Donations, iv. 177, 372 ; Testi    I .iimi in 1 . Magnetic Variation, i. 238.
   monial to (a Bust) ; resigned, vn. 57,   Lamp Explosions, XI. 230.
   58; Letter from, 92; Decease of;         Lamy discovers Thallium, vi. 392.
   Resolution, 116 ; Letter from Lady       Land and Sea, ix. 268.
   Millicent, 153.                                  Systems, ix. 559.
       T. Wharton, obtains Actonian         Landlord and Tenant, ix. 567.
   Prize, i. 54 ; elected Fullerian Pro     Langley, J. N., Physiological Aspect
   fessor of Physiology, i. 101.                    S. P., Sunlight
                                               of Mesmerism,            and the Earth's
                                                                  xi. 25.
Joule, J. S., Researches on Heat, u.
   202 ; on Meteorites, xi. 333.                Atmosphere, xi. 265.
Jourdan, C., Geometrical Discovery,         Language        and Implements,
                                                    Curtailment,              TIL 498.
                                                                    vi. 497 ; Increment,
   vn. 196.
Judd, J. W., Krakatoa, XL 85.                   499.
Julien on Magic Mirrors, ix. 28.            Lankester, E., Limits of the Vegetable
Justice, Early Civil, ix. 540.                         Animal Kingdoms,
                                                andDrinking                   415.Metro
                                                                 Waters ofI.the
KAIRINE, xi. 460.
Kara, Siege of, n. 246.                         polis, iI. 466.
Katherine, St., Convent, vi. 86.                    Bread-making, m. 253.
Kent's Cavern described, iv. 534.                   E. Ray, Marine Biological La
Kent, T. J., Donation, iv. 323.                 boratory, xi. 215.
Kerguelen Expedition, vm. 81.               Lantern of Lighthouses, TI. 219; xn.
Kew Observatory, its Work, iv. 58.              435.
Kieselguhr, vi. 523 ; ix. 70.               Laughton, J. K., Invincible Armada,
Kilburn, E., presents Thermopile, &c.,          xH. 307.
    TIH. 251.                               Laurentian Rocks, rv. 374.
 Kinematical Paradox, vn. 192-4.            Lava, Consolidation of, in. 125.
 Kinetic Theory, ix. 138; x. 211.           Lavoisier on Composition of Water, TI.
 King, The, in his relation to Early            315 ; refutes the Phlogiston Theory,
    Civil Justice, ix. 540.                     TI. 317.
 KirchoflPs Spectrum Observations, in.      Lawrence, Lord, Early Life in India,
    233, 395.                                   x. 183.
 Kitchen Boiler Explosions, vn. 396.        Lazy Tongs explained, TIL 182.
Klein, E. E., Etiology of Scarlet Fever,     Leaves, Forms of, XL 197.
    xH. 150.                                Lecky, W. E. H.. Influence of the
 Knoblauch's Researches on Heat. i. 178.        Imagination on History, T. 394.
 Koch's, Dr., Cholera Investigations, xi.   Leconte, on Sensitive Flames, T. 6.
    300.                                    Lectures, Courses (1851 et sag.), I. 29,
 Koenig's Tuning-fork Clock, ix. 539.           &o.
 Koh-i-nur Diamond, in. 231.                Legacies, R. Horsmnn Solly, n. 526 ;
 Ko'ppen on Weather Variations, TH. 35.         Beriah Botfleld, IT. 326; George
 Krukatoa, xi. 85.                              Dudtl, 346; Alfred Davis, TI. 183.
 Krupp's Steel, THI. 320.                    Leighton, J., Japanese Art, iv. 99.
 Kundt on Absorption Spectra, ix. 501.      Lenk's Improvements in Gun-cotton,
 Kusturnoe Industry, x. 359.                    iv. 246, 296, 622.
 Kyhl, P., on Nature-Printing, n. 110.       Leopold, Prince, elected Honorary
                                                Mimber, ix. 283, 328.
 LABORATOBY of Royal Institution, As        Leslie, II., Social Influence of Music,
    sistants engaged, iv. In6; recent Re        vi. 432.
    searches in, M-e Faraiiuy, f'ranklanil,          J., Researches on Heat. x. 253.
    Tyndall ; Old and New, TIL 1, 10 ;      Lewes, G. H., on Dust and Disease, TI.
    Donations to New, vn. 92.                   366.
 Lacaita, J. P., Dante, H. 118.             Ley, W. C., on Winds, Tn. 40; on
        Earthquakes in Southern Ikilv           Cloud Observations, x. 332.
    H. 528.                                 Leyden Battery. Currents of, n. 132.
Ladd, W., presents Dynamo-Magneto-          Leyiien Jar Discharge, xn. 413.
    Electric Machine, ix. 672.              Library, Time of Admission to, en
Lainsou, H., Donation. IT. 243.                 larged, and Assistant in, provided, i.
Lake- Habitations of Switzerland, iv. 29.       89.

598                                      INDEX
Library Catalogue, n. 446 ; x. 169.          Liveing, G. D., Ultra Violet Spectra
Lick Observatory, xi. 429.                      of the Elements, x. 245.
Liebig, J., on Source of Muscular            Living Contagia, xi. 161.
   Power, IT. 661.                           Lizards, Pineal Eye in, xn 22.
        and Wohler, x. 477.                  Lochaber, Parallel Roails of. in. 341.
Liebreich, R., Faults of Vision, vi.         Locke, J., on Qualities of Mutter, TI.
   450.                                         345 ; Education, vm. 457.
        Portraiture, vn. 430.                Locks, Improvements in, n. 475.
        Deterioration of Oil Paintings,      Lockyer, J. Norman, Solar Physics, v.
   vm. 514.                                     580.
Life, Chronometry of, in. 117.                       Solar Eclipse (1870), TI. 284 ;
•     • at High Pressure, vn. 308.              (1871), 477.
 Light and Heat, Analogies of, I. 172.               on Spectra, ix. 506, note ; sugges
        Change of Refrangibility of, I.         tions, 292.
   259.                                      Lodge, Oliver, Electrical Deposition of
        Chemical Action of, n. 223.              Dust and Smoke, xi. 520.
        Relations of Gold to, n. 310, 444.          Discharge of a Leyden Jar,xn.413.
        Chromatic       Phenomena      from   Logogruph, viH. 502.
    Transmitted, n. 336.                      Lombarilie Period of Art, TI. 57.
        in relation to Crystals, in. 95.      London, North and South Communica
        Experiments on, v. 371.                  tion, x. 483.
        Source of, in Flames, v. 419.                Bridge Traffic, x. 500, 504.
        of the Sky, v. 429.                          Weather and Health, ix. 629.
        its Chemical Properties, TI. 232.     Lontin Electric Machine, ix. 14.
        Scattering of, vi. 189.               Louis of Hesse, Prince, elected Hono
         Successive Polarisation, \i. 205.       rary Member, iv. 141, 151.
         Identity of, and Heat, vi. 417.      Lowne, B. Thompson, obtains Actonian
         Physiological Action of, vn. 360 ;      Prize, vi. 561.
    vin. 137.                                 Lubbock, Sir John, Lake-Habitations
         Velocity of, vm. 472.                    of Switzerland, iv. 29.
         Mechanical Action of, vm. 44.                Metamorphoses of Insects, iv. 551.
         Action of, on Selenium, vm. 68.              Wild Flowers and Insects, vn.
         Electric, ix. 1.                         351.
         as an Analytic Agent, xn. 83.                Habits of Ants, vm. 253 ; ix. 174.
  Lightfoot's Experiments with Aniline,               Fruits and Seeds, ix. 595.
     vm. 228,                                         Forms of Leaves, xi. 197.
  Lighthouse Illumination, m. 220 ; rx.                    of Seedlings, xi. 517.
     5, 6, 11, 12 ; xn. 435.                   Luminous Phenomena, ix. 142.
  Lighthouses, their Construction and Lycurgus" Agrarian Laws, iv. 268.
     mode of Lighting, i. 24; Bishop           Lyell, Sir C., Impressions of Raindrops
     Rock, xn. 429 ; Wolf Rock, vi. 214.          in Strata, I. 50.
  Light-vessels, xn. 431.                             Blackheath Pebble-bed, i. 164.
  Lindsay, Lord, presents a Spectroscope,             Discoveries in the Coal Measures
     vi. 379.                                     of Nova Scotia, I. 281 ; Geological
  Lines of Force, i. 105, 216, 229 ; vn. 50.      Time, 287.
  Linton, R., Decease of, vm. 186.                    Erratic Blocks in Massachusetts,
  Liquefaction of Gases, vm. 657; xi.             H. 86.
     148.                                             Temple of Serapis, n. 207.
  Liquid Films, x. 192 ; xi. 243.                     Conical Form of Volcanoes, &c.,
  Liquids, Motion of, I. 446 ; TI. 26 ;           in. 125.
     Diffusion, vi. 28.                               on Land nnd Sea, ix. 269.
  Lissajous' Acoustic Experiments, n.          Lyon, K. D., Indian Mythology and
     441.                                         Temples, vn. 67.
  Lister, Sir J., on Germs in Disease, vi.
     8 ; Respired Air, vm. 7.                  MACALISTER, A., Anatomical and Medi-
  Lithium, in. 84 ; its Circulation in the        Cal Knowledge of Ancient Egypt, xi.
     Human Body, iv. 452 ; Spectrum, x.           378.
     247.                                      Macfarren, G. A., Music of the Church
  Lithofracteur, its Properties, vi. 523.         of England, iv. 594.

                                  TO TOL8. I. TO XII.                               599
Mclntoah, W. C., Life-History of a           Malayo-Polynesians, Tin. 643.
   Marine Food-Fish, xn. 384.                Malays, vin. 640.
Maclntyre, ix. 553.                          Malone, T. A., Photogalvanography, n.
McKendrick, J. O., Physiological                 343.
   Action of Light, vn. 36O ; vm. 137.       Malvern Hills, n. 386.
        Physiological Action of Anaesthe     Mammalia, Geographical Distribution
   tics 'no Abstract), Ix. 171.                  of, in. 109; Cerebral System of
         The Breathing of Fiahes (no             Classification, 174.
   Abstract), x. 27.                         Man, as distinguished from Apes by his
        Effects of Cold on Microphytes,          Structure, in. 15 ; by his Brain, 407 ;
   xi. 305.                                      Fossil Remains of, 420 ; Early Mental
         elected Fullerian Professor of          Condition, v. 83.
   Physiology, ix. 712.                      Manchester Steam Users Association
Mackenzie, H., Donations, iv. 177, 435,          Report, vn. 393.
   549.                                      Manganese in Chlorine Manufacture,
Muenaught, Rev. J., Donations, xn.               vi. 202 ; Xn. 455.
   181, 505.                                 Mann, Mrs. R. J., Donation, xn. 376.
Macquer on Phlogiston Theory, TI. 324.       Manning, Abp., Dsemon of Socrutes, vi.
Miidler on Solar Eclipse, vi. 21)3.              402.
Magenta, History of, in. 408, 478;           Mantell, G. A., Ignanodon, and Fauna
   .Specimens, 483 ; its Derivatives, Iv.        and Flora of the Wealden Forma
    437.                                          tion, i. 141.
 Magic Mirrors, ix. 25 ; Property, 27.       Maoris, vm. 647.
 Magnesium, in. 82 ; presented, Iv. 151 ;    Mare-Aurele, ix. 369.
    Light, 489 ; Spectrum, ix. 209, 686 ;     " Maria Lee " Explosion, vn. 406.
    x. 246, 2*9.                              Marignac investigates Ozone, vi. 547.
 Magnetic Characters of Oxygen and            Marine Biological Laboratory, xi. 215.
    Nitrogen, I. 1.                                    Food-Fish, xn. 384.
         Force, Lines of, I. 105, 216, 229;   Marsh, O. C., Palseontological Dis
    vH. 50 ; Influence of Material Aggre          coveries, vm. 103, 125.
    gation on, I. 254 ; its Influence on      Marshall, J., elected Fullerian Pro
    the Electric Discharge, in. 169.              fessor of Physiology, in. 526.
         Hypotheses, I. 457.                           Proportions of Human Figure (no
         Disturbances, iv. 55 ; rx. 656.          Abstract), ix. 282.
         Experiment, iv. 317.                 Martini-Henry Rifle, Experiments, rx.
         Relations of Crystals, m. 98.            74.
 Magnetisation of Iron, Effects of Stress     Marx's Observations, ix. 415.
    upon, vin. 591.                           Masai Land, xn. 109.
 Magnetism, n. 6, 13, 159, 196, 352.          Mascart, E., Sur les Couleurs, xi.
         Atmospheric, I. 56.                       107.
         Heating effects of, I. 119.           Maskelyne, N. S., Connection of
         Theory of, XI. 1.                         Chemical Forces with the Polarisa
  Magneto-Electric Machine presented,              tion of Light, I. 45.
     v. 1 ; Light, ix. 5.                              Crystal Molecule, in. 95.
          Clock presented, vH. 30.                      Diamonds, in. 229.
          Induction, xi. 119.                           Meteoric Stones, vi. 513.
  Magneto-Electricity applied to Light         Massachusetts Erratic Bltx*ks, ii. 86.
     houses, in. 222 ; xn. 437.                Masters, M. T., Plants, in. 223.
  Magnets—Hseckcr's, i. 28 ; Logeman's,        Material Aggregation, i. 254.
     37, 230.                                  Material Medium in Space, iv. 558.
  Magnus. Rotatory Motion, I. 395.             Matter, Graham on ita Constitution, vi.
  Mnine, Sir H. S., Feudal Property in             43.
     England and France, vin. 126.                      Gaseous and Liquid States of, vi.
          The King and Early Civil Justice,        356.
     ix. 540.                                           and Ether, vm. 335.
          Sacred Laws of the Hindus, x. 143.            and Magneto-Electric Action, x.
  Majendie, V. D., Breechloading Small             75.
      Eire-arms, v. 62.                         Matthiesen, A., Alloys and their Uses,
  Malay Mauds, ix. 273.                             v. 335.

G00                                     INDEX
Maurice, F. D., Milton as a School                  and x.
                                            Meteorites,           History
                                                           the6 ; xi.        of 18.
                                                                      328 ; xn.   Stellar
  master, H. 328.
Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, in. 384.           Systems, xH. 379.
Mauve, its Chemical History, in. 468 ;      Meteorological Office, Work of, v. 535.
  iv. 438.                                         Telegraphy, in. 444.
Maxwell, J. C., Theory of Three             Meteorology, x. 323.
  Primary Colours, in. 370.                        of Torquay, H. 437.
      Colour Vision, vi. 260.               Meteors, m. 143, 531 ; iv. 87, 644; ix.
      Action at a Distance, vH. 44.            40.
      Remarks on the Molecular Theory       Meters for Electricity, &c.'x. 235.
  of Gases, ix. 504, 506.                   Methyl Chloride, ix. 54, 57.
Mayer's Researches on Heat, Force,          Metropolitan Water Supply, v. 346.
  &c. Hl. 534 ; Iv. 663.                    Mexican Picture Writing, vi. 465.
Muyo, T., Relations of the Public to        Meyer's Experiments on Dissociation,
  the Science and Practice of Medicine,        xi. 476.
  in. 258.                                  Michael Angelo characterised, vi. 537.
Mayow, M. W., Hamlet, v. 295.               Michael's Mount, St., v. 128.
Measurements, Personal, xH. 346.            Microscopes, Construction of, i. 402.
Mechanism of the Will, xi. 250.             Microscopic Research, vin. 393.
Mediterranean Sea, vi. 236-259; vm.         Military Chemistry, n. 283; Cookery,
  597.                                         422.
Medusa aurita, Development of, i. 1 1 .     Miller, W. A., Photographic Trans
Medusae, Nervous System, vm. 166, 438.         parency of Bodies, and Photographic
Melanesians, vm. 629.                              Stellar
                                               Spectra       Spectrum Observations,
                                                         of Elementary     Bodies, iv. 42.
Melde's Experiments on the Vibration
  of Strings, iv. 687.                         iv. 442 ; ix. 286.
Meldrum on Cyclones, vH. 36, 43.            Milne-Home, D., on Glen Roy, vm.
Melloni's Investigations on Heat, x. 255.      237.
Mellor, 8., on Vanadium, vm. 229.           Milnes, R. Monckton, International
Melting Points of Sulphur, i. 449.             Exhibition of 1862, in. 485.
Memories Blended, ix. 161.                  Milton as a Schoolmaster, n. 328 ; on
Men of Science, vn. 227.                       Education, vm. 457.
Mendeleef, D., Attempt to apply to          Mimosa, x. 152.
   Chemistry one of Newton's Prin           Mimulas, x. 155.
   ciples, xn. 506.                         Mind and the Correlation of Force, v.
Mental Development, v. 311 ; Images,           157.
  K. 644.
       Differences between Men and          Minerals, Experiments with, ix. 150.
                                                   of the Andes, in. 190.
  Women, xH. 78.                            Mining Districts of N. England, n. 57.
Mer-de-Glace, li. 545.                      Miocene Epoch described, vn. 282.
Mercer's Contraction of Cotton by Al        Minige, I. 67.
  kalies, i. 134.                           Mirrors, Figuring of Plane, xi. 429.
Mercuric Fulminate, ix. 02, 64.             Mitchell, A., on Weather and Health,
Meritens Machine, ix. 15; presented,           ix. 629.
   170.                                            W., Crystallography, m. 86.
Morrifield, C. W., Sea Waves, vn. 297.             Solidified Sulphuric Acid, vm.
" Merrimac" described, in. 508.                658.
Mesmerism, xi. 25.                          Mohammedan Mahdis, xi. 147.
Metals, Ancient and Modern, li. 215;        Molecular Physics, iv. 233; in High
  History of, vi. 387; Precipitation of,       Vacua, ix. 138, 432.
  in. 81 ; Occlusion of Gases by, v.        Molecule of Water, iv. 118.
   159 ; their Atomic Heat, vi. 397 ;       Molecules, ix. 494 ; x. 185, 256, 259.
  Crystallisation of, 425 ; Properties of,  Monads, vm. 31, 396.
  xi. 395; xH. 367.                         Moncrieff, A., MoncriefTs System of
Metamorphoses and Metagencses of               Artillery, v. 550.
  Animals, I. 9; iv. 551.                   Mond, L., Donations, xn. 178, 370, 526.
      of Insects, in. 375.                  " Monitor " described, in. 509.
Meteoric Stones, vi. 513 ; Showers, ix.     Monuments in Westminster Abbey, iv.
  41.                                          602.

                                   TO TOLB. I. TO XII.                              C01
Moon's Surface, Physical Aspects of,          Music and English Poetry, in. 317.
    IT. 300.                                         of the Church of England, iv. 594.
Moon, Radiation of Heat from the, vn.                of Speech in Greek and Latin
    188.                                         Languages, v. 145.
Moore, Miss H., Donations, iv. 156, 328.             its Social Influence, vi. 432.
        Miss J., Donution, iv. 156.                  of the Future, vn. 22.
        J. Carrick, Donations, iv. 177, 435,  Musical Criticism, ix. 437.
    51 6; v. 76, 276, 605.                           Pitch, ix. 536.
        Mrs. B., Donation, xH. 376.           Mnybriilge, E., Attitude of Animals in
Moral and Physical Science Analogies,                Science
                                                 Motion,      of Animal Locomotion in
                                                           x. 44.
    vn. 12.
More, H., Observations on Man, n. 26,            its relation to design in Art, XH. 444.
    41.                                       Myographiou, iv. 582, 583.
Morley, J., Influence of Rousseau, vi.        Myths, Interpretation of, vi. 129.
    475.
Mortality, ix. 629.                           NASMTTH, J., Physical Aspects of the
Moscrop, E. H., Donation, T. 24.                 Moon's Surface, iv. 300.
Moseley,     N., Descent
         H. H.,          of Glaciers,vi.
                  Deep-Sea                ix.
                             Dredging, 155.   Native Races of Pacific Ocean, vm.
                                                 602.
    331.                                      Natural Selection and Ancient British
         Fauna of the Sea-shore, xi. 168.        Coinage, vn. 482.
Motion in Plunts and Animals, m. 433.         Nature-Printing, n. 106.
•       Mechanical Conversion of, vn. 179.    Naval Purposes, Electricity applied to,
         Fluid and Vortex, vm. 272.              v. 479.
        of Water, xi. 44.                     Naville's Discoveries in Esypt, xi. 384.
         Sound and Light, xi. 178, 179.        Nultulas, their Constitution, iv. 441.
 Motive Power, n. 152. 199.                    Negritos, vm. 638.
 Motor Centres of the Brain, xi. 250.          Nerve-centres, iv. 207.
Moulton, J. F., Modern Scientific                     Function, x. 147.
    Theories, vm. 2 10.                        Nerves, n. 432 : vin. 427 ; their Nu
         Matter and Kther, vm. 335.               trition and Reparation, in. 378 ;
         Researches on Electric Discharge,       Time required for Transmission by,
    DC. 427.                                     iv. 575.
Mount of the Law, its position, vi.           Nervous Agent, rv. 576.
    93.                                              Systems, xi. 530.
Mountain Chains, Origin of, vn. 281.          Neumann's Experiments with Gun
Movement, Voluntary, Phvsiology of,              powder, vi. 275.
    I. 37, 147 ; of Plants, ix/597.           New Bond Street, No. 166, purchased,
Mud Volcanoes and Petroleum, iv. 629.            iv. 291.
Muir, on Sequoias, vm. 579.                          Caledonians, vm. 629.
Miiller, F. Max, V.-das, iv. 135.                     England, v. 59.
         Migration of Fables, vi. 173.                Hebrides, vm. 630.
        Mythology (no Abstract), vi. 300.            Ireland Paddles, vH. 516.
        Rammohun Roy, x. 470.                        Zealand, Earthquake at, n, 213.
         Hugo. Chemical Discoveries, n.              Zealanders, vm. 646.
    506, 508.                                 Newton, Sir Isaac, on Gravitation, i.
Mulready's Pictures affected by Faulty           237 ; Action at a Distance, vn. 47 ;
    Vision, vi. 462.                             Sensation, ix. 116 ; Account of the
Munk, H., Researches on Transmission             Prism, ix. 349 ; Theory of Colours,
    by Nerves, iv. 585.                          Ix. 351 ; Rings, x. 189 ; his principles
Murchison, Sir R. I., Changes of the             applied to Chemistry, xH. 506.
     Alps, i. 31.                                    C. T., Mausoleum of Halicarnas-
         Donations, iv. 108, 316.                 sus, m. 384.
 Murray, John,
             A., Coral
                 Donations,
                       Reefsiv.and
                                 372,Islands,
                                      549.            Discoveries at Olympia, vm. 214.
                                                            at Pergamus (no Abstrant),
     xn. 251.                                     xi. 217.
         R., Sets up Penny Past, m. 458.              H. A., on Orbit of Meteors, a.. 43.
  Muscle-Contraction, x. 149.                  Niagara, vH. 73.
  Muscular Power, Source of, iv. 661.          Nico1's Prisms, x. 205, 207 ; xn. 480.

    002                                    l.VDEX
    Nile, Sources of, iv. 402.                   Odhng, W., Sir B. C. BrodiVs Re
    Nitrates, vn. 413; ix. 263.                     searches on Chemical Allotropy (no
   Nitrogen, its Mngnetic Character, i. *           Attract), x. 28.
   Nitroglycerine, iv. 020 ; vi. 522 • ix               Dissolved Oxygen of Water (no
       62, 79.                                      Abetract), xi. 90.
   Noad, H. 11., Manufacture of Iron, i                 Elected Fullerian Professor of
       434.                                         Chemistry, v. 424; re-elected, vi.
   Nobel, A., on Nitro-glycerine, iv. 620           381 ; resumed, vn. 162.
       TI. 522 ; Explo.*ives, ix. 62.           Oerstedt on Electric Currents, vn. 49
   Noble, Captain A., Tension of Firet          Oil Paintings, Deterioration, vm. 514
       Gunpowder, vi. 273.                      Old Continents, vn. 32.
           Chronoscope, ix. 64, 78, 231 .       Oliver, D., Distribution of Northern
   Nordenskiold, A. E., Experiments with           Plants, in. 431.
       Rare Earths, xn. 48.                     Olympia, Discoveries at, Tin. 214.
   North, John, Donation, iv. 231.              Olympian Games, x. 279.
   Northern Plants, Distribution, in. 431       Oolitic Forms of Vegetation, x. 220.
   Northumberland, Duke of, the Presi          Opalescence of the Atmosphere, iv. 651.
      dent, Decease of, iv. 356, 372.          Optical Study of the Elasticity of Solid
           elected President, vn. 167 ; pre        Bodies, ix. 191.
      sents Engine and Machine, ix. 170,               Glass, Testing, xi. 413.
      defrays cost of accumulators for                 Properties of Oxygen and Ozone,
      electric lighting, xi. 321.                  xn. 468.
  November Meteors, ix. 40.                            Torque, xn. 474.
                                               Oral R.ading, iv. 242.
  OATHS, Tin. 156.                             Oran Eclipse Expedition, vi. 189.
  Objectives, xi. 413; Calculation of          Ordeals, vm. 153.
      Curves, 415;        Measurement of       Orbits of Meteors, ix. 43.
      Curves, 418 ; Flexure, 419 ; Polish      Ordnance Survey, n. 516 ; of Jerusalem,
      ing, 421 ; Figuring and Testing, 424.       iv. 526.
  Occlusion of Gases by Metals, v. 159.        Orgauic Bodies, Production of, n. 538 ;
  Oceania, vin. 602.                              detected by their Optical Properties
  Oceanic Circulation Illustrated, vi. 252.       iv. 223.
  Odling, W., Hydro-carbons, n. 63.                   Chemistry in Royal Institution, iv.
          Magnesium, &e. m. 80.                   309. 4(J5; Organic Synthesis, 199.
          Acids and Salts, in. 234.                   Compounds, Simplest, v. 598.
          Graham's Researches, Dialysis,              Matter in the Air, vi. 2.
     in. 422 ; Diffusion of Gases, v. 12 ;    ' Origin of Species,' Coming of Ace
     Scientific Work, vi. 15.                     ix. 361.
         Molecule of Water, iv. 118.          Ornament, ix. 440.
         Aluminium Ethide and Methide,        Osmose, vi. 32.
     iv. 343.                                 Otto Gas-engine presented, ix. 170
•        Occlusion of Gases by Metals, v              Bicycle, xi. 23.
     159.                                     Ou-tseu-hing on Mirrors of Japan, ix.
         Heat of the Oxyhydrogen Flame,
     v. 391.                                  Overstone, Lord, presents a Collection
         Simplest Organic Compounds, v.          of Tracts, in. 218.
     598.                                     Owen, R., Metamorphosis and Meta
          Ammonia Compounds of Plati             genesis, i. 9.
    num, vi. 176.                               — Structure and Homologies of
         Manufacture of Chlorine, vi. 199.       Teeth, i. 365.
         Revived Theory of Phlogiston,               Anthropoid Apes, and their Rela
    vi. 315.                                         Ruminant
                                                 tions           n. 26.
                                                        to Man, Quadrupeds,     n. 256.
         Indium, vi. 386.
        History of Ozone, vi. 546.              — Gorilla, in. 10.
        Evaporation and Diffusion, vn.          — Succession in Time and Geo
    155.                                         graphical Distribution of Mammalia
        Paraffins and their Alcohols, vm.        in. 109.
                                                     Cerebral Classification of Mam
    86. Gallium (no Ahstruct), Tin. 513.         malia, in. 174.

                               TO TOL8. I. TO XII.                              G03
Owen, R., National Museum of Natural j Pengelly, W., DeTonian Fossils and the
   History (no Ahetract), m. 360.            Burdett-Coutts Geological Scholar
       elected Fullerian Professor of        ships, &c. in. 263.
   Physiology, n. 561.                           Kent's Cavern, Torquay, IT. 534.
Oxygen, its Magnetic Character, I. 1 ;           St. Michae1's Mount, Cornwall, v.
   Boussingault's Mode of preparing,         128.
   337; Liquefied, xi. 148; Solidified,   Penny Po.st established, m. 458. 461.
   xi. 550 ; Oxygen and Ozone, Optical    Penrose, F., Relations of Science to
   Properties, xn. 468.                      Architecture, I. 124.
Oxyhydrogen Flame, Heat of, v. 391.               Application of the Mechanical
Oysters and the Oyster Question, x.          Conversion of Motion, TH. 182.
                                          Peptous Stute of Bodies, in. 425.
Ozone, i. 94; TI. 546; xn. 468, 557;      Pepys, J., Donations, I. 54, 455; Por
   and Antozonc, in. 70.                     trait presented, T. 24.
                                          Percy, J., Modes of extracting Gold
PACIFIC Ocean, Native Races, TTH. i          from its Ores, i. 205.
   612.                                          Smelting of Iron and Manufacture
Paeke, E., Donation, IT. 347.                of Steel (no A'utract), IT. 244.
Paddles from New Ireland, TH. 516.        Perkin, W. H., Colouring Matters. v.
Pnget, J., Chronometry of Life, IH.           566.
   117.                                           Discovery of Mauve Colour, in.
Painting affected by Faults of Vision,       478; IT. 438.
   TI. 450.                               Permian Epoch, Climate of, n. 417.
Paltrrave. F. T., Good Taste in Art, v.   Perpetual Motion, n. 152.
   376.                                   Perry, J., on Japanese Mirrors, ix. 21).
       W. G., Arabia, IT. 348.                   Rev. S. J., Transit of Venus, vin.
i Ml. »li mi i absorbs Hydr gen, TI. 50;     79.
   its Alloy witli Hyilrngeuium, 54.             Solar Surface during the lust ten
Palmer, Capt., on Sinaitiu Inscriptions,     years, xn. 498.
        .Tohn, improves Postal System,
   TI. 91.                                 Personal     Identification and Descrip
                                             tion, xH. 346.
   in. 459.                               Petitjean's Silvering Process, n. 3H8.
Papuans, vin. 642.                        Petroleum, Manufactures from, n. 506 ;
Paraffin, i.6,7; 135; Oil, &c. rv. 19,       relation to Mud Volcanoes, IT. 63:J.
   20.                                             Spirit, &e., imported, vir. 402;
Paraffins and their Alcohols, viH. 86.       Explosions, TH. 403 ; xi. 222 ; Storage
Parallaxes of Stars, xi. 96.                 and Conveyance, TH. 406 ; employed
Parallel Roads of Glen Roy, vin. 233.        as an Illuminant, xi. 234.
       Roads of Lochaber, in. 341.        Pettigrew, J. B., Flight in relation to
Parchment Paper, H. 409.                     Aeronautics, T. 94.
Paris, Comte de, Letter from, respect     Phillips, J., Geological Sketches round
   ing the Prince Consort, in. 430a.         Ingleborongh, I. 278.
       Donation, Iv. 156.                        Malvern Hills, n. 385.
Parnell, J., Donation, IT. 516.           Philosophy before Socrates, TI. 302.
Pasteur on Dust, TI. 2; on SImntancous    Phlogiston Theory revived, vi. 315.
   Generation, 10; on Science, ix. 28;    Phonograph, THI. 507; presented, ix.37.
   Researches, xi. 161 ; xn. 571.         Phosphorescence, in. 159 ; ix. 143, 431 ;
Paterno Volcanic Eruption, IT. 629,          x. 208.
   640.                                           and Ozone, xn. 557.
Pauer, E., Works of Composers for the      Phosphoric Acid, TI. 20.
   Pianoforte, xi. 171.                    Phosphoroscope. in. 161.
Peat and its Products, I. 4.               Phosphorus, Allotropic Modifications
Pcauocllier's Discovery of the Mechani       of, i. 135, 203.
   cal Conversion of Motion, TH. 179.      Photogalvanography, IT. 343.
Pectous State of Bodies, in. 425.          Photographic Eclipse Results, in. 362 ;
Pendulum Experiments, I. 70; at Har-          TI. 485.
   ton Colliery, n. 17.                           Spectra of Stars, ix. 285.
Pensielly. W., Ossiferous Caverns of              Transparency of Bodies, IT. 43.
    Devonshire, in. 149.                          Processes, TH. 220.
      Vol.. XI [. (No. 83.)                                              2 s

C04                                          INDEX
Photography, applied to Astronomy, xi.           Pollock, W. H., Dumas Pere, ix. 383.
    104, 367 ; xn. 158.                                 Shakspeare Criticism, ix. 577.
         Instantaneous, x. 46.                          Sir Francis Drake, x. 233.
Photophone, ix. 532.                                    Garrick us an Actor, xi. 304.
Physical and Moral Science Analogies,            Polynesians, vm. 028, 644 ; Skull. 635.
    vH. 12.                                      Poole, R. S., Greek Coins and Greek-
Physiological Action of Light, vn. 360 ;            Art, iv. 306.
    vin. 137; of Vanadium, vm. 221.                     Museum and Libraries of Alex
Pianoforte Music, xi. 171.                              Discovery
                                                   andria,   x. 12. of the Biblical Cities of
Piekersgill, H. W., presents Portrait of
     Rev. J. Barlow, in. 1.                         Egypt, xi. 384.
Picric Acid and Powder, vi. 520.                 Popular Talcs, vn. 378.
Pictet, R., Experiments on Liquefac                     Beliefs, in. 134.
    tion of Gases, vm. 602.                      Pnrtraituro, English, Historical, its
Pierotti's Discoveries at Jerusalem, iv.            Fallacies. &c. iv. 543; Real and
    23.                                             Ideal, vn. 430.
Pigeons, various Breeds of, in. 197.             Post-office. History of, in. 457.
Pineal Eye in Lizards, xn. 22.                   Pottery, English, xn. 212.
 I'] nit.-. Electric Currents in, i. 75;         Pouillet's Chronoscope. iv. 577.
    Growth of, in Cases, 407 ; their For- ! Poulton. E. B., Gilded Chrysalides,
    mntions, in. 223 ; Distribution, vm.            xn. 33.
    .r)68: Excitability, x. 151 ; Movement, ' Powell. Baden, Foucault's Pendulum
    Ix. 597.                                            Analogies I.of70.Light and Heat, I.
                                                    Experiment,
Plateau's Researches on Films, xi. 24:!.
Platinum, in. 321 ; Deville's Process
    for obtaining it, 322.                          172.Rotatory Motion, i. 393 ; Stability,
         Wire, Radiation, ix. 20, 21.              li. 480.
Playfair, Lyon, Chemical Discoveries             Power Meters, x. 241.
    fromFoodthe of
                Exhibition
                   Man, I. 313
                            of 1851, i. 131.
                                ; in relation    Poynter, K. J.,01d and New Art,vi. 534.
                                                 Pr«ece, W. H., Electricity applied to
    to his Useful Work, iv. 431, 662, 678.          Protection of Life on Railways, vm.
        Chemistry of Agriculture, n. 289.           35.
Ploughs aud Ploughing, I. 265.                          The Telephone, vm. 501.
Poey's Researches on Meteors, in. 144.                • Multiple Telegraphy, ix. 194.
Posrson, N., on Solar Eclipse, vi. 294.                 Telegraphic Achievements of
Poiseuille on Liquids under PressuVe,                   Safety Lamps
                                                    Whentstone,           in Collitries, xn.
                                                                   ix. 297.
    vi. 26.
Poisons, effects on Medusto. vm. 175.              204.
        and Poisoning, xn. 220.                         presents Phonograph, ix. 37.
Polarity (in Natural History and Geo             Pre-Mioceue Alps, TH. 455.
    logy), i. 428                                Prentice's   Manufacture of Gun-cotton,
Polarization of Light, connection of                iv. 622.
    Chemical Forces with, I. 45.                 Presents, Li-.ts of, under General
Polarised Light, vm. 501, 582 ; x. 205 ;            Monthly Meetings, throughout the
    xH. 474; Spectra of, vn. 134 ; Colours          volumes.
    of, 291.                                     Prestwich, J., Flint Implements of
Pole, Wm., Donation, iv. 156.                       Abbeville, iv. 213.
Pole, Prof., Colour Blindness, vi. 260.          Pre-Socrutic Philosophy, vi. 302.
Political Character and Geographical             Pretseh, P., Proeess of Photog.ilvano-
    Circumstances, vm. 529.                         graphy, n. 348.
Pollock, Sir Frederick, Decease of, 403 ;        Priestley, J., on Vanadium,TIH. 224 ; on
    Resolution, XH. 410.                            Ammonia, ix. 51.
        F., Spinoza, vm. 363.                    Primeval Earth, Chemistry of, v. 178.
        History of the Sword, x. 377.                   Veget ition, vi. 165.
        Henry, elected Treasurer, xi. 467;       Primogeniture, ix. 561.
    Decease of; Resolution, xn. 525;             Printing with Artificial Indigo, ix. 590.
    letter from Mrs. H. Pollock, xH.             Pritchard, C., Telescope, iv. 641.
    563W. ; his
             H.,Portrait
                 Romanticism,
                         presented,
                                 vm. 565.
                                      055.       Proctor. R. A., Star-grouping-drift, &c.
                                                    vi. 143.

                                 TO TOL8. I. TO XII.                              (505
Projectiles, ix. 232, 319.                  Rare Earths, xn. 39.
Protyle, xn. 50.                            Rarefied Air, Combustion in, m.
Psilophvton prineeps, vi. 167.                 331.
Public School Education, v. 26, 273.        Rate, L. M., Donations, x. 266 ; xi. 469 ;
Puddled Steel, vin. H21.                       xn. 372.
Puller, A. Giles, Donations, Iv. 290;       Rawlinson, SirH. C., Cuneiform Inscrip
   v. 1, 309; vi. 100,422.                     tions at Babylon and Nineveh, i. 84 ;
Putrefaction and Infection ; their rela        in. 536.
   tion to Optics, vin. 6; to Physics,             Excavations in Assyria and Baby
   TIH. 467.                                   lon, H. 143.
Pygmy Races of Men, xn. 266.                       Results of Cuneiform Discoverv,
Pyrometers, vi. 440.                           iv. 335.
Pythagoras, vi. 303 ; his Philosophy,              Livingstone's Explorations (no
  "311.                                        Abstract), vn. 54.
                                                   Geography of the Oxus (no Abs-
QUADRITIUM, vin. 433, 464.                     tract), ix. 137.
Quartz, vm. 561 ; Crystuly. xn. 489;        Rayet, on Solar Eclipse, vi. 293.
    Fibres, xn. 547.                        Rayleigh, Lord, Dissipation of Energy,
Queen, Address on her Jubilee, xn.             vn. 386.
    173 ; reply, 178.                              Acoustical Phenomena, vm. 536.
 Quinoidine in Animals, iv. 564.                   Water Jets and Water Drops (no
                                               Abstract), XI. 284.
 RACK, Professor Flower on, TIn. 649,               Colours of Thin Plates, xn. 81.
 Radiant Heat and Light, their Identity,           Diffraction of Sound, xn. 187.
    vi. 417.                                        Iridescent Crystals, xn. 447.
        Matter, ix. 142.                            Elected Professor of Natural
        Heat converted into Sound, x. 175.     Philosophy, xn. 136. &c.
 Radiation nnd Absorption, with refer        Real and Ideal Portraiture, vn. 430.
    ence to Colour of Bodies, iv. 487.       Reaumur's Observations on Metals,
        through Air, iv. 4, 233.               xi. 395.
        Experiment. Ix. 264.                 Reay, Lord, Social Democracy in Ger
        Thoughts on, x. 253.                    many, ix. 412.
 Radiometer, vin. 56 ; ix. 140.              Redwood Tree, vin. 578.
 Rae, J., Arctic and Sub-Arctic Life,        Reed, E. J., Iron-clad Ships, vi. 95.
    vin. 378.                                       Ships and Guns, vi. 211.
 Railway : Protection of Life by Elec        Reed and String Instruments, vn. 488.
    tricity, vin. 35.                        Reflex Action from the Cerebral Cortex,
        Locomotion, x. 136.                     xi. 29.
 Ruinbows, x. 455; White, 462; Arti          Refraction of Light, vm. 351 ; x. 196,
    ficial, 464.                                204.
 Raindrops, Impressions of, I. 50.           Refractive Indices, Table of, x. 203.
 Ralston, W. R. S., Russian Folk-lore,       Regenerative Furnaces, XI. 471.
    vi. 326.                                 Regent's Canal Explosion, vn. 408.
        Popular Tales, vn. 378.              Regnauld, J., Experiments on Fluor
 liummohun liny. x. 470.                        escence in Animals, iv. 571.
 Ramsay. A. C., Climate of the Permian       Reich and Richter discover Indium, vi.
    Eporh, n. 417.                              393.
        Geology of Canada, &c. n. 522.       Renan, E., Marc-Auri'le, ix. 369.
        Eozoon and the Laurentian Rocks      Renard, Alphonse, La Reproduction
    of Canada, iv. 374.                         artificielle des roches volcaniques,
        Old Continents, vH. 32.                 xn. 330.
        Rhine, vn. 279.                      Resistance of Ships, vin. 188.
        Pre-Miocene Alps, vn. 455.           Respirators for Smoke, vi. 378.
        Geology of Gibraltar, &c. vin. 594.  Reynolds, J. E., Alcohols from Flint
        Observations on Niagara, vn. 88.        and Quartz, vn. 107.
 Runkine, W. J. M., Sea Waves, vi. 355.              Osborne, Vortex Motion, vin.
 Rapieff, II., presents Electric Lamps,         272.
    ix. :i7.                                        Two Manners of Motion of Water,
         Kkrtrir Light, ix. 10.                 xi. 44.

G0G                                     INDEX
Reynolds, Osborne, Experiments show          Romanticism, vin. 655.
   ing Dilatancy, xi. 354.                   Rorquals, x. 363, 368, 370.
Rhine, Physical History of, vn. 279.         Roscoe, Sir H. E., Chemical Action of
Rhizopod Type of Animal Life, ai. 497.          Light, n. 223.
Hiehardson's Lifeboat. I. 221.                       Measurement of the Chemical
Riddell, on Socrates' Daemon, vi. 411.          Action of the Solar Rays, in. 210.
Kiepe's Steel, TIH. 321.                            Bunsen and KirchhofTs Spectrum
Riess's Electrical Researches, li. 133.             Direct Measurement
                                                Observations,    in. 323. of the Sun's
Rig-Veda described, iv. 137.
Rijke's Experiments on the Magnetic                 Metal Indium,
                                                Chemical             iv. 128.
                                                            Aftiun, and   Discoveries in
   Force and Electric Discharge, in.
   171 ; on Production of Sound by Heat,            O|iBlesoence
                                                Spectrum           of the
                                                            Annlysis,       Atmosphere,
                                                                       iv. 284.
   TIH. 541.
Ritchie, W., Torsion Balance, vm. 62.          iv. 651.
River Pollution, vn. 370.                            Vanadium, v. 287; vin. 221.
      Action, x. 268.                               Alizarine, vi. 120.
Roberts, Dr., on Biogenesis, vin. 20.               M. C. Vincent's Chemical Indus
Robprts-Auaten, W. C., Properties               try, ix. 51.
  Common to Fluids and Solid Metals,                Indigo nnd its Artificial, Produc
  xi. 395.                                     tion, ix. 580.
      Curious Properties of Metils nnd              Recent Progress in the Coal Tar
   Alloys, Xn. 367.                            Industry, xi. 450.
      presents Portable Assay Furnace,             Aluminium, xn. 451.
  Xn. 365.                                  RoBse, Lord, Heat of the Mnon, vH. 139.
Rollins' Experiments with Fired Gun         Rotation of Earth shown by the Pendu
   powder, vi. 273.                            lum, I. 70.
Robinson, G. A., Tried to Save Tas-         Rotatory Motion, i. 393; 8tability, n.
   munians, vm. 623.                           480.
Rodman, Major, Experiments on Gun           Roupell, R. P., Donation, IT. 177.
  powder, vi. 275.                          Rousseau's Influence on Society, vi.
Roomer's Determination of Velocity of          475 ; • Emile,' TIH. 459.
   Light, vH. 472.                          Roxburgh, W., Cartusinn Barometer, I.
Rogers, H. D., Geology of North                426.
   America, n. 167.                         Royal Academy of Music, vi. 436.
      Parallel Roods of Glen Roy, in.               Institution Chemical Researches,
   341.                                        IT. 309, 465; Laboratories, vn. 1.
Rollestnn, G., Brain of Man and certain              Institution, Originul Proposals
   Animals, in. 407.                            fur, vi. (ix.) ; Originator, x. 407.
      Influence of Anglo-Saxon Con           Rubidium, in. 326 ; vi. 391 ; Spectrum,
  quest, vi. 116.                               ix. 207.
      Early Inhabitants of N. England,       Riicker, A. W., Liquid Films, xi. 243.
  vH. 300.                                          Electrical Stress, xn. 406.
Rolling Contact of Bodies, xn. 130.         Ruhmkorff's Induction Apparatus, in.
Romanes, G. J., Nervous System of               139 ; Coil, rx. 5.
  Meilustc, TIH. 166.                       Rumford's Proposals for Establishing
      Evolution of Nerves and Nervo-           a Public (afterwards the Royul)
   Systrms, vm. 427.                           Institution vi. (ix.) vn. 1.
       Mental Evolution (no Abstract*:,            Scientific Discoveries, vi. 227.
  ix. 386.                                         on Fired Gunpowder, vi. 274;
      Starfishes (wo Abstract), x. 184.        Heat, x. 254; xi. 338; Fireplace
      Darwinian Theory of Instinct, xi.        Construction, xi. 344.
   131.                                             Life, x. 407 ; Work, 444.
      Mental Differences between Men        Ruminant Quadrupeds, in. 256.
  and Women, xn. 78.                        Rumker, on Solnr|Eclipse (1860 1, TI. 286.
—— Elected Fullorian Professor of           Rnskin, J., Tree Twigs, in. 358.
  Physiology, xn. 201.                              Forms of the Stratified Alps of
Roman Catacombs, &c. vH. 316.                  Savoy, IT. 142.
      Ornament, Ix. 444.                           State of Modern Art (no Abstract),
      Antii|nities in London, x. 20.           v. 187.

                                     TO TOLS. I. TO XII.                                  607
 Ruskin, J., Architecture of the Somme            Savory, W. S., Motion in Plants and
     (no Abstract), v. 450.                               Dreaming
                                                     Animals,         and Somnambulism,
                                                                m. 433.
           Verona and its Rivers, vi. 55.
           Remarks on Michael Angelo. vi.            iv. 207.
     537; and on Philosophy of Art, 539.          Scarlet Fever, Etiology of, xn. 150.
 Rns&ell, John Scott, Wave-line Ships             Scattering of Light, vil 189.
     nnd Yachts, I. 115.                          Sehafer, E. A., elected Fnllerian Pro
              English Ships and American             fessor of Physiology, vm. 005.
     Clippers, I. 210.                            Schfirf, G., Portraiture: its Fallacies
           Iron Walls of England, m. 503.            and Curiosities ns connected with
            \ature and Usts of Gun-Cotton,           English History, iv. 543.
     iv. 292.                                     Scheele discovers Chlorine, vi. 199.
           Crystal Palace Fire, T. 18.            Schehallien Experiment, n. 18.
            Lord Arthur, Presents Ersch           Scheibler's Tonmesser, ix. 538.
     and Gruber's Encyclopedia, vm.               Schelske, Nervous Agent, iv. 587,
     559.                                            590.
  KII.- •:' 1 1! Folk Lore and Sr,ngs, vi. 320.   Schiapparelli on Orbit of Meteors, ix.
           Secret Societies, vm. 405.                45.
           Domestic Industry, x. 359.             Schliemann's Excavations at Troy, TH.
 Rutherford, W., elected Fullerian Pro               119; Letter from, 122.
     fessor of Physiology, vi. 544; re            Schmidt's Drawing of Solar Eclipse
     signed, vn. 339.                                (1851), vi. 293.
                                                  Sehonbein's Ozone, I. 94 ; vi. 546 ; and
 SAIUNE, E.. observations on Atmo                        Experiments
                                                     Antozone,   m. 70.on Variations of the
     spheric Magnetism, i. 238.
 Saccharine, xi. 402.                                Colour of Bodies, I. 400.
Safety Lamps, Experiments, vn. 400 ;              Schriitter'a Amorphous Phosphorus, i.
     in Collieries, xn. 204.                         135.
 St. Peter's, at Rome, aided by Science,          Schultze's Gun-sawdust, iv. 621.
     iv. 12.                                      Schunck on Indigo, ix. 582.
 Sal Ammoniac, ix. 51.                            Schuster, A., Modern Spectroscopy, ix.
 Salamon, A. Gordon, Yeast, xn. 571.                 493.
 Salic Law, rx. 541.                              Schwabe's Observations of Spots on
Salmon, W., Botanical Works presented                the Sun, i. 237.
     by, in. 193; Donations, iv. 290; vn.         Schwann, Discovers Yeast Plant, vi.
     164.                                            7; Researches, vin. 29.
 Salts and Acids, in. 234.                        Schweinfurth on Bongo Women, ix.
Samoans, vm. 646.                                    395.
 Sand blast and Sand Erosion, Tn. 84.             Science as a Branch of Education, n.
Sanderson, J. Burdon, Dionaea Mus-                   556 ; applied to Calico Printing, m.
    cipula, vn. 332.                                 201 ; to Military Purposes, 243.
            Excitability of Plants and Ani        Scientific Men, their Nature and Nur
    mals, x. 140, 151.                               ture, vn. 227.
           Cholera: its Cause and Preven                 Thtories, vin. 216.
    tion, xi. 2K8.                                Sclater, P. L., Zoological Distribution,
          Some Electrical Fight 8. xn. 139.          Tm. 511.
Sandwith, H., Siege of Kars, n. 240.              Scott, A. J., Physics find Metaphysics
Santonins produces Colour Blindness,                        H., Work
                                                    (noR.Abstract),       the Meteorological
                                                                    n.of439.
    vi. 271.
Sap, Rise of, I. 197.                               Office, v. 535.
Savage, Miss A., presents her Father's          •        Weather Knowledge, vn. 34 ; x.
    Works on Printing in Colours, n.                3'?3
    333.                                                S., Donation, v. 24 ; vin. 42.
Savage Thought in Civilisation, v.               Scottish Highland Language, 'fec. ix.
    522.                                            547.
Savarl's Researches, I. 447.                    Sculpture, x. 280 ; Mode of Exhibiting,
Savory, W. S. , Relation of the Animal              vn. 431.
    nnd Vegetable to the Inorganic                      Waves, vi. 355&c.; vn.
                                                Sea, Temperature.               297.81, 82.
                                                                            vi. 03.
    Kingdom, in. 308.

C08                                      INDEX
Sedgwick, J. Bell, Donation, xn. 370.        Siemens, Frcdk., Dissociation Tem
        Mrs. Bell, Donation, xn. 370.           peratures, xi. 471.
Seedlings, xi. 517.                                  Werner, on Action of Liuht on
Seeds, ix. 505 ; Dispersion, 598.               Selenium, vin. 70 ; Magnetic Dis
Seismographs, xn. 362.                          coveries, rx. 8, 10 ; Letter from, x.
Seismometers, xn. 361.                          473.
Selenium, vin. 69 ; ix. 524 ; Action of      Sight, Defective, vi. 454.
   Light i.n, vin. 70 ; OH, ix. 525.         Silica, its Use in the Arts, I. 422.
Sensation, vi. 341 ; ix. 115.                Silver Fulminate, Tx. 64, (i0.
Sensitive Plants, ix 507 ; x. 152.           Sinai, Ordnance Survey of, TI. 83 ;
Sequoias, vin. 578-581).                        Inscriptions, vi. 91.
Serapis, Temple of. Changes in, n.           Sitaris Beetle, Metamorphoses of, iv.
   207.                                         553.
Serpent WorAip, v. 453.                      Skulls, Deformed, ix. 401.
 Serrin's Electric Lamp, Ix. 7.              Slave Trade, vn. 230.
Servetus, M., on the Heart, vin. 492.        Sleep, TI. 424 ; of Plants, ix. 508 : x.
Setschenow, I., Experiments on Fluor            154.
   escence in Animals, iv. 571.              Smeaton's Lighthouse, xH. 425.
Sewage Contamination of Water, v.            Smell. K. 118.
   3(;o-3.                                    Smith, A., Deviation of the Compass
Shade Temperature, x. 17.                       in Iron Ships, iv. 518.
Shakespeare, iv. 470 ; Criticism, ix.                B. Leigh, Donation, v. 1.
   577 ; his Opponents, vn. '218.                   E., Researches on Animal Work,
Shaw, H. S. Hde, Rolling Contact of             HI. 355 ; iv. 676.
   Bodies, xH. 130.                                 Goldwin, Geographical Circum
        Captain, Smoke Jackets, vr. 372.        stances and Political Character, vin.
 Shepherd's Electro-magnetic Clocks,            529.
   I. 100.                                           Robt. Angus, Organic Matter iiv
 Sherwoodole, n. 507.                           the Atmosphere, in. 80.
 Shippard, W. H., Central America and               on the Air of Manchester, vi. 12.
    the Ship-Canal, i. 715.                          Willoughby, on Action of Light
 Ships, English and American, i. 115,           on Selenium, vin. 70.
    210.                                              Volta-Electric and Magneto-
        and Guns, vi. 211.                      Electric Induction, xi. 110.
        Resistance, vm. 188.                         R. Bosworth, Early Life of Lord
 Shooting Stars, in. 143; iv. 87, 044;              W. Robertson,
                                                Lawrence            Mohammedan
                                                             in India, x. 183.    Mah-
    v. 164.
 Shot-drill Experiments, iv. 679.                dis, xi. 147.
 Sidereal Astronomy Problems, xi. 91.         Smoke Jacket for Fiiemen, vi. 371.
 Sidney, E., Rise of the Sup in the                  Rings, vin. 274; ix. 521.
    Spring, i. 197.                           Smyth, Piuzzi, Ascent of Peak of
 Siege Operations, H. 42.                        feneritfe, n. 403.
 Siemens, Sir C. W., Regenerative                    his Rotatory Apparatus ex
    Steam-engine,
           Measuringn. Temperatures
                        227.             by      plained, H. 485.
                                                     W. W., Coal. in. 510.
    Electricity, vi. 438.                     Soap Bubble, x. 101.
         " Faraday " Steamship, vn. 310.      Soap destroved by various Waters, v.
         Action of Light on Selenium, vin.       368.
    68.                                       Sobreio discovers Nitroglycerine, vi.
         Dynamo Electric Current, ix. 334.       020.
         Solar Physics, x. 315.               Social Democracy in Germany, ix. 412.
         his G:is Furnaces, &o. m. 536 ;      Society in the 4th Century A.D., xn.
     process of Steel manufacture, vin.          75.
    :-(25 ; Magnetic Discoveries, ix. 10.     Socrates, Daomon of, TI. 402.
            presents Dynamo - Machine,        Sodium presented, iv. 153.
    Boiler, &c. vin. 550 ; ix. 3;                    Manufacture of, xn. 453.
         Decease of; Ri solution, x. 405.            Spectrum, x. 257.
  — Lady, Presents Selenium Eve. x.           Soils of England, Properties of, iv. 110.
    474.                                      Solar Corona, xi. 202.

                                   TO TOL8. I. TO XII.                              609
Solar Energy, xj. 279.                        Spheroidal State of Liquids, i. 179.
     • Physics, v. 580; x. 315.               Sphygmogrnph, vn. 214.
-      Rays, Chemical Action of, m.           Spigelius on the Heart, vm. 494.
   210, 887; iv. 128.                         Spinoza, Life, Works, &c. vm. 364.
       Spectrum, x. 60, 248.                  Spontaneous Explosions, vu. 413.
       S|iots, Observations of, I. 237 ;             Generation, vi. 10, 3U8 ; Tin. 8,
  XH. 49H.                                       399.
       Surface, xH. 498.                      Sporadic Meteors, ix. 41.
        R. R.,
Sully, S.        Donations,
            H., Legacy              526. 243,
                        from,iv.n. 109,       Spottiswoode. W., Successive Polarisa
                                                 tion of Light, vi. 205.
  372, 549.                                          Crystals Submitted to Circularly
Somerville, Mrs., Bust of, presented,            Polarised Light, vi. 506.
   vu. 30.                                           Laboratories of Royal Institution,
Somnambulism, iv. 210.                           vn. 1.
Sondhauss's Acoustic Experiments,                    Spectra of Polarised Light, vu.
  viH. 538.                                      134.
Sonstadt, E., presents Magnesium, iv.                Combinations of Colour by Polar
   151.                                          ised Light, vu. 291.
Sopwith, T., Mining Districts of the                 Experiments with a great Induc
  North of England, n. 57.                       tion Coil, vm. 359.
Sorby, H., Cleavage, n. 308.             v           Quartz, vm. 561.
Soret investigates Ozone, vi. 548.                   Nocturne in Black and Yellow,
Sorting Demon of Maxwell, ix. 113.               vm. 582.
Sotheby, S. L., presents 'Principia                  Electricity in Transitu, ix. 427.
   Typographical in. 167.                            Matter and Magneto-Electric
Sound, x. 175; Velocity of, vu. 344;             Action, x. 75.
   Conduction of, vm. 501 ; certain                  elected Treasurer, iv. 434 ; Secre
   Phenomena, vm. 536 ; Diftraction of,          tary, vu. 105 ; resigns, vm. 668 ;
   Xn. 187.                                      Resolution on Decease of, x. 399.
Suuth, Sir Jumes, bequeaths Faraday's         Spring, W., Researches on Metals, xi.
   MS. Notes, Magnetic Ring, &c. vi.             405 ; xn. 368.
   185.                                       Stahl publishes the Phlogistic Theory,
Spuce, rx. 519.                                  vi. 317.
Spanish Armada, xn. 307.                      Stanhope, Earl, Influence of Arabic
Spurk Discharge, Spectrum, ix. 680.              Philosophy iu Mediscvul Europe, iv.
Spartan Constitution, ttc. iv. 263.              506.
Species and Races, tbeir Origin, IH.          Stanley, Dean, Westminster Abbev,
   125.                                          iv. 598.
Spectra, ix. 496; of Stars, 285; of                  Roman Catacombs, &c. vu. 316.
   the Elements, iv. 46 ; of Comets, x. 3 ;   Star-grouping, &c. vi. 143.
   of Meteorites, 7 ; Ultra-Violet Spec       Stars, Spectra of, ix. 285.
   tra of the Elements, 245, 258 ; Origin            Proper Motions of, x. 115.
   and Identity of, ix. 674.                          with Parallax, ix. 518.
Spectroscope presented, vi. 379.              Statham, H. H., Architectural Design,
Spcctrosfopic Investigation, ix. 204,            ix. 89.
   2S5, 674; xn. 83.                                  Ornament, ix. 440.
Spectroscopy, Modern, ix. 493.                        Intellectual Basis of Music (no
Spectrum Analysis, in. 323 ; vi. 390 ;           Abstract), x. 144.
   Discoveries in. iv. 284; applied to         Statham's Arrangement of Electric
   the Heavenly Bodies, v. 475, 580.              Telegraph Wire for Experimental
Speke, Captain, Source of the Nile (no            Purposes, i. 316; his Fuze, 347, 355.
   Abstract), Iv. 150.                         Statues, x. 280.
Spencer, H., Theory on Genesis of              Steam-engiue, Regenerative, n. 227.
       W. B.,vm.
   Nerves,        429. Eye in Lizards, xn.
               Pineal                          Steel, Manufacture of, vm. 319; xn.
                                                  103 ; Future of, vm. 331.
  22.                                          Stellar Systems, History of, xn. 379.
Spencer's Photographic Processes, vu.          Stenhouse, J., Applications of Charcoal
  222.                                            to Sanitary Purposes, n. 53; Re
Spenser, on Ireland, ix. 574.                     spirators, vi. 373.

  610                                         INDEX
  Stephen, Leslie, S. T. Coleriilgc, xn.          Sun, Physical Character of, IH. 327,
    233.                                            387 ; Total Eclipso of, 362 ; Theory
  Stethophone, m. 63.                               of the Origin of its Heat, 533; xn. ]';
  Stevenson, W., AuroriB Borcaks, i.                Chemical Action of, its Measurement,
     274.                                            iv. 128, 654 ; Discoveries respecting
  Stevens's Battery, in. 508.                       its Surface, iv. 378, xn. 498 ; its
  Stewart, Balfour, Forces concerned in             Colour, xi. 265; xn. 69; Spots,
     producing Magnetic Disturbances,               xn. 498.
         55.
     iv. Discoveries     concerning the Sun's     Sun's Heat, xn. 1.
                                                  Suulight ; its Energy, vin. 66.
         Existence
     Surface,          of a Material Medium
                 iv. 378.                                Temperature, x. 18, 22, 21.
                                                         and the Earth's Atmosphere, xi.
         The Sun
     pervading        as aiv.Variable
                   Space,       558.    Star, v.    265.
                                                         Colours, xn. 61.
     138.                                         Superstitions, v. 87, 523.
  Sticks, Clubs, &c. vn. 513.                     Surface Tension, x. 450 ; xi. 243.
  Stipa pennata Seed, ix. 621.                    Swan, J. W., Electric Lighting by In
  Stokes, G. (jr., Refraugibility of Light,         candescence, x. 33.
         Discrimination
     I. 259   ; x. 205.      of Organic Bodies    Swanwick, Miss Anna, Donation, iv.
                                                    231.
     by their Optical Properties, iv.             Sword, x. 377.
                                                  Sylvoiter, J. J., Mechanical Conversion
     223.Researches on Fluorescence, in.            of Motion, vn. 179.
     160 ; iv. 561 ; x. 208 ; Screen, x. 245,     Sympathetic Inks, vn. 458.
     258.                                                Nervous System, xi. 530.
,        obtains Aftonian Prize, xi. 376.         Synthesis of Organic Bodies, iv. 199.
  Stone Age, iv. 31.                              Synthetically-formed Substances liv the
  Stone, W. H., Musical Pitch, ix. 536.              Plant or by the Chemist, iv. 568.
  Stonev, G. J., November Meteors, ix.            Syren's Action in Fogs, vn. 173.
     40."How Thought presents itself in           TAIT, P. G., on Ozone, vi. 549 ; Smoke
     Nature, XL 178.                                 Rings, vm. 274 ; Comets, x. 10.
  Stonyhurst, Observations at, xn. 408.           Talbot, H. Fox, Photographic Engrav
  Stooks, Miss E. M., Donation, iv.                  ing, n. 347.
     177.                                         Talmud, v. 380.
  Storms, described, vn. 41.                      Tasmania, vm. 620; Natives, 621.
  Storm Warnings, v. 539 ; x. 321i.               Taste, ix. 120.
  Stowmarkot Explosions, vi. 529.                 Taylor, Sedley, Galileo's Tri .1, vn. 301.
  Strachey, Lieut.-Gen., Indian Families,                W., Educating the Blind, i. 290.
     vm. 407.                                     Teale, T. Pridgin, Principles of Domes
  Stradinarius, ix. 307.                             tic Fireplace Construction, xi. 338.
  Stream-Line Theory, vm. 191.                    Technical Education, xn. 113.
  Stress, Effect on Magnetisation, vm.            Teeth, Structure and Homologies of, I.
     591 : Electrical, xn. 406.                      3U5.
  Striifi in Vacuum Tubes, vm. 360 ; ix.          Telegraph, Submarine, n. 394.
     431 ; x. 83.                                 Telegraphy, Ix. 194, 2'.)7.
  String Instruments, vn. 488.                    Telephone, vm. 501.
  Struve on 61 Cygni, ix. 514, 516.               Telephotography, ix. 533.
  Sturm, Joini, on Education, vm.                 Telescope, iv. 641 ; Objectives and
      455.                                           Mirrors, xi. 413.
  Stylidium, x. 157.                              Temperature of the Sea, vi. 64, 81, 82.
  Submarine Cables, v. 574.                       Temperatures, xi. 148, 471, 550 ;
  Subway to France, vi. 110; x.                      measured by Electricity, vi. 438.
      121.                                               and Radiation, x. 315; ltatio,317;
  Suggestion, its Influence on Movement,             Observations, 261.
     i. 147.                                      Temple of Jerusalem, iv. 366.
  Sulphur, its Allotropic Modifications,          Tenant Farmers, ix. 565.
     I. 202  ; andGas,
                     Melting
         in Coal                Points, 449.
                          vi. 489.                Tennant, invents Bleaching Powder,
                                                      vi. 20l.                               \
                                                                                             •<

                                 TO TOL8. I. TO XH.                                 611
 Tlmlfs' Philosophy, vi. 305.               Trivium, vm. 453, 464.
 Thalline, XI. 401.                         Troy, vn. 119.
 Tlmllium, iv. 02; vi. 392.                 Tutior, E. Owen, Donation, iv. 572.
 Thermomrters, vi. 440.                     Tuke, T. H., Donation, rv. 156.
 Thermopile, x. 255.                        Tumuli, Yorkshire Wold, v. 78.
 Thompson, B. (Count Rumford), x. 407.      Tunnels, vi. 110; x. 123; Tunnelling.
       Silvanus P., Optical Torque, xH.       488.
    474.                                    Turbid Media, ix. 345.
 Thomson, Sir W., Motive power, n.          Turner, C. E., Domestic Industry in
    199.                                       Russia, x. 359.
       Atmospheric Electricity, in. 277.    Turner's Pictures affected by Fault of
       Tides, vH. 447.                        Vision, vi. 450.
       Effects of Stress on Magnetisa       Twining, Miss Eliz., presents her Works
   tion of Iron, &c. vHi. 591.                on Plants, m. 107.
       Sorting Demon of Maxwell, ix.        Tylor, Alfred, Roman Antiquities found
    113.                                           E. B., Early
                                              in London,    x. '19. Mental Condition
       Elasticity, as possibly a Mode
   of Motion, ix. 520.                         of Man, v. 83.
       Size of Atoms, x. 185.                     Savage Thought in Modern Civili
       Capillary Attraction, xi. 483.         sation, v. 522.
       The Sun's Heat, xn. 1.                     Ordeals and Oaths, vm. 152.
       Electrostatic Measurement, xn.             History of Gamos, ix. 125.
   561.                                           on Theory of the Alphabet, vi.
       Presents Electric-current Measur        471.
   ing Instruments, xn. 370.                Tyndall, John, Influence of Material
      Joseph, Exploration of Masfti Land,     Aggregation upon the Manifestations
   xn. 199.                                       Eruptive
                                              of Force,      Phenomena of Iceland, i.
                                                         I. 254.
       J. Millar, Suspended Crystallisa
   tion, xi. 508.
Thorpe, T.E., Chemical work of Wohler,        329.Vibration and Tones produced by
   x. 477.                                    the Contact of Bodies having different
Thought in Nature, xi. 178.                   Temperatures, i. 356.
" Thunderer " Gun Explosion, ix. 221 ;            Motion of Liquids, I. 446.
   Sequel, 309.                                   Magnetic and Diamagnetic Force,
Tides and Tide Gauge, vn. 447.                n. 13, 159.
Tidy, C. Meymott, Poisons and Poison              Leyden Battery, n. 132.
   ing, xn. 220.                                  Cleavage of Rocks, &c. n. 295.
 Tilghman'a Sand Blast, vn. 84, 85.               Glaciers, n. 320.
Time, Geological, I. 287, 428 ; vm. 129 ;         Lissajous' Acoustic Experiments,
   Ix. 268.                                       Physical Properties of Ice, n.
                                              n. 441.
       required for Transmission by the
   Nerves, iv. 575.                           454.
" Time of the Masters" (Italian Art),             Mer-de-Glace, n. 544.
   vi. 59.                                        Veined Structure of Glaciers, in.
Time-reckoning, xi. 387.
Tonite, Experiments with, ix. 80              72. Transmission of Heat through
Topinnrd, on Australians, vm. 607;                Influence
                                              Gases,  in. 155.of the Magnetic Force
   Tasmanians, 626.
Torpedo Explosion, vn. 390.                   on the Electric Discharge, in. 169.
Town Climate, x. 24.                              Alpine Phenomena, m. 269.
Transit of Venus, vm. 79.                         Action of Gases and Vapours on
Transpiration, vi. 26.                            Physical
                                              Radiant   Heat,   in. of295.
                                                             Basis      Solar Chemistry,
Treadwheel Work, rv. 676.
Tree Twigs, m. 358.                                387.
                                              in. Absorption    and Radiation of Heat
Tree Worship, v. 453.
Tribe, A., Experiments with Dr. Glad          by Gaseous Matter, m. 404.
  stone, vm. 183.                                 Force, in. 527.
Tricycles, xi. 13.                                Radiatiou through the Earth's
Trilobites, Theory respecting, m. 268.        Atmosphere, iv. 4.
     VOL. XII. (No 83.)                                                     2 T

                                         INilES
Tyndall, John, Researches on Radiant           Tyndall, John, Present to, on his
   'Heat, iv. 14H.                                marriage, vm. 178.
        Contributions to Molecular Phy                Donations, Iv. 153, 156; vi. 422 ;
    sits, iv. 233.                                x. 214.
        A Magnetic Experiment, iv. 3l7.               Elected Professor of Natural Phi
         Combustion by Invisible Rays,            losophy, i. 339, &c. ; Letter of Resig
    iv. 329.                                      nation, xn. 94 : Resolution, 95 ;
•       Radiation nnd Absorption, with            Elected Honorary Professor of
    reference to the Colour of Bodies, and        Natural Philosophy, xn. 136, &c.
   their State of Aggregation, iv. 487.
        Experiments on the Vibrations of       UNOIILATA, Owen's List of, n. 260;
    Strings, iv. 085.                             Cliesification of, vn. 98.
         Sounding and Sensitive Flames,        UintHtheriuni described (with cut), vm.
   v. 6.                                          115, 116.
        Experiments of Faraday, Biot and       Unconscious Activity of the Brain, v.
   Savart, v. 188.                                338.
        " Faraday as a Discoverer," v.         Universal Time, xi. 387.
    199-272.                                   Uranium Gluss, x. 209.
        Chemical Rays and the Light of Uric Acid, x. 478, 480.
   the Sky, v. 429.
        Dust and Disease, vi. 1.               VACUA, Peculiar, how prepared. IH. 9 ;
        Colour of Water ; and the Scatter         Electric, Discharge in, 6, 7; ix. 1H8,
   ing of Light, vi. 189.                         432 ; x. 83.
        Dust and Smoke, vi. 365.            i Vanadium, v. 287 ; vin. 2'H.
        Identitv of Light and Radiant          Vapours, their action on Radiant Heat,
   Heat, vi. 417.                                 m. 295, 406; iv. 5, 149, 488; pro
       Niagara, vn. 73.                           ducing Sound, x. 177.
        Acoustic     Transparency,     and     Varley, C. F., Atlantic Telegraph, v.
   Opacity of the Atmosphere, vn. 169.            43.
        Acoustic Reversibility, vn. 344.              on Telephone, vm. 503 ; Dynamo-
        Whitworth's Planes, &c. vn. 524 ;         Electric Machines, ix. 10, note.
   Standard Measures, 526 ; Guns, 527 :        Vase. Paintings, x. 285.
   Steel, 535.                                 Vaughan, H., Donations, iv. 347; v. 4.
       Optical Condition of the Atmo           Vodns, the Sacred Booko of the Hindus,
   sphere and Putrefaction and Infec              rv. 135 ; x. 470.
   tion, vin. 6.                               Vegetable, Animal, and Inorganic
       Parallel Roads of Glen Roy, vin.           Kingdoms, their Relations, in. 368 ;
   233.                                           vin. 28.
       A Combat with an Infective At-          Velocities of Electricity, Light, Sound,
  mosphere, vin. 467.                             Nervous Agent, &o. iv. 588 ; Light,
       Putrefactive and Infective Organ-          vn. 472 ; Sound, 344 ; Detonation, ix.
   ismH, vm. 467.                                64, 78; Projectiles, 226, 319; Pro
       Fog Signals, vm. 543.                     pagation, x. 198.
       Eli clric Light, ix. 1 ; Lecture re    Ventilation, n. 236; by the Parlour
  peated, 37.                                    Fire,  I. 761.
       Goethe's ' Farbenlehre,' Ix. 340.      Venus, Transit of, vin. 79. 85.
       Conversion of Radiant Heat into        Vernon, Lord, Present of Dante, v. 607.
  Sound, x. 175.                              Verona und its Rivers, vi. 55.
       Action of Molecules on Radiant         Verrier, on Orbit of Meteors, ix. 46.
  Heat (no Abstract), x. 13.                  Vertical Circulation in Water, vi. 246
       Thoughts on Radiation, x. 253.         Vibrating Meter, x. 239.
       Count Rumford, x. 407.                 Vibrations of Strings, iv. 685.
       Rainbows, x. 455.                      Villari, Effects of Stress on Magnetisa
      Living Contagia, xi. 161.                  tion, vm. 592.
       Thomas Young, xi. 553.                 Vincent, I !., resigns offices of Assistant
       Researches in the Royal Institu           Secretary and Librarian, xn. 410
  tion, vn. 7, 11 ; Experiments on                    M. Camille, New Chemical In
  Ozone, vi. 550 ; Presents Apparatus,           dustry, ix. 51.
  vn. 55.                                     " Vine" in the Catacombs, vn. 325.

                                  TO TOLS. I. TO XII.                             G13
 Violins, Old, ix. 305.                      Water, Chemical Decomposition, vm.
 Vision, Faults of, vi. 450.                    179 ; Solid, vin. 302.
 Visions of Sane Persons, ix. 644.                 Spectrum, ix. 699 ; x. 62, 61.
 Vital and Physical Forces, their Rela             Molecule of, iv. 118.
   tions, in. 20U.                                 Meters, x. 235.
 Vivian, K., Meteorology and a Balloon             Motion of, xi. 41.
   Ascent, li. 437.                          Watson, Bp., on Pnlogiston, vi. 319.
 Voelcker, A., Properties of Soils, and      Wave-line Ships and Yachts, i. 115,
   the Productive Powers of the Soils of        210.
   England, iv. 110.                         Wave Length, Tables of Data, &c. x.
 Volcano of Krakatoa, xi. 85.                   187, 198.
 Volcanoes, Conical Form of, m. 125.               Theory, xi. 562.
 Volta-Electric Induction, XI. 119.          Waves Illustrated, x. 188, 199, 209.
 Voltaic Butteries, ix. 1, 2, 3.             Wealden Formation, Fauua and Flora
 Voluntary Movement, Physiology of,            of, i. 141.
    I. 37, 147.                              Weather Knowledge, vn. 34 ; x. 323.
 Von Lang's Researches in Crystallo          Weber and his Times, vn. 199.
    graphy, in. 98.                          Weldon's Process of Manufacturing
 Vortex Motion, vin. 272.                      Chlorine, vi. 203.
 Vrolik, Apes, m. 16.                        Weldon, W. F. R., Adaptation to Sur
                                               roundings as a Factor in Animal
 WAGNER, A., and the Music of the               Development (no Abstract), XI. 287.
    Future, vn. 26 ; his eulogy of Weber,    Wellington, Duke of, Cast of his Fea
    vn. 211.                                    tures after Death presented, HI. 274.
 WaMstein, C , Influence of Athletic         " Welliugtonia," vm. 578.
    Games on Greek Art. x. 272.              Wells, on Dew, x. 254.
 Wales, Priueo of, elected Honorary          Westmacott, R, Art-Education, and
    Member and Vice-Patron, Iv. 3, 13 ;         how to view Works of Art, iv. 381.
    Present from, 176; Address tn tho !            Art, vi. 102 ; Mausoleum of Hali-
   Queen on his Recovery, vi. 474; i           carnassus, 105: British Museum, 107.
    Reply, 511 ; returns thanks for Sir      Westminster Bell, li. 368.
    F. Abel's Dist-nurse, xn. 126.                 Abbey, iv. 598 ; xn. 217.
 Walker, C. V., Railwuy Telegraph Sig              Dean of, on Westminster Abbey,
   nals,A.H.De
             403.Not, presents a Chinese '     iv. 598 ; xn. 217 ; Roman Catacombs,
                                               &c. Tn. 316.
    Library, in. 219.                              Abp. of, on the Dtomon of Socrates.
 Wallace,
        D. M.,
            A. Secret
                R., on Malays,
                       Societiesvin.
                                 in Russia,
                                     641.      vi. 402.
                                             Westwood, J. O., Metamorphoses of
   vHi. 405.                                    Insects, in. 375.
 Waller, A., Nerves, in. 378.                Whalebone, x. 366, 369.
 Wallich, G. C., Nature of the Deep-sea      Whales, x. 360.
    lied, and the Presence of Animal         Wheatstone, Sir C., Electric Telegraph,
   Life at Vast Depths in the Ocean,            n. 394, 556.
   in 299.                                         Experiments on Successive Polari
Wanklyn, J. A., Synthesis of Organic           sation  of Light, vi. 205.
    Bodies, iv. 199.                               Determination of the Velocity of
Ward, S. H., Growth of Plants in                Light, vn. 474.
   closely glazed Cases. I. 407.                   Presents Magneto-Electric Clock,
Waringtnu, Geo., obtains Actonian               vn. 30 ; Donation, iv. 177.
   Prize, iv. 399.                                 Decease of, vin. 1.
        R., Aquarium, H. 403.                      his Magic Lyre, vin. 501.
Warner, Messrs., Bell-founiling, n.                Magnetic Discoveries, ix. J0.
   380.                                           Telegraphic Achievements, ix. 297.
" Warrior '' descriheii, in. 508.            Wheels moving round a Curve, xi. 19.
Water Supply of London, n. 47, 466 ; for     Whitney, on Sequoia, vin. 579.
   the Metropolis, v. 109, 346.              Whitney, Mount, xi. 275.
        Analyses, v. 113, 122, 359.          Whitworth'g Planes, vu. 525 ; Standard
        Colour of, vi. 190 ; Particles in,     Measures, 526; Guns, &c. m. 248;
   vi. 195.                                    vH. 527; Steel, 535.

614                            INDEX TO TOL8. I. TO XII.
Wild Flowers and Insects, vu. 351 .             Wislicenus, Dr., Researches on Muscu
Wilde, H., presents Magneto-Electric               lar Power, iv. 664 et seq.
   Machine, v. 1 ; described, ix. 8.            Wohler's Chemical Work, x. 477.
Wilkes, on Samoans, vm. 646.                    Wolf Rock Lighthouse, vi. 214.
Williams, G., Discoveries at Jerusalem,         Wollaston, W. H., Bust of, ix. 250.
   iv. 23.                                      Women, their Influence on the Progress
        C. G., Artificial Formation of             of Knowledge, n. 504.
   Organic Substances, v. 378.                  Woodward, C., presents Polarising Ap
        Female Poisoners (no Abstract"),           paratus, vu. 164.
   v. 470.                                      Woody Fibre, n. 409.
       W. M., Rumfunl's Scientific Dis          Wright, A. W., Researches on Meteo
   coveries, vi. 227.                              rites, xi. 541.
Williamson, A. W., Etherification, r. 90.       Wright. C. R. Alder, Chemistry of
       Gerhardt's Discovery of the Anhy            Iron Smelting, vu. 248.
   drous Organic Acids, i. 239.
       Classification of the Elements in        XENOPHANES' Philosophy, vi. 313.
   relation to their Atomicities, iv. 274.      Xenophon, on Socrates' Daanon, vi. 408.
       Atoms (no Abstract), vi. 164.
         \f. C., Oolitic and Palsaozoic
    Forms of Vegetation, x. 220.                YACHTS, English and American, I. 115,
 Wilson. A., Colonial Organisms, ix. 508.          210.
        John, Ploughs nnd Ploughing,             Yenst, Xn. 571 ; Plant, vi. 6, 7.
    Ancient and Modern, I. 265.                 Yellow Spot in the Eye, vi. 270.
        C. W., Ordnance Survey of Sinai,         Yorke, Col. P. J., Donation, iv. 243.
                                                 Young, J., presents Portrait of Sir H.
    vi. 83.                                         Duvy, xn. 466.
 Wimshurst, J., Elictrical Influence
    Machines, Xn. 300.                           Young's Parafflne, I. 135.
          presents Electrical Influence          Young, Thomas, Researches in the
    Machines, x. 214 ; Xn. 201.                     Royal Institution, vu. 2. ; Early Life
 Wind applied to String Instruments,                and Studies, xi. 553.; the Wave
                                                    Theory, 562; Hieroglyphical Re
    vH. 488.                                        searches, 574.
 Winds, Laws of, vu. 40.
 Wines, Treatment of, i. 303 ; Acidity,          Yttrium, xn. 40, 43.
    Sweetness and Strength of, 381.
 Wings of Birds, xi. 364.                        ZELLER, on Socrates' Dsemon, vi. 410.
 Wiseman, Cardinal, Points of Contact            Zinc-Ethyl, its Power, iv. 311.
    between
        Shakespeare,
               Science rv.
                        and470.
                             Art, iv. 9.         Zodiacul Light, v. 164.
                                                 Zoological Distribution, vin. 511.
                              .*••'/-£••
                                     -
                           \ r."
                                                          .'/I
                    LOSDOH: FEINTED BT WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIKITED,
                               STAMFORD STREKT ASD CHABIKO CROSS.




PERIODICALS
.
      THIS BOOK IS DUE ON THE LAST DATE
                        STAMPED BELOW
      AN INITIAL FINE OF 25~«m££
      WILL BE ASSESSED FOR FAILURE TO RETURN
      THIS BOOK ON THE DATE DUE. THE PENALTY
      WILL INCREASE TO 5O CENTS ON THE FOURTH
      DAY AND TO S1.OO ON THE SEVENTH DAY
      OVERDUE.
  •       MAY ft           100•1
  3-                   °   1934
 d    SEP £ 1QK7       War 5 0
  m
  B          IN STACKS
  L
 ff
  H    flUG•**• J- 1 9« 1967
                          Iwwf
 •
  •"
       AU6 ^0 67-11 Al
   IK    / '  . i-   .
  •      MA- z 0 1994
   K
  ^^              •.i,        . *
  LJ
  1
  D
BE
 i1
  ^^E
                                    LD2i-i00m-7,'33
      ». «fr

                              •    " ^ ^v • *• --
  U C BERKELEY LIBRARIES
                         «^;£^vi
                         ^F' , • '   •;''. •   \'
r


