This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com


        LIBRARY   |
           or TH(
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA.
           *7       Mi.


1




                    NOTICES
                        OP THE
            PROCEEDINGS
                        AT THE
        MEETINGS OF THE MEMBERS
                        or THB
ilopal frtftttutton of <§reat Britain,
                         WtTH
       ABSTRACTS OF THE DISCOURSES
                    DELIVEEED AT
           THE EVENING MEETINGS.
                 VOLUME XIII.
                   1890—1892.
                  LONDON:
PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,
       STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.
                       1893.

                                                                   L-7
                                    patron.
                         HER HOST GRAOIOU8         MAJESTY
                            QUEEN VICTOKIA
                 'fc7ice=¥atton anU Jljonotatj)
                              HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS
              THE PKINCE OF WALES, E.G. F.R.S.
President—THE DUKE OF NORTHUMRERLAND, K.G. D.C.L. LL.D.
Treasurer— SIR JAMES CRIOHTON-BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. — V.P.
Honorary Secretary—Sin FREDERICK BBAMWELL, BAIIT. D.C.L. LL.D.
       F.K.S. M. INST. C.E.-F.P.
        MANAGERS. 1892-93.                          VISITORS.   1832-93.
Sir Frederick Abel, K.C.B. D.C.L.          Thnmas Buzzard, M.D. F.R.C.P.
   F.R.S.— V.P.                             Michael Cartcighe, Esq. F.C.S.
Captain W. de W. Abney, C.B. R.E.
   D.C.L. F.R.S.                            Andrew Ainslie Common, Esq. F.R.S.
Georgu Berkley, Esq M. Inst. C.E.             F.R.A.S.
Shelford Bidwell, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.         James Ftirmer, Esq. J.P.
Joseph Brown, Esq. C.B. Q.C.                Robert Hannah, Esq.
Arthur Herbert Church, Esq. M.A.           George Herbert, Esq.
   F.R.S.
Sir Andrew Clark, Bart. M.D. LL.D.         Donald William Charles Hood, M 1>.
   F.R.8.                                     F.R.C.P.
Sir Douglas Gallon, K.C.B. D.C.L.          James Mansergh, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
   LL.D. F.R.S.— V.P.                      Lachlan Mackintosh Rate, Esq. M.A.
Ths Right Him. Lord Halsburv, M.A.         John Callander Ross, Esq.
   D.C.L. F.R.S.— V.P.
William Huggins, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D.         Arthur William Riicker, Esq. M.A.
   F.R.S.— KP.                                F.R.S.
David Edward Hughes, Esq. F.R.S.—          Sir David Salomons, Bart. M.A.
   V.P.                                       F.K.A.S. F.C.S.
The Right Hon. Lord Kelvin, D.C.L.         John Bell Sedgwick, Esq. J.P.
   LL.D. Pres. R.S.— V.P.                     F.R.G.S.
Hugo Miiller, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.            John Isaac Thornycroft, Esq. M. Inst.
John Rae, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
William Chandler Roberts-Austen, Esq.         C.E.
   C.B. F.R.S.                             Robert Wilson, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
                                 professors.
 Honorary Profeaor of Natural Philotophy—JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D.
      F.R.S. &c.
Professor of Natural Philosophy—The Right Hon. LORD RAYLEIGH, M.A. D.C.L.
      LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
Fvllerian Professor of Chemistry—JAMES DEWAR, Esq. M.A. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
 Fullerian Professor of Physiology—VICTOR HOIISLEY, Ksq. F.R.S. B.S. F.R.C.S.
 Honorary Librarian—Mr. Benjamin Vincent.
 Keeper of the Library and Assistant Secretary—Mr. Henry Young.
 Clerk of Accounts and Collector—Mr. Henry C. Hughes.
 Atsistants in the Laboratories—Mr. R. N. Lennox, Mr. J. W. Heath, and
    Mr. G. Gordon.
 Auistant in the Library—Mr. Herbert C. Fyfe.

                         CONTENTS.
                               1890.
                                                             Page
Jan. 24.—PROFESSOR DEWAR—-The Scientific Work of Joulo          1
  ,,  31.—SIR FREDERICK AREL— Smokeless Explosives       ..     7
Feb.    3.— General Monthly Meeting                 -    ..    24
   „    7.—HENRY B. WHEATLEY, Esq.—The London Stage in
              Elizabeth's Reign ..   ..     ..     ..     ..   27
   „  14.—PROFESSOR J. A. FLEMING—Problems in the Physics
              of an Electric Lamp    ..    ..     ..     ..34
   „  21.—SHELFORD BIDWELL, Esq. — Magnetic Phenomena ..       50
  „   28.—PROFESSOR C. HURERT H. PARRY—Evolution in
              Music        ..   ..   ..    ..     ..     ..    56
March 3.—General Monthly Meeting ..        ..     ..     ..    69
   „    7.—FRANCIS GOTOH, Esq.— Electrical Relations of the
              Brain and Spinal Cord ..     ..     ..     ..183
   „  14.—PROFESSOR T. E. THORPE—The Glow of Phosphorus        72
   „  21.—PROFESSOR G. F. FITZGERALD — Electromagnetic
              Radiation ..      ..   ..    ..     ..     ..    77
   „  28.—The Right Hon. LORD RAYLEIOH— Foam..           ..    85
April 7.—General Monthly Meeting ..        ..     ..     ..    97
   „  18.—SIR FREDERICK BRAMWELL, Bart.— Welding by
              Electricity.                                   185

IT                               CONTENTS.
   1890.                                                     Page
April 25.—The Right Hon. SIR JOHN LURROCK, Bart. M.P. —
                 The Shapes of Leaves and Cotyledons ..  ..   102
May         1.—Annual Meeting       ..     ..    ..  ..  ..112
   „       2.—WALTER H. POLLOCK, Esq.—Theophile Gautier
                 (no Abstract)                                113
   „       6.—General Monthly Meeting ..         ..  ..  ..   113
   „       9.—E. BRUDENELL CARTER, Esq.—Colour-Vision and
                 Colour-Blindness ..       ..    ..  ..  ..116
   „      16.—PROFESSOR RAPHAEL MELDOLA—The Photographic
                 Image       ..     ..     ..    ..  ..  ..   134
   „     23.— PROFESSOR A. C. HADDON—Manners and Customs
                 of the Torres Straits Islanders ..  ..  ..   145
   „     30.—A. A. COMMON, Esq.—Astronomical Telescopes ..    157
June       2.—General Monthly Meeting ..         ..  ..  ..   173
   „       6.—PROFEBSOR W. BOYD DAWKINS—The Search for
                 Coal in the South of England                 175
   „     13.— PROFESSOR SILVANUS P. THOMPSON—The Physical
                 Foundation of Music       ..    ..  ..  .. 206
July       7.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..  ..  ..  197
Nov.       3.—General Monthly Meeting ..         ..   .. ..   199
Dec.       1.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..  .. ..   203
                                   1891.
Jan. 23.—The Right Hon. SIR EDWARD FRY — British
                 Mosses      ..     ..     ..    ..  ..  .. 237
   „     80.—PROFESSOR J. W. JUDD—The Eejuvenescence of
                 Crystals ..                                  250
Feb.       2.—General Monthly Meeting ..         ..   ..  ..  258
    „      6.—The Right Hon. LORD BAYLEIGH—Some Applica
                  tions of Photography      ..    ..  ..  ..261

                                CONTENTS.                          V
  1891.                                                         Page
 Feb. 13.—PROFESSOR A. SCHUSTER — Recent Total Solar
               Eclipses                                          273
   „    20.—EDWARD EMANUEL KLEIN, M.D.—Infectious Dis
               eases, their Nature, Cause, and Mode of Spread   277
  „     27.—PERCY FITZGERALD, Esq. —The Art of Acting (no
               Abstract)                                         293
March 2.—General Monthly Meeting ..                              2W3
  „       6.—PROFESSOR J. A. FLEMING—Electromagnetic Repul
               sion                                             296
  „      13.—FELIX SBMON, M.D.—The Culture of the Singing
               Voice       ..                                    317
  „     20.—PROFESSOR VICTOR HORSLEY— Hydrophobia (no
               Abstract)                               ..    .. 342
April 6.—General Monthly Meeting ..             ..    ..     .. 342
  „      10.—SIR WILLIAM THOMSON—Electric and Magnetic
               Screening ..        ..     ..    ..    ..     .. 345
  „     17.— PROFESSOR A. W. BUCKEH—Magnetic Rocks           .. 417
  „     24.— The Rev. CANON AINGER—Euphuism—past and
               present (no Abstract)      .,    ..    ..     .. 420
May       1.—Annual Meeting        ..     ..    ..    ..     .. 356
  „       1.—JAMES EDMUND        HARTING, Esq. — Hawks and
               Hawking ..          ..     ..    ..    ..     .. 357
  „       4.—General Monthly Meeting                         ..362
  „       8.—PROFESSOR W. RAMSAY—Liquids and Gases           .. 365
  „     15.—PROFESSOR G. D. LIVEING— Crystallisation         .. 375
  „     22.—PROFESSOR J. A. EWING—The Molecular Process
               in Magnetic Induction ..         ..    ..     .. 387
  „     29.—DAVID GILL, Esq.—An Astronomer's Work in a
               Modern Observatory         ..    ..    ..     .. 402
June      1.—General Monthly Meeting ..         ..    ..     .. 420

vl                                CONTENTS.
   1891.                                                             Page
June      2.— (Extra Evening.) CHARLES WALDSTEIN, Esq.—The
                  Discovery of " The Tomb of Aristotle "         . . 423
   „      5. —ST. GEORGE J. HIVAUT, Esq. —The Implications of
                 Science ..          ..     ..    ..     ..     .. 428
   „     12.—PROFESSOR HAROLD Dixox—The Eate of Explosion
                 in Gases ..          ..     ..    ..     ..     .. 443
                        Faraday Centenary Lectures.
   „     17.— I. By The Right Hou. LORD KAYLEIGH ..             ..   462
   „     26.—II. By PROFESSOR DEWAR ..            ..      ..    ..    481
July       6.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..      ..    ..    451
Nov.       2.—General Monthly Mooting ..          ..      ..     ..454
Dec.       7.—General Monthly Meeting ..           ..     ..    ..    458
                                   1892.
Jan.     22.—The Right Hon. LORD EAYLEIGH —The Composi
                 tion of Water (no Abstract)                          489
   „ 29.—SIR GEOROE DOUGLAS, Bart.—Tales of the Scottish
                 Peasantry                                            489
Feb. 1.—General Monthly Meeting                                       498
   „      1.—Special General Meeting ..           ..     ..     ..   501
   „      4.—(Extra Evening.) Nikola Tesln, Esq. Currents
                 of High Potential and of High Frequency       ..     037
   „      5.—PROFESSOR RGRERTS-A DBTEN—Metals at High Tem
                 peratures ..       ..      ..   ..      ..    ..    502
   „     12. — G. J. SYMONS, Esq. —Rain, Suow, and Hail (no
                 Abstract)                                           518
   „     19.—PROFESSOR PEUCY F. FUANKLAND—Micro-organisms
                 in their relation to Chemical Change ..        ..   519
   „ 26.—SIR DAVID SALOMONS, Bart.—Optical Projection..              534
March 4.—PROFESSOR L. C. MIALL—The Surface-film of
                 Water and its relation to the Life of Plants and
                 Animals ..         ....                             510

                                 CONTENTS.                        Vll
  1892.                                                         Page
March 7.— General Monthly Meeting ..            ..      ..  ..   550
    ,,  11.—F. T. PIGGOTT, Esq. —"Japanesque"           ..  ..   554
    „   18.—GEORGE Du MAURIEB, Esq. —Modern Satire in
                  Black and White (no Abstract) ..      ..  ..   564
    „   25.—JOHN EVANS, Esq.—Posy-rings (no Abstract)       ..   564
April     1.—PROFESSOR OLIVER LODGE—The Motion of the
                  Ether near the Earth     ,.   ..      ..  ..   565
   ,,     4.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..     ..  ..   581
   „      8.—PROFESBOR W. E. AYHTON—Electric Meters,
                  Motors, and Money matters (no Abstract)   .. 583
   „    29.—B. W. KICHARDSON, M.D.— The Physiology of
                  Dreams ..         ..      ..   ..      ..  .. 584
May       2.—Annual Meeting                                      600
 „        6.— CAPTAIN ARNEY—The Sensitiveness of the Eye to
                  Light and Colour ..      ..    ..     ..   ..  601
  „        9.—General Monthly Meeting ..          .,     ..  ..  612
  „     13. —WILLIAM HUGGINS, Esq.—The New Star in Auriga        615
  „      20. — J. WILSON SWAN, Esq.—Electro-metallurgy       ..  625
  „      27. —SIR J. CRICHTON-BROWNE —Emotional Expression       653
June       3. — LUDWIG MOND, Esq. —Metallic Carhonyls ..     ..  668
   „    10.—PROFESSOR DEWAR—Magnetic Properties of Liquid
                  Oxygen                                         695
   ,,    13.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..      ..  ..  681
July      4.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..      ..  ..  684
Nov.       7.— General Monthly Meeting ..         ..     ..  ..  687
Dec.       5.—General Monthly Meeting ..          .,     ..  ..  692
                Index to Volume XIII.       ..    ..             700

                           PLATES.
Applications of Photography       ..      ..     ..    .. 263,265
Crystallisation                                               386
Spectra of Sirius and a Aurigre   ..      ..     ..    .,     408
Apparatus for Liquefaction and Solidification of Gases ..     483
Apparatus employed at the Faraday Centenary Lecture by
       Professor Dewar      ..    ..      ..     ..    ..     484
Spectra of New Star in Auriga, Plates I. and II. ..    ..     618

          i\ojjal Institution of CKreat Britain.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, January 24, 1890.
       SIR FRBDBMOK AREL, C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vicc-President,
                               in the Chair.
                 PROFESSOR DEWAR, M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                       The Scientific Work of Joule.
                                 (Abstract.)
PROF. DEWAR commenced by remarking that the Royal Institution
had been so closely identified with the groat workers in physical
science that it was impossible to allow the work of Joule, whose
researches had produced as marked a revolution in Physical Science
as Darwin's in Biology, to pass without recognition in the present
series of Friday Evening Discourses. Sir William Thomson, as
Joule's friend and fellow-worker to the last, had been invited to
undertake the duty, and had agreed to do so ; hut at the last moment
had been compelled to decline by reason of important official duties
in Scotland, and the task had consequently devolved upon him.
    Having given a brief account of Joule's parentage, early life, and
education, Prof. Dewar reviewed, as fully as time would permit, his
scientific work, which extended over about forty years, and was repre
sented by 115 original memoirs. The first period (1838 to 1843) was
distinguished as that in which Joule educated himself in experimental
methods, chiefly in connection with electricity and electro-magnetic
engines. This work led him in 1840 to his first great discovery, the
true law governing the relation between electric energy and thermal
evolution, which enabled him later on to account for the whole dis
tribution of the current, not only in the battery in which it is pro
duced, but in conductors exterior to it. Joule was thus led to take up
the study of electrolysis. Faraday had already made the discovery that
electrolytic bodies could be split up into equivalent proportions by the
passage of the same electric current ; Joule saw that there would be
great difficulty in finding out the distribution of the current energy,
and accounting for the whole of it. After a laborious research he
succeeded in showing that during electrolytic action there was an
absorption of heat equivalent to the heat evolved during the original
combination of the constituents of the compound body. The prose
cution of his electrical researches rapidly brought Joule on the road
to his great discovery of the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat, it being
clear from a foot-note to a paper dated 18th February, 1843, that he
already had well in hand the study of the strict relations between
chemical, electrical, and mechanical effects.
    In working out these laws, it was to be remarked that Joule—in
common with most inventors and seekers after new scientific truths—
chose perhaps the most difficult means that could have been selected ;
     VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)                                       R

'J                           Professor Dewar                   [Jan. 24,
and in looking back at his work ill the light of present knowledge,
it seemed simply astounding that he should have succeeded so com
pletely as he did. The original coil used by Joule for the mechanical
determination of heat (kiudly lent for the occasion by Prof. Riicker)
was shown, and the coarse of the experiment explained. The vast
difficulties which Joule had to overcome in order to prove that
there was a definite, permanent, and persistent relation between
the amount of mechanical energy expended and the heat pro
duced were commented on ; the thermal effects being produced not
directly but through the medium of an electric current varying
in intensity, and calculations having to be made not only for these
fluctuations, but for the effects of radiation, the movement of the air,
and other indirect complications. The very small increment of heat
to be measured obliged Joule to use thermometers of great delicacy,
and these he had to devise and construct himself. One of the
thermometers so used was exhibited.
     Working in this way, Joule was able by the end of July, 1843, to
state definitely that the amount of heat capable of increasing the
temperature of a pound of water by 1° F. was equal to, and might be
converted into, a mechanical force capable of raising 838 lbs. to the
height of one foot. Soon afterwards he attained almost identical
results by a more direct method—the friction of water passing through
 small tubes—which gave him 770 foot pounds per unit of heat.
     It was impossible, said the lecturer, to thoroughly appreciate
Joule's work without glancing at the early history of the subject ;
and when one did so it was amazing to find how near men of the
stamp of Rumford, Davy, and Young had been to Joule's great dis
covery, and yet missed it. Count Rumford was the first to clearly
define the relation between the constant production of heat and loss
of movement by frictional motion. He proved that the amount of
heat produced by friction was continuous, and apparently unlimited ;
but he did not think of measuring the relation between the mechanical
energy expended and the amount of heat produced. Alluding to the
results obtained from this apparatus, the lecturer said that Count
Rumford might have shown that in his experiments the heat pro
duced was proportional to the time of working, and so obtained
a result capable of being expressed in horse-power. The value so
deducted from Eumford's experiments is not far removed from Joule's
first number.
     The experiments commenced by Count Rumford were carried on
by Davy, at that time working with Beddoes at Bristol ; and led to
one of the most remarkable essays on heat of that period, which
disposed for ever of the theory of the separate existence of caloric.
Taking two pieces of ice on a cold day, Davy mounted them so that
they could be rotated against each other with frictional pressure, the
effect being that the pieces of ice were melted, and the water so
produced had a much higher specific heat than the original ice. To
guard against the possibility of heat being conveyed to the frictional

1890.]                   on The Scientific Work of Joule.                      3
apparatus by the surrounding air, Davy made an experiment in vacuo,
isolating the apparatus by means of ice ; and found that under such
conditions sufficient heat could be produced to melt was placed in the
receiver. The lecturer here showed an experiment illustrating the
production of water by the friction of two pieces of ice in vaouo,
under conditions of temperature much more severe than those of
Davy's experiment.
      Following Davy, Young devoted a great deal of attention to the
subject, and by 1812 he and Davy had quite changed their opinions,
and had adopted the view that heat and motion were convertible
effects.
      Having by July 1843 assured himself of the principle of his dis
covery, Joule now devoted himself to the elaboration of methods
of working, modifying and repeating experiments in various ways,
but always approaching nearer and nearer to exactness, as shown by
the following Table of results :—
           JOULE'S VALUES OP THE MECHANICAL EQUIVALENT or HEAT.
                                                                      Kilogramme
Magneto-electric currents ................ 1813                           4C.0
Friction of water in tubes .................,                             424'6
Diminution of heat produced in a battery current when the
       current prod uces work ................                  „         499
Compression of air        .................. 1845                         443'8
Expansion of uir ....................                          „          437 '8
Friction of water .....................,                                  488-3
           „ „        .................... 1847                           428-9
    „      „ „        .................... 1850                           423-9
    ,,     „ mercury      ..................                   „          424'7
    „      „ iron ......................                                  425-2
Heat developed in Daniel's cell ...............,                          419-5
  „         „      in wire of known absolute resistance .. .. 1867        429'5
Friction of water in calorimeter .............. 1878                      423-9
     Prof. Dewar here exhibited and explained the action of the
original calorimeter used by Joule. It was seeu to consist of a set of
vanes which were made to revolve in water by the falling of known
weights through a definite and known height, the heat produced being
due (after making the necessary deduction for the friction due to the
momentum of the weights) entirely to the friction of the fluid. It
was found that whatever fluid was employed, the same definite results
were obtained :—a production of heat in the liquid bearing a constant
relation to the unit of mechanical energy expended. The extreme
delicacy of Joule's apparatus, and the marvellous accuracy of his
observations were shown by the fact that working with weights of
29 Ibs. each, and repeating each observation 20 times, the total increase
of temperature did not exceed half a degree Fahrenheit. In contrast
to this the lecturer showed, by means of apparatus kindly lent by
Prof. Ayrton, the method now employed for repeating Joule's work
and arriving at substantially the same results by much simpler means
                                                                   i) 2

  1                            Professor Dewar                    [Jan. 24,
      While continuing to work intermittently at his great discovery,
  Joule employed himself in the following years in elaborate investiga
  tions bearing upon the point of maximum density of water, specific
  gravity, and atomic volumes. An illustration of his method of deter
  mining maximum density was given by means of t.vo large cylinders
  filled with water and conuectod by a narrow channel in which was
  placed a floating indicator. It was shown that the slightest variation
  in density of the water of either cylinder —variations far beyond the
  scope of the most delicate thermometer— set up currents which were
  immediately detected by the movement of the indicator, and that by
  this means it was quite possible to asccrtaiu the exact temperature at
' which water attained its maximum density.
       Joule's determinations of atomic volumes were marvellous at the
  time they were made, aud were still interesting. Illustrations of his
  work in this direction were given by means of a solution of sugar,
  which was seen to occupy practically the same space as was occupied
  by an amount of water exactly equivalent to that combined in the
  carbohydrate. The carbon hypothetically combined with the water
  to form the sugar appearing to make no sensible difference to the
  volume ; and in contrast to this was seen the enormous difference in
  volume brought about by dissolving two equal portions of soda car
  bonate, one portion being ordinary hydrated crystals and the other
  portion being anhydrous, in equal volumes of water.
       Joule's last great research was carried out conjointly with Sir
  William Thomson, and occupied nearly ten years of laborious enquiry.
  Its chief object was to prove that in compressing a gas the amount of
  heat produced is equivalent to the work done, and independent of the
  mere fact of the approach of the particles. But Joule was desirous of
  amplifying the enquiry, and in fact the work might be divided into
  three sections : (1) the study of gases passing through narrow apertures ;
  (2) the velocity attained by bodies passing through the air ; and (3)
  the temperature ultimately attained by such moving bodies. With
  respect to 2 and 3, it was shown that a body rotating in the air at the
  rate of about 150 to 180 feet per second increased in temperature by
  nearly 1° F., and that this increase of temperature was definite for a
  given velocity, and independent of the size of the moving mass and tho
  density of the gaseous medium. With regard to (1) the relation of
  gaseous pressure and volume to temperature, the researches of Hegnault
  had already shown that the simple law of Marriotte and Boyle could not
   stand by itself ; and Joule sought to modify it by the study of gases
   passing through very small tubes or porous bodies. The investiga
  tions were carried out at Manchester on a large scale, and were assisted
  by a Government grant. Steam engines were employed to maintain a
  current of gas at a constant temperature and pressure through long
  coils of pipe placed in water tanks. They proved that any difference
  of temperature in the gas brought abtmt in its passage through the
  porous body must be duo to work done by it, and that this difference of
  temperature varied for different gases, according to their constitution.

1890. J             on Tlic Scientific Wwk of Joule.                     5
Working under the same conditions, hydrogen was shown to be reduced
a small amount in temperature, air somewhat moro (about 0'33), and
carbonic acid a much greater amount. A repetition of Joule and
Thomson's experiment was shown by means of a 100 feet coil of lead
pipe, compressed hydrogen, air, and carbonic acid gas being employed,
and the original results verified in each case. The effect of this
research was to enable Joule and Thomson to formultito a great im
provement on the gaseous laws ; for instead of the product of the
volume and pressure being strictly proportional to the absolute tem
perature, as it had been hitherto believed to be, they found that a
new term was involved, which is equivalent to a constant divided by
the absolute temperature and multiplied by the volume.
    In conclusion, Prof. Do war read the following letter, which he had
received from Sir Lyon Playfair in response to his request for some
reminiscences of Joule :—
DEAR DEWAR,                                             wth Jan-t 18i)0-
    You ask for some of my memories of Ji.ulo from 1842 to 1845,
when I was Professor of Chemistry at the Royal Institution in
Manchester. The great Dulton died in the autumn of 1844, and had
long been President of the Manchester Philosophical Society. He
naturally gave impulse to the study of science in that town, where
there was an active band of young workers in research.
    Joule was, even then, foremost among these ; and the names of
Binney, Williamson, Schunck, Angus Smith, Young, and others show
that the spirit of scientiric inquiry was active. We were also
stimulated by the fact that Baron Liebig and Bunsen came to pay me
visits during that time ; they were men to excite research.
    Joule was a man of singular simplicity and earnestness. We
used to meet at each other's houses at supper, to help the progress of
our work by discussion. Joule was an earnest worker, and was then
engaged on his experiments on the mechanical equivalent of heat.
He took me to his small laboratory to show me his experiments, and
I of course quickly recognised that my young friend the brewer was a
great philosopher. We jointly worked upon questions of far less
importance than his great central discovery, but he was equally
interested. I was very anxious that he should devote his life to
science, and persuaded him to become candidate for the Professorship
of Natural Philosophy at St. Andrews. Ho was on the point of
securing this, but his slight personal deformity was an objection in
the eyes of one of the electors ; and St. Andrews lost the glory of
having one of the greatest discoverers of our age.
    When Joule first sent an account of his experiments to the Royal
Society, the paper was referred, among others, to Sir Charles Wheat-
stone, who was my intimate personal friend. Wheatstone was an
eminently fair man and a good judge, but the discovery did not then
recommend itself to his mind. For a whole Sunday afternoon we
walked on Barnes Common, discussing thc experiments and their

6       Professor Dewar on The Scientific Work of Joule.        [Jan. 24,
consequences, if true, to science. But all my arguments were
insufficient to convince my friend ; and I fear that then the Royal
Society did not appreciate and publish the researches. I write from
memory only, for I know that, later, no society or institution honoured
Joule more than the Royal Society and its members.
    Not for one moment, however, did Joule hesitate in the accuracy
of his experiments or his conclusions. He once suggested to me that
we might take a trip together to the Falls of Niagara, not to look at
its beauties, but to ascertain the difference of temperature of the
water at the top and bottom of the fall. Of course the change of
motion into heat was a necessary consequence of his views.
    No more pleasant memory of my life remains than the fact that,
side by side, at my lectures in the Royal Institution, used to sit the
illustrious Dalton, with his beautiful face, so like that of Newton, and
the keenly intelligent Joule. I can give no other explanation than
the fact of organic chemistry being then a new science that two
philosophers of such eminence should come to the lectures of a mere
tyro in science. I used to look upon them as two types of the highest
progress in science. Newton had introduced law, order, and number
into the movements of masses of matter in the universe; Dalton
introduced the same into the minute masses which we call atoms;
and Joule, with a keen insight into the operations and correlation
of forces, connected them together and showed their mutual equi
valence.
    I do not know whether these memories are of any use to you, but,
such as they are, they are at your disposal for your lecture on the
frieml of my youth.
                                               Yours sincerely,
                                                      LYON PLAYFAIR.

1890.]          Sir Frederick Abel on Smokeless Explosives.            1
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, January 31, 1890.
 SIR FREDERICK BRAHWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Honorary Secretary
                    and Vice-President, in the Chair.
      SIR FREDERICK AREL, C.B. D.C.L. D.Sc. F.R.S. V.P.E.I.
                           Smokeless Explosives.
THE production of smoke which attends the ignition or explosion of
gunpowder is often a source of considerable inconvenience in con
nection with its application to naval or military purposes, its employ
ment in mines, and its use by the sportsman, although occasions not
unfrequently arise during naval and military operations when the
shroud of smoke produced by musketry or artillery fire, has proved
of important advantage to one or other, or to both, of the belligerents
during different periods of an engagement.
    Until within tho last few years, however, but little, if any,
thought appears to have been given to the possibility of dispensing
with or greatly diminishing the production of smoke in the applica
tion of fire-arms, excepting in connection with sport. The inconve
nience and disappointment often resulting from tho obscuring effects of
a neighbouring gun-discharge, or of the first shot from a double-
barrel arm, led the sportsman to look hopefully to gun-cotton,
directly after its first production in 1846, as a probable source of
greater comfort and brighter prospects in the pursuit of his pastime
and in his strivings for success.
    A comparison between the chemical changes attending the
burning, explosion, or metamorphosis of gun-cotton and of gunpowder,
serves to explain the cause of the production of smoke in the latter
case, and the reason of smokelessness in the case of gun-cotton.
Whilst the products of explosion of the latter consist exclusively of
gases, and of water which assumes the transparent form of highly-
heated vapour at the moment of its production, the explosive sub
stances classed as gunpowder, composed of mixtures of saltpetre, or
another nitrate of a metal, with charred wood or other carbonised
vegetable matter, and with variable quantities of sulphur, furnish pro
ducts, of which very large proportions are not gaseous, even at high
temperatures. Upon the ignition of such a mixture, these products
are in part deposited in the form of a fused residue, which constitutes
the fouling in a fire-arm, and are in part distributed, in an extremely
fine state of division, through the gases and vapours developed by the
explosion, thus producing smoke.
    In the case of gunpowder of ordinary composition, tho solid pro
ducts amount to over fifty per cent, by weight of the total products

I
  8                            Sir Frederick Abel                  [Jan. 31,
  of explosion, and the dense white smoke which it produces, consists
  in part of extremely finely divided potassium carbonate which is a
  component of the solid products, and, to a great extent, of potassium
  oulphate produced chiefly by the burning of one of the important
  solid products of explosion, potassium sulphide, when it is carried in
  a fine state of division into the air by the rash of gas.
      With other explosives, which are also smoke-producing, the
  formation of the smoke is due to the fact that one or other of the
  products, although existing as vapour at the instant of its develop
  ment, is immediately condensed to a cloud composed of minute liquid
  particles, or of vesicles, as in the case of mercury vapour liberated
  upon the explosion of mercuric fulminate, or of the aqueous vapour
  produced upon the ignition of a mixture of ammonium nitrate and
  charcoal, or ammonium nitrate and picric acid.
      Until within the last half-dozen years, the varieties of gunpowder
  which have been applied to war purposes in this and other countries
  have exhibited comparatively few variations in chemical composition.
  The proportions of charcoal, saltpetre, and sulphur, employed in their
  production, exhibit slight differences in different countries, and these,
  as well as the character of the charcoal used, its sources and method
  of production, underwent but little modification for very many years.
  The same remark applies to the nature of the successive operations
  pursued in the manufacture of black powder for artillery purposes in
  this and other countries.
      The replacement of smooth-bore guns by rifled artillery, which
  followed the Crimean war, and the increase in the size and power of
  guns consequent upon the application of armour to ships and forts,
  soon called for the pursuit of investigations having for their object
  the attainment of means for variously modifying the action of fired
  gunpowder, so as to render it suitable for the different calibres of
  guns, whose full power could not be effectively, or in some instances
  safely, developed by the use of the kind of gunpowder previously
  employed indiscriminately in artillery of all known calibres.
      In order to control the violence of explosion of gunpowder, by
  modifying the rapidity of transmission of explosion from particle to
  particle, or through the mass of each individual particle, of which the
  charge of a gun is composed, the accomplishment of the desired results
  was, in the first instance, and indeed throughout practical investigations
  extending over many years, sought exclusively in modifications of the
  size and form of the individual masses composing a charge of powder,
  and of their density and hardness ; it being considered that, as the
  proportions of saltpetre, charcoal and sulphur, generally employed
  in the production of gunpowder, very nearly correspond to those
  required for the development of the greatest chemical energy by those
  incorporated materials, it was advisable to seek for the attainment of
  the desired results by modifications of the physical and mechanical
  characters of gunpowder, rather than by any modification in the
  proportions and chemical characters of its ingredients.

 1890.]                   on Smokeless Explosives.                       9
      The varieties of powder, which, as the outcome of careful practi
 cal and scientific researches in this direction, have been introduced
 into artillery-service from time to time, and some of which, at any rate,
 have proved fairly efficient, have been of two distinct types. The
 first of these, produced by breaking up more or less highly-pressed
 cakes of black powder into grains, pebbles, or boulders, of approxi
 mately uniform size and shape, the sharp edges and rough surfaces
 being afterwards removed by attrition (reeling and glazing), are
 simply a further development of one of the original forms of granu
 lated or corned powder, represented by the old F. G., or small-arms,
and L. G., or cannon-powder. Gunpowders of this class, ranging in
 size from about 1000 pieces to the ounce, to about six pieces to the
 pound, have been introduced into artillery-service, and certain of
 them, viz. R. L. G. (rifle large grain), which was the first step in
advance upon the old cannon-powder (L. G.) ; pebble-powder (P), and
 large pebble or boulder-powder (P 2), are still employed more or
 less extensively in some guns of the present day.
      The other type of powder has no representative among the more
ancient varieties ; it has its origin in the obviously sound theoretical
view that uniformity in the results furuished by a particular powder,
when employed under like conditions, demands not merely identity
in regard to composition, but also identity in form, size, density, and
 structure of the individual masses composing the charge used in a
 gun. The practical realisation of this view should obviously be
attained, or at any rate approached, by submitting equal quantities of
 one and the same mixture of ingredients, presented in the form of
 powder of uniform fineness and dryness, to a uniform pressure for a
 fixed period in moulds of uniform size, and under surrounding con
ditions as nearly as possible alike. The fulfilment of these
conditions would, moreover, have to be supplemented by an equally
uniform course of proceeding in the subsequent drying and other
finishing processes to which the powder-masses would be submitted.
     The only form of powder, introduced into our artillery-service
for a brief period, in the production of which these conditions were
adhered to as closely as possible, was a so-called pellet powder,
which consisted of small cylinders, having semi-perforations with the
object of increasing the total inflaming surface of the individual
masses.
     Practical experience with this powder, and with others prepared
upon the same system, but with much Ivss rigorous regard to uni
formity in such details as state of division and condition of dryness
of the powder before its compression into cylindrical or other forms,
showed that uniformity in the ballistic properties of black powder
could be as well and even more readily secured by the thorough
blending or mixing together of batches presenting some variation in
regard to density, hardness, or other features, as by aiming at an
approach to absolute uniformity in the characters of each individual
mass composing a charge.

10                         Sir Frederick Abel                   [Jan. 31,
    At the time that our attention was first actively given to this
subject of the modification of the ballistic properties of powder, it had
already been to some extent dealt with in the United States by
Rodman and Doremus, and the latter was the first to propose the
application, as charges for guns, of powder-masses produced by the
compression of coarsely grained powder into moulds of prismatic
form. In Russia the first step was taken to utilise the results arrived
at by Doremus, and to adopt a prismatic powder for use in guns of
large calibre.
    Side by side with the development and perfection of the manu
facture of prismatic powder in Russia, Germany, aud in this country,
new experiments on the production of powder-masses suitable, by their
comparatively gradual action, for employment in the very large charges
required for the heavy artillery of the present day, by the powerful
compression of mixtures of more or less finely broken up powtler-cake
into masses of greater size than those of the pebhlo, pellet, and
prism powders, were actively pursued in Italy, aud also by our own
Government Committee on Explosives, and the outcome of very
exhaustive practical investigations were the very efficient Fossano
powder, or poudre progressif, of the Italians, and the boulder and
large cylindrical powders known as P2 aud C2, produced at \\ altham
Abbey, which scarcely vied, however, with the Italian powder in the
uniformity of their ballistic properties.
    Researches carried out by Captain Noble and the lecturer some
years ago with a series of gunpowders differing considerably in com
position from each other, indicated that advantages might be secured
in the production of powders for heavy guns by so modifying the
proportions of the constituents (e. g. by considerably increasing the
proportion of charcoal and reducing the proportion of sulphur) as to
give rise to the production of a much greater volume of gas, and at
the same time to diminish the heat developed by the explosion.
    These researches served, among other purposes, to throw con
siderable light upon the cause of the wearing or erosive action of
powder-explosions upon the inner surface of the gun, which in time
produces so serious a deterioration of the arm that the velocity of
projection and accuracy of shooting suffer very greatly, an effect the
extent of which increases in an increasing ratio to the size of tho
guns, in consequence, obviously, of the largo increase in the weight
of tho charges fired.
    Several causes undoubtedly combine to bring about the wearing
away of the gun's bore, which is especially great where the products
of explosion, while under tho maximum pressure, can escape between
the projectile and the bore. The great velocity with which the
very highly heated gaseous and liquid (fused solid) products of ex
plosion sweep over tho heated surface of tho metal gives rise to a
displacement of the particles composing it, which increases as the
surface becomes roughened by the first action upon the least compact
portions of the metal, and thus opposes greater resistance ; at tho

1890.]                   on Smokeless Explosives.                     11
same time, the effect of the high temperature to which the surface is
raised is to reduce its rigidity and power of resisting the force of the
gaseous torrent, and lastly some amount of chemical action upon the
metal, by certain of the highly heated non-gaseous products of
explosion, contributes towards an increase in the erosive effects. A
series of careful experiments made by Captain Noble with powders
of different composition, and with other explosives, afforded decisive
evidence that the explosive agent which furnished the largest pro
portion of gaseous products, and the explosion of which was attended
by the development of the smallest amount of heat, exerted least
erosive action.
    It is probable that important changes in the composition of
powders manufactured by us for our heavy guns would have resulted
from those researches, but in the meantime, two eminent German
gunpowder manufacturers had occupied themselves independently,
and simultaneously, with the important practical question of pro
ducing some more suitable powder for heavy guns than the various
new forms of ordinary black powder, the rate of burning of which,
especially when confined in a close chamber, was, after all, reduced
only in a moderate degree by the increase in the size of the masses,
and by such increase in their density as it was practicable to attain.
The German experimenters directed their attention not merely to an
alteration of the proportions of the powder ingredients, but also to
a modification in the character of charcoal employed, and the success
attending their labours in these directions led to the practically
simultaneous production, by Mr. Heidemann at the Westphalian
Powder Works, and Mr. Duttenhofer at the Rottweil Works near
Hamburg, of a prismatic powder of cocoa-brown colour, consisting
of saltpetre in somewhat higher proportion, of sulphur in much lower
proportion, than in normal black powder, and of very slightly burned
charcoal, similar in composition to the charcoal (charbon roux) which
Violette, a French chemist, first produced in 1847 by the action of
superheated steam upon wood or other vegetable matter, and which
he proposed for employment in the manufacture of sporting powder.
These brown prismatic powders (or "cocoa-powders," as they were
termed from their colour), are distinguished from black powder not
only by their appearance, but also by their very slow combustion in
open air, by their comparatively gradual and long-sustained action
when used in guns, and by the simple character of their products of
explosion as compared with those of black powder. As the oxidising
ingredient, saltpetre, is contained, in brown or cocoa powder, in larger
proportion relatively to the oxidisable components sulphur and char
coal than in black powder, these become fully oxidised, while the
products of explosion of the latter contain, on the other hand, larger
proportions of unoxidised material, or of only partially oxidised pro
ducts. Moreover, there is produced upon the explosion of brown
powder a relatively very large amount of water-vapour, not merely
because the finished powder contains a larger proportion of water than

12                          Sir Frederick Abel                 [Jan. 31,
black powder, but also because the very slightly charred wood or straw
used in the brown powder is much richer in hydrogen than black
charcoal, and therefore furnishes by its oxidation a considerable
amount of water. The total volume of gas furnished by the brown
powder (at 0° C. and 760 mm. barometer) is only about 200 volumes
per kilogramme of powder, against 278 volumes furnished by a normal
sample of black powder, but the amount of water-vapour furnished upon
its explosion is about three times that produced from black powder,
and this would make the volume of gas and vapour developed by the
two powders about equal if the heat of its explosion were the same in
the two cases ; the actual temperature produced by the explosion of
brown powder is, however, somewhat the higher of the two.
    Although the smoke produced upon firing a charge of brown
powder from a gun appears at first but little different in densencss to
that of black powder, it certainly disperses much more rapidly, a
difference which is probably due to the speedy absorption, by solution,
of the finely divided potassium salts by the large proportion of water-
vapour distributed throughout the so-called smoke.
    This class of powder was substituted with considerable advantage
for black powder in guns of comparatively largo calibre ; nevertheless
it became desirable to attain even slower or more gradual action in the
case of the very large charges required for guns of the heaviest
calibres, such as those which propel shot of about 2000 lbs. weight.
Accordingly, the brown powder has been modified in regard to the
proportions of its ingredients to suit these conditions, while, on the
other hand, powder intermediate with respect to rapidity of action
between black pebble powder and the brown powder, has been found
more suitable than the former for use in guns of moderately large
calibre.
     The recent successful adaptation of machine guns and compara
tively large quick-firing guns to naval service, more especially for
 the defence of ships against attack by torpedo boats, &c., has rendered
the provision of a powder for use with them, which would produce
comparatively little or no smoke, a matter of very considerable
importance, inasmuch as the efficiency of such defence must be greatly
diminished by the circumstance that, after a very brief use of the
guns with black powder, the objects against which their fire is destined
to operate, become more or less completely hidden from those directing
them, by the dense veil of powder-smoke produced. Hence much
attention has been directed during the last few years to the production
of smokeless, or nearly smokeless powders for naval use in the above
directions. At the same time, the views of many military authorities
regarding the importance of dispensing with smoke in land engage
ments has also created a demand, the apparent urgency of which
has been increased by various circumstances, for a smokeless powder
suitable for field artillery and small arms.
     The properties of ammonium nitrate, of which the products of de
composition by heat are, in addition to water-vapour, entirely gaseous,

1890.]                   on Smokeless Explosives.                      13
have rendered it a tempting material to work upon in the bands of
those who have striven to produce a smokeless powder, but its deliques
cent character has been the chief obstacle to its application as a com
ponent of an explosive agent susceptible of substitution for black
powder for service purposes.
     A German chemical engineer, F. Giins, conceived that, by incor
porating charcoal and saltpetre with a particular proportion of
ammonium nitrate, he had produced an explosive material which did
not partake of the hygroscopic character common to other ammonium-
nitrate mixtures, and that, by its explosion, the potassium in the
saltpetre formed a volatile combination with nitrogen and hydrogen, a
potassium amide, so that, although containing nearly half its weight of
potassium salt, it would furnish only volatile products. The views of
Mr. Giins regarding the changes which his so-called amide powder
undergoes upon explosion were not borne out by existing chemical
knowledge, while the powder compounded in accordance with his views
proved to be by no means smokeless, and was certainly not non-hygro
scopic. Mr. Heidemann has, however, been successful, by modifications
of Gtins's prescription and by application of his own special experience
in powder-manufacture, in producing an ammonium nitrate powder
possessed of remarkable ballistic properties, furnishing comparatively
little smoke, which speedily disperses, and exhibiting the hygroscopic
characteristics of ammonium nitrate preparations in a decidedly less
degree than any other hitherto prepared. The powder, while yielding
a very much larger volume of gas and water-vapour than black or
brown powder, is considerably slower than the latter ; the charge
required to produce equal ballistic results is less, while the chamber-
pressure developed is lower, and the pressures along the chase of the
gun are higher, than in the case of brown powder.
     The ammonium nitrate powder contains, in its normal, dried
condition, more water than even brown powder ; it does not exhibit
any great tendency to absorb moisture from an ordinarily dry or even
a somewhat moist atmosphere, but if the amount of atmospheric
moisture approaches saturation, it will rapidly absorb water, and
when once the process begins it continues rapidly, the powder masses
becoming speedily quite pasty. The charges for quick-firing guns
are enclosed in metal cases, in which they are securely sealed up ; the
powder is therefore prevented from absorbing moisture from the
external air, but it has been found that if the cartridges are kept for
long periods in ships' magazines, in which, from their position
relatively to the ship's boilers, the temperature is more or less
elevated, sometimes for considerable periods, the expulsion of water
from some portions of the powder-masses composing the hermetically
sealed charge, and its consequent irregular distribution, may give rise to
a want of uniformity in the action of the powder, and to the occasional
development of high pressures. Although, therefore, this ammonium-
nitrate powder may be regarded as the first successful advance towards
the production of a comparatively smokeless artillery-powder, it is

14                          Sir Frederick Abel                    [Jan. 31,
not uniformly well adapted to the requirements which it should fulfil
in naval service.
     Attention was first seriously directed to the subject of smokeless
powder by the reports received about four years ago of remarkable
results stated to have been obtained in France with such a powder for
use with the magazine rifle (the Lebel) which was being adapted to mili
tary service. These Eeports were speedily followed by others, descrip
tive of marvellous velocities obtained with small charges of this powder,
or some modifications of it, from guns of very great length. As in
the case of melinite, the fabulously destructive effects of which were
much vaunted at about the same time, the secret of the precise nature
of the smokeless powder was so well preserved by the French au
thorities, that surmises could only bo made on the subject even by
 those most conversant with these matters. It is now well known,
however, that more than one smokeless explosive has succeeded the
original powder, the perfection of which was reported to be beyond
dispute, and that the material now adopted for use in the Lebel riflo
bears, at any rate, great similarity to preparations which have been
made the subject of patents in this country, and which are still experi
mental powders in other countries.
     So far as smokelessness is concerned, no material can surpass gun-
cotton pure and simple ; but, even if its rate of combustion in a fire
arm could be controlled with certainty and uniformity, although
only used in very small charges, such as are required for military
rifles, its application as a safe and reliable propulsive agent for mili
 tary and naval uso is attended by so many difficulties, that the non-
 success of the numerous attempts, made in the first twenty-five years
 of its existence, to apply it iu this direction, is not surprising.
      Soon after its discovery by Schonbein and Bottger in 1816, en
 deavours were made to apply gun-cotton wool, rammed into cases,
 as a charge for small arms, but with disastrous results. Subsequently
 von Lenk, who made the first practical approach to the regulation
 of the explosive power of gun-cotton, produced small arm cartridges
 by superposing layers of gun-cotton threads, these being closely
 plaited round a core of wood. Von Lenk's system of regulating the
 rapidity of burning of gun-cotton, so as to suit it either for gradual
 or violent action, consists, in fact, in converting coarse or fine, loosely
 or lightly twisted, threads or rovings of finely carded cotton into the
 most explosive form of gun-cotton, and of arranging these threads
or yarns in different ways so as to modify the mechanical condition
i. e. the compactness and extent and distribution of enclosed air-spaces,
 of the mass of gun-cotton composed of them. Thus, small arm car
tridges were composed, as already stated, of compact layers of tightly
plaited, fine gun-cotton thread ; cannon cartridges were made up of
coarse, loose gun-cotton yarn wound very compactly upon a core ;
 charges for shells consisted of very loose cylindrical hollow plaits
 (like lamp wicks) along which fire flashed almost instantaneously ;
 and mining charges were made, in the form of n very tightly twisted

1890.]                   on Smokeless Explosives.                      15
rope with a hollow core. While the two latter forms of gun-cotton
always burned with almost instantaneous rapidity in open air, and
with highly destructive effects if they were strongly confined, the
tightly wound or plaited masses burned slowly in air, and would
frequently exert their explosive force so gradually when con
fined in a firearm, as to produce good ballistic results without appre
ciably destructive effect upon the arm. Occasionally, however, in
consequence of some slight unforeseen variation in the compactness of
the material, or in the amount and disposition of the air-spaces in the
mass, very violent action would be produced, showing that this system
of regulating the explosive force of gun-cotton was quite unreliable.
     Misled by the apparently promising nature of the earliest results
which von Leak obtained, the Austrian Government embarked, in
1862, upon a somewhat extensive application of von Lenk's gun-cotton
to small arms, and provided several batteries of field guns for the use
of this material. The abandonment of these measures for applying a
smokeless explosive to military purposes soon followed upon the attain
ment of unsatisfactory results, and was hastened by the occurrence of
a very destructive explosion at gun-cotton stores at Simmering, near
Vienna, in 1862.
     It was at about this time that the attention of the English Govern
ment, and through them of the lecturer, was directed to the subject
of gun-cotton, the Austrian Government having communicated details
regarding improvements in its manufacture accomplished by von
Lenk, and results obtained in the extended experiments which had
been carried out on its application to the various purposes above
indicated, according to the system devised by that officer. One of the
results of the lecturer's researches, subsequently carried on at Wool
wich and Waltham Abbey, was his elaboration of the system of
manufacture and employment of gun-cotton which has been in exten
sive use at the government works with little if any modification for
over eighteen years, and has been copied from us by France, Germany,
and other countries. By reducing the partially purified gun-cotton-
fibre to pulp as in the ordinary process of making paper, com
pleting its purification when in that condition, and afterwards convert
ing the finely-divided explosive into highly compressed homogeneous
masses of any desired form and size, very important improvements
were effected in its stability, its uniformity of composition and action,
and its adaptability to practical uses, a groat advance being made in
the exercise of control over the rapidity of combustion or explosion of
the material.
     No success had attended the experiments instituted in England
with wound cannon cartridges of gun-cotton-threads made according
to von Lenk's plan ; on the other hand a number of results which at
first sight appeared very promising, were obtained at Woolwich in
1867—8 with bronze field-guns and cartridges built up of compressed
gun-cotton-masses arranged in different ways (with varied air-spaces,
&c.) with the object of regulating the rapidity of explosion of the

 1C                        Sir Frederick Abel                  [Jan. 31,
charge. But although the attainment of high velocities with com
paratively small charges of the material, unaccompanied by any indi
cations of injury to the gun, was frequent, it became evident that the
fulfilment of the conditions essential to safety to the arm were
exceedingly difficult to attain with certainty ; they appeared indeed to
bo altogether beyond absolute control, even in so small a gun as the
twelve-pounder. Military authorities not being, in those days, alive
to the advantages which might accrue from the employment of an
entirely smokeless explosive in artillery, the lecturer received no
encouragement to persevere with experiments in this direction, and
the same was the case with respect to the possible use of a smokeless
explosive in military small arms, with which, however, far more pro
mising results had at that time been obtained at Woolwich.
    Abel's system of preparing gun-cotton was no sooner elaborated
than its application to the production of smokeless cartridges for
sporting purposes was achieved with considerable success by Messrs.
Prentice of Stowmarket. The first gun-cotton cartridge, which found
considerable favour with sportsmen, consisted of a roll of felt-like
paper composed of gun-cotton and ordinary cotton, and produced from
a mixture of the pulped materials. Afterwards a cylindrical pellet of
slightly compressed gun-cotton pulp was used, the rapidity of explosion
of which was retarded, while it was at the same time protected from
absorption of moisture, by impregnation with a small proportion of
india-rubber. Neither of these cartridges afforded promise of suffi
cient uniformity of action to fulfil military requirements, but after a
series of experiments which the lecturer made with compressed gun-
cotton arranged in various ways, very promising results were attained,
especially with the Martini-Henry rifle and a charge of pellet-form,
the rapidity of explosion of which was regulated by simple means.
    A sporting powder which was nearly smokeless had, in the mean
time, been produced by Colonel Schultze, of the Prussian Artillery,
from wood cut up into very small cube-like fragments, converted into
a mild form of nitro-cellulose after a preliminary purifying treatment,
and impregnated with a small portion of an oxidising agent. Sub
sequently the manufacture of the Schultze powder was considerably
modified ; it was converted into the granular form and rendered con
siderably more uniform in character and less hygroscopic, and it then
bore considerable resemblance to the E.C. powder, a granulated nitro-
cotton powder, produced, in the first instance, at Stowmarket, and
consisting of a less highly nitrated cotton than gun-cotton (trinitro-
cellulose), incorporated in the pulped condition with a somewhat
considerable proportion of the nitrates of potassium and barium, and
converted into grains through the agency of a solvent and a binding
material. Both of these powders produced some smoke when fired,
though the amount was small in comparison with that from black
powder. They did not compete with the latter in regard to accuracy
of shooting, when used in arms of precision, but they are interesting
as being the forerunners of a variety of so-called smokeless powders,

 1890.]                  on Smokeless Explosives.                      17
of which gun-cotton or some form of nitro-cellulose is the basis, and
of which those of Johnson and Borland, and of the Smokeless Powder
Company, are the most prominent in this country.
     In past years, both camphor and liquid solvents, such as acetic
ether and acetone, for gun-cotton, and mixtures of ether and alcohol
for uitro-cotton, have been applied to the hardening of the surfaces
of compressed masses or granules of those materials, by von Forster
and others, with a view to render them non-porous, and in the E.G.
powder manufacture the latter solvent was thus applied to harden the
powder-granules. In the Johnson-Borland powder, camphor is applied
to the same purpose ; in smokeless powders of French and German
manufacture acetic ether and acetone have been used, and the solvent
has been applied, not merely to harden the granules or tablets of the ex
plosive, but to convert the latter into a homogeneous horn-like material.
     Much mystery has surrounded the nature and origin of the first
smokeless powder adopted, apparently with undue haste, by the French
Government, for use with the Lebel magazine rifle. A few particles
of the Vieille powder, or Poudre B, were seen by the lecturer about
two years ago, and very small specimens appear to have fallen into
the hands of the German Government about that time. They were in
the form of small yellowish-brown tablets of about 0-07 inch to
0 ' 1 inch square, of the thickness of stout notepaper, and had evi
dently been produced by cutting up thin sheets of the material. They
appeared to contain, as an important ingredient, picric acid (the basis
of " melinite ") a substance extensively used as a dye, and obtained
by the action of nitric acid, at a low temperature, upon carbolic acid
and cresylic acid, constituents of coal tar. Originally produced by
the action of nitric acid upon indigo, and afterwards by similar treat
ment of Botany Bay gum, it was first known as carbazotic acid, and
is one of the earliest of known explosives of organic origin. When
sufficiently heated, or when set light to, it burns with a yellow smoky
flame, and even very large quantities of it have been known to burn
away somewhat fiercely, but without exploding. Under certain con
ditions, however, and especially if subjected to the action of a power
ful detonator, it explodes with very great violence and highly
destructive effects, as pointed out by Sprengel in 1873, and recent
experiments at Woolwich have shown that it does this even, as in
the case of gun-cotton, when it contains as much as 15 per cent, of
water. It is no longer a secret that picric acid at any rate forms
the basis of the much-vaunted and mysterious explosive for shells
for which the French Government were said to have paid a very
large sum of money, and the destructive effects of which have been
described as nothing less then marvellous. M. Turpin patented,
in 1875, the use of picric acid alone as an explosive for shells and
for other engines of destruction, and whether or not his claims to be
the inventor of melinite are valid, there appears no doubt that his
patent in France was the staiting-point of the development and adop
 tion of that explosive.
      VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)                                       c

18                          Sir Frederick Abel                   [Jan. 31,
    The attention thus directed in France to the properties of picric acid
appears to have given rise to experiments resulting in its employment
as an ingredient of the first smokeless powder (Poudre B) adopted
for the French magazine rifle.
     The idea of employing picric acid preparations as explosive agents
for propulsive purposes originated with Designolle about twenty
years ago, but no useful results attended the experiments with the
particular mixtures proposed by him. It is certain that the recent
adaptation of that substance in France was of a different character,
and that, promising as were the results of the new smokeless powder,
of which it appears to have formed an ingredient, and a counterpart
of which was made the subject of experiments at Woolwich about
three years ago, its deficiency in the all-essential quality of stability
must have been, at any rate, one cause of its abandonment in favour of
another form of smokeless powder, which there is reason to believe is
of more simple character.
     In Germany, the subject of smokeless powder for small arms and
artillery was being steadily pursued in secret, while the sensational
reports concerning Poudre B were spread about in France, and a
small-arm powder giving excellent results in regard to ballistic
properties and uniformity, was elaborated at the Rottweil powder-
works, and appears to have been adopted into the German service for
a time, but its first great promise of success seems to have failed of
 fulfilment through defects in stability.
     Reference has already been made to the conversion of gun-cotton
 (trinitrocellulose), and to mixtures of it with less explosive forms of
 nitrated cotton (or cellulose of other description), by the action of
 solvents, into horn-like materials. These are in the first instance
 obtained in the form of gelatinous masses, which, prior to the complete
 evaporation, or removal in other ways, of the solvent, can be pressed or
 squirted into wires, rods, or tubes, or rolled or spread into sheets ;
 when they have become hardened, they may be cut up into tablets, or
 into strips or pieces of size suitable for conversion into charges or
 cartridges. Numerous patents have been secured for the treatment of
 gun-cotton, nitro-cotton, or mixtures of these with other substances, by
 the methods indicated ; but in this direction the German makers of the
 powder just now referred to seem to have secured priority. Experi
 ments were made about a year and a half ago with powder produced
 in this way at Woolwich, and the Wetteren Powder Company in
 Belgium has also manufactured so-called paper powders, or horn-like
preparations, of the same kind, which were brought forward aa
counterparts of the French small arm- and artillery-smokeless powder.
     Mr. Alfred Nobel, to whom the mining world is so largely
 indebted for the invention of dynamite, and of other very efficient blast
 ing agents of which nitro-glycerine is the basis, was the first to apply
 the latter explosive agent, in conjunction with one of the lower pro
 ducts of nitration of cellulose, to the production of a smokeless powder.
 This powder bears great resemblance to one of the most interesting of

 1890.]                 on Smokeless Explosives.                       19
                           •
known violent explosive agents, also invented by Mr. Nobel, and called
by him blasting gelatine, in consequence of its peculiar gelatinous
character. When the nitro-cotton is impregnated and allowed to
digest with nitro-glycerine, it loses its fibrous nature and becomes
gelatinised while assimilating the nitro-glycerine, the two substances
furnishing a product which has almost the character of a compound.
By macerating the nitro-cotton with from 7 to 10 per cent, of nitro
glycerine, and maintaining the mixture warm, the whole soon becomes
converted into a plastic material from which it is very difficult to
separate a portion of either of its components. This preparation, and
certain modifications of it, have acquired high importance as blasting
agents more powerful than dynamite, and possessed of the valuable
property that their prolonged immersion in water does not separate
from them any appreciable proportion of nitro-glycerine.
    In the earlier days of the attempted application of blasting gelatine
to military uses, in Austria, when endeavours were there made to
render the material less susceptible of accidental explosion on active
service (as by the penetration of bullets or shell fragments into
transport wagons containing supplies of the explosive), this result
was achieved by Colonel Hess by incorporating with the components
a small proportion of camphor, a substance which had then, for some
time past, played an important part in the technical application of
nitro-cotton to the production of the remarkable substitutes for ivory,
horn, &c., known as Xylenite. By incorporating with nitro-glycerine
a much larger proportion of nitro-cotton than used in the production
of blasting gelatine, and by employing camphor as an agent for pro
moting the union of the two explosives, as well as, apparently, for
deadening the violence, or reducing the rapidity of explosion of the
product, Mr. Nobel has obtained a material of almost horn-like
character, which can be pressed into pellets or rolled into sheets
while in the plastic condition, and which compares favourably with
the gun-cotton preparations of somewhat similar physical characters
jnst referred to, as regards ballistic properties, stability and uni
formity, besides being almost absolutely smokeless. The retention
in its composition of some proportion of the volatile substance
camphor, which may gradually be reduced in amount by evaporation,
renders this explosive liable to nndergo some modification in its
ballistic properties in course of time ; it is believed that this point
has been dealt with by Mr. Nobel, and accounts from Italy speak
favourably of the results of trials of his powder in small arms, while
Mr. Krupp is reported to be carrying on experiments with it in guns
of several calibres.
    The Government Committee on Explosives, in endeavouring to
remedy the above defect of Nobel's original powder, were led by their
researches to the preparation of other varieties of nitro-glycerine-
powder, which, when applied in the form of wires or rods, made up
into sheaves or bundles, have given, in the service small-bore rifle,
excellent ballistic results. The most promising of them, which
                                                             c 2

20                          Sir Frederick Abel                   [Jan. 31,
                                                •
fulfils, besides, the conditions of smokelcssness and of stability, so far
as can be guaranteed by the application of special tests of exposure
to elevated temperatures, &c., is now being submitted to searching
experiments with the view of so applying it in the arm as to over
come certain difficulties attending the employment, in a very small
bore rifle, of an explosive developing much greater energy than the
black-powder charge, which therefore gives very considerably higher
velocities even with much smaller charges, and consequently heats the
arm much more. Thus, the service black-powder charge furnishes,
with the Bmall-bore rifle, an average (and variable) velocity of 1800 f.s.,
together with pressures ranging from 18 to 20 tons per square inch ;
on the other hand, with considerably less of the explosive referred to,
there is no difficulty in securing a very uniform velocity of about
2200 f.s. with pressures not exceeding 17 tons, while velocities as
high as 2500 f.s. are obtainable with pressures not greater than the
maximum allowed with the black-powder charge.
     It is obvious, from what has already been said respecting the
causes of the erosive action of powder in guns, that comparatively
considerable erosive effects would be expected to bo produced by
powders of high energy as compared with black powder. Moreover,
the freedom of the products of explosion from any solid substances,
and consequently the absence of any fouling or deposition of residue
in the arm, causes the heated surfaces of the projectile and of the
interior of the barrel to remain clean, and in a condition, therefore,
very favourable to close adherence together. If to these circumstances
be added the fact that the behaviour of the smokeless powder has to
be adapted to suit an arm, a cartridge, and a projectile originally
designed for use with black powder, it will be understood that the
devising of an explosive which shall be practically smokeless, suffi
ciently stable, and susceptible of perfectly safe use in the arm under
all service conditions, easy of manufacture and not too costly, is,
after all, but a small part of the difficult problem of adapting a
smokeless powder successfully to the new military rifle—a problem
which, however, appears to be on the near approach to satisfactory
solution.
     The experience already acquired in guns ranging in calibre from
 1-85 inches to 6 inches, with the smokeless powder devised for use in
our service, has been very promising, and indicates that the difficulties
attending its adaptation to guns designed for black powder are likely
 to prove considerably less than in the case of the small arm. But
 here again, the circumstances that much smaller charges are required
 to furnish the same ballistics as the service black-powder charges, and
 that .the comparatively gradual and sustained action of the new
 powder gives rise to lower pressures in the chamber of the gun, and
 higher pressures along the chase, demonstrate that the full utilisation
 of the ballistic advantages, and the increase in the power of guns of
 a given calibre and weight, with the new form of powder, are only
 attainable by some modifications in the designs of the guns—such as

1890.]                  on Smokeless Explosives.                      21
a reduction in sizo of the charge-chamber, and some additions to tho
strength, and perhaps, in some cases, of the length, of the chase.
    When, however, the smokeless powder has been adapted with
success in all respects to artillery, from small machine guns to guns
of comparatively heavy calibre, and when its ballistic advantages
have been fully utilised in guns of suitable design, it will remain to
be determined how far such a powder— undeniably of much more
sensitive constitution than black powder, or any of its modifications—
will withstand, unchanged and unharmed, the various vicissitudes of
climate, and the service storage-conditions in ships and on land in all
parts of tho world,—a condition essential to its adaptability to naval
and military use, and especially to the service of our Empire ; and
whether sufficient confidence can be placed in its stability for long
periods under these extremely varied conditions to warraut the neces
sary freedom from apprehension of possible danger, emanating from
within the material itself, to allow of its being substituted for
black powder wherever its use may present advantages.
    Possible it might be, that the storage, with perfect safety, of such
a powder in ships, forts, or magazines might demand the adoption
of precautionary measures which might place some comparatively
narrow limits upon the extent of its practicable service applications ;
even then, however, an imperative need for tho introduction of special
arrangements to secure safety and immunity from deterioration may
be of small importance as compared with the great advantages which
the provision of a thoroughly efficient smokeless powder may secure
to the possessor of it, especially in naval warfare.
    That the opinions respecting the importance of such advantages
are founded upon a sound basis, one can hardly doubt, after the views
expressed by several of the highest military and naval authorities,
although opinions as to their extent may differ very considerably even
among such authorities.
    The accounts furnished from time to time from official and private
sources of the effects observed, at some considerable distance, by
witnesses of practice with the smokeless powders successively adopted
in France, have doubtless been regarded by military authorities as
warranting the belief that the employment of such powders must
effect a great revolution in the conduct of campaigns. Not only have
the absence of smoke and flame been dwelt upon as important factors
in such a revolution, but the recorders of the achievements of smoke
less powder—whose descriptions have doubtless been to some
extent influenced by the vivid pictures already presented to them
of what they should anticipate—have even been led to make such
explicit assertions as to the notselesmess of these powders, that high
military authorities have actually been thereby misled to pourtray,
by vivid word-painting, the contrast between the battles of the future
and the past;— to imagine the terrific din caused by the discharge of
several hundred field-guns and tho roar of musketry in tho great
battles of the past, giving place to noiso BO slight that distant troops

22                          Sir Frederick Abel                   [Jan. 31,
will no longer receive indications where their comrades are engaged,
while sentries and advanced posts will no longer be able to warn the
main body of the approach of an enemy by the discharge of their
rifles, and, that battles might possibly be raging within a fe\v miles of
columns on the march without the fact becoming at once apparent to
them.
     It is somewhat difficult to conceive that, in these comparatively
enlightened days—an acquaintance with the first principles of physical
science having for many years past constituted a preliminary condi
tion of admission to the training establishments of the future warrior—
the physical impossibility of such fairy tales as appear to be considered
necessary in France for the delusion of the ordinary public, would
not at once have been obvious. Yet, even in professional publications
in Germany, where we are led to expect that the judgment of experts
would be comparatively unlikely to be led astray through lack of
scientific knowledge, we have, during the earlier part of last year, read,
in articles upon the influence of smokeless powder upon the art of
war (based evidently upon the reports received from France), such
passages as these :—" The art of war gains in no way as far as sim
plicity is concerned ; on the contrary, it appears to us that the
absence of so important a mechanical means of help as noise and
smoke were to the commander, requires increased skill and circum
spection in addition to the qualities demanded by a general              "
" The course of a fight will certainly be mysterious, on account of the
relative stillness with which it will be carried on."
     In an amusing article, in imitation of the account of the Battle of
Dorking, which appeared in the ' Deutsche Heeres Zeitung,' of April
last, the consternation is described with which a battalion receives the
iuformation from a wounded fugitive from the outposts that the
enemy's bullets have been playing havoc among them, without any
visible or audible indications as to the quarter of attack. Later in
the year, and especially since the manoeuvres before the German and
Austrian Emperors, when the employment of the new smokeless
powder was the event of the day, the absurdity of the assertions
as to the noiselessness of the new powders became a theme for strong
observations in the German service papers ; the assumed existence of a
noiseless powder was ridiculed as a thing equally impossible with a
recoil-less powder ; the violence of the report, or explosion, produced
upon the discharge of a firearm being in direct relation to the volume
and tension of the gaseous matter projected into the surrounding air.
     The circumstance that blank ammunition was alone used in the
smokeless powder exhibition at the German manoeuvres may have
served to lend some support to the assertions as to comparatively little
noise made by the powder— the report of blank cartridges being slight,
 on account of the small and lightly confined charges used. It is said
 that the sound of practice with blank ammunition at the German
 manoeuvres, was scarcely recognised at a distance of 100 metres. In
a recently published pamphlet on the results of employment of the

1890.]                 on Smokeless Explosives.                      23
latest German smokeless powder in the manoeuvres, it is stated, on
the other hand, that the difference between the violence of the report
of the new powder and of black powder is scarcely perceptible ; that
it is sharper and more ringing, but not of such long duration. This
description accords exactly with our own experience of the reports
produced by different varieties of smokeless powder, and of the
lecturer's earlier experience with gnn-cotton charges fired from rifles
and. field guns. The noise produced by the latter was decidedly
more ringing and distressing to the ear in close proximity to the gun>
but also of decidedly less volume, than the report of a black-powder
charge, when heard at a considerable distance from the gun.
     As regards smokelessness : the present German service powder is
not actually smokeless, but produces a thin, almost transparent, bluish
cloud which is immediately dissipated. Independent rifle-firing was
not rendered visible by the smoke produced at a distance of 300 metres,
and at shorter ranges the smoke presented the appearance of a puff
from a cigar. The most rapid salvo-firing during the operations near
Spandau did not have the effect of obscuring those firing from distant
observers.
     That, in future warfare, if smokeless or nearly smokeless powders
 have maintained their position as safe and reliable propelling agents
 for small arms and field artillery, belligerents of both sides will be
 alike users of them, there can be no doubt. The consequent absence
 of the screening effect of smoke—which, on the one hand, removes an
 important protection and the means of making rapid advances or
 sudden changes of position in comparative safety, and, on the other
 hand, secures to both sides the power of ensuring to the fullest
 extent accuracy of shooting, and of making deadly attack by indi
 vidual fire through the medium of cover, with comparative immunity
 from detection—can scarcely fail to change more or less radically
 many of the existing conditions under which engagements are fought.
     As regards the naval service, it is especially and, at present at
 any rate, exclusively for the new machine- and quick-firing guns that
 a smokeless powder is wanted ; for such service the advantages
 which would be secured by the provision of a reliable powder of this
 kind can scarcely be over-estimated, and their realisation within no
 distant period may, it is believed, be anticipated with confidence.
                                                           [F.A.A.]

24                            General MontUy Meeting.                     [Feb. 3,
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, February 3, 1890.
 SIB JAMES CBICHTON BBOWKE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                            Vice-President, in the Chair.
             F. W. Fison, Esq. M.A. (Oion.) F.C.S.
         • Dr. C. A. Martins,
             The Right Hon. Earl Russell,
             William Schooling, Esq. F.R.A.S.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the following
Donation to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental Research :—
                                Professor Dewar, 60Z.
     The decease of SIB WILLIAM WITHBY GULL, Bart. M.D. D.C.L.
F.R.S. M.H. I. on January 29th, was announced from the Chair.
     The following Resolution passed by the Managers at their
Meeting this day was read :—
    Besolved:—That the Managers of the Boyal Institution of Great Britain
desire, at this, their first Meeting after the death of Sir William Withey Gull, to
place on record in their minutes their sense of the great loss sustained by the
death of one who, for nearly thirty years, had been a Member of the Institution ;
who had occupied the Chair of Fullerian Professor of Physiology, and who, quite
recently, had been one of their colleagues on the Board of Management, and who
had, on every occasion, shown the deep interest he took in the Institution, and
in the welfure of all connected with it.
    The Managers further desire to be permitted to offer to Lady Gull the
expression of their moat sincere sympathy and condolence with her in her
bereavement.
    Resained :—That the Honorary Secretary do send to Lady Gull a copy of thia
Resolution.
     The following resolution passed by the Managers at their Meeting
this day was read :—
    Resolved ;—That the thanks of the Managers of the Institution be given to the
National Telephone Company for the great assistance which they rendered to
Professor Riieker in illustrating his Course of Christmas Lectures, by BO kindly
enabling him to show the operations of the Telephone as actually employed for
exchange work.
    Resolved :—That the Honorary Secretary do send to the Company a copy of
this Resolution.
     The PBEBENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. : —
     FBOH
The Governor-Oeneral of India—Geological Survey of India : Records, Vol. XXII.
     Part 4. 4to. 1889.
The Lords of the Admiralty—Nautical Almanack, 1893. 8vo. 1889.

1890.]                      General Monthly Meeting. '                        25
Accademia del Lincei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Qnarta : Rendiconti. 2° Semes-
     tre. Vol. V. Fasc. 5-10. 8vo. 1889.
Agricultural Society of England, Itoyal—Journal, Second Series, Vol. XXV.
     Part 2. 8vo. 1889.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Vol. LVIII. Part I. No. 1 ; Part II. Nos. 1
     and 2. 8To. 1889.
   Proceedingt, 1889, Parts 1 to 6. 8vo.
   Modern Vernacular Literature of Hindustan. By G. A. Qrierson. 8vo. 1889.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. L. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1890.
Ateneo Veneto—Revista Mensilo, 1888-9. 8vo.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. X. Part 10; Vol. XL Part 1. 8vo. 1889-90.
Batavia Observatory—Magnetical and Meteorological Observations, 1888, Vol. XI.
     4to. 1889.
   Rainfall in East Indian Archipelago, 1888. 8vo. 1889.
Birmingham Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. VI. Part 2. 8vo. 1889.
British Architect*, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1889-90, Nos. 4-7. 4to.
Canada, Geological and Natural History Survey of—Annual Reports, &o. 1887-8.
     8vo. 1889.
Canadian Institute—Proceedings, 3rd Series, Vol. VII. Fas. 1. 8vo. 1889.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. VIII. Nos. 11, 12. 8vo. 1890.
Chemical Society—Journal for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 8vo.
Civil Engineer/ Institution—Proceedings, Vol. XCVIII. 8vo. 1889.
Corporation of City of London—Catalogue of the Guildhall Library. 8vo. 1889.
Cracocie, I'Acadfmie des Sciencet—Bulletin, 1889, NOs. 10-12. 8vo.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. &c. M.R.I, (the Editor)—Journal of the Royal
     Microscopical Society, 1889, Part 6. 8vo.
Dawson, G. M. Esq. D.Sc. F.G.S. (the Author)—Earlier Cretaceous Rocks of N.W.
     Canada. 8vo. 1889.
   Ore Deposit of Trcadwell Mine, Alaska. 8vo. 1889.
   Glacintion of British Columbia. 8vo. 1889.
Eatt India Association—Journal, Vol. XXII. No. 1. 8vo. 1889.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 8vo.
   Analyst for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 8vo.
   Athenseum for Deo. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 4to.
   Chemical News for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for Deo. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for Dec 1889 and Jan. 1890. fol.
   Engineer for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. fol.
   Engineering for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. fol.
   Horological Journal for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 8vo.
   Industries for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. fol.
   Iron for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 4to.
   Ironmongery for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890.
   Murray's Magazine for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 8vo.
   Nature for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 4to.
   Photographic News for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 8vo.
   Revue Scientifique for Dec. 18H9 and Jan. 1 890. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal fur Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 4to.
Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, Nos. 82, 83. 8vo. 1889.
Florence Bihiinteea Nazionale Ccntralc—Bolletino, Nos. 94-97. 8vo. 1889.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 7U8, 7C9. 8vo. 188!».
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. XI. No. 12 ; Vol. XII.
     NOs. 1,2. 1889-90.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Vcihandlungen, 1889, Nos. 13-17. 8TO.
GJasgow Philosophical Soriety—Proceedings, Vol. XX. 8vo. 1889.
Iron and Steel Institute— Jmrnnl for 1889, Vol. II. Kvo. 1889.
John Hopkins University—University Circulars, Nos. 70, 77. 4to. 1889-90.
Junior Engineering Society—Address. 8vo. 1889.

26                           General Monthly Meeting.                 [Feb. 3,
Kew Observatory—Report, 1889. 8vo.
Latzina, M. F. (the Compiler')—Censo General de la Ciudad de Buenos Aires,
      Tome II. 8vo. 1889.
Linnean Society—Jonrnnl, Nos. 123, 172. 8vo. 1889-90.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XX. Parts 11-13. 8vo. 1889.
Manchester Steam Users' Association—Boiler Explosions Act, 1882. Report,
      Nos. 284-350. 4tn. 1889.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, 1889, No. 3. 8vo.
Meleorolqical 'Office—Weekly Weather Reports, Nos. 48-52. 4to. 1889.
    Quarterly Weather Report, 1880, Part 1. 4to. 1889.
Meteorological Society, Ro>/al—Quarterly Journal, No. 72. 8vo. 1889.
    Meteorological Record, 'No. 34. 8vo. 1889.
Middlesex Hospital—Report for 1888. 8vo. 1889.
Ministry nf Public Works, Rorne—Giornsle del Genio Civile, Seria Quinta,
       Vol. III. Nos. 10, 11. And Disegni. fol. 1889.
New York Academy of Sciences— Transactions, Vol. VIII. Parts 5-8. 8vo. 1890.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
       Vol. XXXVIII. Part 4. 8vo. 1890.
Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1889, Part 4. 8vo. 1889.
Odontalogical Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXII. Nos. 2, 3. New
       Series. 8vo. 1889.
Pennsylvania Geological Survey—Annual Report, 1887. 8vo. 1889.
    Dictionary of Fossils. Vol. I. A-M. 8vo. 1889.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 8vo.
    Calendar, 1890. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XIV. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. 1889.
 Relfe Bros. Mean, (the Puhlislers)—Modern Thought and Modern Thinkers.
       By J. F. Charles. 12mo. 1889.
 Itio de Janeiro Observatory—Rovisto, Nos. 10-12. 8vo. 1889.
 Royal Historical and Archieologiml Association of Ireland—Journal, Vol. IX.
       (4th Series). No. 80. 8vo. 1889.
 Royal Society of Edinburgh—Proceedings, Vol. XV. ; Vol. XVI. Parts 1 to 7.
        8vo. 1889.
 Royal. Society of London—Proceedings, No. 284. 8vo. 1889.
 Saxon Society nf Sciences, Royal—Philolofriseh-historischen Classe :
     Abhamllung. Band XI. No. 5. 8vo. 1889.
     Bericute, 1889, Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1889.
 Scottish Society of Arts, Royal—Transactions, Vol. XII. Part 3. 8vo. 1889.
  Sncietfi of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. II. No. 4. 8vo. 1890.
 Society of Arts— Journal for Dec. 1889 and Jan. 1890. 8vo.
 Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. I.II. Part 4. 8vo. 1889.
 St. Peterstiourti Acade'mie Impfriales dts Sciences—Me'moires, Tome XXXVII.
        No. 2. 4to. 1889.
     Bulletin, Tome XXXIII. No. 2. 4to. 1889.
  Sweden Itoynl Academy of Sciences—Handlingar, Band XX. XXI. and Atlaa
        4to. 1882-87.
     Bihang, Bund IX.-XI1I. Svo. 1883-8.
     Ofversigt, Bund XLI.-XLV. 8vo. 1884-8.
     Lufnadstt-ckningnr, Band II. Heft 3. 8vo. 1885.
     Forteckning (Table dcs Matieres), 182C-1883. 8vo. 1884.
  Vnited Sen>ice Institution, Royal— Journal, No. 151. 8vo. 1889.
  Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleifses in Freussen—Verhandlungcn, 1889:
        Heft 9-12. 4 to.
   Victoria Institute— Transactions, No. 91. 8vo. 1889.
   Wright & Co. Messrs. J. (the Publishers)—Deformities of Children. By W. Pye.
        8vo. 1890.

1890.] Mr. H. B. Wheatley on London Stage in Elizabeth's Reign. 27
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 7, 1890.
     JOHN RAE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                   HENRY B. WHEATLEY, ESQ. F.S.A.
                 The London Stage in Elizabeth's Reign.
As the words "stage" and "drama" are sometimes used synony
mously, it is necessary to state at the outset that the subject of the
discourse is the material stage which grew up in this reign, and not
the Elizabethan drama. During the first eighteen years of Eliza
beth's reign the growth of the drama was but gradual, and the
appliances for the acting of plays were but little different from what
they had been in the previous reigns, while in 1576 a great change
occurred, and the first playhouse was erected in the fields to the
west of the highway at Shoreditch. It was called the Theatre, and
the name alone seems to make it certain that this was the first
special building for the purpose ; but mention must be made of two
statements which seem to militate against this view. The Rev.
William Harrison, an Elizabethan divine, wrote a description of
England, which was published with Holinshed's 'Chronicles,' and a
chronology of the world, which is still in MS. In the latter work,
under date 1572, Harrison writes "Plaies are banished for a time out
of London," on account of the plague ; and, he adds, " would to God
these common plaies were exiled for altogether as seminaries of
impietie and their theatres pulled down. It is an evident token of
a wicked time when plaiers waxe so riche that they can build such
houses." It is possible that this was written after 1572, and after
the Theatre was built ; but there was evidently a certain looseness of
writing respecting plnces where plays were acted as playhouses. Thus,
in the 1631 issue of Howos's edition of Stow's ' Annales ' we read that
Whitefriars theatre of 1629 was " tho 17th stage or common play
house which hath been new made within the space of three score
years within London and the suburbs." Now sixty years from 1629,
takes us back to 1569 ; but in these seventeen playhouses are included
inns, St. Paul's Singing-school, tfec., which cannot be considered as
distinct buildings for the performance of plays. A modern instance
may be cited in the use of the dormitory of Westminster School for
tho Latin play ; for the time being it would not be improper to
style it a theatre or playhouse, although the dormitory soon loses all
appearance of its late use. After considering the bearing of
Harrison's and Howes's words, I think we must come to the con
clusion that tho general opinion as to the Theatre bciug the first

28                        Mr. Henry B. Wheatley                         [Feb. 7,
building erected as a playhouse is correct. It is worth while to stop
for a moment to ask what was the meaning attached to the word
theatre when it was first introduced. To us it means a place of
amusement specially devoted to the drama, but this was not, I think,
the meaning which was conveyed to the populace of London in 1576 ;
a theatre was probably understood as a place for the exhibition of
spectacles. This opinion is corroborated by a passage in Barclay's
' Argenis ' (lib. 4, cap. xiii.), where we read of " shoutes in a theatre at
the fall of a sword bearer," and we know that fencing was commonly
exhibited at these early playhouses. The Theatre had a short life of
twenty-three years, and it never seems to have taken a very high
standing. The Curtain, which was situated close by the Theatre, and
was built in the year 1577, was a much more distinguished playhouse.
Marlowe was an actor there, and Shakespeare was associated with it
in his early career. The two theatres in Shpreditch remained alone
for a few years. Plays were occasionally acted in Blackfriars and
Whitefriars, but another theatre was not erected until the Rose was
built on the Bankside. This playhouse is shown in Norden's Plan
of London in 1593, which is the earliest representation of an English
theatre known to exist.*
    There can be no doubt that the evils connected with the theatres
 were very considerable, and the Lord Mayor and Aldermen threw
 every obstacle in the way of the players. First of all they would
 have no theatres built within tbe city walls. Some inn-yards where
plays had been acted were within, but no new building was allowed.
 Then they threw obstacles in the way of those outside, and if the
 erection of a new building were sanctioned, an old one was usually
 at the same time condemned. This was the case with the Fortune
 which replaced the Curtain, as the Globe replaced the Theatre when
 the lease of the latter expired. The Lords of the Council took a
 rather different view of the situation. They approved of the
 closing of theatres during times of sickness ; but in view of the
 Queen's very strong predilection for the stage, they did not allow
 the city authorities to go quite so fast as they wished. The very
 interesting volume printed by the Corporation of London, which
 gives an account of the contents of the Remeitibrancia contains note
 of several letters from the Lord Mayors, and the Lords of the
 Council on this matter. In November 1581, the Lords of the
 Council directed the Lord Mayor to allow plays to be acted, and give
 this reason—" in order to relieve the poor players, and to encourage
    * A diagram was exhibited which showed the space within the city walls
unoccupied by any theatre, and the relative positions of the theatres outside the
walls. On the north of the river were the Theatre and the Curtain, the Red Bull
at Clerkcnwell, and the Fortune in Barbican. The Blackfriars theatre was
opened in 1590, and was within the walls, hut Blnckfriars was outside the city
jurisdiction. On the south side were the Swan at Paris Garden, the Globe,
the Rose, and the Bear Garden (afterwards the Hope), all on the BanJtsiJe. At
Newington Butts was another theatre, of which we know little or nothing.

1890.]           on tlie London Stage in Elizabeth's Reign.               29
their being in readiness with convenient matters for Her Highness's
solace this next Christmas."
   The Middlesex Justices were often troubled with complaints of
disturbances at theatres, and the valuable volumes edited by Mr.
Cordy Jeaffreson and published by the Middlesex County Kecord
Society, contain some important notices of the early stage, more
particularly a remarkable document respecting the Theatre.
     We have representations of the outsides of several of the early
theatres, and the reason why we have these is because they formed
picturesque objects on the banks of the river, and it suited the artists
who took views of London from the most attractive point, viz. the
south side of the river, to show them in their positions. The
Theatre and the Curtain, the Fortune and the Red Bull, the Blackfriars
and the Newington theatres were not such prominent objects, and were
not represented. None of the theatres were thought to be worthy of
being drawn for their own particular interest.
     Until 1888 we had no representation of a Shakespearian play
house, but in that year the world was enriched by the publication of
a contemporary view of the inside of the Swan theatre, which had
been fonnd in a MS. at Utrecht. The late Dr. P. A. Tiele, University
Librarian at Utrecht, found this curious drawing in his Library, with
a short description in the hand-writing of Arend vau Buchell, and
purporting to be taken down or copied from the observations of John
De Witt. This was published to the world in 1888, by Dr. Gaedertz,
who added a careful commentary in which he showed tliat De Witt
must have been in England in the year 1596, when the Swan was a
new building.* In this same year, 1888, I had the honour of reading
a paper on the subject before the New Shakspere Society, and certain
difficulties which arose were found to be insoluble without esort to
the MS. Dr. Furnivall, therefore, appealed for the loan of this, and
in dne course it was deposited for a time at the British Museum under
the care of Dr. Garnett. The difficulties were then solved, and we
are all greatly indebted to the authorities for this liberal instance of
international courtesy.f
     This drawing of the interior of the Swan theatre shows about a
third of the round of the entire amphitheatre, and the movable stage
which was used for the acting of plays and cleared away when the
centre was required for bull-baiting, bear-baiting, and other sports.
This stage stands upon legs and does not appear to be raised many
feet above the arena. At the back is an erection with doors from
which issued the actors, and above are the private boxes. This
erection is inscribed " Mimorum 2Edes." Over the uppermost gallery
is a roof inscribed " Tectum." The stage and the arena are open to
   * 'Zur Kenntnis der altenglisohen Biihne, nebst andern Beitragen zur
Shakespeare-Literatur, von Karl Theodor Gaedertz.' Bremen, 1888.
    t A reproduction of the original drawing will accompany the paper in the
next part of the New Shakspere Society's Transactions.

80                         Mr. Henry B. Wheatley                         [Feb. 7,
the sky. At the top of the building is the little turret which is shown
in the exterior of most of the Bankside theatres, and from it flies the
flag with the sign of the house—the " Swan." The trumpeter who
announced to the outside world that the performance was about to
commence is shown on a slight platform. Round the building are
the galleries alternately, three with seats and two for standing room,
styled respectively " sedilin " and " portions," the latter are repre
sented as a species of colonnade, and probably access to the " sedilia "
was obtained from the " porticus." The standing room in front of the
stage is inscribed " arena," and to the left is a portion of space inscribed
" orchestra " ; near by are a few steps marked " ingressus," which gave
access to the first tier of " sedilia." No other stairs are shown, but wo
obtain some insight into the mode of entering the galleries from a paper
of agreement for the new building of the Bear Garden in 1613, which
is printed in the third volume of the Variorum edition of Shakespeare
(1821). From this it appears that the Swan was taken as a model
for the new theatre, and from the agreement we learn that there were
two staircases to lead to the galleries.
     Gilbert Katherens, described as a carpenter, was to build the Bear
Garden, " of suche large compasse, forme, wideness and height, as the
plaie house called the Swan in the libortie of Paris Garden, in the
saide parishe of St. Saviour's now is. And shall also builde two
steare cases without and adjoining to the saide playe house, in suche
convenient places as shal be most fitt and convenient for them to
btande uppon, and of snche largnes and height as the steare cases of
the saide playe house called the Swan now are or be."
    It will be seen that this view throws great light upon the evolu
tion of the English stage. We know that the form of the Bankside
theatres was circular, but we do not know for certain whether the
theatres on the north side of the river were also round. The words
of De Witt which accompany the sketch would imply that they were
alike, for he writes (in Latin) :—
     " There are in London four amphitheatres of beauty worth seeing.
 ... Of these the two most excellent are those on the other side of
the Thames towards the south, named after the signs that hang out,
the Rose and the Swan. The two others are outside the town towards
the north."
     We are here in a realm of conjecture ; but we have some few
lines of guidance. Was the word theatre used in its strictly classical
sense, as Milton writes (' Samson Agonistes ')—
               " The building was a spacious theatre,
                 Half round, on two main pillars vaulted high."
or was the building really an amphitheatre ? *
    * Hentzner, in the account of his visit to this country in 1598, describes the
amphitheatre on the Bankside, used exclusively for the baiting of bulls and
bears, as a Theatre. (Jtinerarium, 1629, p. 196.)

1890.]          on the London Stage in Elizabeth's Reign.               31
     The Italians had before this time erected theatres which were
copied from the classical stage, and it might be imagined that James
Burbage, when about to build a special house for theatrical entertain
ments, would have followed some such model, but there is no evidence
whatsoever that he did so. Mr. Halliwell Phillipps believed (I do not
know on what authority) that the Curtain, our second London theatre,
was round ; indeed, he believed it to be the " wooden O " of Henry V.
(in opposition to the claims of the ever-memorable Globe).
     The chief reasons for supposing that almost all the Elizabethan
theatres were round, are (1) because the early theatres were not
intended exclusively for dramatic entertainments, but were used for
fencing, tumbling, bear-baiting &c., and the circular form is much
more convenient for sports iu an arena ; (2) because it is highly
probable that the Bankside buildings were copied from something
that went before ; (3) because this shape is frequently alluded to by
the dramatists, and the word " Round " is used by them as the name
of a theatre. Thus, in Brome's City Wit (printed in 1653), one of
the characters, Sarpego, who delivers the prologue says—
            " Some in this round may have both seen't and heard
              Ere I, that bear its title, bore a beard."
     The Fortune theatre, near St. Giles's, Cripplegate, according to the
Indenture dated January 1599-1600, was built on the same plan as
the Globe, which had just been erected, with the exception that the
auditorium was square instead of rouud. This was found to be in
convenient, so that when the Fortune was rebuilt in 1622, it was made
round.
     The only other view of the interior of an early London theatre
which we possess, is that of the Red Bull, in the reign of Charles II.,
in which we find the same expedient as to the stage, so that we may
safely come to the conclusion that, whether square or round, the same
system was adopted with regard to the plan of the stage.
     This form had the advantage o.f being convenient for all kinds
of entertainment. If it were general, it is clear that the influence of
 the classical stage upon the foundation of the modern stage was
 practically non-existent, and also there is sufficient, evidence to allow
us to set aside the popular notion that the modern theatre has grown
out of the old inn-yard. I fail to see any solid ground or basis for
 this view, and the only point in its favour seems to be that the pit
was frequently called the yard—and this can be otherwise explained.
 If we agree that the original form of the theatre was a round, with a
 movable stage in the centre, it follows that when the time came for
 the building to be devotod exclusively to dramatic entertainments,
 the stage would naturally be brought back to the portion of the
round which had become useless by reason that any would-be
 spectators placed there could see nothing, and the modern theatre at
once stands confessed as a circus flattened at one side—an evolution
from the amphitheatre.

32                      Mr. Henry B. Whealley                  [Feb. 7,
   It will be seen that with a movable stage placed in the centre of
an amphitheatre, effective scenery was practically an impossibility.
At the Restoration, however, scenery came into general use, and one
reason for this was that the stage having been completely crushed
during the Commonwealth an entirely new era then commenced.
The different kinds of dramatic entertainment, which had been
hitherto kept distinct, were united by Davenant and others, and
scenery which had been previously confined to masques was adopted
for other plays. Women, who had long before acted in masques, now
took their place upon the public stage. The history of the drama is
continuous, but that of the stage is in two parts, divided by the
period of the Commonwealth. The history of the modern stage
does not go farther back than the period of the Restoration.
    There are two other points connected with the early theatres
which require some slight notice—these are size and outside appear
ance. With regard to the first, De Witt states that the Swan
theatre would seat 3000 persons, which is a rather startling
statement, as the ordinary capacity of these theatres was to hold
about a thousand. Although the Swan was evidently a larger build
ing than most of the other theatres, it is not easy to believe that
its size was so much greater as these figures would necessitate.
It is necessary however for us to enlarge our ideas as to the number
of the sightseers. Although the population of London in Elizabeth's
reign was small when compared with what it is now, it was very
considerable for the period, and I think it will be found that the
attendants at theatres formed a much larger percentage of the
population than they do now. It is not necessary to enlarge upon
this point here, but mention may be made of the large number of
watermen who were employed upon the Thames, and were fully
engaged in taking the sightseers from one side of the river to
the other. When, in James I.'s reign, the theatres on the Bankside
fell into decay and Blackfriars theatre and other playhouses on
the northern side of the river were alone fashionable places of resort,
the watermen suffered severely by reason of their loss of custom.
 To retrieve their position they made a most astonishing demand.
In 1613 Taylor, the water poet, was chosen by the Company of
Watermen to present their petition to the King. This petition set
forth the watermen's services to Queen Elizabeth and the advantages
to the State of favouring them. On this foundation they based their
extravagant claim that the players might not have a playhouse
in London or in Middlesex within four miles of the city on that side
of the Thames. If the players were made to return to the Bankside
the watermen expected a return of their former prosperity. The
substance of Taylor's statement is, that the theatres were first chiefly
to the north of London and the Thames ; that they were afterwards
 transferred to the south, on the Bankside in Southwark, and then
 again removed to the north. During the time they were at Bankside
 the traffic on the river so greatly increased that the additional

1890.]              on the London Stage in Elizabeth's Reign.                    33
number of watermen with their families between Windsor and
Gravesend amounted to something like 20,000 persons, and that
when they were moved back again to the north they drew every day
from 3000 to 4000 persons who used to go by water. Eeckoning a
waterman's family at five persons, the number of watermen between
Windsor and Gravesend at the height of this traffic would be 8000.
This statement as to numbers is very remarkable, and shows that
the sightseers of London in Elizabeth's reign were a considerable
body.*
     It is worthy of notice that changes in the habits of the English
took place very rapidly even in the time of Queen Elizabeth. When
the theatres were first established the visitors went to them on
horseback, later on they took boat to Southwark, and in the last
years of the reign, when Blackfriars theatre was fashionable, coaches
had become numerous.
     As to the exterior, De Witt distinctly says that it was cased
with flint, and this assertion has been doubted chiefly because
Hi-jit /HIT said that the theatres on the Bankside were all of wood.
I don't think that we can reject the testimony of one who was
apparently a careful observer, on the strength of a general statement
such as that of Hentzner. [Enlarged representations of the Swan,
the Bear Garden, and the Globe, taken from views of the Bankside,
 were shown in diagrams on the wall]. These views of the theatres
on the Bankside are but small in the originals, and too much stress
must not be laid upon their appearance, but I think a difference
 between the look of the Swan and the Bear Garden on the one side,
 and of the Globe on the other may be noted. We know that the
 first Globe theatre was made of wood, but the other two look as if
 they might have been cased with stone or built up with brick.
                                                                    [H. B. W.]
    • In order to have some basis of comparison, my friend Mr. Danby P. Fry
drew out a theoretical section which mnkes the arrangement of the seats easier to
understand. This drawing was enlarged in a diagram on the wall. He has cal
culated that I in ' height of the building would be about 50 feet, and this number
is arrived at thus :—The uppermost gallery of seats is taken as 8 feet in height
and the other two as 10 feet, the two rows of porticus at 7 feet each, and the
orchestra as 7 feet. To estimate the size of the round is more difficult ; but sup
posing there to have been eleven rows of seats, that is, three rows in the upper
most gallery and four rows in each of the lower galleries, in order to seat
3000 persons, 273 must have been seated in each row, and this would necessitate
a round of more than two-thirds the size of Drury Lane theatre. If we suppose
De Witt to mean auditors generally, and not merely those seated, a much smaller
circle would supply the need, because we could then count in all those standing
in the porticus and the arena. If the building was arranged to hold 3000 persons
when used as an amphitheatre, it would not probably accommodate more than
2000 when the stage was pluced in its position, and a portion of the round was
thereby made useless for spectators.
    VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)

34                          Professor J. A. Fleming                      [Feb. 14
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, February 14, 1890.
      WII.LTAM CROOKES, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-Presidont, in the Chair.
                PROFESSOR J. A. FLEMING, M.A. D.Sc. M.R.I.
               Problems in the Physics of an Electric Lamp.
MORE than eighty years ago Sir Humphry Davy provided the
terminal wires of his great battery of 2000 pairs of plates with rods
of carbon, and, bringing their extremities in contact, obtained for the
first time a brilliant display of the electric arc.* The years that
have fled away since that time have seen all the marvellous develop
ments of electro-magnetic engineering, have placed in our possession
the electric glow-lamp, and brought the art of electrical illumination
to a condition in which it progresses each year with giant strides.
In addition to the importance attaching to their ever-increasing
industrial use, there are many questions of purely scientific interest
which present themselves to our minds when wo proceed to examine
the actions that take place when a carbon conductor is rendered
incandescent in a high vacuum, or when an electric arc is formed
between two cai'bon poles. It is to a very few of these physical
problems that I desire to direct your attention to-night, but more
especially to one which is particularly interesting from the bearing
which it has on the general nature of electric discharge.
      We know as a very familiar fact that if we attempt to raise the
temperature of a carbon conductor enclosed in a vacuum beyond a
certain limit, not far removed from the melting point of platinum, the
carbon begins to volatilise with great rapidity. If an electric glow-
lamp has passed through its carbon more than a certain strength of
current, the glass bulb speedily becomes darkened by a deposit of this
volatilised carbon condensed upon it ; and experience shows us that
we cannot raise the temperature of that carbon beyond a definite
point without causing this waste of the conductor to become very
rapid. In the highly rarefied atmosphere within the bulb of a glow-
 lamp, the carbon, when at its normal incandescence, must be con-
     * Sir Humphry Davy laid a request before the managers of the Royal Insti
 tution on July llth, 1808, that they would set on foot a subscription for the
 purchase of a large galvanic battery. The result of this suggestion was that a
 galvanic batterv of 2000 pairs of copper and zinc plates were sot up in the Roysl
 Institution, and one of the earliest experiments performed with it was the pro
 duction of the electric arc between carbon poles, on a large scale. It is probable,
 however, that Davy had produced the light on a small scale some six years
 before, and, according to Quetelet, Curtet observed the arc between carbon points
 in 1802. See Dr. Paris' ' Life of Sir H. Daw.'

 1890.]       on Problems in the Physics of an Electric Lamp.                 35
 sidered to bo projecting off molecules of carbon in all directions,
 partly in virtue of purely thermal actions, but probably also in con
 sequence of certain electrical effects to be presently discussed. This
 scattering of the material of the carbon conductor takes place with
 disadvantageous rapidity from an industrial point of view at and
 beyond a certain temperature,* but it exists as well at much lower
temperatures than that which is found to determine the practical
limit of durability. A curious appearance is found in many incan
descent lamps which have been " over-run," which shows us that this
projection of carbon molecules from the hot conductor is not, perhaps,
 best described by calling it a vaporisation of its substance, but that
 the surface molecules are shot off in straight lines, and that they
 reach the glass envelope without being hindered to any great extent
 by the molecules of the residual air.
     If an electric current is passed through an otherwise uniform
carbon conductor, which possesses at any one place a specific resist
ance higher than that of the remaining portion, the current, in
accordance with a well-known law, there develops a higher tempera
ture, and the molecular scattering at that spot may in consequence
be greatly exaggerated. It may be that the detrition of the con
ductor at that locality will be so great as to cut it through after a
very short time. When the carbon has the form of a simple horse
shoe loop, and when this molecular scattering takes place from some
point in the middle of one branch, the molecular projection makes
itself evident by producing a " molecular shadow " of the other leg
upon the interior of the glass. I will project upon the screen an
image of the carbon horseshoe loop taken from an old glow-lamp, and
you will be able to see that the filament has been cut through at one
place. At that position some minute congenital defect caused the
carbon to have a higher resistance, the temperature at that point when
it was in use became excessive, and an intensified molecular scattering
took place from that locality. On examining the glass bulb from
which it was taken, we find that the glass has been everywhere
darkened by a deposit of the scattered carbon except along one
narrow line (see Fig. 1), and that line is in the plane of the carbon
loop and on the side opposite to the point of rupture of the filament.f
     I may illustrate to you by a very simple experiment the way in
which that "shadow" has been formed. Here is a f) -shaped rod:
this shall represent the carbon conductor in the lamp ; this sheet of
cardboard placed behind it, the side of the glass receiver. I have
affixed a little spray-producer to one side of the loop, and from that
    * When the rate of expenditure of energy in the carbon conductor is raised
until it reaches a value of about 500 watts, or 360 foot-pounds per second per
square inch of radiative surface, a limit of useful temperature has been reached
for economical working, under the usual present conditions of steam-engine-
driven dynamos and modern glow-lamps.
    t The writer desires to express his indebtedness to the Editor of the
'Electrician ' for the loan of the blocks illustrating this abstract.
                                                                      D 2

86                         Professor J. A. Fleming                 [Feb. 14,
point blow out a spray of inky water. Consider the ink spray to
represent the carbon atoms shot off from the overheated spot. We
see that the cardboard is bespattered on all points except along one
line where it is sheltered by the opposite side of the loop. We have
thus produced a "spray shadow" on the board (Fig. 2). The
               Fio. 1.                                   FIG. 2.
Glow-lamp, having the glass bulb           " Spray shadow " of a rod thrown
  blackened by deposit of carbon, show       on cnrdho;ird screen to illustrate
  ing the molecular scattering which         formation of molecular shadow
  has taken place from the point a on        in glow lamps.
  the filament, and the shadow or line
  of no deposit produced at b.
existence of these molecular shadows in incandescent lamps leads ns
therefore to recognise that the carbon atoms must bo shot off in
straight lines, or else obviously no such sharp shadow could thus bo
formed. This phenomenon confirms in a very beautiful manner the
deductions of the Kinetic theory of gases. I may remind you that at
the ordinary temperature and pressure the mean free path of a mole
cule of air is deduced to be about four one-millionths of an inch.
This is the average distance which such a gaseous molecule moves
over before meeting with a collision against a neighbour which
changes the direction of its path. Let the air be rarefied, as in these
bulbs, to something like a millionth of the ordinary atmospheric
pressure, and the mean free path is increased to several inches. The
space within the bulb—though from one point of view densely popu
lated with molecules of residual air—is yet, as a fact, in such a con
dition of rarefaction that a carbon molecule projected from the
conductor can move over a distance of three or four inches on an

 1890.]      on Problems in the Physics of an Electric Lamp.                    37
 average without meeting with interference by collision with another
 molecule, and the facts revealed to us by these shadows show that this
must be the case. I have also at hand some Edison lamps in which
these " molecular shadows " are finely shown, but in these cases the
 deposit on the interior of the bulb is not carbon but copper, because
the molecular scattering has here taken place by excessive temperature
developed at the copper clamps by which the carbon filament is
attached to the platinum wires. The theory, however, is the same.
The deposit of copper shows a fine green colour by transmitted light
in the thinner portions. One curious lamp also before me had by an
accident an aluminium plate volatilised within the bulb. The glass
receiver has in consequence been covered with a mirror-like deposit
of aluminium, which on the thinner portions shows a fine blue colour
by transmitted light, and a silvery lustre by reflected light. This
lamp also shows a fine " molecular shadow."
     These facts prepare us to accept the view that when a glow-lamp
is in operation the highly rarefied residual air in the interior of the
bulb is being traversed in all directions by multitudinous carbon
atoms projected off from the incandescent carbon conductor. I now
wish to pass in review before you some facts which indicate that these
carbon atoms carry with them electric charges, and that they are
charged, if at all, with negative electricity. I may preface all by
 saying that much of what I have to show
you will be seen to be closely related to                       FIG. 3.
the phenomena studied by Mr. Crookes in
his splendid and classical researches on
radiant matter. Our starting-point for
this purpose is a discovery made by
Mr. Edison in 1884, and which received
careful examination at the hands of Mr.
Preece in the following year,* and by
myself more recently. Here is the initial
experiment. A glow-lamp having the usual
horseshoe-shaped carbon (see Fig. 3) has a
metal plate held on a platinum wire sealed
through the glass bulb. This plate is so
fixed that it stands up between the two
sides of the carbon arch without touching
either of them. We shall illuminate the Glow-lamp having insulated
lamp by a continuous current of elec                   metal middle plate M
                                                       sealed into bulb to exhibit
tricity, and for brevity's sake speak of               " Edison effect."
that half of the loop of carbon on the
side by which the current enters it as the positive leg, and the other
half of the loop as the negative leg. The diagram in Fig. 4 shows
    * Mr. Preece's interesting paper on this subject is published in the
' Proceedings' of the Royal Society for 1885, p. 219. See also ' The Electrician,'
April 4th, 1885, p. 436.

 88                         Professor J. A. Fleming                  [Feb. 14,
 the position of the plate with respect to the carbon loop. There is a
 distance of half-an-inch, or in some cases many inches, between either
 leg of the carbon and this middle plate. Setting the lamp in action,
 I connect a sensitive galvanometer between the middle plate and the
                Fio. 4.                                   Fio. 5.
Sensitive galvanometer connected be       Mode of connection of galvanometer G
   tween the middle plate and positive      to middle plate M and carbon horse
   electrode of a glow-lamp, allowing       shoe shaped conductor C in the ex
   current flowing through it when the      periment of the " Edison effect."
   lamp is in action (" Edison effect ").
negative terminal of the lamp, and yom see that there is no current
passing through the instrument. If, however, I connect the terminals
of my galvanometer to the middle plate and to the -jHit.il in: electrode of
the lamp, we find a current of some milliamperes is passing through
it. The diagrams in Fig. 5 show the mode of connection of the
galvanometer in the two cases. This effect, which is often spoken of
as the " Edison effect," clearly indicates that an insulated plate so
placed in the vacuum of a lamp in action is brought down to the
same potential or electrical state as the negative electrode of the
carbon loop. On examining the direction of the current through
the galvanometer we find that it is equivalent to a flow of negative
electricity taking place through it from the middle plate to the posi
tive electrode of the lamp. A consideration of this fact shows us that
there must be some way by which negative electricity gets across the
vacuous space from the negative leg of the carbon to the metal plate,
whilst at the same time a negative charge cannot pass from the metal
plate across to the positive leg. Before I pass away from this initial
experiment, I should like to call your attention to a curious effect at
the moment when the lamp is extinguished. Connecting the galvano
meter as at first, between the middle plate and the negative electrode

 1890.]      on Problems in the Physics of an Electric Lamp.               89
 of the lamp, we notice that though made highly sensitive the galyanp
 meter indicates no current flowing through it whilst the lamp is in
 action. Switching off the current from the lamp produces, as you
 see, a violent kick or deflection of the galvanometer, indicating a
 sadden rush of current through it.
      In endeavouring to ascertain further facts about this effect one of
 the experiments which early suggested itself was one directed to
 determine the relative effects of
 different portions of the carbon con-                  FIO. 6.
 ductor. Here is a lamp (see Fig. 6)
 in which one leg of the carbon horse
 shoe has been enclosed in a glass
 tube of the size of a quill, which
 shuts in one-half of the carbon.
 The bulb contains, as before, an
insulated middle plate. If we pass
the actuating current through this
lamp in such a direction that the
covered or sheathed leg is the positive
leg, we find the effect existing as
before. A galvanometer connected
between the plate and positive ter
minal of the lamp yields a strong
current, whilst if connected between
the negative terminal and the middle
plate there is no current at all.
Let us, however, reverse the current Glow-lamp having negative leg of
through the lamp so that the shielded      carbon enclosed in glass tube T,
or enclosed leg is now the negative        the " Edison effect" thereby being
one, and the galvanometer is able to       annulled or greatly diminished.
detect no current, whether connected
in one way or the other. We establish, therefore, the conclusion that
it is the negative leg of the carbon loop which is the active agent in
the production of this " Edison effect," and that if it is enclosed in a
tube of either glass or metal, no current is found flowing in a galva
nometer connected between the positive terminal of the lamp and this
middle collecting plate.
     Another experiment which confirms this view is as follows:—
This lamp (see Fig. 7) has a middle plate, which is provided with a
little mica flap or shutter on one side of it. When the lamp is held
upright the mica shield falls over and covers one side of the plate,
but when it is held in a horizontal position the mica shield falls away
from the front of the plate and exposes it. Using this lamp as before
we find that when the positive leg of the carbon loop is opposite to
the shielded face of the plate, we get the " Edison effect " as before
in any position of the lamp. Reversing the lamp current and making
that same leg the negative one, we find that when the lamp is so held
the metal plate is shielded by the interposition of the mica, and the

                          Professor J. A. Fleming                [Feb. 14,
galvanometer current is very much less than when the shield is shaken
on one side and the plate exposed fully to the negative leg.
     At this stage it will perhaps be most convenient to outline briefly
the beginnings of a theory proposed to reconcile these facts, and
                                      leave you to judge how far the sub
                FIG. 7.               sequent experiments confirm this
                                      hypothesis. The theory very briefly
                                      is as follows:—From all parts of
                                      the incandescent carbon loop, but
                                      chiefly from the negative leg, car
                                      bon molecules are being projected
                                      which carry with them, or are
                                      charged with, negative electricity.
                                      I will in a few moments make a
                                      suggestion to you which may point
                                      to a possible hypothesis on the
                                      manner in which the molecules ac
                                      quire this negative charge. Sup
                                      posing this, however, to be the case,
          11      0"'"^               an^ th"t *ne bulb is filled with
         J         \L                 these negatively-charged mole-
      f—          -r^                 cules, what would be the result of
Glow-lamp having mica shield S
                                      introducing into their midst a con
   interposablo between middle plate ductor such as this middle metal
   M and negative leg of carbon, plate which is charged positively ?
   thereby diminishing the " Edison Obviously, they would all bo
   effect."                           attracted to it and discharge against
                                      it. Suppose the positive charge
of this conductor to be continually renewed, and the negatively-
charged molecules continually supplied, which conditions can be
obtained by connecting the middle plate to the positive electrode of
the lamp, the obvious result will be to produce a current of electricity
flowing through the wire or galvanometer, by means of which this
middle plate is connected to the positive electrode of the lamp. If,
however, the middle plate is connected to the negative electrode of
the lamp, the negatively-charged molecules can give up no charge to
it, and produce no current in the interpolated galvanometer. We see
that on this assumption the effect must necessarily be diminished by
any arrangement which prevents these negatively-charged molecules
from being shot off the negative leg or from striking against the
middle plate. Another obvious corollary from this theory is that
the "Edison effect" should be annihilated if the metal collecting
plate is placed at a distance from the negative leg much greater than
the mean free path of the molecules.
     Here are some experiments which confirm this deduction. In
this bulb (Fig. 8) the metal collecting plate, which is to be connected
through the galvanometer with the positive terminal of the lamp, is
placed at the end of a long tube opening out of aud forming part of

1890.]      on Problems in the Physics of an Electric Lamp.                      41
the bulb. Wo find the " Edison effect " is entirely absent, and that
the galvanometer current is zero. We have, as it were, placed our
target at such a distance that the longest range molecular bullets
                                     Fio. 8.
Collecting plate placed at end of a tube, 18 in. in length, opening out of the bulb.
cannot hit it, or, at least, but very very few of them do so. Here
again is a lamp in which the plate is placed at the extremity of a
tube opening out of the bulb, but bent at right angles (Fig. 9). Wo
                                     Fio. 9.
                        0        0
    Collecting plate placed at end of an elbow tube opening out of the bulb.
find in this case, as first discovered by Mr. Frcece, that there is no
"Edison effect." Our molecular marksman cannot shoot round a
corner. None of the negatively-charged molecules can reach the
plate, although that plate is placed at a distance not greater than
would suffice to produce the effect if the bend were straightened out.
Following out our hypothesis into its consequences would lead us to

42                       Professor J. A. Fleming               [Feb. 14,
conclude that the material of which the plate is made IB without
influence on the result, and this is found to be the case. Many of
the foregoing facts were established by Mr. Preece as far back as
1885, and I have myself abundantly confirmed his results.
     We should expect also to find that the larger we make our plate,
and the nearer we bring it to the negative leg of the carbon, the
greater will be the current produced in a circuit connecting this plate
to the positive terminal of the lamp. I have before me a lamp with
a large plate placed very near the negative leg of the carbon of a
lamp, and we find that we can collect enough current from these
molecular charges to work a telegraph relay and ring an electric bell.
The current which is now working this relay is made up of the
charges collected by the plate from the negatively-charged carbon
molecules which are projected against it from the negative leg, across
the highly perfect vacuum. I have tried experiments with lamps in
which the collecting plate is placed in all kinds of positions, and has
various forms, some of which are here, and are represented in the
diagrams before you ; but the result may all be summed up by saying
that the greatest effects are produced when the collecting plate is as
near as possible to the base of the negative end of the loops, and, as
far as possible, encloses, without touching, the carbon conductor.
Time will not permit me to make more than a passing reference to
the fact that the magnitude of the current flowing through the
galvanometer when connected between the middle plate and the
positive terminal of the lamp often "jumps" from a low to a high
value, or vice versd, in a remarkable manner, and that this sudden
change in the current can be produced by bringing strong magnets
near the outside of the bulb.
      Let us now follow out into some other consequences this hypothesis
 that the interior of the bulb of a glow-lamp when in action is popu
 lated by flying crowds of carbon atoms all carrying a negative charge
 of electricity. Suppose we connect our middle collecting plate with
 some external reservoir of electric energy, such as a Leyden jar, or
 with a condenser equivalent in capacity to many hundreds of Leyden
 jars, and let the side of the condenser which is charged positively be
 first placed in connection through a galvanometer with the middle
 plate (see Fig. 10), whilst the negative side is placed in connection
 with the earth. Here is a condenser of two microfarads capacity so
 charged and connected. Note what happens when I complete the
 circuit and illuminate the lamp by passing the current through its
 filament. The condenser is at once discharged. If, however, we
 repeat the same experiment with the sole difference that the nega
 tively charged side of the condenser is in connection with the middle
 plate then there is no discharge. The experimental results may be
 regarded from another point of view. In order that the condenser
 may be discharged as in the first case, it is essential that the
 negatively charged side of the condenser shall be in connection with
 some part of the circuit of the incandescent carbon loop. This ex

 1890.]     on Problems in the Physics of an Electric Lamp.            48
periment with the condenser discharged by the lamp may be then
looked upon as an arrangement in which the plates of a charged con
denser are connected respec
tively to an incandescent carbon                   FIG. 10.
loop and to a cool metal plate,
both being enclosed in a highly
vacuous space, and it appears
that when the incandescent con
ductor is the negative electrode
of this arrangement the dis
charge takes place, but not when
the cooler metal plate is tho
negative electrode of the charged
condenser. The negative charge
of the condenser can be carried
across the vacuous space from
the hot carbon to the colder
metal plate, but not in the re
verse direction.
   This experimental result led
me to examine the condition of
the vacuous space between the
middle metal plate and the nega- of condenser is in connection with the
tive leg of the carbon loop in the plate and other side to earth s.
case of the lamp employed in our
first experiment. Let us return for a moment to that lamp. I join the
galvanometer between the middle plate and the negative terminal of
the lamp, and find, as before, no indication of a current. The metal
plate and the negative terminal of the lamp are at the same electrical
potential. In the circuit of the galvanometer we will insert a single
galvanic cell having an electromotive force of rather over one volt.
In the first place let that cell be so inserted that its negative pole is
in connection with the middle plate, and its positive pole in connec
tion through the galvanometer with the negative terminal of the
lamp (see Fig. 11). Regarding the circuit of that cell alone, we find
that it consists of the cell itself, the galvanometer wire, and that
half-inch of highly vacuous space between the hot carbon conductor
and the middle plate. In that circuit the cell cannot send any
sensible current at all, as it is at the present moment connected up.
But if we reverse the direction of the cell so that its positive pole is
in connection with the middle plate, the galvanometer at once gives
indications of a very sensible current. This highly vacuous space,
lying between the middle metal plate on the one hand, and the
incandescent carbon on the other, possesses a kind of unilateral con
ductivity, in that it will allow the current from a single galvanic cell
to pass one way but not the other. It is a very old and familiar fact
that in order to send a current from a battery through a highly
rarefied gas by means of metal electrodes, the electromotive force of

                              Professor J. A. Fleming                   [Feb. 14,
 the battery must exceed a certain value. Here, however, we have
 indication that if the negative electrode by which that current seeks
 to enter the vacuous space is made incandescent the current will pass
 at a very much lower electromotive force than if the electrode ia not
 so heated.
                  Fio. 11.                                   Fw. 12.
Current from Clark cell Ck being sent        Experiment showing that when the
  across vacuous space between negative        " middle plate " is a carbon loop
  leg of carbon and middle plate M. Posi       rendered incandescent by insulated
  tive polo of coll in connection with plate   battery B, a current of negative elec
  M through galvanometer ff.                   tricity flows from M to the positive
                                               leg of main carbon G across the
                                               vacuum.
      A little consideration of the foregoing experiments led to the
  conclusion that in the original experiment, as devised by Mr. Edison,
  if we could by any means render the middle plate very hot, we should
  get a current flowing through a galvanometer when it is connected
  between the middle plate and the negative electrode of the carbon.
  This experiment can be tried in the manner now to be shown. Here
  is a bulb (Fig. 12) having in it two carbon loops ; one of these is of
  ordinary size, and will be rendered incandescent by the current from
  the mains. The other loop is very small, and will be heated by a
  well-insulated secondary battery. This smaller incandescent loop
  shall be employed just as if it were a middle metal plate. It is, in
  fact, simply an incandescent middle conductor. On repeating the
  typical experiment with this arrangement, we find that the galvano
  meter indicates a current when connected between the middle loop
  and either the positive or the negative terminal of the main carbon.
  I have little doubt but that if we could render the platinum plate in
  our first-used lamp incandescent by concentrating on it from outside
  a powerful beam of radiant heat we should get the same result.

1890.]      on Problems in the Physics of an Electric Lamp.                   45
     A similar set of results can be arrived at by experiments with a
bulb constructed like an ordinary vacuum tube, and having small
carbon loops at each end instead of the usual platinum or aluminium
wires. Such a tube is now before you (see Fig. 13), and will not
                                      Fio. 13.
Vacuum tube having carbon loop electrodes, c c, at each end rendered incandescent
    by insulated batteries JB, Bt, showing current from Clark cell, Ck, passing
    through the high vacuum when the electrodes are incandescent.
allow the current from a few cells of a secondary battery to pass
through it when the carbon loops are cold. If, however, by means
of well insulated secondary batteries we render both of the carbon
loop electrodes highly incandescent, a single cell of a battery is
sufficient to pass a very considerable current across that vacuous
space provided the resistance of the rest of the circuit is not large.
We may embrace the foregoing facts by saying that if the electrodes,
but especially the negative electrode, which form the moans of
ingress and egress of a current into a vacuous space are capable of
being rendered highly incandescent, and if at that high temperature
they are made to differ in electrical potential by the application of a
 very small electromotive force, we may get under these circum
 stances a very sensible current through the rarefied gas. If the
 electrodes are cold a very much higher electromotive force will be
 necessary to begin the discharge or current through the space.
 These facts have been made the subject of elaborate investigation by
 Hittorf and Goldstein, and more recently by Elster and Geitel. It
 is to Hittorf that I believe we are indebted for the discovery of the
 fact that by heating the negative electrode we greatly reduce the
 apparent resistance of a vacuum.
      Permit me now to pave the way by some other experiments for a
 little more detailed outline of the manner in which I shall venture to
 suggest these negative molecular charges are bestowed. This is
 really the important matter to examine. In seeking for some probable
 explanation of the manner in which these wandering molecules of
 carbon in the glow-lamp bulb obtain their negative charges, I fall
 back for assistance upon some facts discovered by the late Prof.
 Guthrie. He showed some years ago new experiments on the relative
  powers of incandescent bodies for retaining positive and negative

46                       Professor J. A. Fleming                   [Feb. 14,
charges. Ono of the facts he brought forward * was that a bright
red-hot iron ball, well insulated, could be charged negatively, but
could not retain for an instant a positive charge. He showed this
fact in a way which it is very easy to repeat as a lecture experiment.
Here is a gold-leaf electroscope, to which we will impart a positive
charge of electricity, and project the image of its divergent leaves on
the screen. A poker, the tip of which has been made brightly red-
hot, is placed BO that its incandescent end is about an inch from the
knob of the electroscope. No discharge takes place. Discharging
the electroscope with my finger, I give it a small charge of negative
electricity, and replace the poker in the same position. The gold
leaves instantly collapse. Bear in mind that the extremity of the
poker, when brought in contiguity to the knob of the charged electro
scope, becomes charged by induction with a charge of the opposite
sign to that of the charge of the electroscope, and you will at once
see that this experiment confirms Prof. Guthrie's statement, for the
negatively-charged electroscope induces a positive charge on the
incandescent iron, and this charge cannot be retained. If the induced
charge on the poker is a negative charge, it is retained, and hence
the positively-charged electroscope is not discharged, but the nega
                       tively-charged electroscope at once loses its
         FIG. 14.      charge. Pass in imagination from iron balls to
                       carbon molecules. We may ask whether it is a
                       legitimate assumption to suppose the same fact
                       to hold good for them, and that a hot carbon
                       molecule or small carbon mass just detached
                       from an incandescent surface behaves in the
                       same way and has a greater grip for negative
                       than for positive charge ? If this can possibly
                       be assumed, we can complete our hypothesis as
                       follows :—Consider a carbon molecule or small
                       congerie of molecules just set free by the high
                       temperature from the negative leg of the incan
 Rough diagram illus    descent carbon horseshoe. This small carbon
   trating a theory of
   the manner in which mass finds itself in the electrostatic field between
   projected carbon the branches of the incandescent carbon con
   molecules may ac     ductor (see Fig. 14). It is acted upon induc
   quire a negative tively, and if it behaves like the hot iron ball in
   charge.              Prof. Gnthrie's experiment it loses its positive
                        charge. The molecule then being charged nega
 tively is repelled along the lines of electric force against the positive
 leg. The forces moving it are electric forces, and the repetition of this
 action would cause a torrent of negatively-charged molecules to ponr
 across from the negative to the positive side of the carbon horseshoe.
 If we place a metal plate in their path, which is in conducting con-
     * " On a New Relation between Electricity and Heat," Phil. Mag. vol. xlv.
 p. 308. 1873.

1890.]       on Problems in the Physics of on Electric Lamp.                 47
nection with the positive electrode of the lamp carbon, the negatively-
charged molecules will discharge themselves against it. A plate so
placed may catch more or less of this stream of charged molecules
which pour across between the heels of the carbon loop. There are
many extraordinary facts, which as yet I have been able only imper
fectly to explore, which relate to the sudden changes in the direction
of the principal stream of these charged molecules, and to their
guidance under the influence, of magnetic forces. The above rough
sketch of a theory must be taken for no more than it is worth, viz.
as a working hypothesis to suggest further experiments.
    These experiments with incandescence lamps have prepared the
way for me to exhibit to you some curious facts with respect to tho
electric arc, and which are analogous to those which we have passed
in review. If a good electric arc is formed in the usual way, and if
a third insulated carbon held at right angles to the other two is placed
so that its tip just dips into the arc (see Fig. 15;, wo can show a similar
series of experiments. It is rather
more under control if we cause                          FIG. 15.
the arc to be projected against
the third carbon by means of a
magnet. I have now formed on
the screen an image of the carbon
poles and the arc between them,
in the usual way. Placing a
magnet at the back of the arc, I
cause the flame of the arc to be
deflected laterally and to blow
against a third insulated carbon
held in it. There are three in
sulated wires attached respec
tively to the positive and to the
negative carbons of the arc, and
to the third or insulated carbon,
the end of which dips into the Electric         arc projected by magnet against
                                         a third carbon, and showing a strong
flame of the arc projected by the electric current flowing through a
magnet. On starting the arc galvanometer, 0, connected between
this third carbon is instantly the positive and this third carbon.
brought down to the same elec
trical potential as the negative carbon of the arc, and if I connect
this galvanometer in between the negative carbon and the third or
insulated carbon I get, as you see, no indication of a current. Let
me, however, change the connections and insert the circuit of my
galvanometer in between the positive carbon of the arc and the middle
 carbon, and we find evidence, by the violent impulse given to the
 galvanometer, that there is a strong current flowing through it. The
 direction of this current is equivalent to a flow of negative electricity
 from the middle carbon through the galvanometer to the positive
 carbon of the arc. We have here then the " Edison effect " repeated

48                          Prof. J. A. Fleming                      [Feb. 14,
with the electric arc. So strong is the current flowing in a circuit
connecting the middle carbon with the positive carbon that I can, as
yon see, ring an electric bell and light a small incandescent lamp
when these electric-current detectors are placed in connection with
the positive and middle carbons.
    We also find that the flame-like projection of the arc between the
negative carbon possesses a unilateral conductivity. I join this small
secondary battery of fifteen cells in series with the galvanometer, and
connect the two between the middle carbon and the negative carbon
of the arc. Just as in the analogous experiment with the incandescent
lamp, we find we can send negative electricity along the flame of the
arc one way but not the other. The secondary battery causes the
galvanometer to indicate a current flowing through it when its
negative pole is in connection with the negative carbon of the arc
(see Fig. 16), but not when its positive pole is in connection with
                                           the negative carbon. On ex
                 FIG. 16.                  amining the third or middle
                                           carbon after it has been cm-
                                           ployed in this way for sorno
                                           time, we find that its extremity
                                           is cratered out and converted
                                           into graphite, just as if it had
                                           been employed as the positive
                                           carbon in forming an electric
                                           arc. Time forbids me to indulge
                                           in any but the briefest remarks
                                           on these experiments; but one
                                           suggestion may be made, and
                                           that is that they seem to indicate
                                           that the chief movement of car
                                           bon molecules in the electric arc
                                           is from the negative to the posi
                                           tive carbon. The idea suggests
                                           itself that, after all, the crater-
 Galvanometer G and battery B inserted '          t f ft ogitive carbon of
    in series between negative carbon of    ,°            ,r ,              ,
   electric arc and a third carbon to show the arc may J* due to a sand-
   unilateral conductivity of the arc be-  blast-like action of this torrent
   tween the negative and third carbons,   of negatively-charged molecules
                                           which are projected from the
negative carhon. If wo employ a soft iron rod as our lateral pole, wo
find that, nfter enduring for some time the projection of the arc
against it, it is converted at the extremity into steel.
     Into the fuller discussion as to the molecular actions going on in
the arc, the source and nature of that which has been called the
counter-electromotive force of the arc, and the causes contributing to
produce unsteadiness and hissing in the arc, I fear that I shall not
be able to enter, but will content myself with the exhibition of one
last experiment, which will show you that a high vacuum, or, indeed,

 1890.]      on Problems in the Physics of an Electric Lamp.                   49
any vacuum, is not necessary for the production of the " Edison
effect." Here is a carbon horseshoe-shaped conductor, not enclosed
in any receiver (see Fig. 17). Close to the negative leg or branch,
yet not touching it, we have
adjusted a little metal plate.                              17.
The sensitive galvanometer
is connected between this
metal plate and the base of
the other or positive leg of
this carbon arch. On sending
a current through the carbon
sufficient to bring it to bright
incandescence, the galvano
meter gives indications of a
current flowing through it,
and as long as the carbon
endures, which is not, how
ever, for many seconds, there          " Edison effect " experiment shown with
IB a current of electricity                      carbon in open air.
through it equivalent to a
flow of negative electricity from the plate through the galvanometer
to the positive electrode of the carbon. The interposition of a thin
sheet of mica between the metal plate and the negative log of the
carbon loop entirely destroys the galvanometer current.*
    These experiments and brief expositions cover a very small
portion of the ground which is properly included within the limits
of my subject. Such fragments of it as we have been able to explore
to-night will have made it clear that it is a region abounding in
interesting facts and problems in molecular physics. The glow-
lamp and the electric arc have revolutionised our methods of
artificial lighting, but they present themselves also as subjects of
scientific study, by no means yet exhausted of all that they have to
teach.
                                                                    [J. A. F.]
          * This last experiment is due to my assistant, Mr. A. H. Bate.
    VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)

50                         Mr. Shelfard Bidwell                 [Feb. 21,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 21, 1890.
      JOHN BAB, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
          SHBLFORD BIDWBLL, ESQ. M.A. LL.B. F.R.S. M.B.I.
                           Magnetic Phenomena.
THE space around a magnet in which magnetic fiction is observed is
called a field of magnetic force, or, more shortly, a magnetic field.
Following Faraday's conception, we may specify a magnetic field by
supposing it to bo filled with a number of so-called " lines of force,"
the direction of the force (that along which a north pole is urged)
being indicated by the direction of the lines, and its intensity by
their concentration. In a uniform field of unit intensity, the lines
of force are straight and parallel, and each line is exactly one
centimetre distant from its nearest neighbour ; so that, if a flat surface
were held transversely to the direction of the lines, one line would
pass through each square centimetre of the surface. In a weaker
field the lines would be farther apart ; in a stronger one they would
be packed more closely together. The direction of the earth's
magnetic force at any point in or near London is, roughly speaking,
from south to north, at an inclination of 67° to the horizon; its
intensity is approximately such that one line of force traverses every
two square centimetres of a transverse plane surface, i. e. half a line,
for each unit of area. The intensity of a unit field of magnetic force
is therefore equal to about twice the total intensity of the magnetic
field due to the earth.
     It is a remarkable fact that iron, and in a less degree the two
rarer metals nickel and cobalt, when placed in a magnetic field,
 possess the property of multiplying the number of lines that would
 naturally fill the space occupied by them. Thus, a long and thin iron
 rod placed lengthwise in the earth's magnetic field will not merely
 be traversed by half a line for each square centimetre of its section,
 as a glass or copper rod would be ; the half line will (at least in the
 middle portion of the rod) be multiplied something like 600 times,
 raising the actual number of lines through the iron to about 300 per
 centimetre of section.
     By means of electric currents it is easy to produce magnetic
fields having a far higher intensity than that of the earth. Suppose,
 for example, we take a long brass tube, and wind around it a quantity
of insulated copper wire, forming 16 convolutions in each centimetre
of length ; a current of 10 amperes circulating through such a coil
 would generate in the interior a magnetic field having an intensity of
about 200 units. An iron rod placed inside this tubo would be

 1890.]                   on Magnetic Phenomena.                         51
 traversed by perhaps as many as 18,000 lines per centimetre. Although
 this is a very large number, it will be noticed that it is smaller, in
 proportion, than was obtained when the magnetic field of the earth
 alone was employed. In that case a field of half a line to the centi
 metre was found to induce 300 lines in the iron, the multiplying power
 being 600. But with an external field of 200 the multiplying power
 is only about 90, a very considerable falling off. It is usual to
 denote the number of lines per square centimetre in the magnetic field
 by the letter H,and those induced in the iron by B, while the multi
 plier is indicated by the Greek letter ft. We may therefore write :—
                                  B = MH.
 B is commonly spoken of as the " magnetic induction," and /x as the
 " permeability."
      It used to be assumed that, except in strong fields, the permeability
 /* was practically a constant for the same specimen of metal. We
 have already seen that this is by no means the case, and how very
far it is from being so is clearly shown by the following table, in the
 first and third columns of which are given corresponding values of
 H and //. for an average specimen of wrought iron.
                               TARLE I.—IRON.
                    H              B(=,iXH)                 M
                  Field.             Induction.       Permeability.
                  0-2                      80              400
                  0-5                     300              600
                  1                    1,400             1,400
                  2                    4,800            2,400
                  4                    8,800            2,200
                  7                   11,200            1,600
                 11                  13.200             1,200
                16                   14,400                900
                65 (Rowland)         16,500                255
               200 (Bidwell)         18,000                 90
               585                   20,000                 34
            24,500 (Ewing)           45,300                   1-9
     It will be remarked that, as the strength of the field increases
from the smallest values, the permeability at first rises with enormous
rapidity, attaining in a field of 2 or 3 units a maximum value of more
than 2000 ; then it falls again, rapidly at first, and afterwards more
slowly, until with a field of 65 lines to the centimetre the permeability
is no more than 255. So far, the figures in the table (which are given
in round numbers) are based upon experiments made by Prof. Rowland
sixteen years ago. Plotting corresponding values of /L and B, Rowland
constructed a curve, the form of which led him to the remarkable
conclusion that the value of the magnetic induction B could not
                                                                  K 2

 52                        Mr. Shelford BidweU                   [Feb. 21,
 possibly exceed a certain definite limit, and that, in fact, no magnetic
 force, however great, could induce in iron more than about 18,000
 lines per centimetre. This conclusion, which seemed to be in agreement
 with Weber's theory of magnetism, was generally accepted as correct.
 Unfortunately, however, Rowland's experiment did not go quite far
 enough. If he had been able to carry his magnetising force a little
 beyond 65 units, he would have seen that there was no such limit as
 he supposed. More recently, an induction of 18,000 has been
actually obtained with a field of only 200, the permeability being 90.
 With the stronger field of 585, the induction was found to be 20,000 ;
 and quite lately, Professor Ewing, employing a field of 24,500,
 has obtained an induction of 45,300, the permeability being l-'.l.
 Ewing concludes that there is no limit whatever to the degree to
 which magnetic induction may be raised ; and there can be no doubt
 that he is right.
     But while Ewing's experiments tend to show that the number of
magnetic lines which can conceivably be made to run through a piece
of iron is indefinitely great, they at the same time clearly indicate that
the number of additional lines in excess of those contained in the
field before the iron was placed there, has a very definite limit. This
limit, for the piece of wrought iron which he used, appears to have
been about 21,000, and it was practically reached with an external
field of about 2000. For this sample of iron we may, therefore, say
that in fields of 2000 and upwards,
                             B = H + 21,000.
     Closely connected with the questions which have just been
discussed, are the further questions:—What are the conditions
affecting the lifting-power of an electro-magnet? and, What is the
greatest lifting-power attainable ?
     One point of fundamental importance was settled experimentally
by Joule many years ago. He found that the power of a uniform
electro-magnet varies directly as the sectional area of the iron core,
so that, for example, a magnet with a section of two square inches
would, other things being equal, carry twice the weight that could
be supported by one with a section of only one square inch. Joule
also studied the effect of varying the strength of the current passing
through the surrounding coil, and ascertained that while up to a certain
point increase of current was accompanied by marked increase of
lifting-power, yet when the current exceeded a more or less definite
limit, further increase of it produced comparatively little effect.
Reasoning upon his experiments, he formed the opinion—in which
long afterwards Rowland concurred—that no current, however great,
''could give an attractive power equal to 200 lbs. per square
inch."
     It has, however, since been shown that this statement is not quite
true. In the course of some experiments made in 1886, with a semi

 1890.]                 on Magnetic Phenomena.                          63
 circular electro-magnet and a semicircular armature of soft iron, a
 weight of more than 200 Ibs. per square inch was easily carried, though
 the current was very far indeed from being infinite ; it was, in fact,
about 5 amperes.
     If, as we have seen to be the case, there is no limit to the number
of magnetic lines which can be induced in an iron bar, then, theoreti
 cally, there can be no limit to the lifting-power which an electro
magnet can be made to exhibit. Practically, however, a limit is
imposed by the fact that we cannot command an unlimited current
of electricity, nor would wires of any known material convey it even
if we could. With sufficient current a little 3-iuch electro-magnet
might 110 doubt be made to lift a weight of a ton, but any attempt to
pass such a current would result in the immediate fusion, or even
vaporisation, of the wire-coils by the intense heat that would be
generated.
     The lifting power of an electro-magnet with an iron armature is
proportional to the square of the total number of magnetic lines
which run through the iron, inclusive of those due simply to the
current in the coil. Ewing's experiments enable us to determine the
greatest weight that a magnetised iron bar could support by itself,
without any assistance from the surrounding coil. In the case of his
specimen of iron it would be about 260 Ibs. per square inch of
section.
     The permeability of an iron rod depends not only upon the inten
sity of the field in which the rod is placed, but also to some extent
upon the physical condition of the iron, and is affected by such causes
as mechanical stress or changes of temperature. If, for instance, wo
hang an iron wire vertically in a not very strong field, and stretch it
a little by attaching a weight to its lower end, we shall find that the
stretching causes a temporary increase in the longitudinal permea
bility of the wire. But if the experiment be repeated in a strong
field, the effect will be reversed ; the same load which before
increased the permeability of the wire will be found to diminish
it. In a field of a certain medium strength which can bo determined
by trial, the stretching will have no effect at all upon the permeability.
This value of the field is called, after the first discoverer of the
phenomenon, the " Villari Critical Point" fora certain load.
     The permeability of a nickel wire appears to be always diminitihed
by stretching, whatever the strength of the field or the magnitude of
the load.
     As the magnetic qualities of a rod of iron or other magnetisable
metal are affected by a temporary strain or slight alteration of its
form, so it has been found that the form of such a rod may be slightly
altered by magnetising it. By the aid of very delicate apparatus it
is possible to show that in a continually increasing field the length of
an iron bar is at first increased, and afterwards diminished ; that of a
cobalt bar is at first diminished, and afterwards increased ; while that
of a nickel bar is always diminished. The following tabla shows the

64                            Mr. Shelford Bidwell                             [Feb. 21,
nature of the changes of length undergone by certain rods of iron,
cobalt, and nickel, when magnetised.
                             Elongation* In ten-milliontht of Original Length.
           Magnetising
              Force.
                               Iron.              Cobalt.              Nickel.
                  65              13                                    -104
                125              19*              -'io                  - 167
                237                7              -31                   - 218
                293                0              - 37                 -233
                343             -6                -44f                 -240
                500           -35                 -30                     f t
               745            -50                      0                  mf
              1120            -65                    45                   tf
              1400            -66                    75                -245
                ' Maximum increment.                    Maximum decrement.
    It was shown by Professor J. J. Thomson, a year or two ago, that
the elongations and contractions of iron under magnetisation are
intimately connected with the phenomenon which has been referred
to as the Villari reversal. With a knowledge of the Villari effect,
the elongation and subsequent contraction of an iron rod under
magnetisation might have been predicted, and vice versd. Now, since
the elongations and contractions of cobalt are of the opposite cha
racter to those of iron, Professor Thomson's reasoning would lead
us to expect a Villari effect in cobalt, which would also be of the
opposite character. Quite recently, Mr. Chree, at Professor Thomson's
suggestion, made some experiments to test the accuracy of this pre
sumption, and found the Villari reversal which was anticipated.
Again, the circumstance that nickel is always shortened by mag
netisation, and never lengthened, indicates that there is no Villari
reversal in that metal ; and, in fact, though one has been looked for by
Professor Ewing and others, it has never been found.
   A few words in conclusion with regard to the effect of heat. Iron,
when gradually made very hot, loses its magnetic susceptibility quite
suddenly at a low red heat, and practically becomes a non-magnetisable
metal. Pure nickel loses the greater part of its magnetic quality at a
much lower temperature, perhaps about 300° 0. Both metals again
become magnetisable -when cold. Dr. Hopkinson has lately dis
covered a very remarkable effect of heat upon the magnetic pro
 perties of an alloy of iron and nickel. If a bar or wire of this alloy
 be made red hot, and then allowed to cool, it is rendered permanently
 non-magnetic, although the metals of which it is composed are by
 themselves both strongly magnetic. But if this non-magnetic:
 material be cooled to a temperature a little below the freezing point,
and then again allowed to resume the ordinary temperature of the
air, it will be found to have become almost as strongly magnetic as a

 1890.]                on Magnetic Phenomena.                               65
piece of steel, and it will continue to be magnetic until it is onco
more made red hot. This is one of the most remarkable discoveries
in magnetism that has been made for many years. It revives the
question first suggested by Faraday—whether any metal whatever
may not possibly be rendered magnetisable by exposure to a
sufficiently low temperature.*
                                                                    [S. B.]
         * The discourse was illustrated by about twenty experiments.

56                   Professor G. Hubert H. Parry              [Feb. 28,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 28, 1890.
    COLONEL JAHM A. GRANT, C.B. C.S.I. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
          PROFESSOR C. HURERT H. PARRY, Mus. Doc. M.A.
                              Evolution in Music.
As far as I can discover, not much has been said on the subject before
us as yet; and as there is a great deal to be said, my only pre
liminary will be to remind you of one of Mr. Herbert Spencer's
definitions of evolution, which happens to be most apt to our subject.
    The formula in question is as follows :—Evolution is a " change
from indefinite incoherent homogeneity to a definite coherent hetero
geneity," accompanying the dissipation of motion and integration of
matter ; * which, for present purposes, I may expand into—a change
from vague indefinite chaos to an aggregate of clearly-defined separate
entities or organisms, each with functions well determined.
    I shall endeavour to keep these formulas steadily in view, and to
show how the various departments and phases of music, as we know
it, have developed in consonance with them. My argument must
necessarily take the form of a mere summary, as the strength of
the case rests to a great extent on the uniformity of the principles
of development ; and I do not think that it will be of any real use to
take an isolated department and discuss it in detail before the general
aspect of the matter is clearly understood. I will begin then at once
with the subject of scale-making. I presume that music began before
the existence of scales, and that they were developed in the early
attempts made by our savage ancestors to express their feelings in
sounds. In fact, though the making of scales and the discussion of
scales is now such a dreary and thankless matter, originally they
were the product of emotion and imitation. In order to follow the
process of development we must take the original material of music
before scale-making began to be figuratively a chaos of possibilities, in
which no points or relations were established. The process began
when some savage expressed his feelings in some group of sounds,
and insisted upon them clearly enough, and often enough, to make his
fellow savages imitate him. The variety of relations of notes chosen
by savages is sufficiently shown by records of varieties of existent
savage music ; ranging from the horrible grinding glide of the
voice which certain cannibals use to express their feelings when
                        * ' First Principles,' xvi. § 138.

1890.]                    on Evolution in Music.                     67
contemplating their yet living dinners, which resemble quarter tones,
to the strange intervals, exceeding a tone, which occur in many
highly-developed scales. The probability is that when we meet
with a scale containing an eccentric interval, this eccentric inter
val is the original nucleus of the scale, to which other notes were
added as the instinct and general intelligence of the savages improved.
The sum of the process of scale-making amounts to this :— That first
a simple nucleus of two notes was formed, and by very slow degrees
other notes were added, till the whole range of sounds possible to the
human voice was mapped out. This, obviously, is the first example
of progress from the confused chaos of indefinite and unsystematised
sounds to the heterogeneity of perfectly established scales. When
the difficulties presented by the problem of contriving scales are
realised (as they may be by any one who studies the question a little),
it will be seen that the process must have been an enormously long
one, taxing the musical instinct of man for probably thousands of
years. As a matter of fact, scale-making, even in primary stages, was
going on vigorously till not much over a century ago, and in some
phases cannot be said to be by any means finished yet. Scales are
always liable to alteration, whenever the instinct of composers leads
them to divine an opportunity for expanding the material at their
command for artistic purposes; and whenever the instinct of a
number of musical beings ratifies the change as logical and artisti
cally practical, it takes its place as an established fact.
     The next step to merely dividing off the possible range of sounds
into fixed relative positions, is to classify them into groups in which
special notes have special functions. The music of the ancient world
being all melodic, men's instincts impelled them to develop a scale
system which gave them best opportunities for melodic variety.
This naturally resulted in their having as many modes as possible ;
or, in other words, having as many varieties of relationship as they
could devise between the key-note or final and the other notes of the
scale. And they looked upon these various modes as having
particular qualities of feeling—one mode being sad, another gay,
another solemn, and so forth.
     The Greek system was, no doubt, a highly-developed one for
melodic purposes ; but whatever its traditions were, they did not have
much influence on our modern music, except through the actual dis
tribution of the notes into modes. The Eomans seem to have had
no instinct for music. Their energies were occupied in organising
the world as then known into a workable empire, and their leisure
 was occupied with kinds of amusements which have a tendency to
destroy the taste for refined music. No two things seem more
poisonous to musical art than spectacles of brutal violence which
 give people a taste for excessive excitement, and a luxurious life of
 frivolity into which enters a strong element of vulgar display. The
decrepit condition of music in the early centuries of our era was
 as much owing to the neglect of the art by the Romans as to the

68                   Professor C. Hubert H. Parry               [Feb. 28,
falling to pieces of their empire. I should like to think that their
neglect of the higher art of music was a concomitant of the corrupt
condition of society which led to their downfall. At any rate, the
Btate of music when we take it up in the Christian era, is but a ragged
reminiscence of Greek traditions. Their scale system had been
maintained to a certain extent in the use of the Christian Church, in
some of those curiously vague and picturesque pieces of melody
which go by the name of plain song, or cantus planus. One of the
characteristics of these tunes is their strange indefiniteness, which is
the chief cause of their picturesqueness ; as our minds instinctively
divine them to belong to an ancient and undeveloped age, and recall the
poetical side of a primitive religion. This vagueness and homogene-
ousness only by degrees passed away, under a phase of musical de
velopment which belongs exclusively to modern times. Under the
influence of the development of harmony the scale was classified
into new groups, in which the relation of every note to every
other in every scale, and the function of every one of them,
became by degrees established. The development of harmony pro
ceeded in exactly the same manner. The first experiment was the
essentially homogeneous one of singing the same melody in
two or three parts at different pitches simultaneously. The
interval chosen always astonishes the modern mind, because it is
so alien to our habits. But it is very easily accounted for. The
musicians of the tenth and eleventh centuries chose the intervals of
fourth and fifth, partly because it suited tho relative distances of the
voices from one another, such as tenor to bass and soprano to con
tralto ; and also because the fifth and the fourth are the only intervals
at which melodies can be sung without any marked contradiction
occurring between the notes of the respective scales. If a third was
taken, a leading note below the third would conflict with the second
of the lower scale, and the second of its scale would conflict with the
fourth of the lower, and BO on ; whereas the scales of the fourth and
fifth only rarely conflict with the lower scale.
     Combined with this is the fact that these meditevals' sense of
harmony was slow in developing. At first they only regarded the
fifths and fourths as consonant, and were very slow indeed in developing
 the appreciation of such intervals as thirds and sixths. The human
 mind had to be trained and educated up to it, much in the
same way as moderns are educated up to Brahms and Wagner.
 From harmony in pure fifths, musicians passed slowly on by intro
ducing ornamental notes, which was often done extemporaneously by
 singers, giving rise to what was called the " contrapitnctus a mente " of
 later times. But the homogeneous condition of fifths and fourths was
 slow in passing to a greater variety, and composers were several
 centuries overcoming the elementary difficulties of part singing, to a
 large extent owing to the fact that their scale, which had been
contrived for melodic effect, was not suited for the purposes of
 harmony.

1890.]                    on Evolution in Music.                       59
    The development of harmony for six hundred years, from
A.D. 1000 to A.D. 1600, had underlying it a constant but very slow
change in the structure of the scales ; and the progress was made all
the slower by the notion prevalent in men's minds that those scales
were divinely-appointed institutions, and that tampering with them
was like mending the ordinances of the Deity. Much of the neces
sary mending was done by profane secularists, who wrote dance tunes
and secular songs ; and the changes crept into serious music in defiance
of papal restrictions and ecclesiastical reluctance, in obedience to
the instinct which was as powerful in its slow steady action as any
law of the physical world. The thin end of the wedge for altering
the scale was inserted in the shape of certain arbitrary accidentals
which were introduced to modify obvious crudities of harmony ;
and when people got accustomed to them they by degrees established
themselves as part of the scales, and supplied the means of a new
system of classifying and defining the relative importance and func
tions of notes in a scale.
    The methods adopted by the mediscval composers for regulating
a piece of music were distinctly homogeneous. The commonest was
to take a familiar tune and give it to the tenors to sing, and to add
other parts to it in such a way as to produce a harmonious and
expressive whole.
    Another common device was to take two familiar tunes and to
twist and alter them about till it was endurable to sing them to
gether; sometimes adding another part, which sang nonsense syl
lables, such as Balaam, Portare, or what not, to such notes as wero
available. I cannot say that the result is commonly pleasing, but they
improved in the course of centuries, and the art in general got the more
heterogeneous as they found out fresh methods of artistic procedure.
In all of these, till the end of the sixteenth century, the same prin
ciples are discernible. The harmony is always arrived at by com
bining independent voice parts together, never by writing definite
lump chords. It was not till after the great development of pure
choral art had passed to its highest culmination, in the time of
Palestrina and Marenzio, that men began to think of writing chords
as chords. While this lengthy development was going on, they were
unconsciously absorbing the impressions which the sounds of chords
produced upon them ; and no one ever produced more divinely pure
sounds in the shape of choral chords than Palestrina and Marenzio ;
but they managed to contrive them by the marvellous skill with which
they distributed their combined independent voice parts, and not by
writing them deliberately as chords ; and the reluctance of the human
mind to come to close quarters with chords as such hindered them
from discovering the relationship of chords to one another; and
hence kept their art in a singularly indefinite state. All the choral
music of the greatest period, as well as of earliest days, is singularly
indefinite in design, owing to this lack of a sense of chord relation
ship, and to uncertainty and variableness in the aspects of the cadences.

60                   Professor C. Hubert H. Parry             [Feb. 28,
It is trne the free lances of art and the secularists had done some
thing towards denning the plan of movements by cadences like ours,
but matters did not come to a crisis till men began to alter their
point of view. The change of point of view was ultimately brought
about by one of the most deliberate and conscious revolutions ever
attempted in art.
    The beginning of our modern development of opera and oratorio,
and all the modern instrumental forms of art, was the fruit of
some speculations of a group of Italian enthusiasts at the end
of the sixteenth century, who hoped to be able to revive the
ancient manner of performing Greek dramas. They imagined that
it could be achieved by making a musical imitation of the cadences of
the voice in declamation, and adding the support of some simple
instrumental accompaniment. The result was one of the most chaotic
and formless specimens of art ever devised by the mind of man.
Their instinct for systematic progressions of chords was totally unde
veloped, as was their sense of key in our modern sense ; and they
therefore had no principle by which to arrive at nny effect of
design. Moreover, their radical idea almost precluded the pos
sibility of musical design, as they thought nothing was needed
but recitation of the poetry, and that the dramatic situation and
the language would carry the attention along and sufficiently
occupy the mind without need of musical form. Their experiments
were all the more crude because the composers were practically
amateurs, with no knowledge of the technique of their art ; and
though they had great zeal, it was by no means zeal according to
knowledge, but often outran discretion. But it may be said, on the
other hand, that absence of knowledge of the traditions of their art left
them all the freer to experiment in the new country they had found,
and the obviousness of their mistakes led the sooner to their being
reformed.
    The situation is precisely analogous to that of the earliest stages
of scale-making, only in a different plane. The texture of the early
oratorios, operas, and cantatas was almost homogeneous. The recita
tive winds helplessly along, page after page, in monotonous inconse
quence, only occasionally varied by a fragment rather more expressive
than the rest, and by short fragments of very empty instrumental
music called " ritornellos," and equally pointless fragments of chorus.
The way in which nuclei began to form was through composers per
ceiving what excellent opportunities for musical expression were
offered by salient points of special dramatic or pathetic interest in
the plays, and they soon saw that a point which was brought
out strongly in this manner, laid special hold of the audience. When
this was once discovered, it did not take them long to realise the
effect which was produced by repeating such a passage ; and though
it took them half a century to find the most suitable manner to dis
pose of such a balance of phrases, it was within twelve years of the
6rst operatic venture that Montoverde made a great effect by the

 1890.]                   on Evolution in Music.                         61
 simple process of giving a very expressive phrase to a singer in a
 specially interesting situation, following it by a phrase which is more
 or less contrasted with it, and then going back to the first phrase again;
 a process which contains in miniature the design of that aria form
 which afterwards became so universal that it pervaded all operatic
 literature, and became a perfect plague from its constant recurrence.
     The opening of public opera houses in Venice in 1637, and the
 great success which attended the venture, and its rapid extension,
 gave composers great opportunities, and enabled them to make
 rapid progress in defining the contents of their works. The in
 troductory instrumental summons to attention, which in Monte-
 verde's hands was a noisy clatter of braying instruments, all on
 one chord, developed into the neat little overture of Alessandro
Scarlatti, which was of momentous importance as the immediate
origin of our modern symphony ; and the texture of the opera itself
progressed to a stage in which the arias obtained a distinct and per
manent (though too prominent) form, and alternated throughout with
recitatives and ritornellos, and an occasional chorus. Unfortunately,
progress was stayed here for a long time, through the indolent care
lessness of operatic audiences, who used the performances even then
as fashionable opportunities for gathering and talking, and only cared
to listen to the prominent singers ; and even composers as great as
Handel fell in with the apparently inevitable too complacently ; and
though great skill was evolved in giving variety to the respective
arias, and in giving them a definite and contrasting dramatic cha
racter, the scheme was so monotonous that it has condemned the
operatic works of all composers till the end of Handel's time to irre
mediable oblivion. This tame acquiescence in the bad taste of the
public has been their curse, and ours too ; for though even Alessandro
Scarlatti's operas contain fine music, and Handel's hundreds of things
which are really splendid, the desperate monotony of the design
makes them utterly unendurable as wholes to an average audience ;
and even as historical studies, it would take the strongest and most
obstinate patience to sit out one of them with attention.
     The development oforatorio, up to a little before Handel's time, had
followed much the same lines as opera. The admirable skill and judg
ment of Carissimi had at first used the opportunities which the oratorio
form affords with a success which was full of hopeful auguries ; and
his work was followed up with great power by Stradella. They both
 gave the form a high degree of variety, by introducing large and
 broad choruses among their solos, and by devising great variety of plan
 even in their solo music. Bnt the blight of the star system fell upon
 oratorio likewise in Italy, and for a time it degenerated into the same
 monotonous scheme of alternate arias and recitatives as the opera;
 and it was not till this form of art became the cherished favourite of
 much more earnest and patient nations, that the oratorio developed
 into the noble plan and the large and well-defined proportions which
 we find in the few great masterpieces of oratorio art from Handel and

 62                   Professor C. Hubert H. Parry             [Feb. 28,
 Bach's time onwards. The later development of oratorio and opera
 depended to a great extent upon the progress of instrumental forms of
 art, which were slower in making a beginning, but developed more
steadily, and under the influence of a greater spirit of earnestness ;
as in instrumental music the temptations to mere meretricious display
are not so great and inevitable.
     Composers were very slow in finding out what to do in instru
mental music. They imitated the old choral forms, such as madrigals
and canzonas, being led to the procedure by the similarity of the
group of independent instruments to the group of independent voices,
but they did not arrive at anything very enjoyable, except in one line,
which was our modern type of fugue. This, in its highest form, is
probably as much an instrumental product as a vocal one, though
originally based on choral forms of art. The immediate origin of its
peculiar traditions for enunciating the subject or musical idea, is based
upon the obvious device of making the different voices sing the same
phrase to the same words ; which was systematised in early days, up
to a certain point, by making the voices take the phrases in the parts
of the scale which best suited their register. This resulted in a very
effective balance of question and answer (or Dux and Gomes) even in
early times ; but in the old polyphonic days, after the first statement
of the initial phrase by each member of the group of voices, the
movement tailed off into indefiniteness, and the initial phrases did not
appear again. In course of time composers found out the effect of
coherence which a frequent repetition of so salient a feature as the
initial phrase gave to a whole movement, and began to repeat their
subject over and over again.
     The progress from such modified homogeneity to definite hetero
geneity was arrived at under the influence of modern harmonic
conditions and modes of thought, in which these alternations of the
subject and the episodes were accompanied by contrasting changes
of key—passing out of the original key into others, and drawing the
recurrence of the subjects closer and closer as the original key was
returned to, and firmly re-established at the conclusion. This form was
one of the first to arrive at maturity, partly through the genius of the
great organist Frescobaldi, and later, obviously, through Handel and
Baoh ; and it has not been materially improved upon by after ages,
though its wonderful elasticity always admits of its being presented in
artistic aspects, and with fresh artistic objects. And though pedantry
has run riot in it, it has not ceased to be inviting to some types of
really poetical and musical composers.
     The other kind of instrumental music, which was the ultimate
basis and root of at least half of all modern instrumental music, was
the aboriginal dance form. At the time when this type began to
attract the attention of artistic composers, it had reached the not very
advanced stage of a tune divided by a strong close into two halves,
the first of which tended out from the principal key centre to a
melodic or harmonic centre which was in apposition to it, and the

1890.]                    on Evolution in Music.                         63
second of which journeyed home again. In these the musical material
was more or less homogeneous throughout. But the necessity for clear
periods and clear grouping of rhythm had impelled composers to
discover harmonic closes very early in dance tunes ; and musical
instinct, while frequently observing them, was impelled to discover
the most suitable ways for distributing them. And this same musical
instinct, working on little more than common-sense lines, evolved from
this little dance type the remarkable design which serves for all the
finest movements of our modern symphonies and sonatas.
     As this is one of the most remarkable examples of the manner in
which things progressed from homogeneity to heterogeneity, I think
it worth while to enter into it in detail.
     The process of the development of the design was as follows :—
At first the style of the music through the whole of the movement
was homogeneous ; and the only strong points which stood out and
defined form were the beginnings and closes of each half of the move
ment. The beginning of the second half matched the beginning of
the first half, but began in the antithetical key. The end of the
whole matched the end of the first half in musical material ; but the
end of the first half was in the key of apposition, and the end of
the whole was of course in the principal key. When this is merely
described in this manner it sounds like a perfectly symmetrical design.
In fact, it was too obviously symmetrical, and covered too little ground.
The contrasts were insufficient, and the quality of the music was too
uniform ; and in course of time composers and auditors alike found this
out. The first step in advance was to give more weight to the closes
of each half, by which process a strong contrast began to present
itself between the beginning and end of each half, as well as between
the halves ; as the cadence portion by degrees developed into such
distinctness that it took upon it the appearance of a new subject.
     Simultaneously with this, the character of the music underwent a
change, and instead of a uniform contrapuntal flow, became a well-
knit succession of independent and often strongly-contrasted ideas.
By this means it came to pass that the movement began with a
subject in a principal key, and then moved out to a contrasted key to
present a contrasting subject ; and this group formed the first half of the
movement. The second half began with a restatement of the principal
subject in the key of apposition, and then wandered about through
strange keys to give a sense of contrast, till it reached the key the
movement started from ; in which key the second subject was given,
and the movement then ended. In course of time the defects of this
 type became apparent. The beginning of the second half did not pre
sent sufficient contrast to the design of the first half. More freedom
 was obviously required, and more weight on the principal key at the
 conclusion. To attain this, the principal subject was repeated again
 when the return to the original key was made near the end. Then
 it was found that the principal subject came in its concrete form too
 often ; so its reappearance at the beginning of the second half was

64                     Professor C. Hubert H. Parry             [Feb. 28,
dispensed with, leaving the design exactly as it appears in the finest
movements of Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, and Brahms. The functions
of these various divisions may be summarised as follows:—The first
half establishes the principal bey of the movement and its contrast
ing centre ; everything being contrived with the purpose of marking
their apposition, and therefore tending to regularity. The second
half begins with such treatment as gives the strongest relief to the
regularity of the first by breaking up the subjects into small portions
and interlacing them irregularly, and by keeping up a constant
shimmer of modulation ; and finally the principal key of the move
ment is re-established firmly by presenting both subjects successively
in that key. Into subordinate modifications of this structure, and the
details of it, it is not possible to enter here. It must be sufficient to
say that in the greatest works of Beethoven there is hardly a bar or
a step of one note to another in all the complex structure which has
not its intelligible place and function in the general scheme of
the movement, and it is difficult to see how the differentiation of
parts and the distribution of functions could be carried out more
perfectly.
     The complete design of symphonies and sonatas comprised other
movements of less complex and less interesting structure than this,
which were combined with it for the sake of contrast and balance. The
first type of such grouping of movements was the attempt of early
composers to produce an artistic effect by playing two or more dance
tunes together, so that their contrasts might show oil' one another.
They began with such simple contrasts as Pavans and Galiards, and
progressed up to the relative complexity of the suites of Couperin,
Bach, and Handel. But this stage of advance was only an arrival at
a very modified degree of heterogeneity ; for the movements were
always in the same key, and almost always in the same form ; that of
the dance tune in two balanced halves. The symphonic or sonata
group obtained a much higher degree of contrast, by putting the
central movements into contrasted keys, and by strongly contrasting
the forms of the movements themselves. A common type is that of
four movements, of which the first is the highly developed form,
comprising strong contrasts above described ; the second an imita
tion of the operatic aria ; the third a dance tune pure and simple ;
and the fourth a rondo, which is commonly a simple series of alternate
contrasting dance measures.
     We must now take a rapid survey of the evolution of modern
orchestration. The greater part of the evolution has been carried on
in the department of instrumental music, especially in the symphonies
of the greatest composers. These are derived from the overtures
which preceded the early operas, which were Divided as early as
Alessandro Scarlatti's time into three movements; the first solid
and quick, the second slow, and the third quick and light. The
practice of playing them apart from the operas began very
early, as they were found very useful at the feasts and dinner-

  1890.]                  on Evolution in Music.                        65
 parties of magnates, who kept private orchestras to encourage con
 versation and temper the asperity of any glaring absence of it.
 These symphonies came very greatly into request in the next genera
 tion after Bach and Handel, and were supplied in cartloads apart
 from their usual connection with operas, but were still called overtures
 or sinfonias, both of which names had commonly been applied to them
 while they were attached to operas. These works were of very
 limited interest, and were evidently very roughly played. The
instruments were lumped together crudely to make a noise, and very
 little variety was aimed at ; while the functions of the instruments
 were not ascertained or their idiosyncrasies observed. When, under
more favouring circumstances, development definitely began, the
 evolution took the same aspect as in other departments of art. A
violin player named Stamitz, who was conductor at Mannheim, gave
the development a push by endeavouring to obtain variety in nuances,
and by using the different qualities of the instruments for purposes
of frequent contrast. Mozart visited Mannheim when a young man,
just before his second visit to Paris, and was evidently struck by the
possibilities Stamitz's procedure seemed to promise; and he gave
his higher abilities to the work of diversifying the effects of orchestral
colour. Before this time the violas commonly played a great deal with
the basses, the wind instruments with the strings of the same average
pitch ; while the horns, which were not tractable enough to follow so
slavishly, were the earliest to attain some independence, but did not as
yet do much more than fill up the harmonies and increase the mass of
sound. The colours had in fact been mixed up in aimless confusion ;
and the various instruments, except when playing long solos, did not
have much definite independence one from another. After this time the
violas drew away from the basses, and found their own separate place
in the group, as representing a special colour and a special in
dividuality. In like manner the special individuality of the hauthoys
found its true place as a factor in the complicated nexus of tone-
quality and instrumental idiosyncrasy. Other instruments were
added, which supplied other qualities of tone, and the particular
functions which each instrument was most fitted to perform were by
degrees ascertained by innumerable experiments aiid by development of
instinct; the natural tendency being, as time went on, for each
several instrument to attain more and more independence, and for
more and more respect to be paid to the various idiosyncrasies of
each member of the fumily. The hauthoy and the clarinet no longer
struggled to play fiddle passages, nor the bassoon only to reinforce
the bass and play passages which were better fitted for stringed
instruments; even that distinguished survival from the primitive
music of savages, the drum, WRS no longer condemned merely
to add to the noise of forte passages, but was used with dramatic
significance, and even at times used to express characteristic
musical figures, or to play mysterious and hazy-sounding chords.
By such processes, and by establishing a clear distinction between
      VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)                                        r

66                    Professor 0. Hubert H. Parry            [Feb. 28,
the three groups of stringed, wood wind, and brass instruments,
orchestral music progressed from the homogeneity in which all the
functions of the different instruments were jumbled up together, to
that elaborate heterogeneity of Wagner ; in which every instrument,
from piccolo to double bassoon, has its own place in the scheme, and
its own function to perform. And, indeed, one of the things which
is looked upon as a test point in good writing for an orchestra is that
no player shall waste his breath or his muscular efforts in vain ; and
a composer who now writes a part for an instrument which does not
" tell " is not a full master of his craft. This high development of
orchestration is indeed the farthest point of subtlety to which modern
musical development has progressed ; and it has grown with a surpris
ing degree of development in the public for appreciating rapid varieties
of tone effect, and a certain dangerous susceptibility to the exciting
effects of colour, which always has a tendency to deaden the faculty
for appreciating beauty of artistic design. And in this direction we
already see possibilities of decadence ; as many works which take
great hold of musical natures show a decided falling-off from the
perfect design of the great masters, towards that hazy iudefiniteness
and intangible vagueness of progression and structure which clearly
portends relapse into homogeneity in one respect. But it must be
said, by way of caution against too hastily taking a pessimistic view
of the situation, that in artistic works of real value there is always
an element which defies pure intellectual analysis: and it may be
that the principles of form we so admire in the works of our greatest
musicians are undergoing some subtle change to which we are not at
present capable of giving a definition.
     The later evolution of the great forms of opera and oratorio does
not demand very lengthy consideration. No branch of art affords so
mauy examples of the non-survival of the imperfect as the opera.
The stage offers so many opportunities of obtaining strong im
pressions by vapid means that the vast majority of people who write
for it seem to get bewildered, and either deliberately appeal to the
 public by cheap claptrap, or lose their capacity of judging what is
 worthy of art and what is not ; and the peculiar attitude of the
 operatic public has always been against thoroughness in any respect ;
 and the result is that the composer who writes for popular success
 does nothing for art, and the composer who feels his art deeply gets
 no thanks or encouragement from the public. The opera of the type
 written by Handel, Hasse, John Christian Bach, Galuppi, and
 hundreds more, was once the joy of the world ; but no branch of art
 is more utterly dead, or more incapable of revival on any terms what
 ever. Gluck's reforms came practically too soon, and beautiful as
 much of his work is, it is almost incapable of revival except in frag
 ments. But be did give an impulse to the evolution of operatic art,
 and set men's instincts to work again to clear out dead matter and
 help the sluggish evolution to go on again. The stiff grouping of
 arias and recitatives was diversified by trios, quartettes, and such

1890.J                   on Evolution in Music.                        67
ensemble pieces; and by finales elaborately contrived of groups of
various forms all well defined. The homogeneous character of the
musical material grew into an infinite diversity of characteristic
passages, each apposite to the character and situations in the play ;
and the art of orchestration growing parallel to its growth in instru
mental music, afforded absolutely bewildering opportunities of effect
in the hands of a competent composer. In Weber a very high
standard of artistic perfection in all departments was arrived at ; in
Wagner, the utmost heterogeneity of which the art seems capable,
both in respect of his orchestration, the definition of the several
characters, the well-defined independent " leit motive," and the infinite
variety of sentiment and expression ; while the several functions of
stage effect, dramatic interest, and musical expression are so well and
clearly balanced in his best work that it is difficult to say at any
given moment that any one is made subservient to the other.
     The development of oratorio, not so cursed with over many faci
lities, has been on parallel lines to opera, and though it has not
arrived at such a complexity of definite ingredients, cannot now be
said to be in a chaotic or ill-developed condition.
     It remains now only to point out the manner in which the art in
general has progressed, like its constituents, from limited sameness
to infinite well-defined variety. At the end of the sixteenth century
there was nothing but choral music, and a little crude instrumental
music, which was chiefly imitated from choral music. At the beginning
of the seventeenth century opera and oratorio began to emerge from the
nebulous state of the art, and went revolving off on their respective
orbits. Instrumental music began to get independent status in the
Suites and Toccatas, and so forth, and rapidly divided itself off into
various well-defined groups. The orchestral symphony gained an
independent definiteness on its part; the pianoforte sonata, like in
form, but quite distinct in treatment, was defined by the growing
skill by which the resources of the instrument were developed by
composers and players. Chamber music for solo instruments grew
 up, with all its special artistic characteristics; then followed the
new class of small lyrical compositions for the pianoforte, of which
Chopin and Schumann are the happiest exponents, and their variety
and well-defined independence in hundreds of examples is too familiar
to need insisting upon. And so the art goes on, branching out and
subdividing into infinity of part songs, solo songs of many calibres—
noble, good, indifferent, and detestable—cantatas, symphonic poems,
rhapsodies, concert overtures, comic operas, artistic studies, odes, and
hundreds of other forms, each with their particular artistic idiosyn
 crasies and special adaptations, and all becoming by degrees more
short lived, more journalistic, and more calculated for quick returns
and rapid extinctions, to make way for fresh products, which will
also serve their time and shortly make way for similarly short-lived
journalistic productions, apt for their day in expressing the superficial
 tastes and moods of the people of their day, and no more.
                                                              p 2

68    Professor C. Hubert H. Parry on Evolution in Music.      [Feb. 28,
    The planets were evolved first, and are destined for a life of ages ;
the smaller things which are evolved after they have settled into their
courses, are in great part short-lived and constantly changing their
aspects. The greatest achievements of art come early in an art
history, when there is room for composers or artists to move in unex
hausted fields, and to create things which are great and broad and
simple. When there are no new lands left to conquer or explore,
men must make the best of their home gardens, and find something
worth doing on a smaller and less permanent scale ; and the best can
be no more than that which expresses well and truly the best and
truest things which lie in the emotions and mind of man. There still
are martyrs who sacrifice their lives to ideals, and look for neither
popularity nor pay ; and it is still possible in music to write what
the present generation on the whole will take no notice of, but the
next will cherish. And if the average of what is heard is mere jour
nalism, and the majority of what is produced is condemned by
inexorable law to be ephemeral, the world still possesses the permanent
great works of art ; and those who have any instinct for what is noble
and great in art can always learn to appreciate these products of great
eras whose value is not impaired by the flight of time. And the store
is so rich and abundant, that there is no fear of our musical hungers
finding nothing to feed upon. If we set our minds to it early
and late, and determine to appreciate and love the best, the fact that
the laws of evolution make it apparently impossible for xis to meet
any more Homers, or .SSschyluses, or Shakcspcares, or any more
Palcstrinas, and Bachs, and Beethovens in the flesh, it is not so much
to be regretted as long as we are in possession of their works.
                                                        [C. H. H. P.]

1890.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                                  69
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, March 3, 1890.
 SIR JAMES CRIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                         Vice-President, in the Chair.
                     Lesley Alexander, Esq.
                     Mrs. Shelford Bidwell,
                     Miss Florence Bramwell,
                     Sir John Coode, K.C.M.G.
                     Sir George Errington, Bart.
                     Ralph Heap, Esq. M.A. (Oxon.).
                     Miss Mary Lawrence,
                     William Ramsay, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.
                     Herbert 0. Saunders, Esq. Q.C.
                     A. Percy Sinnett, Esq.
                     W. S. Squire, Esq.
                     John Strain, Esq.
                     Sir John Richard Somers Vine,
                     James Walker, Esq.
                     Mrs. James Watney,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to WARREN
DB LA RUE, Esq. M.E.I, for his valuable present of a Miniature
Portrait of his father, the late Dr. Warren de la Rue, F.R.S. M.E.I.
    The following letter from Lady Gull to the Honorary Secretary
was read :—
" DEAR Sin,                                             " TORQUAT, February Itk. 1890.
        " I beg to thank you for yoitr kind letter of the 5th instant, enclosing the
copy of a Resolution passed by the Managers of the Koyal Institution expressive
of their deep regret at the loss of my Husband, and of their intention to place on
record on the Minutes of the Institution their sense of the same.
    "May I ask you at the next Meeting to convey to the Managers my deep
appreciation of their great kindness in this matter, as also of the expression of
their sincere sympathy in my bereavement.
                                        " I am, dear Sir,
                                                     " Yours faithfully,
                                                                   "8. A. GULL."
     The following Arrangements for the Lectures after Easter were
announced :—
    THE HON. GEORGE C. BRODRIOK, D.C.L. Warden of Merton College, Oxford
—Three Lectures on THE PLACE OF OXFORD UNIVERSITY IN ENGLISH HISTORY;
on Tuesdays, April 15, 22, 29.
    Lons FAGAN, Esq. Assistant Keeper of Prints and Drawings, British
Museum—Three Lectures on THE ART OF ENGRAVING: 1. Line Engraving;
2. Wood Engraving; 3. Mezzotint Engraving; on Tuesdays, Muy (>, 13, 20.

70                          General Monthly Meeting.                  [March 3,
    ANDREW LANO, Esq.—Three Lectures on THE NATURAL HISTORY OF SOCIETY;
on Tuesdays, May 27, June 3, 10.
    C. V. BOYS, Esq. A.R.8.M. F R.S. M.R.I. Assistant Professor of Physics,
Normal School of Science, South Kensington—Three Lectures on THE HEAT or
THE Moon AND STARS (the Tyndall Lectures) ; on Thursdays, April 17, 24, May 1 .
    PROFESSOR DEWAR, M.A.'F.R.S. M.R.I. Fullerian Professor of Chemistry, K.I.
Jacksonian Professor of Natural Experimental Philosophy, Cambridge—Six Lec
tures on FLAME AND EXPLOSIVES; on Thursdays, May 8, 15, 22, 29, June 5, 12.
    CAPTAIN W. DE W. ARNEY, R.E. C.B. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Three Lectures on
COLOUR AND rrs CHEMICAL ACTION ; on Saturdays, April 19, 26, May 3.
    CHARLES WALDSTEIN, Esq. Litt.D. Ph.D.—Three Lectures on EXCAVATING
is GREECE; on Saturdays, May 10, 17, 24.
    THE REV. S. BARING-GOULD, M.A.—Three Lectures on THE BALLAD Music
OF THE WEST OF ENGLAND (with Musical Illustrations); on Saturdays, May 31,
June 7, 14.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FOR
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1888, Purt 2. 8vo. 1889.
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendicouti. 2° Semes-
     tre, Vol. V. Fuse. 11, 12. 8vo. 1890.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XV. Part 2. 8vo.
     1889.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices. Vol. L. No. 3. 8vo. 1890.
Sanken, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XI. Part 2. 8vo. 1890.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1889-90, Nos. 8, 9. 4to.
British Museum (Natural History)—Catalogue of Fossil Ueptiliu and Amphibia,
      Part III. and Guide to the Mineral Galleries. 8vo. 1«89.
Bucktan, George B. Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I (the A uthor)—Monograph of the British
      Cicada) or Tettigiidte, Part 1. 8vo. 1889.
 Cambridge Observatory—Astronomicnl Observations, Vol. XXII. 1866-9. 4to.
      1890.
 Cassedy, W. S. Esq. (the Author)—Is the Copernican System of Astronomy True ?
     8vo. 1888.
 Chemical Society—Journal for February, 1890. 8vr>.
 Cracovie, I Academic des Sciences—Bulletin, 1890, No. 1. 8vo.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. &c. M.R. I. —Journal of the Royal Microscopical
      Society, Part 6a; 1890, Part 1. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for February, 1890. 8vo.
   Analyst for February, 1890. 8vo.
   Athenaum for February, 1890. 4to.
   Chemical News for February, 1890. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for February, 1890. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for February, J890. fol.
   Engineer for Kebruary, 1890. fol.
   Engineering for February, 1890. fol.
   Horological Journal for February, 1890. 8vo.
   Industries for February, 1890. fol.
   Iron for February, 1890. 4to.
   Ironmongery for February, 1890.
   Murray's Magazine for February, 1890. 8vo.
   Nature for February, 1890. 4to.
   Photograghic News for February, 1890. 8vo.
   Rrvue Scientifique for February, 1890. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for February, 1890. fol.
   ZoopLilist for February, 1890. 4to.

 1890.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                          71
 Florence Biblioteca Nazionale Central*—Bolletino, No. 100. 8vo. 1890.
 Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1889, No. 18; 1890,
     Noa. 1, 2. 8vo.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 181. 8vo. 1889.
GeorgojUi, Keale Accademie—Atti, Quarta Seria, Vol. XII. No. 4. 8vo. 1889.
Harlem, Societe Hollandaixe des Science*—Archives Neerlandaises, Tome XXIV.
     Liv. 1. 8vo. 1890.
Imperial Institute—School for Modern Oriental Studies, Inaugural Address, &c.
     8vo. 1890.
Johns Hopkins University—University Circnlnrs, No. 78. 4to. 1890.
L'HHthy, S. P. Era. (the Author)—Solar and Lunar Spectrum ''National Academy
     of Sciences, Vol. IV.). 4to. 1889.
Liverpool Polyteclmic Society—Journal, Vol. LII. 8vo. 1890.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XX. Parts 14. 15. 8vo. 1890.
Medical and Chirurgical Sot-iety, Rnyal—Transactions, Vol. LXXII. 8vo. 1889.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, February, 1890. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XIV. No. 5. 8vo. 1890.
Rathbone, E. P. Esq. (the Editor)—The Witwatersrand Mining and Metallurgical
     Review, No. 1. 8vo. 1890.
Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh—Laboratory Reports, Vol. II. 8vo. 1890.
Ua'iHil Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 285, 286. 8vo. 1890.
Seiborne Society—Nature Notes, Vol. I. No. 2. 8vo. 1890.
Society of Artt—Journal for February, 1890. 8vo.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Report, Vol. XXV. 8vo. 1889.
St. Pelersbourg Academic Imperiales des Sciences—Memoires, Tome XXXVII.
     No. 3. 4to. 1890.
   Bulletin, Tome XXXIII. No. 3. 4to. 1890.
United States Geological Survey—Monographs, Vols. XIII. and XIV. 4to.
      1887-8.
   Bulletins, Nos. 48-53. 8vo. 1888-9.
United States Department of Agriculture—North American Fauna, Parts 1-2.
     8vo. 1889.
   English Sparrow (Passer Domesticns) in North America. By W. B. Barrows.
     Bulletin 1. 8vo. 1889.
 Wagner Free Institute of Science, Philadelphia—Transactions, Vol. II. 4to. 1889.
WiM, Dr. H.—Annalen der Physikalischen Central Observatorium, Theil I. 4to.
      1889.
   Repertorium fur Meteorologie, Band XII. 4to. 1889.
 Wright & Co. Messrs. J. (the Publishers',—Medical Annual for 1890. 8vo. 1890.
 Yale University—Transactions, Vol. I. Part 2. 4to. 1889.
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, March 7, 1890.
   SIR JAMES CRICHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.B.S. Treasurer and
                         Vice-President, in the Chair.
             FRANCIS GOTOH, Esq. Hon. M.A. Oxon. B.A. B.Sc.
          Electrical Relations of the Brain and Spinal Cord.
                                 (Abstract deferred.)

72                       Professor T. E. Thorpe                [March 14,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 14, 1890.
     WILLIAM CROOKEB, Esq. F.E.S. Vice President, in the Chair.
             Professor T. E. THORPE, Ph.D. F.E.S. M.R.I.
                         The Glow of Phosphorus.
THE word phosphorus—originally applied to any substance, solid or
liquid, which had the property of shining in the dark—has gradually
lost its generic sense, and is nowadays practically restricted, as a
designation, to the warlike inflammable substance which plays such an
important part in the composition of an ordinary lucifer match.
Phosphorus, indeed, is one of the most remarkable of the many remark
able substances known to the chemist. The curious method of its
discovery ; the universality of its distribution ; its intimate connection
 with the phenomena of animal and vegetable life ; its extraordinary
physical properties and chemical activity; its abnormal molecular
 constitution ; the Protean ease of its allotropic transformations—all
 combine to make up a history which abundantly justifies its old
 appellation of phosphorus mirabilis.
     Godfrey Hankewitz, more than 150 years ago, wrote : " This phos
 phorus is a subject that occupies much the thoughts and fancies of
 some alchymists who work on microcosmical substances, and out of
 it they promise themselves golden mountains." Certainly no man
 of his time made more in the way of gold out of phosphorus than did
 Mr. Hankewitz, for, at his little shop in the Strand, he enjoyed for
 many years the monopoly of its Bale, guarding his Arcana with
 all the jealousy of a modern manufacturer of the element.
     Phosphorus, or, as it was then called, noctiluca, was first seen in
 this country in 1677. It was shown to Robert Boyle, who had already
 worked on phosphorescence in general, and who seems to have been
 specially struck with the remarkable peculiarity of a factitious body
 which could be made " to shine in the dark without having been before
  illumined by any lucid substance, and without being hot as to sense."
  In these respects the substance differed from all the phosphori hitherto
  known. The conditions which determine its glow were the subject
  of the earliest observations on phosphorus, and Boyle has left us a
  minute account of his work on this point. In the first place, he noticed
  that the substance was only luminous in presence of air. He accu
  rately describes the nature of the light, aud noticed that the water
  in which the phosphorus was partially immersed acquired a " strong
  and penetrant taste .... and rel.shed a little like vitriol." " On
  evaporation it would not shoot into crystals . . . but coagulated into
  a substance like a gelly, or the whites of eggs, which would be easily
  melted by heat." On heating this " gelly " it gave off " flashes of fire

  1890.]                 on the Olow of Phosphorue.                     73
 and light " and bad a " garlick smell." He also found that the noctiluca
 was soluble in certain oils, and he particularly mentions oil of cloves
 as a convenient means of showing the luminosity, as it is " rendered
 more acceptable to the standers-by by its grateful smell." " In Oyl of
 Mace it did not appear luminous nor in Oyl of Aniseeds." Boyle
 describes a number of experiments showing how small a quantity of
 the phosphorus is required to produce a luminous effect. " A grain
 of the noctiluca dissolved in Alcohol of Wine and shaken in Water ;
 it render'd 400,000 times its weight luminous throughout. And at
 another Tryal I found that it impregnated 600,000 times its weight ;
 which was more than one part of Cochineel could communicate its
 colour to." " And one thing further observable was that when it had
 been a long time exposed to the air it emitted strong and odorous
 exhalations distinct from the visible Fumes." The strong and odorous
 exhalations we now know to be ozone.
     The earlier volumes of the ' Philosophical Transactions ' contain
 several papers on the luminosity of phosphorus, and one by Dr.
 Frederick Slaro is noteworthy as giving one of the earliest, if not
 actually the earliest, account of what is one of the most paradoxical
 phenomena connected with the luminosity of phosphorus, namely, its
 increase on rarefying the air. '• It being now generally agreed that
 the fire and flame [of phosphorus] have their pabulum out of the air,
 I was willing to try this nwtter in vacua. To effect this, I placed a
 considerable lump of this matter [phosphorus] under a glass, which I
 fixed to an engine for exhausting tho air; then presently working
 the engine, I found it grow lighter [i. e. more luminous], though a
 charcoal that was well kindlosl would be quite extinguished at the
 first exhaustion ; and upon the third or fourth draught, which very
 well exhausted the glass, it much increased its light, and continued
 so to shine with its increased light for a long time ; on re-admitting
 the air, it returns again to its former dulness." This observation was
 repeated, and its result confirmed by Hawksbee in this country, and
_by Homberg in France, and seems subsequently to have led Borzelius
 and after him Marchand, to tho conclusion that the luminosity of
 phosphorus was altogether independent of the air (i. e. the oxygen), hut
was solely duo to the volatility of the body. Many facts, however,
combine to show that the air (oxygen) is necessary to the phenomenon.
Lampadius found that phosphorus would not glow in the Torricellian
vacuum, and Lavoisier, in 1777, showed that it would not inflame
under the same conditions ; and the subsequent experiments of
Sehrotter, Moissner, and Miiller are decisive on the point that the glow
is the concomitant of a chemical process dependent upon the presence
of oxygen. It is, however, remarkable that phosphorus will not glow
in oxygon at the ordinary atmospheric pressure and temperature, but
that if the oxygen be rarefied the glow at once begins, but ceases
again tho moment the' oxygen is compressed. Indeed, phosphorus
will not glow in compressed air, and the fla*me of feebly-burning
phosphorus may bo extinguished by suddenly increasing the pressure

74                       Professor T. E. Thorpe              [March 14,
of tho gas. Phosphoms, however, can be made to glow in oxygen
at the ordinary pressure, or in compressed air, if the gases are gently
warmed. In the case of oxygen the glow begins at 25°, and becomes
very bright at 36°. In compressed air the temperature at which the
glow is initiated depends npon the tension. If the oxygen is abso
lutely deprived of moisture, the phosphorus refuses to glow under
any conditions. This fact, strange as it may seem, is not without
analogy ; the presence of traces of moisture appears to be necessary
for the initiation or continuance of chemical combination in a number
of instances.
    It was observed by Boyle that a minute quantity of the vapour of
a number of essential oils extinguished the glow of phosphorus. The
late Professor Graham confirmed and extended these observations ;
he showed that relatively small quantities of olefiant gas, and of the
vapours of ether, naphtha, and oil of turpentine entirely prevented the
glow, and subsequent observers have found that many essential oils,
such as those of peppermint and lemon, and the vapours of camphor
and asafoetida, even when present in very small quantity, stop the
absorption of oxygen and the slow combustion of phosphorus in air.
     It has been established that whenever phosphorus glows in air,
or in rarefied oxygen, ozone and hydrogen peroxide are formed, but
it is not definitely known whether the formation of these substances
is the cause or the effect of the chemical process of which the glow is
the visible sign. That there is some intimate connection between the
luminosity of the phosphorus and the production of these bodies is
highly probable. Schonbeiu, as far back as 1848, sought to demon
strate that the glow depends on the presence of ozone. It is certainly
true that many of the substances, such as the essential oils, which
prevent the glow of phosphorus, also destroy ozone. At a low tem
perature phosphorus produces no ozone in contact with air, neither
does it glow. It has been found, in fact, that with air ozone is
produced in largest quantity at 25°, at which temperature phosphorus
glows brightly. On the assumption that the oxidation of the phos
phorus consists in the immediate formation of the highest oxide, the
production of the ozone and the hydrogen peroxide has been represented
by the following equations :—
                          O + O2 = O8
                          0 + H2 0 = HA-
     Both these reactions may, of course, go on simultaneously, as ozone
and hydrogen peroxide are not mutually incompatible ; the synthesis
of hydrogen peroxide by the direct oxidation of water seems to occur
in a number of processes. But such symbolic expressions can at
most be only very partial representations of what actually occurs.
It is highly probable that the combination which gives rise to the
glow only occurs between the vapour of phosphorus and the oxygen.
Phosphorus is sensibly volatile at ordinary temperatures, and by

1890.]                 on the Gloio of Phosphoriu.                    75
rarefying the atmosphere in which it is placed its volatilisation is
increased, which serves to account for the increased glow when the
pressure of the gas is diminished. When phosphorus is placed in an
atmosphere of hydrogen, nitrogen, or carbonic acid, these gases, when
brought into contact with oxygen, become luminous from the oxida
tion of the vapour of phosphorus diffused through them. The rapidity
of volatilisation varies with the particular gas ; it is greatest in the
case of hydrogen, and least in that of carbonic acid. Indeed, a stream
of hydrogen gas at ordinary temperatures carries away comparatively
large quantities of phosphorus, which may be collected by appro
priate solvents. No ozone and no glow are produced in oxygen gas at
ordinary temperatures and pressures, but on warming the oxygen both
the ozone and the glow are formed. On passing ozone into oxygen
at temperatures at which phosphorus refuses to glow, the phosphorus
at once becomes luminous, oxygen is absorbed and the characteristic
cloud of oxide is produced, and the effect continues FO long as the
supply of ozone is maintained. A drop of ether at once extinguishes
the glow.
     The ether is in all probability converted into vinyl alcohol with
simultaneous formation of hydrogen peroxide by the reaction indicated
by Foleck and Thummel
              CH3CH2\ n , n — CH2CHOH , OH )
              CH3CH2/ U + Ua ~ CH2CHOH + OH J
     Formic, acetic, and oxalic acids are also formed by the action of
ozonised oxygen on ether.
     Phosphorus combines with oxygen in several proportions, and
the study of the mode of formation and properties of these oxides
is calculated to throw light upon the nature of the chemical
process which attends the glow of phosphorus. Certain of these
oxides have recently been the subject of study in the chemical
laboratories of the Normal School of Science. When phosphorus is
 slowly burned in air, there is produced a considerable quantity of a
volatile substance, having a characteristic garlic-like smell which soli
 difies, when cooled, in beautiful arborescent masses of white crystals.
It melts at about 23°, and boils at 173°. In a sealed tube kept in the
dark it may be preserved unchanged, but on exposure to light, and
especially to bright sunshine, it rapidly becomes deep red. It slowly
absorbs oxygen at the ordinary temperature and pressure, but from
the mode in which the solid product of the reaction (P205) is deposited,
it is evident that the union only takes place between the vapour of the
 oxide and the oxygen gas. Under diminished pressure the act of
 combination is attended with a glow which increases in brilliancy it
 ozone be present. On compressing the oxygen the glow ceases. No
 ozone is formed during the act of oxidation. The degree of rarefaction
 needed to initiate the glow depends upon the temperature of the
 oxide ; the warmer the oxide the less is the diminution of pressure
 required. By gradually warming the oxide the luminosity steadily

76           Prof. T. E. Thorpe an the Glow of Phosphorus.          [Mar. 14,
increases both in area and intensity, until at a certain temperature the
mass ignites. The change from glow to actual flame is perfectly
regular and gradual, and is unattended with any sudden increase in
brilliancy. In this respect the process of oiidation is analogous to
the si >w and barely visible burning of fire-damp which is sometimes
seen to occur in the Davy lamp, or to the slow combustion of ether
and other vapours which has been specially studied by Dr. Perkin.
Other instances of what may be called degraded combustion are known
to chemists. Thrown into warm oxygen the substance bursts into
flame at once, and burns brilliantly ; and it also takes fire in contact with
chlorine. Alcohol also ignites it, and when it is warmed with water
or a solution of potash it evolves spontaneously inflammable phospho-
retted hydrogen. In contact with cold water it suffers only a very
gradual change, and many days may elapse before even a comparatively
small quantity is dissolved. This substance has long been known ; it
was discovered, in fact, by the French chemist, Sage, but its true
nature has only now been determined ; its chemical formula is found
to be P406 ; hence its composition is similar to that of its chemical
analogue arsenious oxide.
    The study of the properties of this remarkable substance enables
us to gain a clearer insight into the nature of the chemical change
attending the glow of phosphorus. When phosphorus is placed in
oxygen, or in au atmosphere containing oxygen under such conditions
that it volatilises, the phosphorus oxidises, partly into phosphoric
oxide, and partly into phosphorous oxide ; ozone is formed, possibly
in the mode already indicated, and this reacts upon the residual
phosphorus vapour and the phosphorous oxide with the production of
the luminous effect to which the element owes its name. The glow
itself is nothing but a slowly burning flame having an extremely low
temperature, caused by the chemical union of oxygen with the vapours
of phosphorus and phosphorous oxide. By suitable means this glow
can be gradually augmented, until it passes by regular gradation into
the active vigorous combustion which we ordinarily associate with
flame. Many substances, in fact, may be caused to phosphoresce in a
similar way. Arsenic, when gently heated, glows in oxygen, and
sulphur may also be observed to become luminous in that gas at a
temperature of about 200°.
                                                               [T. E. T.]

 1890.]      Prof. Fitz Gerald on Electromagnetic Radiation.           77
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 21, 1890.
SIR JAMES CRIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                       Vice-President, in the Chair.
             PROFESSOR G. F. FITZ GERALD, M.A. F.R.S.
                         Electromagnetic Radiation.
IN order to discover whether actions are propagated in time or in
stantaneously, we may employ the principle of interference to measure
the wave-length of a periodic disturbance, and determine whether it
is finite or no. This is the principle employed by Hertz to prove
experimentally Maxwell's theory as to the rate of propagation of
electromagnetic waves. In order to confine the experiments within
reasonable limits we require short waves, of a few metres' length at
most. As the highest audible note gives waves of five or six miles
long, and' our eyes are sensitive only to unmanageably short waves, it
is necessary to generate and observe waves whose frequency is inter
mediate between them, of some hundred million vibrations per second
or so. For this purpose we may use a pair of conducting surfaces
connected by a shorter or longer wire, in which is interposed a spark-
gap of somo few millimetres' length. When the conductors are
charged by a coil or electrical machine to a sufficiently high difference
of potential for a spark to be formed between them, they discharge
in a series of oscillations, whose period for systems of similar shape
is inversely proportional to the linear dimensions of the system so
long as the surrounding medium is unaltered. When the surrounding
non-conducting medium changes, the period depends on the electric
and magnetic specific inductive capacities of this medium. Two such
systems wore shown. A largo one, whose frequency was about
60 millions per second ; and a small one, whoso frequency was about
500 millions per second. The largo one consisted of two flat plates,
about 30 cm. square and 60 cm. apart, and arranged in the same way
as is described by Prof. Hertz in Wiedemann's ' Annalen,' April 1888.
The smaller vibrating system consisted of two short brass cylinders
terminating in gilt brass balls of the same size, and arranged in the
same way as the smaller system described by Prof. Hertz in Wiede
mann's ' Annalen,' March 1889. This latter syst :m was placed in
the focal line of a cylindrical parabolic mirror of thin zinc plato,
such as that described by Prof. Hertz in this paper.
    These generators of electromagnetic oscillations may bo called
electric oscillators, as the electric charge oscillates from end to end.
 A circle of wire, or a coil in which an alternating current ran, or, if

78                     Professor G. F. Fitz Gerald            [March 21,
such a thing were attainable, a magnet alternating in polarity, might
be called a magnetic oscillator. A ring magnet with a closed
magnetic circuit is essentially an electric oscillator, while a ring of
ring magnets would be essentially a magnetic oscillator again. The
elementary theory of a magnetic oscillator can be derived from that
of an electric oscillator by simply interchanging electric and magnetic
force. Electricity and magnetism would be essentially interchange
able if such a thing existed as magnetic conduction. The only
magnetic currents we know are magnetic displacement currents and
convection currents, such as are used in unipolar and some other
dynamos. It is in this difference that we must look for the difference
between electricity and magnetism.
     In order to observe the existence of these electromagnetic oscilla
tions we can employ the principle of resonance to generate oscillations
in a system whose free period of oscillation is the same. A magnetic
receiver may be employed consisting of a single incomplete circle of
wire broken by a very minute spark-gap, across which a spark leaps
when the oscillations in the wire become sufficiently intense. In
order that a largo audience may observe the occurrence of sparks,
the terminals of a galvanometer circuit were connected one with one
side of the spark-gap and the other with a fine point which could be
approached very close to the other side of the spark-gap. It was
observed that when a spark occurred in the gap, a spark could also
 be arranged to occur into the galvanometer circuit, and with a delicate
long-coil galvanometer (that used had 40,000 ohms resistance) a very
marked deflection can be produced whenever a spark occurs. This
 arrangement we have only succeeded in working comparatively close
 to the generator, because the delicacy required in adjusting the two
spark-gaps is so great. It can, however, be employed to show that
 the sparks produced in this magnetic resonant circuit are due to
 resonance by removing this receiver from the generator to such a
 distance that sparks only just occur, and then substituting for the
 single circuit a double circuit, which, except for resonance, should
 have a greater action than the single one, but which stops the sparking
 altogether. An electric receiver was also used which was identical
 with the generator, and had a corresponding, only much smaller,
 spark-gap between the two plates. When the plates are connected
 with the terminals of the galvanometer, upon the occurrence of each
 spark the galvanometer is deflected. It is not BO easy to obtain
 sparks when the plates are connected with the galvanometer as when
 they are insulated, and it is this that has limited the use of this
 method of observation. By making the first metre or so of the wires
 to the galvanometer of extremely fine wire, so as to reduce their
 capacity, we have found that the difficulty of getting sparks is less
 than with thick wires. We have not observed any effect due to the
 thickness of the wires after a short distance from the receiver.
     In the case of the small oscillator, a receiver exactly like the one
 described by Prof. Hertz in his second paper already quoted was

1890.]               on Electromagnetic Radiation.                   79
placed in the focal line of a cylindrical parabolic mirror, and its re
ceiving wires were connected with the wires leading to the galvano
meter by some very fine brass wire. With the largo sized generator
and receiver, which were placed about 3 metres apart, it was shown
that the sparking was stopped by placing a thin zinc sheet so as to
reflect the radiations from a point close behind the receiver. By
means of a long indiarubber tube hung from the ceiling it was shown
how, when waves are propagated to a point whence they are reflected,
the direct and reflected waves interfering produce a system of loops
and nodes, with a node at the reflecting point. It was explained that
these nodes, though places of zero displacement, were places of
maximum rotation, and that the axis of rotation was at right angles
to the direction of displacement. It was explained that an analogous
state of affairs existed in the electromagnetic vibrations. If the
electric force be taken as analogous to the displacement of the rope,
the magnetic may be taken as analogous to its rotation, and the two
are at right angles to one another. Iu the ether the electric node is
a magnetic loop, and vice versa. Though the two are separated in
loops and nodes, they exist simultaneously in a simple wave propaga
tion, just as in a rope when propagating waves in one direction the
crest of maximum displacement is also that of maximum rotation.
It was explained that by placing the reflector at a quarter of a wave
length from the receiver this would be at an electric loop, and have
its sparking increased. It may thus be shown that there are a series
of loops and nodes produced by reflection of these electromagnetic
forces, like those produced in any other case of reflected wave-
propagation. This was Hertz's fundamental experiment, by which
he proved that electromagnetic actions are propagated in time, and
by some approximate calculations he verified Maxwell's theory that
the rate of propagation is the same as that of light. It follows that
the luminiferous ether is experimentally shown to be the medium to
which electric and magnetic actions are due, and that the electro
magnetic waves we have been studying are really only very long
light waves.
     A rather interesting deduction from Maxwell's theory is that light
incident on any body that absorbs or reflects it should press upon it
and tend to move it away from the source of light. Illustrating this,
an experiment was shown with an alternating current passing through
an electro-magnet, in front of which a good conducting plate of silver
was suspended. When the alternating current was turned on the
silver was repelled. It was explained that as the silver could only
be affected by what was going on in its own neighbourhood, and that
if sufficiently powerful radiations from a distant source were falling
on the silver, it would be acted on by alternating magnetic forces,
this experiment was in effect an experiment on the repulsion of light,
which was too small to have been yet observed, even in the case of
concentrated sunshine. These slow vibrations are not stopped by a
sheet of zinc, though much reduced by a magnetic sheet like tin

80                    Professor G. F. Fitz Gerald            [Murch 21,
plate, though the rapid ones are quite stopped by either—thus showing
that wave-propagation in a conductor is of the nature of a diffusion.
     In all cases of diffusion where we consider the limits of the
problem, terms involving the momentum of the parts of the body
must be introduced. It appears from elementary theories of diffusion
as if it were propagated instantaneously, but no action can be propa
gated from molecule to molecule, in air, for instance, faster than the
molecules move, i. e. at a rate comparable with that of sound. In
electromagnetic theory corresponding terms come in by introducing
displacement currents in conductors, and it seems impossible but that
 some such terms should be introduced, as otherwise electromagnetic
 action would be propagated instantaneously in conductors. The
propagation of light through electrolytes, and the too great trans
 parency of gold leaf, point in the same direction.
     The constitution of these waves was then considered, and it was
explained that if magnetic forces are analogous to the rotation of tho
elements of a wave, then an ordinary solid cannot be analogous to the
 ether because the latter may have a constant mapnetic force existing
in it for any length of time, while an elastic solid cannot have con
tinuous rotation of its elements in one direction existing within it.
The most satisfactory model, with properties quite analogous to those
 of the ether is one consisting of wheels geared with clastic bands.
 The wheels can rotate continuously in one direction, and their rota
tion is the analogue of magnetic force. The elastic bands are
stretched by a difference of rotation of the wheels, and intro
 duce stresses quite analogous to electric forces. By making the
elastic bands of lines of governor balls, the whole model may
have only kinetic energy, and so represent a fundamental theory.
Such a model can represent media differing in electric and magnetic
inductive capacity. If tho elasticity of the bands be less in one
region than another, such a region represents a body of higher electric
inductive capacity, and waves would be propagated more slowly in it.
A region in which the masses of tho wheels was largo would be one
of high magnetic inductive capacity. A region where the bands
slipped would be a conducting region. Such a model, unlike most
others proposed, illustrates both electric and magnetic forces and their
inter-relations, and consequently light propagation.
     In the neighbourhood of an electric generator the general distri
bution of the electric and magnetic forces is easily seen. The electric
lines of force must lie in planes passing through the axis of the
generator, while the lines of magnetic force lie in circles round this
axis and perpendicular to the lines of electric force. It is thus
evident that the wave is, at least originally, polarised. To show this,
the small-sized oscillators with parabolic mirrors were used, and a
light square frame, on which wires parallel to ono direction wero
strung, was interposed between the mirrors. It was shown that such
a system of wires was opaque to the radiation when tho wires were
parallel to the electric force, but was quite transparent when the

1890.]                on Electromagnetic Radiation.                    81
frame was turned BO that the wires were parallel to the magnetic
force. It behaved just like a tourmaline to polarised light. It is of
great interest to verify experimentally Maxwell's theory that the
plane of polarisation of light is the plane of the magnetic force. This
has been done by Mr. Trouton, who has shown that these radiations
are not reflected at the polarising angle by the surface of a non
conductor, when the plane of the magnetic force in the incident
vibration is perpendicular to the plane of incidence, but the radiations
are reflected at all angles of incidence when the plane of the mag
netic force coincides with the plane of incidence. Thus the long
standing dispute as to the direction of vibration of light in a polarised
ray has been at last experimentally determined. The electric and
magnetic forces are not simultaneous near the oscillator. The electric
force is greatest when the electrification is greatest, and the magnetic
force when the current is greatest, which occurs when the electrifica
tion is zero : thus the two, when near the oscillator, differ in phase
by a quarter of a period. In the waves, as existing far from the oscil
lator, they are always in the same phase. It is interesting to see how
one gains on the other. It may be worth observing again that though
what follows deals with electric oscillators, the theory of magnetic
oscillators is just the same, only that the distribution of magnetic and
electric forces must be interchanged. Diagrams drawn from Hertz's
figures published in Wiedemann's ' Annalen ' for January 1889,
and in 'Nature 'for March 7th, 1889, and in the 'Philosophical
Magazine ' for March 1890, were thrown on the screen in succession,
and it was pointed out how the electric wave, which might be
likened to a diverging whirl ring, was generated, not at the oscillator,
but at a point about a quarter of a wave length on each side of the
oscillator, while it was explained that the magnetic force wave starts
from the oscillator. It thus appears how one gains the quarter
period on the other. The outflow of the waves was exhibited by
causing the images to succeed one another rapidly by means of a
zoetrope, in which all the light is used and the succession of images
formed by having a separate lens for each picture and rotating the
beam of light so as to illuminate the pictures in rapid succession.
     As the direction of flow of energy in an electromagnetic field
depends on the directions of electric and magnetic force, being
 reversed when either of these is reversed, it follows that in the
 neighbourhood of the oscillator the energy of the field alternates
 between the electric and magnetic forms, and that it is only the
 energy beyond about a quarter of the wave length from the oscillator
 which is wholly radiated away during each vibration. It follows
 that in ordinary electromagnetic alternating currents at from 100 to
 200 alternatioDS per second, it is only the energy which is some 3000
 miles away which is lost. If an electromagnetic wave, having mag
 netic force comparable to that near an ordinary electro-magnet, were
 producible, the power of the radiation would be stupendous. If we
 consider the possible radiating power of an atom by calculating it upon
     VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)                                        o

 82                      Professor G. F. Fite Gerald             [March 21,
 the hypothesis that the atomic charge oscillates across the diameter of
 the atom, we find that it may be millions of millions of times as great
 as Prof. Wiedemann has found to be the radiating power of a sodium
 atom in a Bunscn burner, so that if there is reason to think that any
 greater oscillation might disintegrate the atom, it is evident that werare
 still a long way from doing so. It is to be observed that ordinary light
 waves are very much longer than the period of the vibration above re
 ferred to. Dr. Lodge has pointed out that quite largo oscillators in
 comparison to molecules, namely, about the size of the rods and cones in
 the retina, are of the size to resound to light waves of the length we see,
 and so might be used to generate such waves. This seems to show
 that the electro-magnetic structure of an atom must be more compli
 cated than a small sphere or other simple shape with an oscillating
 charge on it, for the period of vibration of a small system can be
 made long by making the system complex, e. g. a small Leyden jar
 of large capacity with a long wire wound many times round connect
 ing its coats, could easily be constructed to produce electromagnetic
 waves whose length would bear the same proportion to the size of the
 jar as ordinary light waves do to an atom. The rate at which the
 energy of a Hertzian vibrator is transferred to the ether is so great
 that we should expect an atom to possess the great radiating power it
 has. This shows, on the other hand, how completely the vibrations
 of an atom must be forced by the vibrations of the ether in its
 neighbourhood, so that atoms, being close compared with a wave
 length, are, in any given small space, probably in similar phases of
 vibration. It is interesting to consider this in connection with the
action of molecules in collision as to how far the forces between
molecules after collision is the same as before. In the same connec
 tion the existence of intra-atomic electromagnetic oscillations is
 interesting in the theories of anomalous dispersion. An electro
 magnetic model of a prism with anomalous dispersion might be con
 structed out of pitch, through which conductors, each with the same
 rate of electromagnetic oscillation, were dispersed. In theories of
dispersion a dissipation of energy is assumed, and it may be the
 radiation of the induced electromagnetic vibrations. These can
evidently never be greater than the incident electromagnetic vibra
tion, on account of this radiation of their own energy. In some
theories a vibration of something much less than the whole molecule
is assumed, and the possibility of intra-atomic electromagnetic oscil
lations would account for this. Some such assumption seems also
required, in order to explain such secondary, if not tertiary, actions
as the Hall effect and the rotation of the plane of polarisation of
light, which are, apparently at least, secondary actions due to a reac
tion of the matter set in motion by the radiation on this radiation.
     Some further diagrams were exhibited, plotted from Hertz's
theory by Mr. Trouton, to whom much of the matter in this paper
is due. They are here reproduced, and show eight simultaneous
positions of the electric and magnetic waves during a semi-oscillation

1890-1                07i Electromagnetic Radiation.                   83
of an electric oscillator. The dotted line shows the electric force at
various points, and the continuous line the magnetic force. In the
first diagram the magnetic force is at its maximum near the origin,
while the electric force there is zero. In the second the magnetic
energy near the origin has partly turned into electric energy, and
consequently electric force begins. The succeeding figures show
how the magnetic force decreases near the origin, while the electric
force grows and the waves already thrown off spread away. The
change of magnetic force between Figures 4 and 5 is BO rapid,
that a few dashed lines, showing interpolated positions, are introduced
to show how it proceeds. It will be observed how a hollow comes in
the line showing electric force, which gradually increases, and, cross
ing the line of zero force at about a quarter of a wave-length from
the origin, is the source of the electric wave, which, starting with this
odds, picks up and remains thenceforward coincident with the mag
netic wave. From this origin of electric waves they spread out along
with the magnetic waves and in towards the origin, to be reproduced
again from this point on the next vibration. These electric and
                                                             o 2

84           Prof. Fitz Gerald on Electromagnetic Radiation. [Mar. 21,
magnetic forces here shown as coincident are, of course, in space in
directions at right angles to one another as already explained. The
corresponding diagrams for a magnetic oscillator are got by inter
changing the electric and magnetic forces.
      A further experiment was shown to illustrate how waves of
transverse vihration can be propagated along a straight hollow
vortex in water. It was stated that what seemed a possible theory
of ether and matter was that space was full of such infinite vortices in
every direction, and that among them closed vortex rings represented
matter threading its way through the ether. This hypothesis explains
tho differences in Nature as differences of motion. If it be true, ether,
matter, gold, air, wood, brains are but different motions. Where alone
we can know what motion in itself is, that is, in our own brains, we
1,-iinu: nothing but thought. Can we resist the conclusion that all
motion is thought? Not that contradiction in terms, unconscious
thought, but living thought ; that all Nature is the language of One
in whom we live, and move, and have our being.
                                                         [G. F. F. G.]

 1890.]                 Lord Rayleigh on Foam.                         85
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, March 28, 1890.
Bra FREDERICK BRAMWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.E.S. Honorary Secretary
                   and Vice-President, in the Chair.
The Eight Hon. LORD RAYLEIGH, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                 Professor of Natural Philosophy, R.I.
                                  Foam.
WHEN I was turning over in my mind the subject for this evening, it
occurred to me to take as the title of the lecture, " Froth." But I
was told that a much more poetical title would be " Foam," as
it would so easily lend itself to appropriate quotations. I am afraid,
however, that I shall not be able to keep up the poetical aspect of
the subject very long ; for one of the things that I shall have most
to insist upon is that foaming liquids are essentially impure,
contaminated—in fact, dirty. Pure liquids will not foam. If I take
a bottle of water and shake it up, I shall get no appreciable foam.
If, again, I take pure alcohol, I get no foam. Bat if I take a mixture
of water with 5 per cent, of alcohol there is a much greater tendency.
Some of the liquids we are most familiar with as foaming,
such as beer or ginger-beer, owe the conspicuousness of the
property to the development of gas in the interior, enabling the
foaming property to manifest itself ; but of course the two things are
quite distinct. Dr. Gladstone proved this many years ago by showing
that beer from which all the carbonic acid had been extracted in
vacuo still foamed on shaking up. I now take another not quite
pure but strong liquid, acetic acid, and from it we shall get no more
foam than we did from the alcohol or the water. The bubbles, as
you see, break up instantaneously. But if I take a weaker acid, the
ordinary acid of commerce, there is more, though still not much,
tendency to foam. But with a liquid which for many purposes may
be said to contain practically no acetic acid at all, seeing that it
consists of water with but l-1000th .part of acid, the tendency
is far stronger ; and we get a very perceptible amount of foam.
These tests with the alcohol and acetic acid are sufficient to illustrate
the principle that the property of foaming depends on contamination.
In pure ether we have a liquid from which the bubbles break even
more quickly than from alcohol or water. They are gone in a
moment. In some experiments I made at home I found that water
containing a small proportion of ether foamed freely ; but on attempting
two or three days ago to repeat the experiment, I was surprised to

86                           Lord Rayleigh                 [March 28,
find a result very different. I have here some water containing a
very small fraction of ether, about l-240th part. If I shake it up,
it scarcely foams at all; but another mixture made in the same
proportion from another sample shows more tendency to foam. This
is rather curious, because both ethers were supposed to be of
the same quality ; but one had been in the laboratory longer than
the other, and perhaps contained more greasy matter in solution.
    Another liquid which foams freely is water impregnated with
camphor. Camphor dissolves sparingly ; but a minute quantity of it
quite alters the characteristics of water in this respect. Another
substance, very minute quantities of which communicate the foaming
property to water, is glue or gelatine. This liquid contains only
3 parts in 100,000 of gelatine, but it gives a froth entirely different
from that of pure water. Not only are there more bubbles, but the
duration of the larger bubbles is quite out of proportion to that of
water-bubbles. This sample contains 5 parts in 100,000, nearly
double as much ; but even with but 1 part in 100,000, the foaming
property is so evident as to suggest that it might in certain cases
prove valuable for indicating the presence of minute quantities of
impurities. I have been speaking hitherto of those things which
foam slightly. They are not to be compared with, say, a solution of
soap in water, which, as is well known to everybody, froths very
vigorously. Another thing comparable to soap, but not so well
known, is saponine. It may be prepared from horse chestnuts
by simply cutting them in small slices and making an infusion with
'water. A small quantity of this infusion added to water makes
it foam strongly. The quantity required to do this is even less than
in the case of soap ; so the test is more delicate. It is well known
that rivers often foam freely. That is no doubt due to the effect of
saponine or some analogous substance. Sea-water foams, but not,
I believe, on account of the saline matter it contains ; for I have
found that even a strong solution of pure salt does not foam much.
I believe it has been shown that the foaming of sea-water, often so
conspicuous, is due to something extracted from seaweeds during the
concussion which takes place under the action of breakers.
    Now let us consider for a moment what is the meaning of foaming.
A liquid foams when its films have a certain durability. Even in
the case of pure water, alcohol, and ether, these films exist. If a
bubble rises, it is covered for a moment by a thin film of the liquid.
This leads us to consider the properties of liquid films in general.
One of their most important and striking properties is their tendency
to contract. Such surfaces may be regarded as being in the condition
of a stretched membrane, as of india-rubber, only with this difference,
that the tendency to contract never ceases. We may show that by
blowing a small soap bubble, and then removing the mouth. The
air is forced back again by the pressure exerted on the bubble by the
tension of the liquid. This ancient experiment suffices to prove con
clusively that liquid films exercise tension.

1890.J                           on Foam.                              87
     A. prettier form of the same experiment is due to Van der
Mensbrugghe, who illustrated liquid tension by means of a film in
which he allowed to float a loop of fine silk, tied in a knot. As long
as the interior of the loop, as well as the exterior, is occupied by the
liquid film, it shows no tendency to take any particular shape : but
if, by insertion of, say, a bit of blotting paper, the film within the
loop be ruptured, then the tension of the exterior film is free to act,
and the thread flies instantaneously into the form of a circle, in conse
quence of the tendency of the exterior surface to become as small as
possible. The exterior part is now occupied by the soap film, and the
interior is empty. Many other illustations of this property of liquids
might be given, but time does not permit.
     In the soap film, as in the films which constitute ordinary foam,
each thin layer of liquid has two surfaces ; each tends to contract ;
but in many cases we have only one such surface to consider, as when
a drop of rain falls through the air. Again, suppose that we have
three materials in contact with one another,—water, oil, and air.
There are three kinds of surfaces separating the three materials, one
separating water and oil, another oil and air, and a third surface
separating the water from the air. These throe surfaces all exert a
 tension, and the shape of the mass of oil depends upon the relative
magnitudes of the tensions. As I have drawn it here (Fig. 1), it is
implied that the tension of the water-air surface is less than the sum
of the other two tensions—those of the water-oil surface and the air-
oil surface ; because the two latter acting obliquely balance the
former. It is only under such conditions that the equilibrium of the
 three materials as there drawn in contact with one another is possible.
 If the tension of the surface separating water and air exceeded the
 sum of the other two, then the equilibrium as depicted would be
impossible. The water-air tension, being greater, would assert its
superiority by drawing out the edge of the lens, and the oil would
 tend to spread itself more and more over the surface.
                                   FIG. 1.
                                    OIL
      And that is what really happens. Accurate measurements made
 by Qnincke and others, show that the surface tension separating
 water and air, is really greater than the sum of the two others. So
 oil does tend to spread upon a surface of water and air. That this is
 the fact, we can prove by a simple experiment. At the feet of our
 chairman, onr Honorary Secretary, is a large dish, containing water
 which at present is tolerably clean. In order to see what may happen
 to the surface of the water, it is dusted over with fine sulphur powder,
 and illuminat'jd with the electric light. If I place on the surface

88                           Lord Eayleigh                     [March 28,
a drop of water, no effect MIMICS ; but if I take a little oil, or better
still a drop of saponine, or of soap-water, and allow that to be
deposited upon the middle of the surface, we shall see a great
difference. The surface suddenly becomes dark, the whole of the
dust being swept away to the boundary. That is the result of the
spread of the film, due to the presence of the oil.
     How then is it possible that we should get a lens-shaped mass of
oil, as we often do, floating upon the surface of water ? Seeing that
the general tendencv of oil is to spread over the surface of water,
why dues it not do so in tins case ? The answer is that it has
already spread, and that this surface is not really a pure water surface
at all, but one contaminated with oil. It is in fact only after such
contamination that an equilibrium of this kind is possible. The
volume of oil necessary to contaminate the surface of the water is
very small, as we shall see presently ; but I want to emphasise the
point that, so far as we know, the equilibrium of the three surfaces
in contact with one another is not possible under any other conditions.
That is a fact not generally recognised. In many books you will
find descriptions of three bodies in contact, and a statement of the law
of the angles at which they meet; that the sides of a triangle,
drawn parallel to the three intersecting surfaces must be in proportion
to the three tensions. No such equilibrium, and no such triangle, is
possible if the materials are pure ; when it occurs, it can only be duo
to the contamination of one of the surfaces. These very thin films,
which spread on water, and, with less freedom, on solids also, are of
extreme tenuity ; and their existence alongside of the lens, proves
that the water prefers the thin film of oil to one of greater thickness.
If the oil were spread out thickly, it would tend to gather itself back
into drops, leaving over the surface of the water a film of less thickness
than the molecular range.
     One experiment by which we may illustrate some of these effects
I one to my colleague, Professor Dewar. It shows the variation in
the surface tension of water, due to the presence on it of small quan
tities of ether. I hold in my hand masses of charcoal, which can be
impregnated with ether. The greater part of the surface of the char
coal is covered with paraffin wax, and, in consequence, the ether which
has already penetrated the charcoal can only escape from it again on
one side. The result is that the water in the rear of this boat of char
 coal will be more impregnated with ether than the part in front, so the
mass of charcoal will enter into motion, and the motion will extend
over a considerable interval of time. As long as the ether remains
in sufficient quantity to contaminate the water in the rear, so long is
 there a tendency to movement of the mass. The water covered with
the film of ether has less tension than the pure water in front, and
the balance of tensions being upset, the mass is put in motion. If
the nature of the case is such that the whole surface surrounding the
solid body is contaminated, then there is no tendency to movement,
 the same balance in fact obtaining as if the water were pure.

1890.]                               on Foam.                                  89
     Another body which we may use for this purpose is camphor. If
we spread some camphor scrapings on a surface of pure water, they
will, if the surface is quite clean, enter into vigorous movement, as
you now see. This is because the dissolved camphor diminishes the
surface tension of the water. But if I now contaminate the water
with the least possible quantity of grease, the movements of the
camphor will be stopped. I merely put my finger in, and you observe
the effect. There is not much poetry about that ! A very slight film,
perfectly invisible by ordinary means, is sufficient so to contaminate
the water that the effect of the dissolved camphor is no longer visible.
     I was very desirous to ascertain, if possible, the actual thickness
of oil necessary to produce this effect, because all data relating to
molecules are, in the present state of science, of great interest. From
what I have already said, you may imagine that the quantity of oil
required is very small, and that its determination may be difficult.
In my experiments,* I used the surface of water contained in a largo
sponge bath three feet in diameter. By this extension of the surface,
I was able to bring the quantity of oil required within the range of a
sensitive balance. In Diagram 2, I have given a number of results
                                  DIAGRAM 2.
            A SAMPLE or OIL SOMEWHAT DECOLORISED RY EXPOSURE.
                            Calculated
      Date.    Weight or   Thickness of         Effect upon Camphor Fragments.
                  Oil.    Film in Micro-
                           mllllmetrea.
                  mg.
  Dec.  17       0-40          0-81       No distinct effect.
  Jan.  11       0-52          1-06       Barely perceptible.
  Jan.  14       0-65          1-32       Not quite enough.
  Deo.  20       0-78          1-58       Nearly enough.
  Jan.  11       0-78          1-58       Just enough.
  Dec.  17       0'81          1-63       Juat about enough.
  Dec.  18       0-83          1-68       Nearly enough.
  Jan.  22       0-84          1-70       About enough.
  Deo.  18       0-95          1-92       Just enough.
  Dec.  J7       0-99          2-00       All movements very nearly stopped.
  Dec.  20       1-31          2-65       Fully enough.
                               A FRESH SAMPLE.
  Jan. 28        0-63          1-28       Barely perceptible.
  Jan. 28        1-06          2 '14      Just enough.
obtained at various dates, showing the quantity of oil required to pro
duce the effects recorded in the fourth column. Knowing the weight of
 the oil deposit, and the area of the water surface upon which it was
 uniformly spread, it was easy to calculate the thickness of the film.
                         • Proc. Roy. Soc., March 1890.

90                             Lard Rayleigh                     [March 28,
It is seen that a film of oil about 1 ,'' millionth of a millimetre thick is
able to produce this change. I know that large numbers are not
readily appreciated, and I will therefore put the matter differently.
The thickness of the oil film thus determined as sufficient to stop the
motions of the camphor is one 400th of the wave length of yellow light.
Another way of saying the same thing is that this thickness of oil
bears to one inch the same ratio that cue second of time bears to half
a year.
     When the movement of the camphor has been stopped by the
addition of a minute quantity of oil, it is possible, by extending the
water surface enclosed within the boundary, without increasing the
quantity of oil, to revive the movements of the camphor ; or, again, by
contraction, to stop them. I can do this with the aid of a flexible
boundary of thin sheet brass, and you see that the camphor recovers
its activity, though a moment ago it was quite dead. It would be an
interesting subject for investigation to determine what is the actual
 tension of an oily surface contaminated to an extent just sufficient to
stop the camphor movements ; but it is not an easy problem. Usually
 we determine surface tensions by the height to which the liquids will
 rise in very fine tubes. Here, however, that method is not available,
 because if we introduce a tube into such a surface, there is no proof
 that the contamination of the inner surface in the tube is the same as
 that prevailing outside. Another method, however, may be employed
 which is less open to the above objection, and that is to substitute for
 the very fine or capillary tube, a combination of two parallel plates
 open at their edges. We have here two such plates of glass, kept
 from absolutely closing by four pieces of thin metal inserted at the
 corners, the plates being hold close against these distance-pieces by
 suitable clamps. If such a combination be inserted in water, the
 liquid will rise above the external level, and the amount of the rise is
 a measure of the surface tension of the water. You see now the
 image on the screen. A is tho external water surface ; B is the height
 of the liquid contained between the glass plates, so that the tension
 may be said to be measured by the distance AB. If a little oil be
 now deposited upon the surface, it will find its way between the
 plates. The fall which you now see shows that the surface tension
 has been diminished by the oil which has found its way in. A very
 minute quantity will give a great effect. When the height of the pure
 water was measured by 62, a small quantity of oil changed the 62 into
 48, and subsequent large additions of oil could only lower it to 38.
 But after oil has done its worst, a further effect may be produced by
 the addition of soap. If Mr. Gordon now adds some soap, we shall
 find that there is a still further fall in the level, showing that the
 whole tension now in operation is not much more than one-third of
 what it was at first. This is an important point, because it is some
 times supposed that the effect of soap in diminishing the tension of
 water is due to merely the formation upon the surface of a layer of
 oil formed by decomposition of the soap. This experiment proves the

 1890.]                               on Foam.                                    91
contrary, because wo find that soap can do so much more than oil.
There is indeed, something more or less corresponding to the decom
position of the soap and the formation of a superficial layer of oil.
But the decomposition takes place in a very peculiar manner, and
under such conditions that there is a gradual transition from the soapy
liquid in the interior to the oily layer at the top, and not, as when we
float a layer of oil on water, two sudden transitions, first from water to
oil. and secondly from oil to air. The difference is important, because,
as I showed some years ago, capillary tension depends on the sudden
ness of change. If we suppose that the change from one liquid to
another takes place by slow stages, though the final change may be as
before, the capillary tension would absolutely disappear.
      There is another very interesting class of phenomena due to oil
films, which 1 hope to illustrate, though I am conscious of the diffi
culty of the task,—namely, the action of oil in preventing the forma
tion of waves. From the earliest times we have records of the effect
of oil in stilling waves, and all through the Middle Ages the effect
was recognised, though connected with magic and fanciful explanations.
Franklin, than whom, I suppose, no soberer inquirer ever existed,
made the thing almost a hobby. His attention was called to it
accidentally on board ship from noticing the efl'eot on the waves
caused by the greasy debris of a dinner. The captain assured him
that it was due to the oil spread on the water, and for some time after
 wards, Franklin used to carry oil about with him, so as never to miss
a chance of trying an experiment. A pond is necessary to illustrate
 the phenomena properly, but we shall get an idea of it by means of
 this trough six feet long, containing water.* Along the surface
 of the water we shall make an artificial wind by means of a fan,f
driven by an electro motor. In my first experiments I used wind
 from an organ bellows, which is not here available. Presently we
 shall get up a ripple, and then wo will try the effect of a drop of oil
 put in to windward. I have now put on the drop, and you see a
 smooth place advancing along. As soon as the waves come up again,
 I will repeat the experiment. While the wind is driving the oil away,
 I may mention that this matter has been tested at Peterliead. Experi
 ments were there made on a large scale to show the effect of oil in
 facilitating the entrance of ships into harbour in rough weather.
 Much advantage was gained. But here a distinction must be observed.
 It is not that the large swell of the ocean is damped down. That
 would be impossible. The action in the first instance is upon the
 comparatively small ripples. The large waves are not directly nffect-
 in by the oil ; but it seems as if the power of the wind to excite and
 maintain them is due to the small ripples which form on their backs,
     * The width is 8 inches, and the depth 4 inches. The sides are of gluss ; the
 bottom and ends of wood, painted white.
     t For thin fan and its tittinga the Institution is indebted to the liberality of
  the Blai-kmau Ventilating Company.

92                                 Lord Rayleigh                  [March 28,
and give the wind, as it were, a better hold of them. It is only in
that way that large waves can be affected. The immediate effect is on
the small waves which conduce to that breaking of the large waves
which from the sailor's point of view is the worst danger. It is the
breaking waters which do the mischief, and these are quieted by the
action of the oil.
     I want to show also, though it can only be seen by those near, the
return of the oil when the wind is stopped. The oil is at present
driven to one end of the trough ; * when the wind stops it will come
back, because the oil film tends to spread itself uniformly over the
surface. As it comes back, there will be an advancing wave of oil ;
and as we light the surface very obliquely by the electric lamp, there is
visible on the bottom of the trough a white line, showing its progress.
     Now, as to the explanation. The first attempt on the right lines
was made by the Italian physicist, Marangoni. He drew attention
to the importance of contamination upon the surface of the water, and
to its tendency to spread itself uniformly, but for some reason which
I cannot understand, he applied the explanation wrongly. More
recently Reynolds and Aitken have applied the same considerations
with better success. The state of the case seems to be this :—Let us
 consider small waves as propagated over the surface of clean water ;
 as the waves advance, the surface of the water has to _ submit to
 periodic extensions and contractions. At the crest of a wave the
 surface is compressed, while at the trough it is extended. As long as
 the water is pure there is no force to oppose that, and the wave can
 be propagated without difficulty ; but if the surface be contaminated,
 the contamination strongly resists the alternate stretching and con
 traction. It tends always, on the contrary, to spread itself uniformly ;
 and the result is that the water refuses to lend itself to the motion
 which is required of it. The film of oil may be compared to an inex-
 tensible membrane floating on the surface of the water, and hampering
 its motion ; and under these conditions it is not possible for the
 waves to be generated, unless the forces are very much greater than
 usual. That is the explanation of the effect of oil in preventing the
 formation of waves.
      The all-important fact is that the surface has its properties
 changed, so that it refuses to submit to the necessary extensions and
 contractions. We may illustrate this very simply by dusting the
 surface of water with sulphur powder, only instead of dispersing the
 sulphur, as before, by the addition of a drop of oil, we will operate
 upon it by a gentle stream of wind projected downwards on the surface,
 and of course spreading out radially from the point of impact. If Mr.
 Gordon will blow gently on the surface in the middle of the dusty
 region, a space is cleared ; f if he stops blowing, the dust comes back
     * May 1890. Any moderate quantity of oil may be driven off to leeward ; but
 if oleate of soda be applied, the quieting effect is permanent.
     t This experiment is due to Mr. Aitken

1890.]                              on Foam.                                   93
again. The first result is not surprising, but why does the dusty
surface come back ? Such return is opposed to what we should
expect from any kind of viscosity, and proves that there must be some
force directly tending to produce that particular motion. It is the
superior tension of the clean surface. No oil has been added here,
but then no water surface is ever wholly free from contamination ;
there may be differences of degree, but contamination is always
present to some extent. I now make the surface more dirty and
greasy by contact of the finger, and the experiment no longer succeeds,
because the jet of wind is not powerful enough to cleanse the place
on which it impinges ; the dirty surface refuses to go away, or if it
goes in one direction it comes back in another.
    I want now to bring to your notice certain properties of soap
solutions, which, however, are not quite so novel as I thought when
I first came upon them in my own inquiries. * If we measure by
statical or slow methods the surface tension of soapy water, we
find that it is very much less than that of clean water. We can prove
this in a very direct manner by means of capillary tubes. Here,
shown upon the screen, are two tubes of the same diameter, in which,
therefore, if the liquids were the same, there would be the same eleva
tion ; one tube dips into clean water, and the other into soapy water,
and the clean water rises much (nearly three times) higher than the
soapy water.
     Although the tension of soapy water is so much less than that of
pure water when measured in this way, I had some reason to suspect
that the case might be quite different if we measured the tensions
immediately after the formation of the surfaces. I was led to think
so by pondering on Marangoni's view that the behaviour of foaming
liquids was due to the formation of a pellicle upon their surfaces ;
for if the change of property is due to the formation of a pellicle, it
is reasonable to suppose that it will take time, so that if we can make
an observation before the surface is more than say T0V of a second
 old, we may expect to get a different result. That may seem an
impossible feat, but there is really no difficulty about it ; all that is
 necessary is to observe a jet of the substance in question issuing from
a fine orifice. If such a jet issues from a circular orifice it will be
 cylindrical at first, and afterwards resolve itself into drops. If, how
 ever, the orifice is not circular, but elongated or elliptical, the jet
 undergoes a remarkable transformation before losing its integrity.
 As it issues from the elliptical orifice, it is in vibration, and trying to
 recover the circular form ; it does so, but afterwards the inertia tends
 to carry it over to the other side of equilibrium. The section oscil
 lates between the ellipse in one direction and the ellipse in the
 perpendicular direction. The jet thus acquires a sort of chain-like
 appearance, and the period of the movement represented by the
    * I here allude to the experiments of 1 )upn-, and to the masterly theoretical
discussion of liquid films by Professor Willard Gibbe.

94                            Lord Rayleijh                   [March 28,
distance between corresponding points A, B, Fig. 3, is a measure of
the capillary tension to which these vibrations of the elliptical section
about the circular form are due. A measure, then, of the wave
length of the recurrent pattern formed by the liquid gives us infor
mation as to the tension immediately after escape ; and if we wish to
compare the tensions of various liquids, all we have to do is to fill a
vessel alternately with one liquid and another, and compare the wave
lengths in the various cases. The jet issues from a flask, to which is
attached below a tubular prolongation ; the aperture is made small in
order that wo may be able to deal with small quantities of liquid.
You now see the jet upon the screen (Fig. 3), it issues from the
                                 Fro. 3.
orifice ; it oscillates, and we can get a comparative measure of the
tension by observing the distance between corresponding points
'(A,B).
    If we were now to take out the water, and substitute for it a
moderately strong solution of soap or saponine, we should find but
little difference, showing that in the first moments the tension of soapy
water is not very different from that of pure water. It will be more
interesting to exhibit a case in which a change occurs. I therefore
introduce another liquid, water containing 10 per cent, of alcohol,
and you see that the wave-length is different from before. So this
method gives us a means of investigating the tensions of surfaces
immediately after their formation. If we calculate by known methods
how long the surface has been formed before it gets to the point B,
at which the measurement is concluded, we shall find that it does not
exceed T J-ij of a second.
     Another important property of contaminated surfaces is what
 Plateau and others have described as superficial viscosity. There
are cases in which the surfaces of liquids—of distilled ' water, for
 example— seem to exhibit a special viscosity, quite distinct from the
 ordinary interior viscosity, which is the predominant factor in deter
 mining the rate of flow through long narrow tubes. Plateau's
 experiment was to immerse a magnetised compass needle in water;
 the needle turns, as usual, upon a point, and the water is contained in
 a cylindrical vessel, not much larger than the free rotation of the

1890.]                           on Foam.
needle requires (Fig. 4). The observation relates to the time occu
pied by the needle in returning to its position of equilibrium in the
meridian, after having been deflected into the east and west positions,
and Plateau found that in the case of water more time was required
when the needle was just afloat than when it was wholly immersed,
whereas in the case of alcohol the
time was greater in the interior.                     Fin. 4.
The longer time occupied when
the needle is upon the surface of
water is attributed by Plateau to
an excessive superficial viscosity of
that body.
     Instead of a needle, I have
here a ring of brass wire (Fig. 5),
floating on the surface of the water.
You see upon the screen the image
of the ring, as well as the surface
of the water, which has been made
visible by sulphur. The ring is so
hung from a silk fibre that it can
turn upon itself, remaining all
the while upon the surface of the
water. Attached to it is a magnetic needle, for the purpose of giving
it a definite set, and of rotating it as required by an external magnet.
On this water, which is tolerably clean, when the ring is made to
              FIG. 5.                                  FIG. 6.
 turn, it leaves the dust in the interior entirely behind. That shows
 that the water inside the ring offers no resistance to the shearing

96                             Lord Rayleigh                  [March 28,
action brought into play. The part of the surface of water immedi
ately in contact with the ring no doubt goes round ; but the movement
spreads to a very little distance. The same would be observed if we
added soap. But if I add some saponine, we shall find a different
result, and that the behaviour of the dust in the interior of the ring
is materially altered. The saponine has stiffened the surface, so that
the ring turns with more difficulty ; and when it turns, it carries round
the whole interior with it. The surface has now got a stiffness from
which it was free before; but the point upon which I wish to fix
your attention is that the surface of pure water does not behave in
the same way. If, however, we substitute for the simple hoop another
provided with a material diameter (Fig. 6), lying also in the surface
of the water, then we shall find, as was found by Plateau in his
experiment, that the water is carried round. In this case, it is no
longer possible for the surface to be left behind, as it was with the
simple hoop, unless it is willing to undergo local expansions and
contractions of area. The difference of behaviour proves that what
a water surface resists is not shearing, but expansions and contractions ;
in fact, it behaves just as a contaminated surface should do. On this
supposition, it is easy to explain the effects observed by Plateau ; but
the question at once arises, can we believe that all water surfaces
hitherto experimented upon are sensibly contaminated ? and if yes,
is there any means by which the contamination may be removed ?
I cannot in the time at my disposal discuss this question fully, but I
may say that I Lave succeeded in purifying the surface of the water
in Plateau's experiment, uutil it behaved like alcohol. It is therefore
certain that Plateau's superficial viscosity is due to contamination, as
was conjectured by Marangoni.
     I must now return to the subject of foam, from which I may seem
 to have digressed, though I have not really done so. Why does
 surface contamination enable a film to exist with greater permanence
than it otherwise could ? Imagine a vertical soap film. Could the
film continue to exist if the tension were equal at all its parts ? It
is evident that the film could not exist for more than a moment;
for the interior part, like the others, is acted on by gravity, and,
if no other forces are acting, it will fall 16 feet in a second. If the
tens on above be the same as below, nothing can prevent the fall.
But observation proves that the central parts do not fall, and thus
that the, tension is not uniform, but greater in the upper parts than in
the lower. A film composed of pure liquid can have but a very brief
life. But if it is contaminated, there is then a possibility of a
different tension at the top and at the bottom, because the tension
depends on the degree of contamination. Supposing that at the first
moment the film were uniformly contaminated, then the central parts
 would begin to drop. The first effect would be to concentrate the
contamination on the parts underneath and diminish it above. The
result of that would be an increase of tension on the upper parts. So
 the effect would be to call a force into play tending to check the

1890.]                           on Foam.                                97
motion, and it is only in virtue of such a force that a film can have
durability. The main difference between a material that will foam
and one that will not is in the liability of the surface to contamination
from the interior.
    I find my subject too long for my time, and must ask you to
excuse the hasty explanations 1 have given at some parts. But I was
anxious above all to show the principal experiments upon which are
based the views that I have been led to entertain.
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, April 7, 1890.
 SIR JAMES CRIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
                   Arthur Edward Ash, Esq.
                    Kobert Bobbie, Esq.
                   William 8. Hall, Esq.
                    Major Percy A. Macmahon, R.A.
                    Miss May Pollock,
                   Mrs. Joseph Shaw,
                   Major-General C. E. Webber, C.B.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The following Alterations in the Bye Laws of the Royal Institu
tion were passed :—
In CHAPTER I. (Of the Government. And of the Enacting and Repealing
     of Bye Laws').
   In Art. 1, line 9, omit "and fifteen Visitors, so chosen."
   In Art. 1, line 10, omit "either" and "or Visitor."
   In Art. 1, line 11, insert "neither shall the major part of the Visitors
     have served the office of Visitor during any part of the preceding
     year."
In CHAPTER II. (Of the Election, Eights, and Privileges of the Members').
   Repeal Article 7.
   In Art. 8, line 1, insert "paid his admission fee often guineas, and
     who has."
   In Art. 8, line 4, omit " if his annual payment be five guineas, or
     the sum often guineas, if his annual payment be ttco guineas."
    VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)                                          H

98                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [April 7,
   Kepeal Article 9.
   In Art. Id, line 1, for " All Members of the Royal Institution elected
      after the fourth day of August. 18:23, and all those Members elected
     previously to that time, who shall have given bond for the payment
      of the annual sum offive guineas, as long as they continue Members
      of the Institution, pursuant to the last Article," substitute" Members."
   In Art. 12, line 8, omit "provided that nothing herein contained shall
      be construed to permit any Member, elected previously to the fourth
      day of August, 1S23, who shall have given bond for the payment of
      the sum of 'four guineas ' per annum, to withdraw unless he shall
     previously have executed the bond for the payment of five guineas
      annually, according to the provisions of Art. 9 of this Chapter."
   Jlepeal Article 15.
   Repeal Article 17.
   In Art. 21, line 3, omit " (exclusive of the privilege reserved by Act
      of Parliament to those icho were heretofore Proprietors)."
In CHAPTER IV. (Of the Election of Officers}.
   In Art. 2, last lino, insert " On the filling up of such vacancy or
      vacancies the ballot shall remain open for only fifteen minutes."
   In Art. 4, line 2, for " two o'clock P.M." substitute "five o'clock
      P.M."
   In Art. 4, line 5, for " three o'clock P.M." substitute " half-past five
      o'clock P.M."
In CHAPTER VI. (Of the Duties of the Committee of Managers).
   In Art. 4, line 3, insert " with the exception of the months of January,
       August. September, and October."
   In Art. 4, line 4, insert " The Managers present at any Meeting shall
       have power should the business not be completed to adjourn to some
       date to be then agreed upon prior to the next monthly meeting."
    In Art. 6, line 3, insert (after " Member ") " of the Committee."
   In Art. 12, line 2, insert " Library, the."
   In Art. 12, line 9, insert " Books, Journals, and Periodicals."
   In Art. 15, lino 3, omit " Mineralogical Collection."
   In Art. 17, line 4, omit " and those appointed by the Patrons of the
       Library."
In CHAPTER VII. (Of the Duties of the Committee of Visitors).
    In Art. 3, line 3, for " one o'clock P.M." substitute "five o'clock P.M."
    In Art. 7, line 2, insert (after " Member") " of that Committee."
In CHAPTER VIII. (Of the Duties of the Treasurer).
    In Art. 1, line 2, omit " according to form (A) in the Appendix."
    In Art. 1, line 5, for " such Manager or Visitor putting the letters
       Mr. or Vr. after his name," substitute " on such forms as shall be
       determined by the Managers from time to time. Any Manager or
       Visitor signing such receipt shall put the letters Mr. or Vr. after his
       name."
 In CHAPTBR X. (Of the General Meetings of the Members').
    In Art. 1, line 4, for " two o'clock " substitute "five o'clock."
    In Art. 4, line 4, omit " August."

 1890.]                  General Monthly Meeting.                         99
   In Art. 8, lino 7, omit " 3. Of any Propositions or Reports from the
      Scientific and Literary Committees, according to their dates."
   In Art. 15, line 2, for " only vote when the suffrages are equal "
      substitute " when the voices for and against the question proposed are
      equal have a second or casting vote."
In CHAPTER XIII. (Of Life Subscribers and Annual Subscribers).
   For title substitute (Of LIFE SURSCRIRERS AND OF SURSCRIRERS TO
      COURSES OF LECTURES).
   In Art. 1, line 1, omit " shall."
   In Art. 1, lino 2, omit "previously to the fourth day of August, 1823,
      according to Vie Bye Law then in force, and those persona icho shall
      hereafter be admitted as Life Subscribers to the Royal Institution."
   Repeal Article 2.
   Repeal Article X.
   Repeal Article 4.
   In Art. 5, line 5, for " Persons desirous of attending such Course or
      Courses to be recommended by a Member of the Institution, according
      to theform (C) in the Appendix, to the Committee of Managers, who
      may issue the admission ticket,'' substitute "Persons who attend
      such Course or Courses to conform to such regulations as may be
      made from time to time by the Managers.''
In CHAPTBR XIV. (Of the Causes and Form of Ejection from the
     Institution).
   In Art. 1, line 9, insert " or a subscriber thereto."
   Repeal Article 2.
   In Art. 4, lines 1 and 6, omit "or Subscriber."
   In Art. 4, line 3, omit " or Subscribers."
In CHAPTER XVIII. (Of the Weekly Meetings of the Members).
   In Art. 3, last line, insert "and to listen to Discourses on suck
     subjects."
In CHAPTER XX. (O/ the Library and Mineral Collection).
   Repeal the whole Chapter.
In CHAPTER XXI. (Of the Laboratory and Apparatus).
   For title substitute (Op THE LIRRARY, THE LARORATORY, AND APPA
     RATUS).
   In Art. 1, line 1, insert after the first word "Library, the."
   In Art. 2, line 1, omit " Tliere shall be."
   In Art. 2, line 2, insert " shall be kept " and " Library, the."
   Repeal the following Articles :—
     Article 3.
     Article 4.
     Article 5.
     Article 6.
Make all such alterations in the numbers of the Chapters and of the
     Articles as may be rendered necessary by the foregoing revision
     of the Bye Laws.
In APPENDIX omit forms (A. B. and C.).
                                                                 H 2

100                         General Monthly Meeting.                     [April 7,
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
following Donations to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
Research :—
                      Ludwig Mond, Esq                   £100.
                      Lachlan M. Rate, Esq.           .. £50.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FOR
Tlte Secretary of State for India—Report on Public Instruction in Bengal, 1888-9.
      ful. 1889.
The New Zealand Government—Statistics of the Colony of New Zealand, 1888.
      fol. I8'.iO.
Aecademia dei Lined, Reale, Rama—Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. 2° Semes-
      tre, Vol. V. Fasc. 18; 1" Semestre, Vol. VI. Fasc. 1, 2, 3. 8»o. 1890.
Antiquaries, Society nf—Proceedings, Vol. XII. Purt 4. 8vo. 1H89.
Attronomicai Society, Rnyal—Monthly Notices, Vol. L. No. 4. 8vo. 1890.
Basel Naturforschende Gesdhchaft—Verhandlungen, 8th Theil, Heft 3. 8vo.
      1890.
British Architectt, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1889-90, Nos. 10, 11. 4to.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. VII. Part 1. 8vo. 1890.
C'inada Meteorological Service—Annual Hi-port, 1886. 8vo. 1890.
Canadian /nrfiYute—Anniml Report, 1888-9. 8vo. 1889.
Chemwal Society —Journal for March, 1890. 8vo.
Cracovie, I Acadfmie des Sciences—Bulletin. 1890, No. 2. 8vo.
Dux, Sucietf de BortIa —Bulletin, 4" Trimestre, 1889. 8vo.
Editors— American Journal of Science for March, 1890. 8vo.
   Analyst for March, 1890. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for March. 1890. 4to.
   Chemical News for March, 1890. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for March, 1890. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for March, 1890. fol.
   Engineer for March, 1890. fol.
   Engineering for March, 1890. fol.
  Horoligie.nl Journal for March, 1890. 8vo.
   Industries for March, 1890. fol.
  Iron for March, 1890. 4to.
   Ironmongery for March, 1890.
  Murray's Magazine for March, 1890. 8vo.
   Nature for March, 1890. 4to.
   Photographic Ms;ws for March, 1890. 8vo.
   Revue Scientifique for March, 1890. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for March, 1890. fol.
   Zoo|ihilist for March, 1890. 4to.
Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, No. 81. 8vo. 1890.
   In.lex to Journal, Vols. I.-X. 1872-1882, 8vo. 1882.
Florence, Bihlioteca Nazionale Centrals—Bollettino, Nos. 101, 102. 8vo. 1890.
   Incliee e Cataloghi, Vol. II. Fasc. ]. 8vo. 1890.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 770, 771. 8vo. 1890.
Freshfleld, Edwin, Es'I. LL.D M.R.I, (the Editor) -Vestry Minute Booka of the
     Parish of St. Bartholomew, 1567-1676. (Privately Printed.) 4to. 1890.
Geographical Society, Royal— Proceedings, New Series, Vol. XII. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo.
       1890.
Jabhnoto'ki'sche Gefellschaft, Leipzig—Fur»tl icho Preisschrift, No. 27. 4to. 1889.
Johns Hopkins University—Universitv Circulars, No. 79. 4to. 1890.
Kansas Academy of Sciences—Transactions, Vol. XI. 1887-88. 8vo. 1889.
Laboratory Club—Transactions, Vol. III. No. 4. 8vo. 1890.

 1890.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                       101
Liverpool Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vols. X 1 ,1 X 1,111.
       8vo. 1886-89.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XX. Parts 16, 17. 8vo. 1890.
Meteorological Oflfre—Weekly Weather Reports, Nos. 1-13. 4to. 1890.
    Report of Meteorological Council to R.S. 31 March, 1889. 8vo. 1890.
Meteorological Society, Royal—Quarterly Journal, No. 73. 8vo. 1889.
 Ministry of Public Works, Rome—Giornale del Gcnio Civile, Serie Quinta,
       Vol. III. Nos. 12, J3; Vol. IV. No. 1. And Disegni. 8vo. 1890.
(Jdontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXII. Nos. 4, 5. New
       Series. 8vo. 1 S89.
Pharmaceutical Society of Orcat Rrilnin —Journal, March, 1890. 8vo.
 Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XIV. No. 6. 8vo. 1890.
 1'liysical Society of London— Proceedings, Vol. X. Part 3. 8vo. 1890.
 Preuesische Akademie der Wisssnscliaflen— Sitzungsberichte XXX1X.-LIII. 8vo.
       1889.
Rathbone, K. P. Esq. (the Editor) —The Witwatersrand Mining and Metallurgical
       Review, No. 2. 8vo. 1890.
Richardt, Admiral Sir S. H. K.C.B. F.R.S. &c, (the Conservator)—Report on the
       Navigation of the River Mersey, 1889. 8vo. 181(0.
Richardeon, R. W. (the Author)—The Aselepiad, Vol. VI[. No. 25. 8vo. 1890.
Rio de Janeiro Observatory— Revista, No. 1. 8vo. 1890.
Royal Historical and Arch5eological Association of Ireland— Journal, Vol. IX.
      (4th Series), No. 81. 8vo. 1890.
Royal Irish Academy—Transactions, Vol. XXIX. Port 12. 4to. 1889.
    Proceedings, Vol. 1. Part 2. (3rd Suries.) 8vo. 1889.
Royid Society of London—Proceedings. No. 287. 8vo. 1890.
    Philosophicttl Transactions, Vol. CLXXX. 4to. 1890.
Royal Society uf New South Wales—Journal and Proceedings, Vol. XXIII. Part 1.
      8vo. 1889.
   Catalogue of Scientific Books in Library, Part 1. 8vo. 1889.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes, Vol. I. No 3. 8vo. Is90.
So<'iety of Architeets— Proceedings, Vol. II. Nos. 5-8. 8vo. 1890.
Society of Arts—Journal for March, 1890. 8vo.
 Verein zur BefSrderung det Gewerbjieises in Preussen —Verhandlungen, 1890 :
       Heft 1, 2. 4to.
 Wimshurst, James, Eiq. M.R.I.—Electrical Influence Machines. By J. Gray.
      8vo. 1890.
                      WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, April 18, 1890.
         SIB FBEDEBICK ABEL, C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vicc-President,
                                    in the Chair.
     Sia FBEDEBICK BBAMWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Hon. Sec. E.I.
                               Welding by Electricity.
                                 (Abstract deferred.)

102                          Sir John Lubbock                   [April 25,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, April 25, 1890.
COLONEL JAMBS A. GRANT, C.B. C.S.I. F.R.S. Manager and Vice-
                          President, in the Chair.
     The Kight Hon. SIR JOHN LURROCK, Bart. M.P. D.C.L. LL.D.
                               F.R.S. H.B.I.
                   The Shapes of Leaves and Cotyledons.
ATTEMPTS to explain the forms, colours, and other characteristics of
animals and plants, though not now, were until recent years far from
successful.
      Our Teutonic forefathers had a pretty story which explained
certain characteristics of several common plants. Balder, the God
of Mirth and Merriment, was, characteristically enough, regarded
as deficient in the possession of immortality. The other divinities,
fearing to lose him, petitioned Thor to make him immortal, and
 the prayer was granted on condition that every animal and plant
 would swear not to injure him. To secure this object, Nanna,
 Balder's wife, descended upon the earth. Loki, the God of Envy,
 attended her, disguised as a crow (crows at that time were white),
 and settled on a little blue flower, hoping to cover it up so that
 she might overlook it. The flower, however, cried out " forget-
 me-not, forget-me-not" (and has ever since been known under that
 name). Loki then flew up into an oak and sat on a mistletoe. Here
 he was more successful. Nanna carried off the oath of the oak, but
 overlooked the mistletoe. She thought, however, and the divinities
 thought, that she had successfully accomplished her mission, and that
 Balder had received the gift of immortality.
       One day, thinking Balder proof, they amused themselves by
 shooting at him, posting him against a holly. Loki tipped an arrow
 with a piece of mistletoe, against which Balder was not proof. This,
 unfortunately, pierced him to the heart, and he fell dead. Some drops
  of his blood dropped on the holly, which accounts for the redness of
  the berries ; the mistletoe was so grieved that she has ever siuce
  borne fruit like tears ; and the crow, whose form Loki had taken, and
  which till then had been white, was turned black.
       This pretty myth accounts for several things, hut is open to fatal
  objections, 'i ou will judge whether I am more fortunate. In the
  first place I need hardly observe that the forms of leaves are almost
  infinitely varied. To quote Euskin's vivid words, they " take all kinds
  of strange shapes, as if to invite us to examine them. Star-shaped,
  heart-shaped, spear-shaped, arrow-shaped, fretted, fringed, cleft,
  furrowed, serrated, sinuated. in whorls, in tufts, in spires, in wreaths,
  cudlcssly expressive, deceptive, fantastic, never the eame from foot

1890.]           on the Shapes of Leaves and Cotyledons.                 103
stalk to blossom, they seem perpetually to tempt our watchfulness,
and take delight in outstripping our wonder."
     Now, why is this marvellous variety, this inexhaustible treasury
of beautiful forms ? Does it result from some innate tendency of each
species ? Is it intentionally designed to delight the eye of man ?
Or have the form and size and texture some reference to the structure
and organisation, the habits and requirements, of the whole plant?
     The leaf, although so thin, is no mere membrane, but is built up
of many layers of cells, and the interior communicates with the
external air by millions of little mouths, called stomata, which are
generally situated on the under side of the leaf. The structure of
leaves varies as much as thoir forms.
     It is, of course, principally in hot and dry countries that leaves
require protection from too much evaporation.
     The surface is in some cases protected by a covering of varnish,
in others by saline or calcareous excretions. In others, again, the
same object is attained by increased viscidity of the sap ; in some, the
leaves assume a vortical position or range themselves one under the
other, thus presenting a smaller surface to the rays of the sun. In
other cases the leaves become fleshy. Woolly hairs are also a common
and effective mode of protection. The plants of deserts are very fre
quently covered with a thick felt of hair. Some species, again, which
are smooth in the north, tend to become woolly in the south. Species
of the cool spring again tend to be glabrous. The uses of hairs to
plants are indeed very various. They serve, as just mentioned, to
check too rapid evaporation. They form a protection for the stomata
or breathing holes, and consequently, as these are mainly on the
under side of leaves, we find that when one side of the leaf is covered
 with white felted hairs, as the white poplar, this is always the under side.
      In other cases the use of hair is to throw off water. In some
 alpine and marsh plants this is important. If the breathing holes
 became clogged with moisture—with fog, for instance, or dew—they
 would be unable to fulBl their functions. The covering of hair,
 however, throws off the moisture, and thus keeps them dry. Thus
 these hairs form a protection both against too much drought, and too
 much moisture.
      Another function of hairs, which c.innot be omitted, is to serve as
 shades against too brilliant light and too much heat. Again, hairs
 serve as a protection against insects, and even against larger
 animals. The stinging hairs of the common nettle aro a familiar
 example, and coarse woolly hairs are often distasteful to herbivorous
 quadrupeds.
      Deciduous leaves especially characterise the comparatively cool
 and moist atmosphere of temperate regions. For different reasons
  evergreen leaves become more numerous in the Alps and in the
  tropics.
      In the Alps it is necessary for plants to make the most of the
  short summer. Hence, perennial and evergreen species are more

104                        Sir John Lubbock                   [April 25,
numerous in proportion than with us. Everybody must have noticed
how our deciduous trees are broken if we have snow early in the
season and when they are still in leaf.
     Evergreen leaves, such as those of the comparatively tough and
leathery oak and olive, are protected against animals by their
texture, and often, as in the holly, by spines ; they are better able to
resist the heat and dryness of the south than the comparatively tender
leaves of our deciduous trees, which would part too rapidly with
their moisture. It is perhaps an advantage to evorgrecu leaves to
be glossy, because it enables them better to throw off snow. More
over, their stomata are often placed in pits, and protected with hair,
which prevents too rapid evaporation. The texture and structure of
leaves is indeed a wide and very interesting subject, but to-night I
must confine myself to the shape.
     It is impossible to classify plants by tiie form of the leaf, which
often diffors greatly in very nearly allied species. Thus, the common
plantain of our lawns ( Plantago major) has broad leaves, P. lanceolata
narrow ones. The width or narrowness of leaves depends on various
considerations. In herbaceous and stalklcss plants, such as the
plantain, prostrate leaves tend to be broad, those which are upright
to be narrow. Thus, grasses, for instances, have more or less upright
narrow leaves.
     In other cases the width is determined by the distance between
the buds, and in others again by the number of leaves in a whorl.
                       Cordate and Lobed Leaves.
     Among broad leaves we may observe two distinct types, according
as they are oval or palmate. Monocotyledonous plants, such as
grasses, sedges, lilies, hyacinths, very generally have upright and
narrow leaves. When they are wider, as, for instance, in the black
bryony, this is mainly at the base, where, consequently, the veins are
further apart, coming together again towards the apex. This we are
tempted, therefore, to regard as the primitive type of a broad leaf.
     There is, however, a totally different one, where the leaf is
palmate, like a hand, widening towards the free end. Hero the veins
pursue a straight, diverging course ; and as they not only serve to
strengthen the leaf, but also to carry the nourishment, this is doubt
less an advantage. Perhaps, however, the primary reason for this
arrangement is found in the fact that these leaves are generally folded
up, like a fan, while they are in the bud.
     I have elsewhere dwelt on the case of the beech, and perhaps I
may briefly refer to it again. The weight of leaves which a branch
can carry will of course depend on its position and strength. The
mode of growth of the beech and the hornbeam are very similar, but
the twigs of the latter are slenderer, and the leaves smaller. If we
cutoff a beech branch below the sixth leaf we shall find that the super
ficial leaf area which it carries is about 18 square inches. But in our

1890.]            on the Shapes of Leaves and Cotyledons.             105
climate most leaves are glad of as much sunshine as they can secure,
and are arranged with reference to it. The width of the beech leaves
—about If inch—is regulated by the average distance between the
buds. If the leaves were wider they would overlap. If they were
narrower there would be a waste of space. The area on the one hand,
and the width on the other, being thus determined, the length is
fixed, because, to secure an area of 18 inches, the width being about
1J inch, the length must be about 2 inches. This, then, explains the
form of the beech leaf.
     Let us apply these considerations in other cases. I will take, for
instance, the Spanish chestnut and the black poplar. In the Spanish
chestnut the stem is much stronger than that of the beech. Conse
quently it can carry a greater leaf-surface. But tho distance between
the buds being about the same, the leaves cannot be much wider ;
hence they are much longer in proportion, and this gives them their
peculiar sword-blade-like shape.
     Again, if we look at a branch of black poplar, and compare
it with one of white poplar, we are struck with two things : in the
first place, the branch cannot be laid out on a sheet of paper so
that the leaves shnll not overlap ; the leaves are too numerous and
large. Secondly, in the white poplar the upper and under surfaces
of the leaf are very different, the lower one being covered with a
thick felt of hair, which gives it its white colour ; in the black poplar,
on the other hand, the two surfaces are nearly similar.
     These two characteristics are correlated, for while in the white
poplar the leaves are horizontal, in the black poplar, on the contrary,
they hang vertically. Hence the two surfaces are under very similar
conditions, and consequently present a similar structure ; while for
the same reason they hang free from one another.
     Let us again look for a moment at the great group of Conifers.
Why, for instance, do some have long leaves and some short ones?
This, I believe, depends on the strength of the twigs and the
number of years which the leaves last ; long leaves dropping after
one, two, or three years, while species with shorter ones retain
them many years—the spruce fir, for instance, 8 or 10, Abies Pinsapo
even as many as 18.
     [Here Sir John dwelt on and explained the forms of several
familiar leaves.]
                                Seedlings
     I now come to the second part of my subject—the forms of
cotyledons. Any one who has ever looked at a seedling plant must
have been struck by the fact that the first leaves differ entirely
from those which follow—not merely from the final form, but even
from those which immediately follow. These first leaves are called
cotyledons.     The forms of many cotyledons have been carefully
described, but no reason has been given for the forms assumed, nor
any explanation offered why they should differ so much from tho

106                         Sir John Lubbock                  [April 25,
subsequent leaves. Klebs, indeed, in his interesting memoir on
" Germination," characterises it as quite an enigma.
     Mustard and cress were the delight and wonder of our childhood,
but it never then occurred, to me at lenst, to ask why they were
formed as they are. So they grew, and beyond that it did not
occur to me, nor I think to most, that it was possible to inquire.
I have, however, I think, suggested plausible reasons in many cases,
some of which 1 will now submit for your consideration.
     Cotyledons differ greatly in form.
     Some are narrow, in illustration of which I may mention the
fennel and ferula, in the stalk or ferule of which Prometheus is
fabled to have brought down fire from heaven.
     Some are broad, as in the beech and mustard. Moreover, some
species have narrow cotyledons and broad leaves, while others have
broad cotyledons and narrow leaves.
     Some are emarginate, as in the mustard ; lobed, as in the lime ;
bifid, as in Eschscholtzia ; trifid, as in the cress ; or with four long
lobes, as in Pterocarya.
     Some are unequal, as in the mustard ; or unsymmetrical, as in the
geranium.
     Some are sessile, and some are stalked ; some are large, some
small.
     Generally, they are green, leaf-like, and aerial, but sometimes
they are thick and fleshy, as in the oak, nut, walnut, peas, beaus,
and many others, in which they never quit the seed at all.
     Let us see, then, whether we can throw any light on these differ
ences, and why they should be so unlike the true leaves.
     If we cut open a seed, we find within it the future plant ; some
 times, as in the larkspur, a very small oval body ; sometimes, as in
 the ash or the castor-oil, a lovely little miniature plant, with a short
 stout root and two well-formed leaves, inclosing between them the
 rudiment of the future stem, the whole lying embedded in food-
 material or perisperm ; while sometimes the embryo occupies the
 whole interior of the seed, the food-material being stored up, not
 round, but in, the seed-leaves or cotyledons themselves. Peas and
 beans, almonds, nuts, and walnuts, are familiar cases. In split peas,
 for instance,—who split the peas? If you look at them you will see
 that it is too regularly and beautifully done for human hands. In
 fact, the two halves are the two fleshy cotyledons : strictly speaking,
 they are not split, for they never were united.
                            Narrow Cotyledons.
     Let us now begin with such species as have narrow cotyledons,
 and see if we can throw any light on this characteristic. The pro
 blem is simple enough in such cases as the Plane, where we have, on
 the one hand, narrow cotyledons, and, on the other hand, a long

1890.]           on the Shapes of Leaves and Cotyledons.              107
narrow seed containing a Etraight embryo. Again, in the Ash,
the cotyledons lie parallel to the longer axis of the seed, which is
narrow and elongated. Such cases are, however, comparatively few ;
and there are a large number of species in which the seeds are broad
and even orbicular, while yet the cotyledons are narrow. In these it
will generally be found that the cotyledons lie transversely to the seed.
    The Sycamore has also narrow cotyledons, but the arrangement is
very different. The fruit is winged, the seed an oblate spheroid and
aperispermic—that is to say, the embryo, instead of lying embedded
in food-material, occupies the whole cavity of the seed. Now, if we
wished to pack a leaf into a cavity of this form, it would be convenient
to choose one of a long, strap-like shape, and then roll it up into a
sort of ball. This is, I believe, the reason why this form of cotyledon
is most suitable in the case of the sycamore.
                             Broad Cotyledons.
     I now pass to species with broad cotyledons. In the castor-oil
plant (fiicintts), Euonymus, or the apple, for instance, the young
plant lies the broad way of the seed, and the cotyledons conform to it.
In the genus Coreopsis, Coreopsis auriculata has broad cotyledons,
and Coreopsis filifolia has narrow ones— the first having broad, the
second narrow seeds.
                         Emarginate Cotyledons.
     In a great many species the cotyledons are emarginate —that is to
say, they are more or less deeply notched at the end. This is due to
a variety of causes. One of the simplest cases is that of the oak,
where the two fleshy cotyledons fill the seed ; and the walls of the
seed being somewhat thickened at the end, and projecting slightly
into the hollow of the seed, cause a corresponding depression in the
cotyledons.
     In such cases as the mustard, cabbage, and radish, the emargina-
tion is due to a very different cause. The seed is oblong, thick, and
slightly narrower at one end than the other. There is no perisperm,
so that the embryo occupies the whole seed, and as this is somewhat
deep, the cotyledons, in order to occupy the whole space, are folded
and arranged one over the other like two sheets of note-paper, the
radicle being folded along the edge. To this folding the emargina-
tion is due. If a piece of paper be taken, folded on itself, cut into
the form of the seed, and then unfolded, the reason for the form of
 the cotyledon becomes clear at once.
     But it may be said that in the wallflower (Cheiranthus) the seed has
 a similar outline, and yet the cotyledons are not emarginate. The
rcasop of this is that in the wallflower, the seed is more com
pressed than in the mustard and radish, and the cotyledons are
not folded ; so that the whole, not the half, of each cotyledon, cor
responds to the form of the seed.

108                         Sir John Lubbock                  [April 25,
                            Lobed Cotyledons.
    The great majority of cotyledons are entire, but some are more or
less lobed. For instance, those of the mallow are broadly ovate,
minutely emarginate, cordate at the base, and three-lobed or angled
towards the apex, with three veins, each running iuto one of the
lobes.
    The embryo is green, curved, and occupies a great part of the
seed. The cotyledons are applied face to face ; then, as growth con
tinues, the tip becomes curved and depressed into a median longi
tudinal furrow, the fold of the one lying in that of the other.
    [Sir John then showed by diagrams and paper cuttings how the
emargination arises, but it cannot be made clear without illustra
tions.]
    The cotyledons of the Lime (Ti7«a) are very peculiar. They are
deeply five-lobed, the central lobe being the longest ; so that they
are roughly shaped like a hand. The seed is an oblate spheroid, re
sembling an orange in form, and the embryo is embedded in semi-
transparent albumen.
    The embryo is at first straight ; the radicle is stout and obtuse ;
the cotyledons ovate-obtuse, plano-convex, fleshy, pale green, and
applied face to face. They grow, however, considerably, and when they
meet the wall of the seed, they curve round it, following the general
outline of the seed. If any one will take a common tea-cup and try
to place in it a sheet of paper, the paper will, of course, be thrown
into ridges. If these ridges be removed and so much left as will lie
smoothly inside the cup, it will be found that the paper has been cut
into lobes more or less resembling those of the cotyledons of the
Lime. Or if, conversely, a piece of paper be cut into lobes resembling
 those of the cotyledons, it will be found that the paper will fit the
concavity of the cup. The case is almost like that of our own hand,
which can be opened and closed conveniently owing to the division
of the five fingers.
                           Unequal Cotyledutts.
    In most cases the two cotyledons are equal, but there are several
cases in which one of them is larger than the other. This had not
escaped the attention of Darwin, who attributed the difference to the
fact " of a store of nutriment being laid up in some other part, as in
this hypocotyl, or one of the cotyledons." I confess that I do not
quite see how this affords any explanation of the fact. The sugges
tion I have thrown out is that the difference is due to tho relative
position of the two cotyledons in the seed, which in some cases
favours one of them at the expense of the other. Thus in the mustard
they are unequal, and, as we have already seen, they are folded up,
one inside the other. The outer one, therefore, has more space, and

 1890.]          on the Shapes of Leaves and Colyledons.              109
becomes larger. In many other Crucifers, though the cotyledons are
not folded, they are what is called " incumbent "—that is to say, they
are folded on the radicle, and the outer one has therefore more room
than the other.
                        Unsymmelrical Cotyledons.
    In other cases, as in the Geraniums, Laburnum, Lupines, &c., there
is inequality, not between the two cotyledons, but between the two
halves of each cotyledon. In the geraniums this is duo to the manner
in which the cotyledons are folded. In the cabbage and mustard
we have seen that one cotyledon is folded inside the other ; in the
geranium they are convolute, one half of each being folded inside
one half of the other, the two inner halves being the smaller, the two
outer the larger ones.
     In the laburnum, where the arrangement is very similar, the
inequality in the two sides of the cotyledon is due to the inequality
between the two sides of the seed.
                         Subterranean Cotyledons.
    I have already observed that in some cases the cotyledons occupy
the whole of the seed, which in more or less spherical seeds is
effected, either by a process of folding and packing, or by the
cotyledons becoming themselves more or less thickened, as in peas
and beans, nuts and chestnuts. This is the reason why such seeds
fall more or less readily into two halves, the radicle or plumule
being so small in comparison as generally to escape notice, though,
if a horse-chestnut is peeled, the radicle appears as a sort of tail.
    In certain beans tbe cotyledons sometimes emerge from the seed,
sometimes remain underground. In others, as also in the oak and
horse-chestnut, they never leave the seed, or come above ground :
they have lost the function of leaves, and become more receptacles
of nourishment.
    Did it ever occur to you to think, when you have been eating
walnuts, why their structure is so complex, and why the edible part
is thrown into those complicated lobes and folds? The history is
very interesting.
    In the Walnut the cotyledons now never leave the seed, but in an
allied genus, Pterocarya, they come above ground as usual, and are
very paculiar in form, being deeply four-lobed. The reason of this
is very curious. The fruit is originally much larger than the seed,
but, as it approaches maturity, the hard woody tissue disintegrates
at four places, leaving thus four hollow spaces. Into these spaces
the seed sends four projections, and into these four projections each
cotyledon sends a lobe. Hence the four lobes.
    Now in the walnut a very similar process takes place, only the
hollow spaces are much larger, so that, instead of a solid wall, with

 110                        Sir John Lubbock                    [April 25,
 hollow spaces occupied by the seed, it gives the impression as if the
 seed was thrown into folds occupied by the wall of the fruit. To
 occupy these spaces fully, the cotyledons themselves were thrown
 into folds as we now see them. The fruit of Pterocarya is much
 smaller than that of the horse-chestnut, which doubtless was itself
 formerly not so large as it now is. As it increased, the cotyledons
became fleshier and fleshier, and found it more and more difficult to
make their exit from the seed, until at last they have given up any
attempt to do so. Hence these curious folds, with which we are so
familiar, are the efforts made by the originally leafy cotyledons to
occupy the interior of the nut. If you separate them, you will easily
find the little rootlet, and the plumule with from five to seven pairs
of minute leaves.
     But perhaps you will ask mo why I have assumed that in these
cases the cotyledons have conformed to the seeds? May it not be
that the seed is determined, on the contrary, with reference to the
cotyledons? The size, form, &c., of the seeds, however, evidently
have relation to the habits, conditions, £c., of the parent plant.
     Let mo, in illustration, take one case. The cotyledons of the
sycamore are long, narrow, and strap-like ; those of the beech are
short, very broad, and fan-like. Both species are apcrispermic, the
embryo occupying the whole interior of the seed.
    Now, in the sycamore, the seed is more or less an oblate spheroid,
and the long ribbon-like cotyledons, being rolled up into a ball, fit
it closely, the inner cotyledon being often somewhat shorter than the
other. On the other hand, the nuts of the beech are more or less
triangular ; an arrangement like that of the sycamore would there
fore be utterly unsuitable, as it would necessarily leave great gaps.
The cotyledons, however, are folded up like a fan, but with more
complication, and in such a manner that they fit beautifully into the
triangular nut.
    Can we, however, carry the argument one stage further ? Why
should the Feed of the sycamore be globular, and that of the beech
triangular? Is it clear that the cotyledons are constituted so as to
suit the seed ? May it not be that it is the seed which is adapted to
the cotyledons ? In answer to this we must examine the fruit, and
we shall find that in both cases the cavity of the fruit is approxi
mately spherical. That of the sycamore, however, is comparatively
small, say £ inch in diameter, and contains one seed, which exactly
conforms to the cavity in which it lies. In the beech, on the
contrary, the fruit is at least twice the size, and contains from two to
four seeds, which consequently, in order to occupy the space, are
compelled (to give a familiar illustration, like the segments of an
orange) to take a more or less triangular form.
    Thus, then, in these cases, starting with the form of the fruit, we
see that it governs that of the seed, and that of the seed, again,
determines that of the cotyledons. But though the cotyledons often
follow the form of the seed, this is not invariably the case : other

1890.]         on the Shapes of Leaves and Cotyledons.             Ill
factors must also be taken into consideration ; but when this is done,
we can, I venture to think, throw much light on the varied forms
which seedlings assume.
    I have thus attempted to indicate some of the principles on
which, as it seems to me, the shapes of leaves and seedlings depend,
and to apply them in certain cases; but the study is only in its
infancy : the number and variety of leaves is almost infinite, and the
whole question offers, I venture to think, a very interesting field for
observation and research— one, indeed, of the most fascinating in the
whole of Natural History.
                                                             [J. L.]

     112                              Annual Heeling.                         [May 1,
                             ANNUAL           MEETING,
                                 Thursday, May 1, 1890.
       SIR JAMES CRIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                              Vice-President, in the Chair.
          Tho Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
     1889, testifying to the continued prosperity and efficient management
     of tho Institution, was read and adopted. The Real and Funded
     Property now amounts to above 82,OOOZ. entirely derived from the
     Contributions and Donations of the Members.
          Fifty-one new Mjmbors were elected in 1889.
          Sixty-three Lectures ami Nineteen Evening Discourses were
     delivered in 1889.
          The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1889 amounted to about
      283 volumes, making, with 539 volumes (including Periodicals bound)
      purchased by the Managers, a total of 822 volumes added to the
      Library in the year.
          Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and the Honorary
      Secretary, to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the
      Professors, for their valuable services to the Institution during tho
      past year.
          The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
      for the ensuing year :
           PRESIDENT—The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. D.C.L. LL.D.
           TREASORER—Sir James Crichton Browne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
           SECRETARY — Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S.
                             M. Inst. C.E.
                MANAGERS.                                        VISITORS.
8ir Frederick Abel, C.B. D.C.L. F.R.8.          John Wolfe Barry, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
8ir Benjamin Baker, K.C.M.G. M. Inst. C.E.      8helford Bidwell, Esq. M.A. F.R.8.
The Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P. LL.D. F.R.8.   Alfred Carpmael, Esq.
George Berkley, Esq. M. Inst. CJL.              Arthur Herbert Church, Esq. M.A. F.R.8.
William Crookes, Esq. F.R.8.                    Ernest H. Goold, Esq. F.Z.8.
Warren W. de la Rue, Esq.                       George Herbert, Esq.
Edward Frankland, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.      John Hopkinson, Esq. M.A. F.R.8. M. Inst. C.E.
Chavles Hawksley, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.            John W. Miers, Esq.
William Huggins, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.8.       8ir Thomas Pycroft, M.A. K.C.8.I.
David Edward Hughes, Esq. F.R.8.                Lachlnn Mackintosh Rate, Esq. M.A.
Alfred Bray Kempe, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.             8ir Owen Roberts, M.A. F.8.A.
The Right Hon. Earl Percy, F.S.A.               Arthur William Riicker, Esq. M.A. F.R.8.
Edward Pollock, Esq.                            John Bell 8edgwick, Esq. J.P. F.R.G.8.
William Chandler Roberts-Ansten, Esq. F.R.8.    Joseph Wilson 8wan, Esq.
Basil Woodd Smith, Esq. F.R.A.8. F.8.A.         Thomas Edward Thorp, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.8.

 1890.]                    General Monthly Meeting.                         113
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, May 2, 1890.
     WILLIAM CROOKBS, Esq. F.E.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                    WALTER H. POLLOCK, Esq. M.A.
                               Theophile Gautier.
                                  [No Abstract.]
[The whole discourse is printed in the August number of " Longman's Magazine."]
                 GENEEAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, May 5, 1890.
The DUKE or NORTHUMRERLAND, K.G. D.C.L. LL.D. President ; and
     afterwards SIR JAMES ORIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
              Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
     The following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year were
announced :—'
      Sir Frederick Abel, C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S.
      William Crookes, Esq. F.E.S.
      Edward Frankland, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.E.S.
      William Huggins, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.E.S.
      The Right Hon. Earl Percy, F.S.A.
      Basil Woodd Smith, Esq. F.R.A.S. F.S.A.
      Sir James Crichton Browne, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer.
      Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.8. Hon. Secretary.
                  Harry Baldwin, Esq. M.R.C.S.
                  A. R. Binnie, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
                  Miss Frances Bask,
                  J. S. Jeans, Esq.
                  A. Kirkman Loyd, Esq.
                  Ronald A. Scott, Esq. F.E.G.S. F.Z.S.
                  Mrs. John I. Thornycroft,
                  John Jewell Vezey, Esq. F.E.M.S.
                  Laundy Walters, Esq.
were elected Members of the Eoyal Institution.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to the Black-
man Ventilating Company for their present of a Ventilating Fan,
with fittings, and for their liberal offer to place the time of their
engineers always at the service of the Institution.
    VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)                                              i

114                           General Monthly Meeting.                 [May 5,
     JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.E.S. was elected Honorary
Professor of Natural Philosophy.
     The RIGHT HON. LORD RAYLEIGH, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.E.S.
was elected Professor of Natural Philosophy.
      The following Alterations in the Bye Laws of the Royal Institu
tion were passed :—
In CHAPTER VII. (Of the Duties of the Committee of Visitors).
    In Art. 3, line 3, omit, "April," " and October"
    In Art. 3, line 3, insert after the word " January " the word " and."
      The following was added to the Bye Laws of the Royal Institution
as the Final Chapter :'—
    "Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, whenever any
        General Meeting, Managers' Meeting, or Visitors' Meeting would,
        under ike foregoing provisions, be held on an Easter Monday, or on
        a Whitsun Monday, or on a Good Friday, or on any Bank Holiday,
        General Fast Day, or General Thanksgiving Day, it shall be
        lawful for the Committee of Managers to appoint some other and
        appropriate day for the holding of such meeting in place of the day
        hereinbefore appointed. Notice of such appointment shall be given,
        not less than twenty-one days prior to the holding of such meeting,
        to Kv.di persons as shall be entitled to be present at such meeting."
      The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. : —
      FOX
 Lords of the Admiralty—Greenwich Observations, 1887. 4to. 1889.
    Appendices I. II. III. 4to. 1889.
 Governor-General of India— Geological Survey of India : Palseontologia Indica,
       Series XIII. Vol. IV. Part 1. fol. 1889.
    Records, Vol. XXIII. Part 1. 4to. 1890.
 Accademia del Lincei, Keale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta: Rendiconti. 1° Semes-
       tre, Vol. VI. Fuse. 4. 8vo. 1890.
 American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 130, Vol. XXVI. 8vo. 1889.
 Aristotelian Society—Proceedings, Vol. I. No. 3, Part 1. 8vo. 1890.
 Astronomical Society, Royal —Monthly Notices, Vol. L. No. 5. 8vo. 1890.
 Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XI. Part 4. 8vo. 1890.
 .Boston Society of Natural History—Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. Parts 1-2. 8vo.
       1889.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1889-90, No. 13. 4to.
 Brymner, Douglas, Esq. (the Archivist)—Report on Canadian Archives, 1889.
       8vo. 1890.
 BucUon, George B. Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I. (the Author)— Monograph of the British
        Cicadte or Tettigiidse, Part 2. 8vo. 1890.
 Burdett-Coutls, A. L. B. Esq. M.P. M.K.I. (Oie Author)—The Pay System in
       Hospitals. 4to. 1888.
  Chemical Industry, Society o/—Journal, Vol. IX. No. 3. 4to. 1890.
  Chemical Society—Journal for April, 1890. 8vo.
  Civil Engineers Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. XCIX. 8vo. 1890.
  Cracovie, VAcademic des Sciences - Bulletin, 1890, No. 3. 8vo.
  Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. ttc. M.R.I.—Journal of the Eoyal Microscopical
       Society, 1890, Part 2. 8vo.

1890.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                      1 15
Editors—American Journal of Science for April, 1890. 8vo.
   Analyst for April, 1890. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for April, 1890. 4to.
   Chemical News for April, 1890. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for April, 1890. 8TO.
   Electrical Engineer for April, 1890. fol.
   Engineer for April, 1890. fol.
   Engineering for April, 1890. fol.
   Horological Journal for April, 1890. 8vo.
   Industries for April, 1890. fol.
   Iron for April, 1890. 4to.
   Ironmongery for April, 1890.
   Murray's Magazine for April, 1890. 8vo.
   Nature for April, 1890. 4to.
   Photographic News for April, 1890. 8vo.
   Revue Scientifique for April, 1890. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for April, 1890. fol.
   Zoophilist for April, 1890. 4to.
'Electrical Engineen, Institution of—Journal, No. 85. 8vo. 1890.
Florence, Bib'lioteca Nazionals Centrale—Bollettino, No. 103. 8vo. 1890.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 772. 8vo. 1890.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1890, Nos. 3-5. 8vo.
Hamilton, J. Lawrence, Esq. M.R.G.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Report upon the
      Fish Supply of the Metropolis. 4to. 1890.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vols. VII. (Part 2) VIII. IX. X. XI.
      (Parts 1-3) and XII. (Part 1). 8vo. 1886-90.
Langley, 8. P. Esq. (the Author)—Temperature of the Moon, Part II. (National
      Academy of Sciences, Vol. IV.). 4to. 1889.
Linnean Society—J ournal, Vol. XXVII. Nos. 174, 181. 8vo. 1890.
Madras Government Central Museum — Notes on the Pearl Fisheries. By
      E. Thurston. 8vo. 1890.
Mechanical Engineers—Proceedings, 1889, No. 4. 8vo. 1890.
Mensbrugghe, M. G. Van der (the Author)—Sur la Condensation de la Vapenr
      d'Eau. 8vo. 1890.
Meteorological Office—Weekly Weather Reports, Nos. 14-16. 4to. 1890.
Miller, W. J. G. Esq. (the Registrar)—Medical Register, 1890. 8vo.
   Dentists' Register, 1890. 8vo.
   Medical Students' Register, 1890. 8vo.
New York Academy of Sciences—Annals, Vol. XIV. No. 12. 8vo, 1889.
Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Science—Proceedings and Transactions,
      Vol. VII. Part 3. 8vo. 1889.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, April, 1890. 8vo.
Sathbone, E. P. Esq. (the Editor)—The Witwatersrand Mining and Metallurgical
      Review, No. 3. 8vo. 1890.
Rio de Janeiro Observatory—Revistn, Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1890.
Rothschild, M. J. (the Editor)—L'Exposition Universelle. Par Henri de Parville.
      12mo. 1890.
Seismological Society of Japan—Transactions, Vol. XIV. 8vo. 1889.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes, Vol. I. No. 3. 8vo. 1890.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. II. No. 9. 8vo. 1890.
Society of Arts—Journal for April, 1890. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. LIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1890.
8t. Petersbourg, Academie Imperials des Sciences—Me'moires, Tome XXXVII.
      Nos. 4, 5. 4to. 1890.
 Verein. zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleises in Preussen —Verhandlungen, 1890,
      Heft3. 4to.
 Wild, Dr. H.—Annalen der Physikalischen Central Observatorium, Theil II.
      4to. 1889.
Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. XII. Part 10. 4to. 1890.
   Proceedings, 1889. Part 4. 8vo.
                                                                   l 2

116                     Mr. B. Biudenell Carter                 [May 9,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 9, 1890.
 SIR JAMES CRIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
                E. BRUDBNELL CARTER, Esq. F.E.C.S.
                   Colour-Vision and Colour-Blindness.
IT is a matter of familiar knowledge that the sense of vision is called
into activity by the formation, on the retina or internal nervous
expansion of the eye, of an inverted optical image of external
objects—an image precisely analogous to that of the photographic
camera. The retina lines the interior of the eyeball over somewhat
more than its posterior hemisphere. It is a very delicate transparent
membrane, about one-fifth of a millimetre in thickness at its thickest
part, near the entrance of the optic nerve, and it gradually diminishes
to less than half that thickness at its periphery. It is resolvable by
the microscope into ten layers [sAowm], which are united together by a
web of connective tissue, which also carries blood-vessels to minister
to the maintenance of the structure. I need only refer to two of these
layers ; the anterior or fibre-layer, mainly composed of the fibres of
the optic nerve, which spread out radially from their point of entrance
in every direction, except where they curve around the central por
tion of the membrane ; and the perceptive layer, which, as viewed
from the interior of the eyeball, may be likened to an extremely fine
mosaic, each individual piece of which is in communication with a
nerve fibre, by which the impressions made upon it are conducted to
the brain. The terminals of the perceptive layer are of two kinds,
called respectively rods and cones ; the former, as the name implies,
being cylindrical in shape, and the latter conical. The bases of the
cones are directed towards the interior of the eye, so as to receive the
light ; and it is probable that each cone may be regarded as a col
lecting apparatus, calculated to gather together the light which it
receives, and to concentrate this light upon its deeper and more
Blender portion, or posterior limb, which is believed to be the portion
of the whole structure which is really sensitive to luminous impres
sions. The distribution of the two elements differs greatly in different
animals; and the differences point to corresponding differences in
function. The cones are more sensitive than the rods, and minister to a
higher acuteness of vision. In the human eye, there is a small central
region in which the perceptive layer consists of cones only, a region
which the fibres avoid by curving round it, and in which the other
layers of the retina are much thinner than elsewhere, so as to leave
a depression, and are stained of a lemon-yellow colour [sAmon]. In a

 1890.]           on Colour- Vision and Colour-Blindness.              117
zone immediately around this yellow spot each cone is surrounded by a
single circle of rods [gfiouw] ; and, as we proceed outwards towards the
periphery of the retina, the circle of rods around each cone becomes
successively double, triple, quadruple, or even more numerous [sAoionJ.
The yellow spot receives the image of the object to which the eye is
actually directed, while the images of surrounding objects fall upon
zones which surround the yellow spot; and the result of this arrange
ment is that, generally speaking, the distinctness of vision diminishes in
proportion to the distance of the image of the object from the retinal
centre. The consequent effect has been well described by saying that
what we see resembles a picture, the central pnrt of which is exqui
sitely finished, while the parts around the centre are only roughly
sketched in. We are conscious that these outer parts are there ; but,
if we desire to see them accurately, they must be made the objects of
direct vision in their turn.
     The indistinctness with which wo see lateral objects is so com
pletely neutralised by the quick mobility of the eyes, and by the
manner in which they range almost unconsciously over the whole
field of vision, that it seldom or never forces itself upon the attention.
It may be conveniently displayed by means of an instrument called
a perimeter [*Aoten], which enables the observer to look steadily at a
central spot, while a second spot or other object is moved along an arc,
in any meridian, from the circumference of the field of view towards
the centre, or vice versa. Slight differences will be found between
individuals ; but, speakirg generally, a capital letter one-third of an
inch high, which is legible by direct vision at a distance of sixteen
feet, and is recognisable as a dark object at 40° or 50° from tho
fixing point, will not become legible, at a distance of one foot, until
it arrives within about 10°.
    The image formed upon the retina is rendered visible by two
different conditions—that is to say, by differences in the amount of light
which enters into the formation of its different parts, and by differ
ences in the quality of this light, that is, in its colour. The former
conditions are fulfilled by an engraving, the latter by a painting. It
is with the latter conditions only, and with the power of perceiving
them, that we are concerned this evening.
    Before such an audience as that which I have the honour to
address, it is unnecessary to say more about colour than that it de
pends upon the power, possessed by the objects which we describe as
coloured, to absorb and retain certain portions of white or other mixed
light, and to reflect or transmit other portions. The resulting effect
of colour is the impression produced upon the eye or upon the brain
by the waves of light which are left after the process of selective
absorption has been accomplished. Some substances absorb two of
the three fundamental colours of the solar spectrum, others absorb
one only, others absorb portions of one or more. Whatever remains
is transmitted through the media of the eye ; and, in the majority of
the hnman race, suffices to excite the retina to a characteristic kind

118                      Mr. R. Brudenett Carter                 [May 9,
of activity. Few things are more curious than the multitude of
different colour sensations which may be produced by the varying
combinations of the three simple elements, red, green, and violet ;
but this is a part of the subject into which it would be impossible for
me now to enter, and with which most of those who hear me must
already be perfectly familiar.
    Apart from the effects of colour aa one of the chief sources of
beauty in the world, it is manifest that the power of distinguishing it
adds greatly to the acnteness of vision. Objects which differ from
their surroundings by differences of colour are far more conspicuous
than those which differ only by differences of light and shade.
Flowers are much indebted to their brilliant colouring for the visits
of the insects by which they are fertilised ; and creatures which are
the prey of others find their best protection in a resemblance to the
colours of their environment. It is probably an universal truth that the
organs of colour-perception are more bighly specialised, and that the
sense of colour is more developed, in all animals, in precise proportion
to the general acuteness of vision of each.
    From a variety of considerations, into which time will not allow
me to enter, it has been concluded that the sense of colour is an
endowment of the retinal cones, and that the rods are sensitive only
to differences in the quantity of the incident light, without regard to
its quality. Nocturnal mammals, such as mice, bats, and hedgehogs,
have no cones ; and cones are less developed in nocturnal birds than
in diurnal ones. Certain limitations of the human colour-sense may
almost be inferred from the anatomy of the retina. It is found, as
that anatomy would lead us to suppose, that complete colour-sense
exists only in the retinal centre, or in and immediately around the
yellow spot region, and that it diminishes as we pass away from
this centre towards the periphery. The precise facts are more diffi
cult to ascertain than might be supposed ; for, although it is easy
to bring coloured objects from the circumference to the centre of the
field of vision on the perimeter, it is by no means easy to be quite sure
of the point at which the true colour of the advancing object can first
be said to be distinctly seen. Much depends, moreover, on the size
of this advancing object ; because, the larger it is, the sooner will its
image fall upon some of the more sparsely distributed cones of the
peripheral portion of the retina. Testing the matter upon myself
with coloured cards of the size of a man's visiting card, I find that I
 am conscious of red or blue at about -ID from the fixing point, but
 not of green until it comes within about 30° ; while, if I take three
spots, respectively of bright red, bright green, and bright blue, each
 half a centimetre in diameter, and separated from its neighbour on
 either side by an interval of half a centimetre—spots which would be
visible as distinct and separate objects at eight metres—I cannot fairly
and distinctly see all three colours until they come within 10° of the
centre. Beyond 40°, albeit with slight differences between individuals,
and on different meridians for the same individual, colours are only

1890.]           on Colour-Vision and Colour-Blindness.                 119
Been by the degree of their luminosity—that is, they appear as light
spots if upon a dark ground, and as dark spots if upon a light ground.
Speaking generally, therefore, it may be said that human vision is only
tri-chromatic, or complete for the three fundamental colours of the solar
spectrum, over a small central area, which certainly does not cover
more than 30° of the field ; that it is bi-chromatic, or limited to red and
violet, over an annulus outside this central area ; and that it is limited
to light and shade from thence to the outermost limits of the field.
    The nature and limitations of the colour-sense in man long ago
suggested to Thomas Young that the retina might contain three sets
of fibres, each set capable of responding to only one of the funda
mental colours ; or, in other words, that there are special nerve fibres
for red, special nerve fibres for green, and special nerve fibres for
violet. It has also been assumed that the differences between these
fibres might essentially consist in the ability of each set to respond
only to light-vibrations of a certain wave-length, much as a tuned
string will only respond to a note with which it is in unison. In the
human subject, so far as has yet been ascertained, no optical differ
ences between the cones are discoverable ; but the analogy of the ear,
and the facts which have been supplied by comparative anatomy,
combine to render Young's hypothesis exceedingly probable, and it
is generally accepted, at least provisionally, as the only one which
furnishes an explanation of the facts. It implies that elements of all
three varieties are present in the central portion of the retina; that
elements sensitive to green are absent from an annulus around the
centre ; and that the peripheral portions are destitute of any elements
by which colour-sense can be called into activity.
    According to the observation already made, that the highest
degree of acuteness of vision is necessarily attended by a correspond
ing acnteness of colour-sense, we should naturally expect to find such
a highly-developed colour-sense in birds, many of which appear, as
regards visual power, to surpass all other creatures. I need not
dwell upon the often-described acuteness of vision of vultures, or
upon the vision of fishing birds ; but may pass on to remark that the
acnteness of their vision appears not only to be unquestionable, but
also to be much more widely diffused over the retina than is the case
 with man. If we watch domestic poultry, or pigeons, feeding, we
shall frequently see a bird, when busily picking up food immediately
in front of its beak, suddenly make a lateral dart to some grain lying
sideways to its line of sight, which would have been practically
invisible to a human eye looking in the same direction as that of
the fowl. When we examine the retina, the explanation both of
the acuteness of vision and of its distribution becomes at once apparent.
In birds, in some reptiles, and in fishes, not only are cones distributed
over the retina much more abundantly and more evenly than
in man, but the cones are provided with coloured globules, droplets of
coloured oil, at their apices, through which the light entering them
must pass before it can excite sensation, and which are practically

120                      Mr. R. Brudendl Carter                 [May 9,
impervious to any colour but their own. This lantern slide [gioirn]
is taken from a drawing by Mr. Hulke, in a paper communicated
by him to the Royal Society, and it exhibits the colour globules in
the retinal cones of Chelonia Hydas. Each globule is so placed
as to intervene between what is regarded as the collecting portion
of the cone and what is regarded as its perceptive portion, in such a
way that the latter can only receive colour which is capable of pass
ing through the globule. The retinae of many birds, especially of
the finch, the pigeon, and the domestic fowl, have been carefully
examined by Dr. Waelchli, who finds that near the centre green is
the predominant colour of the cones, while among the green cones red
and orange ones are somewhat sparingly interspersed, and are nearly
always arranged alternately, a red cone between two orange ones and
vice versa. In a surrounding portion, called by Dr. Waelchli the red
zone, the red and orange cones are arranged in chains, and are larger
and more numerous than near the yellow spot ; the green ones are of
smaller size, and fill up the interspaces. Near the periphery the cones
are scattered, the three colours about equally numerous and of equal
size, while a few colourless cones are also seen [sAotwi], Dr. Waelchli
examined the optical properties of the coloured cones by means of the
micro-spectroscope, and found, as the colours would lead us to suppose,
that they transmitted only the corresponding portions of the spectrum ;
and it would almost seem, excepting for the few colourless cones at
the peripheral part of the retina, that the birds examined must have
been unable to see blue, the whole of which would be absorbed by
their colour globules. It would be necessary to be thoroughly
acquainted with their food in order to understand any advantage
which the birds in question may derive from the predominance of
green, red, and orange globules over others ; but it is impossible
to consider the structure thus described without coming to the
conclusion that the birds in which it exists must have a very acute
sense of the colours corresponding to the globules with which they
are so abundantly provided, and that this colour-sense, instead of
being localised in the centre, as in the human eye, must be diffused
over a very large portion of the retina. Dr. Waelchli points out
that the coloration of the yellow spot in man must, to a certain
extent, exclude blue from the central and most sensitive portion of
his retina.
     It is hardly necessary to mention how completely the high
differentiation of the cones in the creatures referred to tends to
support the hypothesis of Young, that a similar differentiation,
although not equally manifest, exists also in man. If this be so,
we must conclude that the region of the yellow spot contains cones,
some of which are capable of being called into activity by red, others
by green, and others by violet ; that a surrounding annulus con
tains no cones sensitive to green, but such as are sensitive to red
or to violet only : and that, beyond and around this latter region,
such cones as may exist are not sensitive to any colour, but, like

1890.]           on Colour-Vision and Colour-Blindness.              121
the rods, only to differences in the amount of light. When cones
of only one kind are called into activity, the sensation produced
is named red, green, or violet ; and, when all three varieties are stimu
lated in about an equal degree, the sensation produced is called white.
In the same way, the innumerable intermediate colour-sensations of
which the normal eye is susceptible must be ascribed to stimulation
of the three varieties of cones in unequal degrees.
     The conditions of colour-sense, which, in the human race, or at
least in civilised man, exist normally in outer zones of the retina,
are found in a few individuals to exist also in the centre. There
are persons in whom the region of the yellow spot is absolutely
insensitive to colour, and recognises only differences in the amount
or quantity of light. To such persons, the term "colour-blind"
ought perhaps in strictness to be limited ; but the individuals in
question are so rare that they are hardly entitled to a monopoly of
an appellation which is conveniently applied also to others. The
totally colour-blind would see a coloured picture as if it were an
engraving, or a drawing in black and white, and would perceive
differences between its parts only in the degree in which they
differed in brightness.
     A more common condition is the existence, in the centre of the
retina, of a kind of vision like that which normally exists in the zone
next surrounding it—that is, a blindness to green. Persons who are
blind to green appear to see violet and yellow much as these are seen
by the normal-sighted ; and they can see red, but they cannot dis
tinguish it from green. Others, and this form is more common than
the preceding, are blind to red ; and a very small number of persons
are blind to violet. Such blindness to one of the fundamental colours
may be either complete or incomplete—that is to say, the power of
the colour in question to excite its proper sensation may be either
 absent or feeble. In some cases, the defect is so moderate in degree
 as to be adequately described by the phrase " defective colour-sense."
     The experiments of Helmholtz upon colour led him to supplement
 the original hypothesis of Young by the supposition that the special
 nerve elements excited by any one colour are also excited in some
 degree by each of the other two, but that they respond by the seus.i-
 tion appropriate to themselves, and not by that appropriate to the
 colour by which they are thus feebly excited. This, which is often
 called the Young-Helmholtz hypothesis, assumes that the pure red
 of the spectrum, while it mainly stimulates the fibres sensitive to
 red, stimulates in a less degree those which are sensitive to green,
 and in a still less degree those which are sensitive to violet,
 the resulting sensation being red. Pure green stimulates strongly
 the green-perceptive fibres, and stimulates slightly both the red-per
 ceptive and the violet-perceptive—resulting sensation, green. Pure
 'violet stimulates strongly the violet-perceptive fibres, less strongly
 the green-perceptive, least strongly the red-perceptive—resulting
 sensation, violet. When all three sets of fibres are stimulated at

122                       Mr. R. Brudenett Carter                 [May 9,
once, the resulting sensation is white; and when a normal eye is
directed to the spectrum, the region of greatest luminosity is in the
middle of the yellow ; because, while here both the green- perceptive
and the red-perceptive fibres are stimulated in a high degree, the
violet-perceptive are also stimulated in some degree.
    According to this view of the case, the person who is red-blind,
or in whom the red-perceptive fibres are wanting or paralysed, has
only two fundamental colours in the spectrum instead of three.
Spectral red, nevertheless, is not invisible to him, because it feebly
excites his green-perceptive fibres, and hence appears as a saturated
green of feeble luminosity ; saturated, because it scarcely at all excites
the violet-perceptive fibres. The brightest part of the spectrum,
instead of being in the yellow, is in the blue-green, because here both
sets of sensitive fibres are stimulated. In the case of the green-blind,
in whom the fibres perceptive of green are supposed to be wanting or
paralysed, the only stimulation produced by spectral green is that
of the red-perceptive and of the violet-perceptive fibres ; and, where
these are equally stimulated, we obtain the white of the green-blind,
which, to ordinary eyes, is a sort of rose-colour, a mixture of red and
violet [sAotcn]. In like manner, the white of the red-blind is a mixture
of green and violet \K/tcnnt\ ; and, if we consider the facts, we shall
see that spectral red, which somewhat feebly stimulates the green-
perceptive fibres of the normal eye, and spectral green, which somewhat
feebly stimulates the red-perceptive fibres of the normal, and also of
the green-blind eye, must appear to the green-blind to be one and the
same colour, differing only in luminosity, and that in an opposite
sense to the perception of the red-blind. In other words, red and
green are undistinguishable from each other, as colours, alike to the
red-blind and to the green-blind ; but to the former the red, and to
the latter the green, appears, as compared with the other, to be of
feeble luminosity. In either case, the two are only lighter and darker
shades of the samo colour. The conditions of violet-blindness are
analogous, but the defect itself is very rare ; and, as it is of small
industrial importance, it has attracted but a small degree of attention.
    Very extensive investigations, conducted during the last few years
both in Europe and in America, have shown that those which may
be called the common forms of colour-blindness, the blindness to red
and to green, exist in about 1 per cent, of the male population, and
in perhaps one per thousand of females ; while among the rest there
are slight differences of colour-sense, partly due to differences of habit
and training, but of little or no practical importance. One such
difference, to which Lord Eayleigh was the first to direct attention,
has reference to yellow. The pure yellow of the spectrum may, as is
generally known, be precisely matched by a mixture of spectral red
with spectral green ; but the proportions in which the mixture should
be made differ within certain limits for different people. The differ
ences must, I think, depend upon differences in the pigmentation of
the yellow spot, rather than upon any defect in the nervous apparatus

1890.]           on Colour-Vision and Colour-Blindness.              123
of the colour-sense. There is a very ingenious instrument, invented
by Mr. Lovibond, and called by him the " tintometer," which allows
the colour of any object to be accurately matched by combinations of
coloured glass, and to be expressed in terms of the combination. In
using this instrument, we not only find slight differences in the
combinations required by different people, but also in the combinations
required by the two eyes of the same person. Here, again, I think
the differences must be due either to differences in the pigmentation
of the yellow spot, or possibly also to differences in the colour of the
internal lenses of the several eyes, the lens, as is well known, being
usually somewhat yellow after middle age. The differences are
plainly manifest in comparing persons all of whom possess tri-chro-
matic vision, and are not sufficient in degree to be of any practical
importance.
     The effect of the pigmentation of the yellow spot in modifying
colour may be rendered visible by an ingenious experiment, for which
we are indebted to Sir George Stokes. If the beam of the electric
lamp be suffered to pass through a cell containing a solution of
chloride of chromium [sAoton], and then to fall upon a white screen,
the green colour of the solution will be more absorbed by the yellow
spot than by the surrounding portions of the retina, and the result
will be the appearance of a faint roseate cloud floating in the centre
of the field. It would seem, from descriptions, that the pigmentation
of the yellow spot is more pronounced, and hence that the cloud is
more conspicuous, in some individuals than in others.
     Taking the ordinary case of a red-blind or of a green-blind person,
it is interesting to speculate upon the appearance which the world
must present to them. Being insensible to one of the fundamental
colours of the spectrum, they must lose, roughly speaking, one-third
of the luminosity of nature ; unless, as is possible, the deficiency is
made good to them by increased acuteness of perception to the colours
which they see. Whether they see white as we see it, or as we see
 the mixtures of red and violet, or of green and violet, which they make
to match with it, we can only conjecture, on account of the inadequacy
 of language to convey any accurate idea of sensation. We have all
heard of the blind man who concluded, from the attempts made to
 describe scarlet to him, that it was like the sound of a trumpet. If we
 take a heap of coloured wools, and look at them, first through a glass
 of peacock-blue, by which the red rays are filtered out [sioton], and
next through a purple glass, by which a large proportion of the green
 will be filtered out [W< WH |, we may presume that, under the first con
dition, the wools will appear mnch as they would do to the red-blind ;
 and under the second, much as they would do to the green-blind. It
 will be observed that the appearances differ in the two conditions, but
 that, in both, red and green are practically nndistinguishable from
each other, and appear as the same colour, but of different luminosity.
     Prior to reflection, and still more, prior to experience, we should
 be apt to conjecture that the existence of colour-blindness in any

124                     Mr. R. Brudenell Carter                 [May 9,
individual could not remain concealed, either from himself or from
those around him ; but such a conjecture would be directly at variance
with the truth. Just as it was reserved for Mariotte, in the reign of
Charles II., to discover that there is, in the field of vision of every
eye, a lacuna, or blind spot, corresponding with the entrance of the
optic nerve, so it was reserved for a still later generation to discover
the existence of so common a defect as colour-blindness. The first
recorded case was described to Dr. Priestley by Mr. Huddart, in 1777,
and was that of a man named Harris, a shoemaker at Maryport, in
Cumberland, who had also a colour-blind brother, a mariner. Soon
afterwards, the case of Dalton, the chemist. was fully described, and
led to the discovery of other examples of a similar kind. The condi
tion was still, however, looked upon as a very exceptional one ;
insomuch that the name of " Daltonism " was proposed for it, and is
still generally used in France as a synonym for colour-blindness.
Such use is objectionable, not only because it is undesirable thus to
perpetuate the memory of the physical infirmity of an eminent
philosopher, but also because Dalton was a red-blind, so that the
name could only be correctly applied to his particular form of
defect.
    Colour-blindness often escapes detection on account of the use of
colour-names by the colour-blind in the same manner as that in which
they hear them used by other people. Children learn from the talk
of those around them that it is proper to describe grass as,green, and
bricks or cherries as red ; and they follow this usage, although the
difference may appear to them so slight that their interpretation of
either colour-name may be simply as a lighter or darker shade of the
other. When they make mistakes, they are laughed at, and thought
careless, or to be merely using colour-names incorrectly ; and a
common result is that they rather avoid such names, and shrink from
committing themselves to statements about colour. Dr. Joy Jefferies
gives an interesting description of the almost unconscious devices
practised by the colour-blind in this way. He says : —
     " The colour-blind, who are quick-witted enough to discover
early that something is wrong with their vision by the smiles of their
listeners when they mention this or that object by colour, are equally
quick-witted in avoiding so doing. They have found that there are
names of certain attributes they cannot comprehend, and hence must
let alone. They learn, also, what we forget, that so many objects of
every-day life always have the same colour, as red tiles or bricks, and
the colour-names of these they use with freedom ; whilst they often,
even unconsciously, are cautious not to name the colour of a new object
till they have heard it applied, after which it is a mere matter of
memory stimulated by a consciousness of defect. I have often
recalled to the colour-blind their own acts and words, and surprised
them by an exposure of the mental jugglery they employed to escape
detection, and of which they were almost unaware, so much had it
become matter of habit. Another important point is, that as violet

1890.]             on Colour-Vision and Colour-Blindness.            125
blindness is very rare, the vast majority of defective eyes are red or
green blind. These persons see violet and yellow as the normal-
eyed, and they naturally apply these colour-names correctly. When,
therefore, they fail in red or green, a casual observer attributes it to
ttimple carelessness—hence a very ready avoidance of detection. It
does not seem possible that any one who sees so much correctly, and
whose ideas of colour so correspond with our own, cannot be equally
correct throughout, if they will but take the pains to notice and
learn."
     When the colour-blind are placed in positions which compel them
to select colours for themselves or others, or when, as sometimes
happens, they are not sensitive with regard to their defect, but rather
find iiiniisrinr.nl in tho astonishment which it produces among the
colour-seeing, the results which occasionally follow are apt to be
curious. They have often been rendered still more curious, by having
been the unconscious work of members of the Society of Friends.
Colour-blindness is a structural peculiarity, constituting what may be
called a variety of the human race ; and, like other varieties, it is
liable to be handed down to posterity. Hence, if the variety occurs
in a person belonging to a community which is small by comparison
 with the nation, and among whose members there is frequent inter
 marriage, it has an increased probability of being reproduced ; and
 thus, while many of the best known of the early examples of colour
 blindness, including that of Dalton himself, wore furnished by the
 Society of Friends, the examinations of largo numbers of scholars
 and others, conducted during the last few years, have shown that,
 in this country, colour-blindness is more common among Jews than
 among the general population. The Jews have no peculiarities of
 costume ; but the spectacle, which has more than once been witnessed,
 of a venerable Quaker who had clothed himself in bright green or in
 vivid scarlet, could scarcely fail to excite the derision of the unre
 flecting. Time does not allow me to relate the many errors of the
 colour-blind which have been recorded ; but there is an instance of a
 clerk in a Government office, whose duty it was to tick certain entries,
 in relation to their subject-matter, with ink of one or of another
 colour, and whose accuracy was dependent upon the order in which
 his ink-bottles were ranged in front of him. This order having been
 accidentally disturbed, great confusion was produced by his mistakes,
 and it was a long time before these were satisfactorily accounted for.
 An official of the Prussian Post Office, again, who was accustomed to
 sell stamps of different values and colours, was frequently wrong in
 his cash, his errors being as often against himself as in his favour,
 so as to ezclnde any suspicion of dishonesty. His seeming careless
 ness was at last explained by the discovery of his colour-blindness,
 and he was relieved of a duty which it was impossible for him to
 discharge without falling into error.
     The colour-mistakes of former years were, however, of little
 moment when compared with those now liable to be 'committed by

126                      Mr. R. Brudenell Carter                 [May 9,
engine drivers and mariners. The avoidance of collisions at sea aud
on railways depends largely on the power promptly to recognise the
colours of signals; and the colours most available for signalling
purposes are red and green, or precisely those between which the
sufferers from the two most common forms of colour-blindness are
unable with any certainty to discriminate. About thirteen years ago
there was a serious railway accident in Sweden, and, in ( the inves
tigation subsequent to this accident, there were some remarkable
discrepancies in the evidence given with regard to the colour of the
signals which had been displayed. Prof. Holmgren, of the University
of Upsala, had his attention called to this discrepancy, and he found,
on further examination, that the witness whose assertions about the
signals differed from those of other people was actually colour-blind.
From this incident arose Prof. Holmgren's great interest in the sub
ject, and he did not rest until he had obtained the enactment of a law
under which no one can be taken into the employment of a Swedish
railway until his colour-vision has been tet-ted, and has been found
to be sufficient for the duties he will be called upon to perform. The
example thus set by Sweden has been followed, more or less, by other
countries, and especially, thanks to the untiring labours of Dr. Joy
 Jeffries, of Boston, by several of the United States; while at the
 same time much evidence has been collected to show the connection
 between railway and marine accidents and the defect.
     It has been found, by very extensive and carefully conducted
examinations of large bodies of men—soldiers, policemen, the workers
 in great industrial establishments, and so forth—as well as of children
 in many schools, that colour-blindness exists in a noticeable degree,
 as I have already said, in about four per cent, of the male industrial
 population in civilised countries, and in about one per thousand of
 females. Among the males of the more highly educated classes,
 taking Eton boys as an example, the colour-blind are only between
 two and three per cent., and perhaps nearer to two than to three.
 Whether a similar difference exists between females of different
 classes we have no statistics to establish. The condition of colour
 blindness is absolutely incurable, absolutely incapable of modification
 by training or exercise, in the case of the individual ; although the
 comparative immunity of the female sex justifies the suggestion that
 this may possibly be due to training throughout successive generations,
 on account of the more habitual occupation of the female eyes about
 colour in relation to costume. However this may be, in the indi
 vidual, as I have said, the defect is unalterable ; and if the difference
 between red and green is uncertain at eight years of age it will be
 equally uncertain at eighty. Hence the existence of colour-blindness,
 among those who have to control the movements of ships or of rail
 way trains, constitutes a real danger to the public ; and it is highly
 important that the colour-blind, in their own interests as well as in
 those of others, should be excluded from employments the duties of
 which they are unfit to discharge.

1890.]            on Colour-Vision and Colour-Blindness.               127
     The attempts hitherto made in this country to exclude the colour
blind from railway and marine employment have not been by any
means successful. As far as the merchant navy is concerned, so-
called examinations have been conducted by the Board of Trade, with
results which can only be described as ludicrous. Candidates have
been " plucked " in colour at one examination, and permitted to pass
at a subsequent one ; as if correct colour-vision were something
which could be acquired. Such candidates were either improperly
rejected on the first occasion, or improperly accepted on the second.
On English railways there has been no uniformity in the methods of
testing, except, in so far as I am acquainted with them, that they
have been almost uniformly misleading, calculated to lead to the
imputation of colour-blindness where it did not exist, and to leave it
undiscovered where it did. In these circumstances, it is not surprising
that great discontent should have arisen among railway men in rela
tion to the subject ; and this discontent has led, indirectly, to the
appointmont of a committee by the Royal Society, with the sanction
of the Board of Trade, for the purpose of investigating the whole
question as completely as may be possible.
     It is perhaps worth while, before proceeding to describe the
manner in which the colour-sense of large bodies of men should be
tested for industrial purposes, to say something as to the amount of
danger which colour-blindness produces. A locomotive, as we all
know, is under the charge of two men —the driver and the fireman.
In a staff of one thousand of each, allotted to one thousand loco
motives, we should expect, in the absence of any efficient method of
examination, to find forty colour-blind drivers and forty colour-blind
firemen. The chances would be one in twenty-five that either the
driver or the fireman on any particular engine would be colour-blind ;
they would be one in 625 that both would be colour-blind. These
figures appear to show a greater risk of accident than we find realised
in actual working, and it is manifest that there are compensations to
be taken into account. In the first place, the term " colour-blind " is
 itself in some degree misleading ; for it must be remembered that the
 signals to which the colour-blind person is said to be " blind " are
 not invisible to him. To the red-blind, the red light is a less
 him iin HIS green ; to the green-blind, the green light is a less luminous
 red. The danger arises because the apparent differences are not
 sufficiently characteristic to lead to certain and prompt identification
 in all states of illumination and of atmosphere. It must be admitted,
 therefore, that a colour-blind driver may be at work for a long time
 without mistakes ; and it is probable, knowing as he must that the
 differences between different signal lights appear to him to be only
 trivial, that he will exercise extreme caution Then it must be
 remembered that lights never appear to an engine-driver in unex
 pected places. Before being intrusted with a train, he is taken over
 the line, and is shown the precise position of every light. If a light
 did not appear where it was due, he would naturally ask his fireman

12S                     Mr. B. Brudenell Carter                [May 9,
to aid in the look-out. It must be also remembered that to overrun
a danger signal does not of necessity imply a collision. A driver
may overrun the signal, and after doing so may see a train or other
obstruction on the line, and may stop in time to avoid an accident.
In such a case he would probably be reported and fined for over
running the signal ; and, if the same thing occurred again, he would
be dismissed for his assumed carelessness, probably with no suspicion
of his defect. Colour-blind firemen are unquestionably thus driven
out of the service by the complaints of their drivers ; and none but
railway officials know how many cases of overrunning signals, followed
by disputes as to what the signals actually were, occur in the course
of a year's work. I have never heard of an instance in this country
in which, after a railway accident, the colour-vision of the driver
concerned, or of his fireman, has been tested by an expert, on the part
either of the Board of Trade or of the Company ; but a fireman in
the United States has recently recovered heavy damages from the
Company for the loss of one of his legs in a collision which was
proved to have been occasioned by the colour-blindness of the driver.
Looking at the whole question, I feel that tho danger on railways is
a real one, but that it is minimised by the several considerations to
which I have referred, and that it is much smaller than the frequency
of the defect might lead us to think likely.
    At sea, the danger is much more formidable. The lights appear
at all sorts of times and places, and there may be only one responsible
person on the look-out. Mr. Bickerton, of Liverpool, has lately
published accounts of three cases in which the colour-blindness of
officers of the mercantile marine, all of whom had passed the Board
 of Trade examination, was accidentally discovered by the captains
being on deck when the officers in question gave wrong orders con
sequent upon mistaking the light shown by an approaching vessel.
The loss of the Ville du Havre was almost certainly due to colour
blindness ; and a very fatal collision in American waters, some years
ago, between the I-aac Bell and the Lumberman, was traced, long after
the event, to the colour-blindness of a pilot, who had been unjustly
accused of being drunk at the time of the occurrence. In how many
instances colour-blindness has been the unsuspected cause of wrecks
and other calamities at sea, it is impossible to do more than con
jecture.
    It is necessary, then, alike in the public interest and in the
interest of the colour-blind, who have doubtless often suffered in the
misfortunes which their defects have produced, to detect them in time
to prevent them from entering into the marine and railway services ;
and the next question is, how this detection should be accomplished.
We have to distinguish the colour-blind from the colour-sighted ; but
we must be careful not to confound colour-blindness with the much
more common condition of colour-ignorance.
    It would surprise many people, more especially many ladies, to
discover the extent to which sheer ignorance of colour prevails among

 1890.]          on Colour-Vision and Colour-Blindness.             129
 boys and men of the labouring classes. Many, who can see colours
 perfectly, and who would never be in the least danger of mistaking a
 railway signal, are quite unable to name colours or to describe them ;
 and they are sometimes unable to perceive, for want of education of a
 faculty which they notwithstanding possess, anything like fine shades
 of difference. Mr. Gladstone once published a paper on the scanty
and uncertain colour-nomenclature of the Homeric poems ; and he
 might have found very similar examples among his own contemporaries
and in his own country. I have lately heard a description of a pattern
 card of coloured silks, issued by a Lyons manufacturer, which contains
 samples of two thousand different colours, eacb with its more or less
appropriate name. There is here a larger colour-voc:ibulary than the
 entire vocabulary, for the expression of all his knowledge and of all
 his ideas, which is possessed by an average engine-driver or fireman ;
and, just as most of us would be ignorant of the names of the immense
 majority of the colours displayed on that card, so hundreds of men
and boys among the labouring classes, especially in large towns,
where the opportunities of education by the colours of flowers and
insects are very limited, are ignorant of the names of colours which
persons of ordinary cultivation mention constantly in their daily talk,
and expect their children to pick up and to understand unconsciously.
 It is among people thus ignorant that the officials of the Board of
Trade, and of railways, have been most successful in finding their
supposed colour-blind persons ; and these persons, who would never
have been pronounced colour-blind by an expert, have been able, as
soon as they have paid a little attention to the observation and naming
of colour, to pass an official examination triumphantly. The sense of
colour presents many analogies to that of hearing. Some people can
hear a higher or a lower note than others, the difference depending
upon structure, and being incapable of alteration. No one who can
not hear a note of a certain pitch can ever be trained to do so ; but,
within the original auditory limits of each individual, the sense of
hearing may be greatly improved by cultivation. In like manner, a
person who is blind to red or green must remain BO ; but one whose
colour-sense is merely undeveloped by want of cultivation may have
its acuteness for fine differences very considerably increased.
    In order to test colour-vision for railway and marine purposes,
the first suggestion which would occur to many people would be to
employ as objects the flags and signal lanterns which are nsed in
actual working. I have heard apparently sensible people use, with
reference to such a procedure, the phrase upon which Faraday was
wont to pour ridicule, and to say that the fitness of the suggested
method " stands to reason." To be effectual, such a test must be
applied in different states of atmosphere, with coloured glasses of
various tints, with various degrees of illumination, and with the
objects at various distances ; so that much time would be required in
order to exhaust all the conditions under which railway signals may
present themselves. This being done, the examinee must be either
    VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)                                        K

130                      Mr. R. Brudenell Carter                 [May 9,
right or wrong each time. He has always an even chance of being
right ; and it would he an insoluble problem to discover how many
correct answers might be due to accident, or how many incorrect ones
might be attributed to nervousness or to confusion of names.
    We must remember that what is required is to detect a colour
blind person against his will ; and to ascertain, not whether he
describes a given signal rightly or wrongly on a particular occasion,
but whether ho can safely be trusted to distinguish correctly between
signals on all occasions. We want, in short, to ascertain the state of
his colour-vision generally ; and hence to infer his fitness or unfitnoss
to discharge the duties of a particular occupation.
    For the accomplishment of this object, we do not in the least want
to know what the examinee calls colours, but only how he sees them,
what colours appear to him to be alike and what appear to be unlike ;
and the only way of attaining this knowledge with certainty is to
cause him to make matches between coloured objects, to put those
together which appear to him to be essentially the same, and to
separate those which appear to him to be essentially different. This
principle of testing was first laid down by Seebeck, who required from
examinees a complete arrangement of a large number of coloured
objects; but it has been greatly simplified and improved by Prof.
Holmgren, who pointed out that such a complete arrangement was
superfluous, and that the only thing necessary was to cause the
examinee to make matches to certain test colours, and, for this pur
pose, to select from materials which contained not only such matches,
but also the colours which the colour-blind were liable to confuse
with them.
    After many trials, Holmgren finally selected skeins of Berlin wool
as the material best suited for this purpose ; and his set of wools com
prises about 150 skeins [g/iotrn]. The advantages of his method over
every other are that the wool is very cheap, very portable, and always
to be obtained in every conceivable colour and shade. The skeins
are not lustrous, so that light reflected from the surfaces does not
interfere with the accuracy of the observation; and they are very
easily picked up and manipulated, much more easily than coloured
paper or coloured glass. The person to be tested is placed before a
table in good daylight, the table is covered by a white cloth, and the
skeins are thrown upon it in a loosely arranged heap. The examiner
then selects a skein of pale green much diluted with white, and throws
it down by itself to the left of the heap [sAouMtj. The examinee is
directed to look at this pattern skein and at the heap, and to pick '
out from the latter, and to place beside the pattern, as many skeins
as he can find which are of the same colour. He is not to be par
ticular about lighter or darker shades, and is not to compare narrowly,
or to rummage much amongst the heap, but to select by his eyes, and
to use his hands chiefly to change the position of the selected
material.
    In such circumstances, a person with normal colour-sight will

1890.]            on Colour-Vision and Colour-Blindness.              131
select the greens rapidly and without hesitation, will select nothing
else, and will select with a certain readiness and confidence easily
recognised by an experienced examiner, and which may even be
carried to the extent of neglecting the minute accuracy which a person
who distrusts his own colour-sight will frequently endeavour to
display. Some normal-sighted people will complete their selection
by taking greens which incline to yellow, and greens which incline to
blue, while others will reject both ; but this is a difference depending
sometimes upon imperfect colour education, sometimes upon the in
terpretation placed upon the directions of the examiner; for the
person who so selects sees the green element in both the yellow-
greens and the blue-greens, and is not colour-blind. The completely
colour-blind, whether to red or to green, will proceed with almost as
much speed and confidence as the colour-sighted ; and will rapidly
pick out a number of drabs, fawns, stone-colours, pinks, or yellows.
Between the foregoing classes we meet with a few people who declure
the imperfection of their colour-sense by the extreme care with which
they select, by their slowness, by their hesitation, and by their desire
to compare this or that skein with the pattern more narrowly than the
conditions of the trial should permit. They may or may not ulti
mately add one or more of the confusion colours to the green, but
they have a manifest tendency to do so, and a general uncertainty in
their choice. One of the great advantages of Holmgren's method
over every other is the way in which the examiner is able to judge,
not only by the final choice of matches, but also by the manner in
which the choice is made, by the action of the hands, and by the
gestures and general deportment of the examinee.
     When confusion colours have been selected, or when an unnatural
slowness and hesitation have been shown in selecting, the examinee
must be regarded as either completely or incompletely colour-blind.
In order to determine which, and also to which colour he is defective,
he is subjected to the second test. For this, the wool is mixed again,
and the pattern this time is a skein of light purple—that is, of a
mixture of red and violet much diluted with white [sAoion]. To match
this, the colour-blind always selects deeper colours. If he puts only
deeper purples, he is incompletely colour-blind. If he takes blue or
 violet, either with or without purple, he is completely red-blind. If
 he takes green or grey, or one alone, with or without purple, he is
 completely green-blind. If he takes red or orange, with or without
 purple, he is violet-blind. If there be any doubt, the examinee may
 be subjected to a third test, which is not necessary for the satisfaction
of an expert, but which sometimes strengthens the proof in the eyes
of a bystander. The pattern for this third test is a skein of bright
 red, to be used in the same way as the green and the purple [sAosm].
 The red-blind selects for this dark greens and browns which are
much darker than the pattern ; while the green-blind selects greens
 and browns which are lighter than the pattern.
     The method of examination thus described is, I believe, absolutely
                                                               K 2

 132                     Mr. E. BrudeneU Carter                [May 9,
 trustworthy. It requires no apparatus beyond the bundle of skeins of
 wool, no arrangements beyond a room with a good window and a
 table with a white cloth. In examining large numbers of men, they
 may be admitted into the room fifty or so at a time, may all receive
 their instructions together, and may then make their selections one
 by one, all not yet examined watching the actions of those who come
 up in their turn, and thus learning how to proceed. The time re
 quired for large numbers averages about a minute a person. I have
 heard and read of instances of colour-blind people who had passed
 the wool test satisfactory, and had afterwards been detected by other
 methods; but I confess that I do not believe in them. I do not
 believe that in such cases the wool test was applied properly, or in
 accordance with Holmgren's very precise instructions ; and I know
 that it is often applied in a way which can lead to nothing but
 erroneous results.     Railway foremen, for example, receive out of
 store a small collection of coloured wools selected on no principle,
and they use it by pulling out a single thread, and by asking the
 examinee, " What colour do you call that ? " Men of greater scientific
"pretensions than railway foremen have not always selected their
pattern colours accurately, and have allowed those whom they ex
amined, and passed, to make narrow comparisons between the skeins
in all sorts of lights, in a way which should of itself have afforded
sufficient evidence of defect.
     Although, however, the expert may be fully satisfied by the wool
test that the examinee is not capable of distinguishing with certainty
between red and green flags or lights in all the circumstances in
which they can be displayed, it may still remain for him to satisfy
the employer who is not an expert, the railway manager, or the ship
owner, and to convince him that the colour-blind person is unfit for
certain kinds of employment. It may be equally necessary to con
vince other workmen that the examinee has been fairly and rightly
 dealt with. Both these objects may be easily attained, by the use
of slight modifications of the lights which are employed. Lanterns
for this special purpose were contrived, some years ago, by Holmgren
 himself, and by the late Prof. Donders, of Utrecht, and what are
 substantially their contrivances have been brought forward within the
 last few months as novelties, by gentlemen in this country who have
 re-invented them. The principle of all is the same—namely, that
 light of varying intensity may be displayed through apertures of
 varying magnitude, and through coloured glasses of varying tint, so
 as to imitate the appearances of signal lamps at different distances,
 and under different conditions of illumination, of weather, and of
 atmosphere. To the colour-blind, the difference between a red light
 and a green one is not a difference of colour, but of luminosity ; the
 colour to which he is blind appearing the less luminous of the two.
He may therefore be correct in his guess as to which of the two is
exhibited on any given occasion, and he is by no means certain to
mistake one for the other when they are exhibited in immediate

1890.]          on Colour-Vision and Colour-BUndness.                133
succession. His liability to error is chiefly conspicuous when he
Bees one light only, and when the conditions which govern its lumi
nosity depart in any degree from those to which he is most accustomed.
With the lanterns of which I have spoken, it is always possible to
deceive a colour-blind person by altering the luminosity of a light
without altering its colour. This may be dune by diminishing the
light behind the glass, by increasing the thickness of the red or
green glass, or by placing a piece of neutral tint, more or less dark,
in front of either [sAosm]. The most incredulous employer may be
convinced, by expedients of this kind, that the colour-blind are not
to be relied upon for the safe control of ships or of locomotives.
With regard to the whole question, there are many points of great
interest, both physical and physiological, which are still more or less
uncertain ; but the practical elements have, I think, been well-nigh
exhausted, and the means of securing safety are fully in the hands
of those who choose to master and to employ them. The lanterns,
in their various forms, are useful for the purpose of thoroughly ex
posing the colour-blind, and for bringing home the character of their
incapacity to unskilled spectators ; but they are both cumbrous and
superfluous for the detection of the defect, which may be accomplished
with far greater ease, and with equal certainty, by the wool test
alone.
    I have already mentioned that the examinations which have been
conducted in the United States, thanks to the indefatigable labours
of Dr. Joy Jeffries, have led to the discovery of an enormous and
previously quite unsuspected amount of colour-ignorance, a condition
which is frequently mistaken for colour-blindness by the methods
of examination which are in favour with railway companies and
with the Board of Trade ; and this colour-ignorance has been justly
regarded as a blot on the American system of national education.
It has therefore, in pome of the States, led to the adoption of
systematic colour-teaching in the schools; and, for this purpose, J)r.
Joy Jeffries has introduced this wall-chart and coloured cards [#/ioicn].
The children are taught, in the first instance, to match tho colours
in the chart with those of the cards distributed to them ; and, when
they are tolerably expert at matching, they are further taught tho
names of the colours. It must, nevertheless, always be remembered
that a knowledge of names does not necessarily imply a knowledge of
the things designated ; and that colour-vision stands in no definite
relation to colour-nomenclature. Even this system of teaching
may leave a colour-blind pupil undetected.
                                                           [E. B. C.]

134                     Professor Raphael Meldola              [May 16,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 16, 1890.
  EDWARD FRANKLAND, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.E.8. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
             PROFESSOR RAPHAEL MELDOLA, F.R.S. M.R.I.
                         The Photographic Image.
THE history of a discovery which has been developed to such a
remarkable degree of perfection as photography has naturally been
a fruitful source of discussion among those who interest themselves
in tracing the progress of science. It is only my presence in this
lecture theatre, in which the first public discourse on photography
was given by Thomas Wedgwood at the beginning of the century,
that justifies my treading once again a path which has already been
so thoroughly well beaten. If any further justification for trespas
sing upon the ground of the historian is needed, it will be found in
the circumstance that in the autumn of last year there was held a
celebration of what was generally regarded as the jubilee of the dis
covery. This celebration was considered by many to have reference
to the public disclosure of the Daguerreotype process, made through
the mouth of Arago to the French Academy of Sciences on August 10,
 1839. There is no doubt that the introduction of this process
marked a distinct epoch in the history of the art, and gave a great
impetus to its subsequent development. But, while giving full
recognition to the value of the discovery of Daguerre, we must not
allow the work of his predecessors and contemporaries in the same
field to sink into oblivion. After the lapse of half a century we are
in a better position to consider fairly the influence of the work of
different investigators upon modern photographic processes.
     I have not the least desire on the present occasion to raise the
ghosts of dead controversies. In fact, the history of the discovery
of photography is ono of those subjects which can be dealt with in
various ways, according to the meaning assigned to the term. There
is ample scope for the display of what Mr. Herbert Spencer calls the
"bias of patriotism." If the word "photography" bo interpreted
literally as writing or inscribing by light, without any reference to
the subsequent permanence of the inscription, then the person who
first intentionally caused a design to be imprinted by light upon a
photo-sensitive compound must be regarded as the first photographer.
According to Dr. Eder, of Vienna, we must place this experiment to
the credit of Johann Heinrich Schulze, the son of a German tailor,
who was born in the Duchy of Madgeburg, in Prussia, in 1687, and
who died in 174.4, after a life of extraordinary activity as a linguist,
theologian, physician, and philosopher. In the year 1727, when

1890.]                  on the Photographic Image.                        135
experimenting on the subject of phosphorescence, Schulze observed
that by pouring nitric acid, in which some silver had previously been
dissolved, on to chalk, the undissolved earthy residue had acquired
the property of darkening on exposure to light. This effect was
shown to be due to light, and not to heat. By pasting words cut out
in paper on the side of the bottle containing his precipitate, Schulze
obtained copies of the letters on the silvered chalk. The German
philosopher certainly produced what might he called a temporary
photogram. Whatever value is attached to this observation in the
development of modern photography, it must be conceded that a
considerable advance was made by spreading the sensitive compound
over a surface instead of using it in mass. It is hardly necessary to
remind you here that such an advance was made by Wedgwood and
Davy in 1802.* The impressions produced by these last experi
menters were, unfortunately, of no more permanence than those
obtained by Schulze three-quarters of a century before them.
     It will, perhaps, be safer for the historian of this art to restrict the
term photograph to such impressions as are possessed of permanence :
I do not, of course, mean absolute permanence, but ordinary durability
in the common-sense acceptation of the term. From this point of
view the first real photographs, i. e. permanent impressions of the
camera picture, were obtained on bitumen films by Joseph Nicephore
Niepce, of Cbalons-sur-Saone, who, after about twenty years' work at
the subject, had perfected his discovery by 1826. Then came the days
of silver salts again, when Daguerre, who commenced work in 1824,
entered into a partnership with Niepce in 1829, which was brought
to a termination by the death of the latter in 1833. The partnership
was renewed between Daguerre and Niepce de St. Victor, nephew of
the elder Niepce. The method of fixing the camera picture on a film
of silver iodide on a silvered copper plate—the process justly asso
ciated with the name of Daguerre, was ripe for disclosure by 1838,
and was actually made known in 1839.
     The impartial historian of photography who examines critically
into the evidence will find that, quite independently of the French
pioneers, experiments on the use of silver salts had been going on in
this country, and photographs, in the true sense, had been produced
almost simultaneously with the announcement of the Daguerreotype
process, by two Englishmen whose names are as household words in
the ranks of science—I refer to William Henry Fox Talbot and
Sir John Herschel. Fox Talbot commenced experimenting with
silver salts on paper in 1834, and the following year lie succeeded in
imprinting the camera picture on paper coated with the chloride. In
January 1839 some of his "photogenic drawings"—the first " silver
prints " ever obtained—were exhibited in this Institution by Michael
    * " An Accountof a Method of Copying Paintings upon Glass, and of making
Profiles by the Agency of Light upon Nitrate of Silver.          Inveitltd by
T. Wedgwood, Esq. With Observations by H. Davy." ' Journ. R. I.' 1802, p. 170.

136                      Professor Raphael Meldola                    [May 16,
Faraday. In the same mouth he communicated his first paper on a
photographic process to the Royal Society, and in the following
month he read a second paper before the same society, giving the
method of preparing the sensitive paper and of fixing the prints.
The outcome of this work was the " Calotype " or Talbotype process,
which was sufficiently perfected for portraiture by 1840, and which
was fully described in a paper communicated to the Royal Society in
1841. The following year Fox Talbot received the Rumford Medal
for his " discoveries and improvements in photography." *
     Herschel's process consisted in coating a glass plate with silver
chloride by subsidence. The details of the method, from Herschel's
own notes, have been published by his son, Prof. Alexander HerseheLf
By this means the old 40-foot telescope at Slough was photographed
in 1839. By the kindness of Prof. Herschel, and with the sanction
of the Science and Art Department, Herschel's original photographs
have been sent here for your inspection. The process of coating a
plate by allowing a precipitate to settle on it in a uniform film is,
however, impracticable, and was not further developed by its illus
trious discoverer. We must credit him, however, as being the first
to use glass as a substratum. Herschel further discovered the im
portant fact that while the chloride was very insensitive alone, its
sensitiveness was greatly increased by washing it with a solution of
silver nitrate. It is to Herschol, also, that we are indebted for the
use of sodium thiosulphate as a fixing agent, as well as for many
other discoveries in connection with photography, which are common
matters of history.
     Admitting the impracticability of the method of subsidence for
producing a sensitive film, it is interesting to trace the subsequent
development of the processes inaugurated about the year 1839. The
first of photographic methods—the bitumen process of Niepce—
survives at the present time, and is the basis of some of the most
important of modern photo-mechanical printing processes. [Specimens
illustrating photo-etching from Messrs. Waterlow and Sons exhibited.]
The Daguerreotype process is now obsolete. As it left the hands of
its inventor it was unsuited for portraiture, on account of the long
exposure required. It is evident, moreover, that a picture on an
opaque metallic plate is incapable of reproduction by printing
through, so that in this respect the Talbotype possessed distinct
advantages. This is one of the most important points in Fox
Talbot's contributions to photography. He was the first to produce
a transparent paper negative from which any number of positives
couLl be obtained by printing through. The silver print of modern
times is the lineal descendant of the Talbotype print. After forty
    * For these and other details relating to Fox Talbot's work, necessarily
exnluded for want of time, I am indebted to Ms son, Mr. C. H. Talbot, of Lacock
Abbey.
    t ' Photog. Journ. and Trans. Photog. Soc.,' June 15, 1872.

1890.]                  on the Photographic Image.                  137
years' use of glass as a substratum, we are going back to Fox Talbot's
plan, and using thin flexible films—not exactly of paper, but of an
allied substance, celluloid. [Specimens of Talbotypes, lent by Mr.
Crookes, exhibited, with celluloid negatives by the Eastman Company.]
     If I interpret this fragment of history correctly, the founders of
modern photography are the three men whose labours have been
briefly sketched. The jubilee of last autumn marked a culminating
point in the work of Niepce and Daguerre, and of Fox Talbot. The
names of these three pioneers must go down to posterity as co-equal
in the annals of scientific discovery. [Portraits by Mr. H. M. Elder
shown.] The lecture theatre of the Royal Institution offers such
tempting opportunities to the chronicler of the history of this
wonderful art that I must close this treatment of the subject by
reminding myself that in selecting the present topic I had in view a
statement of the case of modern photography from its scientific side
only. There is hardly any invention associated with the present
century which has rendered more splendid services in every de
partment of science. The physicist and chemist, the astronomer and
geographer, the physiologist, pathologist, and anthropologist will all
bear witness to the value of photography. The very first scientific
application of Wedgwood's process was made here by the illustrious
Thomas Young, when he impressed Newton's rings on paper
moistened with silver nitrate, as described in his Bukerian Lecture
to the Royal Society on November 24, 1803. Prof. Dewar has
just placed in my hands the identical slide, with the Newton rings
still visible, which he believes Young to have used in this classic
experiment. [Shown.]
     Our modern photographic processes depend upon chemical
changes wrought by light on films of certain sensitive compounds.
Bitumen, under this influence, becomes insoluble in hydrocarbon
oils, as in the heliographic process of the elder Niepce. Gelatine
mixed with potassium dichromate becomes insoluble in water on
exposure to light, a property utilised in the photo-etching process
introduced in 1852 by i'ox Talbot, some of whose original etchings
have been placed at my disposal by Mr. Crookes. [Shown.] Chro-
matized gelatine now plays a most important part in the autotype
and many photo-mechanical processes. The salts of iron in the ferric
condition undergo reduction to the ferrous state under the influence
of light in contact with oxidizable organic compounds. The use of
these iron salts is another of Sir John Herschel's contributions to
photography (1842), the modern " blue print " and the beautiful
platinotype being dependent on the photo-reducibility of these
compounds. [Cyanotype print developed with forricyanide.]
     Of all the substances known to chemistry at the present time, the
salts of silver are by far tho most important in photography, on
account of the extraordinary degree of sensitiveness to which they
can be raised. The photographic image, with which it is my privi
lege to deal on this occasion, is that invisible impression produced by

138                    Professor Rapltael Meldola             [May 16,
the action of light on a film of a silver haloid. Many methods of
producing such films have been in practical use since the foundation
of the art in 1839. All these depend on the double decomposition
between a soluble chloride, bromide, or iodide, and silver nitrate,
resulting in the formation of the silver haloid in a vehicle of some
kind, such as albumen (Niopce de St. Victor, 1848), or collodion on
glass, as made practicable by Scott Archer in 1851. For twenty
years this collodion process was in universal use ; its history and
details of manipulation, its development into a dry plate process by
Colonel Russell in 1861, and into an emulsion process by Bolton
and Sayco in 1864, are facts familiar to every one.
    The photographic film of the present time is a gelatino-haloid
(generally bromide) emulsion. If a solution of silver nitrate is
added to a solution of potassium bromide and the mixture well shaken,
the silver bromide coagulates, and rapidly subsides to the bottom of
the liquid as a dense curdy precipitate. [Shown.] If instead of
water we use a viscid medium, such as gelatine solution, the bromide
does not settle down, but forms an emulsion, which becomes quite
homogeneous on agitation. [Shown.] This operation, omitting all
details of ripening, washing, ifec., as well known to practical photo
graphers, is the basis of all the recent photographic methods of
obtaining negatives in the camera. The use of this invaluable
vehicle, gelatine, was practically introduced by R. L. Maddox in
1871, previous experiments in the same direction having been made
by Caudin (1853-61). Such a gelatino-bromide emulsion can be
spread uniformly over any substratum—glass, paper, gelatine, or
celluloid—and when dry, gives a highly sensitive film.
    The fundamental problem which fifty years' experience with silver
haloid films has left in the hands of chemists is that of the nature of
the chemical change which occurs when a ray of light falls on such a
silver salt. Long before the days of photography—far back in the
sixteenth century—Fabricins, the alchemist, noticed that native horn
silver became coloured when brought from the mine and exposed.
The fact presented itself to Robert Boyle in the seventeenth century,
and to Beccarius, of Turin, in the eighteenth century. The change
of colour undergone by the chloride was first shown to be associated
with chemical decomposition in 1777, by Scheole, who proved that
chlorine was given off when this salt darkened under water. I can
show you this in a form which admits of its being seen by all.
[Potassium iodide and starch paper were placed in a glass cell with
silver chloride, and the arrangement exposed to the electric light till
the paper had become blue.] The gas which is given off under these
circumstances is either the free halogen or an oxide or acid of the
halogen, according to the quantity of moisture present and the
intensity of the light. I have found that the bromide affects the
iodide and starch paper in the same way, but silver iodide does not
give off any gas which colours the test paper. All the silver haloids
become coloured on exposure to light, the change being most marked

 1890.]                on the Photographic Image.                   139
in the chloride, loss in the bromide, and least of all in the iodide.
The latter must be associated with some halogen absorbent to render
 the change visible. [Strips of paper coated with the pure haloids,
the lower halves brushed over with silver nitrate solution, were
 exposed.] The different degrees of coloration in the three cases
 must not be considered as a measure of the relative sensitiveness : it
 simply means that the products of photo-chemical change in the three
 haloids are inherently possessed of different depths of colour.
     From the fact that halogen in some form is given off, it follows
 that we are concerned with photo-chemical decomposition, and not
 with a physical change only. All the evidence is in favour of this
 view. Halogen absorbents, such as silver nitrate on the lower halves
 of the papers in the last experiment, organic matter, such as the
 gelatine in an emulsion, and reducing agents generally, all accelerate
 the change of colour. Oxidizing and halogenizing agents, such as
mercuric chloride, potassium dichromate, &c., all retard the colour
change. [Silver chloride paper, painted with stripes of solutions of
sodium sulphite, mercuric chloride, and potassium dichromate, was
exposed.] It is impossible to account for the action of these chemical
agents except on the view of chemical decomposition. The ray of
light falling upon a silver haloid must be regarded as doing chemical
work ; the vibratory energy is partly spent in doing the work of
chemical separation, and the light passes through a film of such
haloid partly robbed of its power of doing similar work upon a
second film. It is difficult to demonstrate this satisfactorily in the
lecture-room, on account of the opacity of the silver haloids, but the
work of Sir John Herschel, J. W. Draper, and others, has put it
beyond doubt that there is a relationship of this kind between
absorption and decomposition. It is well known, also, that the more
refrangible rays are the most active in promoting the decomposition
in the case of the silver haloids. This was first proved for the
chloride by Scheele, and is now known to be true for the other
haloids. It would be presumption on my part, in the presence of
Captain Abney, to enlarge upon the effects of the different spectral
colours on these haloids, as this is a subject upon which he can speak
with the authority of an investigator. It only remains to add that
the old idea of a special " actinic " force at the more refrangible end
of the spectrum has long been abandoned. It is only because the
silver haloids absorb these particular rays that the blue end of the
spectrum is most active in promoting their decomposition. Many
other instances of photo-chemical decomposition are known in which
the less refrangible rays are the most active, and it is possible to
modify the silver haloids themselves so as to make them sensitive
for the red end of the spectrum.
     The chemical nature of the coloured products of photo-chemical
decomposition is still enshrouded in mystery. Beyond the fact that
they contain less halogen than the normal salt, we are not much in
advance of the knowledge bequeathed to us by Schcclc in the last

140                       Professor Raphael Meldola                    [May 16,
century. The problem has been attacked by chemists again and
again, but its solution presents extraordinary difficulties. These
products are never formed—even under the most favourable con
ditions of division aud with prolonged periods of exposure—in quan
tities beyond what the chemists would call "a u.ere trace." Their
existence appears to be determined by the great excess of unaltered
haloid with which they are combined. Were I to give free rein to
the imagination, I might set up the hypothesis that the element silver
is really a compound body invariably containing a minute percentage
of some other element, which resembles the compound which we now
call silver in all its chemical reactions, but alone is sensitive to
light. I offer this suggestion for the consideration of the speculative
chemist.* For the coloured product as a whole, i. e. the product of
photo-decomposition with its combined unchanged haloid, Carey Lea
has proposed the convenient term " photosult." It will avoid circum
locution if we adopt this name. The photosalts have been thought
at various times to contain metallic silver, allotropic silver, a sub-
haloid, such as argentous chloride, &c., or an oxyhaloid. The free
metal theory is disposed of by the fact that silver chloride darkens
under nitric acid of sufficient strength to dissolve the metal freely.
The acid certainly retards the formation of the photosalt, but does
not prevent it altogether. When once formed the photo-chloride is
but slowly attacked by boiling dilute nitric acid, and from the dry
photosalt mercury extracts no silver. The assumption of the existence
of an allotropic form of silver insoluble in nitric acid caunot be
seriously maintained. The sub-haloid theory of the product may be
true, but it has not yet been established w ith that precision which the
chemist has a right to demand. We must have analyses giving not
only the percentage of halogen, but also the percentage of silver,
in order that it may be ascertained whether the photosalt contains
anything besides metal and halogen. The same may be said of the
oxyhaloid theory : it may be true, but it has not been demonstrated.
     The oxyhaloid theory was first suggested by Robert Hunt f for the
chloride ; it was taken up by Sahler, and has recently been revived
by Dr. W. E. Hodgkinson. It has been thought that this theory is
disposed of by the fact that the chloride darkens under liquids, such
as hydrocarbons, which are free from oxygen. I have been repeating
some of these experiments with various liquids, using every possible
precaution to exclude oxygen and moisture ; dry silver chloride heated
to incipient fusion has been sealed up in tubes in dry benzene,
   * I have gone so far as to test this idea experimentally in a preliminary way,
the result being, us might have been anticipated, negative. Silver chloride, well
darkened by long exposure, was extracted with a hot saturated solution of potas
sium chloride, and the dissolved portion, after precipitation by water, compared
with the ordinary chloride by exposure to light. Not the slightest difference was
observable either in the rate of coloration or in the colours of the products.
Perhaps it muy be thought worth while to repeat the experiment, using a method
analogous to the " method of fractionation " of Crookes.
   t 'Researches on Light,' 2nd ed. 1854, p. 80.

1890.]                     on the Photographic Image.                              141
petroleum, and carbon tetrnchloride and exposed since March. [Tubes
shown.] In all cases the chloride has darkened. The salt darkens,
moreover, in a Crookosian vacuum.* By these experiment the oxy-
chloride theory may be scotched, but it is not yet killed ; the question
now presents itself, whether the composition of the photosalt may not
vary according to the medium in which it is generated. Analogy
sanctions the supposition that when the haloid darkeus under water
or other oxygen-containing liquid, or even in contact with moist or
dry air, that an oxychloride may bo formed, and enter into the com
position of tho photosalt. The analogy is supplied by the corre
sponding salt of copper, viz. cuprous chloride, which darkens rapidly
on exposure. [Design printed on flat coll filled with cuprous chloride
by exposure to electric light.] Wohler conjectured that the darkened
product was an oxychloride, and this view receives a certain amount
of indirect support from these tubes [shown], in which dry cuprous
chloride has been sealed up in benzene and carbon tetrachloride
since March ; and although exposed in a southern window during
the whole of that time, the salt is as white as when first prepared.
 Some cuprous chloride sealed up in water, and exposed for tho same
time, is now almost black. [Shown.]
     When silver is precipitated by reduction in a finely divided state
in the presence of the haloid, and tho product treated with acids, the
excess of silver is removed and coloured products are left which are
somewhat analogous to the photosalts proper. Those coloured
haloids are also termed by Carey Lea photosalU because they present
many analogies with the coloured products of photo-chemical change.
 Whether they are identical in composition it is not yet possible to
 decide, as we have no complete analyses. The first observations in
 this direction were published more than thirty years ago in a report
by a British Association Committee,f in which the red and chocolate-
 coloured chlorides are distinctly described. Carey Lea has since
 contributed largely to our knowledge of these coloured haloids, and
 has at least made it appear highly probable that they are related to
    * Some dry silver chloride which Mr. Crookes has been good enough to seal
up for me in a high vacuum, darkens on exposure quite as rnpidly as the dry salt
in air. It soon regains its original colour when kept in the dark. It behaves,
in fact, just as the chloride is known to behave when sealed up in chlorine,
although its colour is of course much more intense after exposure than is the case
 with the chloride in chlorine. The tube in which the chloride had been sealed
 up in benzene, gave off a considerable quantity of hydrogen chloride on breaking
 the point in June.
    t These results were arrived at in three ways. In one case hydrogen was
passed through silver citrate suspended in hot water, and the product extracted
with citric acid. " The result of treating the residue with chlorhydric aci.l, and
then dissolving the silver by dilute nitric acid, was a rose-tinted chloride of silvsr."
In another experiment the dry citrate waa heated in a stream of hydrogen at
2123 P., and the product, which was partly soluble in water, gave a brown residue,
which furnished "a very pale red body on being transformed by chlorhydric and
nitric acids." In another experiment silver arsenite was formed, this being
treated with caustic soda, and the black precipitate then treated successively with

142                         Professor Eapliael Meldola                   [May 16,
the products formed by the action of light. [Red photo-chloride and
 purple photobromide and iodide shown.]
     The photographic imago is impressed on a modern film in an
inappreciable fraction of a second, whereas the photosalt requires an
appreciable time for its production. The image is invisible simply
because of the extremely minute quantity of haloid decomposed. In
the present state of knowledge it cannot be asserted that the material
composing this image is identical in composition with the photosalt,
for we know the composition of neither the one nor the other. But
they are analogous in so far as they are both the result of photo
chemical decomposition, and there is great probability that they are
closely related, if not identical, chemically. It may turn out that
there are various kinds of invisible images, according to the vehicle
or halogen absorbent—in other words, according to the sensitiser
with which the silver haloid is associated. The invisible image is
revealed by the action of the developer, into the function of which I
do not propose to enter. It will suffice to say that the final result
of the developing solution is to magnify the deposit of photosalt by
accumulating metallic silver thereon by accretion or reduction.
Owing to the circumstance that the imago is impressed with such
remarkable rapidity, and that it is invisible when formed, it has been
maintained, and is still held by many, that the first action of light
on the film is molecular or physical, and not chemical. Tho
arguments in favour of the chemical theory appear to me to be
tolerably conclusive, and I will venture to submit a few of them.
     The action of reagents upon the photographic film is quite similar
to the action of the same reagents upon the silver haloids when
exposed to the point of visible coloration. Reducing agents and
halogen absorbents increase the sensitiveness of the film : oxidising
and halogenising agents destroy its sensitiveness. It is difficult to
see on the physical theory why it should not be possible to impress
an image on a film, say of pure silver bromide, as readily as on a film
of the same haloid embedded in gelatine. Every one knows that
this cannot be done. I have myself been surprised at the extreme
insensitiveness of films of pure bromide prepared by exposing films
of silver deposited on glass to the action of bromine vapour. On the
chemical theory we know that gelatine is a splendid sensitiser—i. e.
bromine absorbent. There is another proof which has been in our
hands for nearly thirty years, but I do not think it has been viewed
in this light before. It has been shown by Carey Lea, Edor,
and especially by Abney—who has investigated the matter most
chlorhydrio and nitric aeMs : " Silver is dissolved, and there is loft a substance
.... [of] a rich chocolate or maroon, &c." This on an ilvsis was found to con
tain 2-t per cunt, of chlorine, the normal chloride requiring 24-74 and the sub-
chloride 14-08 per cent. The committee which conducted these experiments
consisted of Messrs. Maskolyne, Hadow, Hanlwich, and Llewelyn. ' B. A. Ron.,'
1850, p. 103.

1890.]                    on the Photographic Image.                       143
thoroughly—that a shearing stress applied mechanically to a sensitive
film leaves an impression which can be developed in just the same
way as though it had been produced by the action of light. [Pres
sure marks on Eastman bromide paper developed by ferrous oxalate.]
Now that result cannot be produced on a surface of the pure haloid ;
some halogen absorbent, such as gelatine, must be associated with the
haloid. We are concerned here with a chemical change of that class
so ably investigated by Prof. Spring, of Liege, who has shown that
by mere mechanical pressure it is possible to bring about chemical
reaction between mixtures of finely divided solids.* Then again,
mild reducing agents, too feeble to reduce the silver haloids directly
to the metallic state, such as alkaline hypophosphites, glucose or
lactose, and alkali, &c., form invisible images which can be developed
in precisely the same way as the photographic image. All this
looks like chemiciil change, and not physical modification pure and
simple.
    I have in this discourse stoically resisted the tempting opportunities
for pictorial display which the subject affords. My aim has been to
summarise the position in which we find ourselves with respect to
ttie invisible image after fifty years' practice of the art. This
image is, I venture to think, the property of the chemist, and by
him must the scientific foundation of photography be laid. We
may not be able to give the formula of the photosalt, but if the
solution of the problem has hitherto eluded our grasp it is because
of the intrinsic difficulties of the investigation. The photographic
image brings us face to face—not with an ordinary, but with an
extraordinary class of chemical changes due entirely to the peculiar
character of the silver salts. The material composing the image
is not of that definite nature with which modern chemical methods
are in the habit of dealing. The stability of the photosalt is deter
mined by some kind of combination between the sub-haloid or oxy-
haloid, or whatever it may be, and the excess of unaltered haloid
which enters into its composition. The formation of the coloured
product presents certain analogies with the formation of a saturated
solution ; the product of photo-chemical decomposition is formed
under the influence of light up to a certain percentage of the whole
photosalt, beyond which it cannot be increased—in other words the
silver haloid is saturated by a very minute percentage of its own
product of photo-decomposition. The photosalt belongs to a domain
of chemistry—a no-man's land—peopled by so-called " molecular
compounds," into which the pure chemist ventures but timidly. But
these compounds are more and more urging their claims for considera
tion, and sooner or later they will have to be reckoned with, even if
    * The connection between the two phenomena was suggested during a course
cf lectures delivered by me two years ago (' Chemistry of Photography." p. 191),
I have since learnt that the same conclusion had been arrived at independently,
 bj Mr. C. H. Bothamley, of the Yorkshire College, Leeds.

144 Professor Raphael Meldola on the Photographic Image. [May 16,
they lack that definiteness which the modern chemist regards as the
essential criterion of chemical individuality. The investigation
may lead to the recognition of a new order of chemical attraction,
or of the old chemical attraction in a different degree. The
chemist who discourses here upon this subject at the end of the
half-century of photography into which we have now entered, will
no doubt know more about this aspect of chemical affinity ; and if
I may invoke the spirit of prophecy in concluding, I should say that
a study of the photographic film with its invisible image will have
contributed materially to its advancement.
                                                          [E.M.]

1890.] Prof, Haddon on Manners, &c. of Torres Straits Islanders. 145
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 23, 1890.
 The Right Hon. EARL PBRCY, F.S.A. Vice-President, in the Chair.
               ALFRED C. HADDON, Esq. M.A. M.R.I.A.
           PBOFEssO* OP ZOOLOGY IK THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF sCIENCE, nr 1:1,1-,.
         Manners and Customs of the Torres Straits Islanders.
IT is not my intention this evening to attempt a special study of any
particular institution or series of customs, nor even to discuss the
ethnological affinities of the natives inhabiting the islands of Torres
Straits.
    The comparative study of institutions and customs has led
to brilliant suggestions, and has especially thrown light upon obscure
facts in our own culture, and given a new significance to observances
which, because they are of every-day occurrence, are passed by
without comment. This field of inquiry is one which has only
recently been systematically tilled, but it promises a rich harvest of
unexpected results.
    The detailed study of a single tribe or natural assemblage of
people has great interest, as it puts one in touch with such varied
subjects as the physical, mental, and moral characters of the people ;
and the tracing out of their affinities requires wide study and careful
comparisons. A patient research of this kind always opens up
questions of wider import than the initial inquiry.
    Neither of these methods will occupy us to-night, as I wish to
present before you as vivid a conception as I can of some of the
manners and customs of a people small in number but rich in interest.
We will consider, therefore, neither a composite image of savages in
general, nor of rude customs, but the particular habits of a disappear
ing people, who, thirty years ago, were naked, unknown savages, who
to-day are British subjects, and who in a very few years will have
lost the last remnants of their individuality, and possibly ere long
will practically cease to exist—at all events as a distinct people.
The dissolving views which I shall exhibit this evening are a fit
emblem of the facts which they illustrate.
    My anthropological inquiries in Torres Straits may not inaptly
be compared with the methods of the palteontologist, especially in
his study of the more receut fossils. Amongst such fossils we find
some representatives of existing forms, others slightly different from
those we are accustomed to, others again which are quite dissimilar,
and often of these only disconnected fragments may remain, and it
takes great patience and careful piecing together to restore the
    VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)                                                     L

146                      Professor A. C. Haddon                  [May 23,
latter into any semblance of their former selves ; nor should surprise
be felt if mistakes are occasionally made in the attempt.
    A similar experience occurs to those who study an isolated people
which is rapidly becoming modified and is dying out at the same time.
Some facts collected from legend and myth precisely resemble
the present habits of the natives ; others have only lately fallen into
desuetude. Lastly, some customs are so dissimilar from anything in
our own country, that it is difficult to thoroughly understand them
under favourable circumstances ; but when these customs are no
longer practised, and but imperfectly remembered, when they have
to be described through the unsatisfactory medium of Jargon English,
and when one bears in miud the great difference in the mental concep
tions of narrator and listener, what wonder is there that disconnected
narratives are recorded, or that errors creep in ?
    Happy is that traveller who has the opportunity of studying exist
ing habits. It was my lot to recover recently lost or fast dying-out
customs ; our archaeologists grapple with the problems of the past ;
it is the object of all to assist towards a complete History of
Man.
    Torres Straits, as you are aware, separate New Guinea, the
largest island in the world, from Australia, the smallest continent.
Although the Straits are eighty miles wide in their narrowest part,
yet, owing to the presence of islands and of numerous and often
extensive coral reefs, there is only one channel suitable for ocean
going steamers, and that averages a mile in width, and in places is
much less.
    The islands in Torres Straits may be divided into three geological
groups by the lines of longitude 142' 48' E. and 143' 30' E.
    The islands to the west are composed of old igneous rocks, and
are surrounded by fringing reefs. These islands may in fact be
regarded as disconnected portions of Northern Queensland. They
are fertile, but there is no particularly luxuriant vegetation ; doubt
less irrigation and cultivation would greatly improve their pro
ductiveness.
    The central group of islands is composed of low coral islets
formed by wind and wave action ; the soil is poor, and supports only
a scrubby vegetation. Coco-palms grow on some of the islands, and
there are occasional mangrove swamps.
    The eastern islands, Uga, Erub, and the Murray Islands, are of
volcanic origin, and are also fringed with coral reefs. In these the
soil is rich and vegetation luxuriant, Uga and a great part of Mer
being simply large gardens of coco-palms, bananas, and yams.
    It is interesting to find that the inhabitants of the volcanic islands
form one tribe, which I term the Eastern Tribe ; the Western Tribe
occupying all the remaining islands. The customs of the two tribes
are different and their languages distinct, so much so that there are
only a few words in common, and these are mainly trade words.
Four subdivisions of the Western Tribe can be distinguished, the

 1890.]    on Manners and Customs of Torres Straits Islanders.       147
members of each of which inhabit certain intermarrying groups of
islands.
     Independently of the above-mentioned subdivisions, the islanders
were divided into clans, each clan having some animal for its
augud or " totem." For example, in the Western Tribe there were
the dugong, turtle, dog, cassowary, snake, shark-clans,' and so forth.
There was supposed to be some relation between the clans and their
respective attcjud, " all same [i.e. similar to] family," as it was
expressed to me. A dog-man, for instance, was credited with under
standing the habits and feelings of dogs, or a cassowary-man prided
himself on having thin shanks like a cassowary, which would enable
him to run quickly through the grass. With the exception of the
first two clans, no one was allowed to kill or eat the totem of his own
clan ; if ho did, his other clansmen would probably kill him for
sacrilege. On a dugong expedition, no dugong-man might keep the
first dngong he captured, but he might partake of the rest ; the same
restriction applied also to the turtle and the turtle-clan. If only one
dngong or turtle was caught on the first day, the dugong- or turtle-
man had to relinquish it ; supposing only one was caught on the
succeeding day, the account was, so to speak, "carried forward," and
there was no sdbi (" tabu ") on it. The dugong and turtle were too
important articles of food for the clan members to be entirely
deprived from partaking of their augud.
     The women, or at all events some of them, used to have a repre
sentation of their augud cut on the small of the back. I made
inquiries on this point on most of the islands in the Straits, but
could only find four old women who had them ; these I sketched, and
two of them I also photographed.
     [Various photographs illustrating the appearance of the natives
were then thrown on the screen.]
     I have alluded to the fact that different customs characterise the
Eastern and Western Tribes ; as an example of this I may mention
that in the latter tribe the girls proposed marriage to the men, while
in the Eastern Tribe the more usual course was adopted.
     It might be some time before a lad had an offer ; but should he be
a fine dancer, with goodly calves, and dance with sprightliness and
energy at the festive dances, he would not lack admirers.
     Should there still be a reticence on the part of his female
acquaintances, the young man might win the heart of a girl by
robbing a man of his head. Our adventurous youth could join in
some foray ; it mattered not to him what was the equity of the
quarrel, or whether there was any enmity at all between his people
and the attacked. So long as he killed some one—man, woman, or
child—and brought the head back, it was not of much consequence
to him whose head it was. Possibly a man killed would redound to
his greater glory, but any skull was better than none, and its posses
sion was recognised as an order of merit. How much more distinction
would a man gain when he could boast of a whole trophy of skulls 1
                                                             L 2

148                      Professor A. C. ffaddon              [May 23,
    The girl's heart being won by prowess, dancing skill, or fine
appearance, she would plait a string armlet, tiapimint; this she
intrusted to a mutual friend, preferably the chosen one's sister. On
the first suitable opportunity, the sister said to her brother,
" Brother, I have some good news for you. A woman likes you." On
hearing her name, and after some conversation, if he was willing
to go on with the affair, he told his sister to ask the girl to keep
some appointment with him in the bush.
    When the message was delivered, the enamoured damsel informed
her parents that she was going into the bush to get some wood or
food, or made some such excuse.
    In due course the couple met, sat down and talked, the proposal
being made with perfect decorum.
     The following conversation is given in the actual words used by
my informant, Maino, the chief of Tud.
     Opening the conversation, the man said, " You like me proper ? "
     " Yes," she replied, " I like you proper with my heart inside.
Eye along my heart see you—you my man."
     Unwilling to rashly give himself away, he asked, " How you like
me?"
     " I like your fine leg—you got fine body—your skin good—I like
you altogether," replied the girl.
     After matters had proceeded satisfactorily, the girl, anxious to
clench the matter, asked when they were to be married. The man
said, " To-morrow, if you like."
     They both went home and told their respective relatives. Then
 the girl's people fought the man's folk, " For girl more big [i.e. of
 more consequence] than boy ; " but the fighting was not of a serious
 character, it being part of the programme of a marriage.
     " Swapping " sisters was the nsnal method of getting a wife. If
 a man had no sisters he might remain unmarried, unless he was rich
 enough to pay for a wife with a shell armlet (waiwi), or a canoe, or
 something of equal value. If a youth was " hard up," an uncle might
 take compassion on him and give one of his own daughters in
 exchange for a wife for his nephew.
     This exchange of girls—a sister for a sister, or female cousin for
 another man's sister—was an economical method of getting a wife,
 as one was a set off against the other. The usual feasting occurred,
 but the presents were dispensed with, or at all events the purchase
 money was saved, and probably there would be no fighting.
     When a young man of the Eastern Tribe arrived at an under
 standing with a girl, he put his gelar (" law " i.e. " tabu ") on her,
 and made arrangements to fetch her away. She kept awake on the
 appointed night, listening for the preconcerted signal, and they
 quietly stole away to his parents' house, and the next morning he sent
 a messenger to say where the girl was. The girl's friends armed
 themselves with bows and arrows, shark's teeth fastened on to sticks,
 and other weapons, and proceeded to the other village, but the fight

1890.]     on Manners and Customs of Torres Straits Islanders.       149
was not a serious affair. On the same day the girl would be painted
red by her future mother-in-law, and clothed with a large number of
loaf petticoats ; and numerous ornaments would be suspended on her
back, these making a clanking sound whenever the girl moved. For
some months she remained in the house, and under the constant
supervision of her future mother-in-law, the young man residing
elsewhere. After say three months, negociations would commence
between the two families, and the girl's relations would come to
taaugwat (or scrape hands), and presents would be exchanged, and
some alteration made in the decking of the girl. After a further
probation period of a few months, some friend, in the secret, would
engage the young man in conversation, and the bride would steal up
behind him with some food she had previously cooked, and, while
still behind his back, would thrust it by his side. He, looking round,
exclaimed, " Why, that's my woman ! " and then hung down his head
in shame. Being informed that all was duly performed according
to old usage, the couple ate food together, this being the ratification
of the contract.
     It appears that in the Eastern Tribe marriage was regarded as
a state of "tabu," the man isolating one woman as his exclusive
property, for he had powers of life and death over his wife. For
several reasons I suspect that the Eastern Tribe has arrived at a
slightly higher stage in the evolution of the family than the Western,
as the man has a more independent position, and does not live more
or less with his wife's people after marriage, as is the custom among
the Western Tribe. In both tribes a wife had to be paid for ; a canoe,
dugong-harpoon, shell-armlet, or articles of equal exchange value,
being the usual price.
     Manhood is with us a gradual development of youth ; with nearly
all savages it is a state of privilege, the full advantages of which can
be gained only by the observance of special ceremonies.
     The growth of hair on the face warned the father that his boy
was growing up, and he consulted with other fathers who had sons of
about the same age.
     "Good thing," he might have remarked; "boy no stop along
woman now : he got hair, time we make him man now ; " and ar
rangements would be duly made.
     The following information, respecting the former initiation cere
monies, was gained at Tud (usually known as Warrior Island), the
natives of which island were probably the most warlike of all the
Western Islanders :—
     The lads were handed over to their uncles, or to some old man,
 by their fathers, who then ceased to have any intercourse with them ,
 They were conducted to the Taiiokwod, or open space sacred to the
 men, where no woman or child ever ventured, and which henceforth
 had for them many deep-rooted associations. The uncles washed
 the youths with water and then rubbed charcoal into the skin ; this
 being daily repeated till the probation period was over. The lads were

150                      Professor A. C. Haddon                 [May 23,
covered with mats doubled up like a teiit with closed ends, and
there they sat the livelong day in groups, without moving, playing,
or even speaking. Four large mats stretched across the Taiiokicod,
the mats belonging respectively to the Sam (cassowary), Umai (dog),
Kodal (crocodile), and Baidam (shark) clans. For each mat there
was a fireplace, the fire being tended by the young men of their re
spective clans. The old men sat on their appropriate mats, in the
centre were the drums, and the dance-masks were placed along one
side. Opposite the centre was a small mat, on which sat the chief of
the island ; for, contrary to the general custom of the tribe, this
island had a recognised chief, the result, probably, of their belligerent
habits. By the side of where the chief used to sit, a large ovoid
stone was pointed out to me ; it had a dire significance, for long ago
four boys, tired of the irksomeness of the discipline, broke bounds,
and meeting their mothers in the bush, asked for food. They were
recaptured and were all killed by the old men with that stone, which
was then placed in its present position, as a warning to other youths.
The boys of the cassowary and dog clans sat at the end beyond
the shark-fireplace, and the crocodile and shark boys were placed at
the opposite end of the clearing.
     Their instructors watched the lads, and communicated to them
 the traditions of the tribe, rules of conduct were laid down, informa
 tion in all branches of native lore taught, and thus, generation after
 generation, the things of the fathers were transmitted to the sons.
     The following are some of the rules which I was informed were
 imparted to the youths by the " old men " :—
     " You no steal."
     " If you see food belong another man, you no take it, or you dead."
     " You no take thing belong another man without leave ; if you
 Bee a fish-spear and take it, s'pose you break it and you no got spear,
 how you pay man ? "
     " S'pose you see a dngong-harpoon in a canoe and take it, and
 man he no savvy, then you lose it or break it, how you pay him ?
 You no got dugong-harpoon."
     '' You no play with boy and girl now ; you a man now, and no
boy."
     " You no play with small play-canoe, or with toy-spear ; that all
finish now."
     "You no like girl first ; if you do, girl laugh at you and call you
a woman." [That is, the young man must not propose marriage to a
girl, but must wait for her to ask first.]
     " You no marry the sister of your mate, or by and by you will
be ashamed ; mates all same as brothers." [But " mates " may marry
 two sisters.]
     " You no marry your cousin ; she all same as sister."
     "If any one asks for food, or water, or anything, you give some
thing ; if you have a little, you give a little ; if you have plenty, give
half.

1890.]      on Manners and Customs of Torres Straits Islanders.      151
     " Look after your mother and father ; never mind if you and your
wife go without."
     " Don't speak bad word to mother."
     " Give half of all your fish to your parents ; don't be mean."
     "Father and mother all along same as food in belly; when they
die you feel hungry and empty."
     " Mind your uncles, too, and cousins."
     " If woman walk along, you no follow ; by and by man look, he
call you bad name."
     '' If a canoe is going to another place, you go in canoe ; no stop
behind to steal woman."
     " If your brother is going out to fight, you help him ; don't let
him go first, but go together."
     Who will say, after this, that the Torres Straits Islanders were
degraded savages ?
     At length the month of isolation expired, and for the last time
the uncle washed the lad ; he then rubbed him with scented leaves,
and polished him up with oil. Then he was decorated with armlets
and leglets, breast-ornaments, and possibly a belt, his ears orna
mented, and a shell-skewer passed through his nose ; bright-coloured
leaves would be inserted in his armlets, and his hair rolled into the
approved string-like ringlets. So they " make him flash—flash like
hell—that boy."
      The afternoon of the eventful day was occupied in this congenial
 task, and at nightfall all the lads who were being initiated were mar
shalled by their uncles behind a large mat, which was held vertically.
 In this wise they marched to the village until they arrived at an open
 space where a mat was spread on the ground before a semicircle of
 friends and relatives. When the approaching party reached this mat
 the lads seated themselves upon it, and then the screening mat was
 lowered. Suddenly, for the first time for a month, the fathers and
 female relatives saw the boys, and great wero the crying and shouting
 and exclamations of delight at the brave show. With tears the
 mothers cried out, " My boy ! my boy ! " and they and other elderly
 female relatives rushed up to them and fondled and caressed them,
 and the mothers surreptitiously put dainty morsels by their
 boys.
      Sitting with legs crossed under them and down-turned faces, the
 boys neither moved nor exhibited the least emotion, for now they
 were men.
      Less precise is my information respecting the corresponding rites
 of the Eastern Tribe. So far as I could gather, there were in Mer,
 the largest of the Murray Islands, two important ceremonies, which
 we may term the initiation and the recognition ceremonies. For the
 first the lads were assembled near a sacred round house, or pelak, in
 which the awe-inspiring masks were kept. The ceremony was con
 ducted by three zogole, or sacred men, and their tamileb, or attendants.
 The latter arranged themselves in a double row, from the pelak to the

 152                     Professor A. C. Haddon                [May 23,
 place where the boys were assembled, and, holding long sticks, per
 formed certain movements. Slowly the dread apparition advanced ;
 the chief zogole came first, wearing a huge mask with human features
 and a beard of jaw-bones ; the second zogole steadied this mask with
 a rope ; the third zogole wore a long mask, shaped like a shark. Then
 for the first time the names of these masks were revealed to the lads
 — BOMAI and MALU. These were the sacred names which it was not
 lawful to communicate to the outsider, death to both being the
 penalty. Their collective name of Agud was, however, known
 to all.
     I can only allude to the customary food-offering presented to the
 zogole, and the course of instruction instilled into the youths, one
 item of which was the narration of the legend of Malu, and must
 pass on to the recognition ceremony. This function took place in
 the afternoon on the sand beach outside the village of Las. A great
 concourse of people was assembled—men, women, and children—the
 newly initiated lads occupying the front row.
     First four men of the dog-clan played about in pairs. (I may
 here parenthetically remark that it took me a fortnight's work to
 glean what little information I have respecting these two ceremonies.
 On one occasion I induced a number of men to rehearse some of the
 dances for me on the actual spot where they were originally per
 formed, in order that I might gain a clear comprehension of them.
 One of my photographic " studies " I now throw on the screen.) The
 dog-men were followed by pigeon-men, who danced aud beat their
chests; later, whirling along the strand, came a body of dancers,
 circling from left to right as they advanced, an outer ring with
 sticks, an inner ring brandishing stone clubs, and possibly some
drum-players in the centre. Lastly, the three zogole appeared, com
pletely covered with white feathers, and each carrying five wands.
Although seen by the women, their identity was supposed to be
unknown.
     This was the final function, and was followed by the ever-
recurring feast. Thenceforth the lads took standing as men.
     Strangely enough, at neither Tud nor Mer could I discover
that the bull-roarer was employed at these ceremonies. The wide
spread use and sacred character of this simple instrument has been
 emphasised by Mr. Lang in one of his charming essays. Knowing
its universal distribution in Australia, I was not surprised to find
that in Muralug, or Prince of Wales' Island, which lies close to Cape
York, its use was associated with the initiation of the lads. It was
only by speaking in a low voice to the chief of the island and his son
Georgie, whose photograph you have already seen, and by assuming
more knowledge than I actually possessed, that I could induce them
to admit of its being employed. Cautiously looking round to see
that no one was near, its name, wanes, was whispered to me. After
much persuasion-, a model of one was made for me, on the express
understanding that I should not show it to any woman on the island ;

 1890.]     on Manners and Customs of Torres Straits Islanders.     153
 and I did not. It is now in the British Museum. All that I could
 gather was that it was whirled in the bnsh and then shown to the
 Ittds. Death was the penalty to both if a man exhibited it to a
 woman, or to any one who had not been initiated.
      Great was my surprise when, shortly afterwards, I saw the Saibai
 boys who were staying at the mission station on Mer, playing with
 bull-roarers identical with the one with which I had been so secretly
 entrusted. The most sacred emblem in one island was a toy in
 another. In case some of you may not be acquainted with this
 most interesting implement, I have brought one of these bull-
 roarers.
      From these important initiation ceremonies we may pass to
 others which had a less sacred significance. All the native cere
 monies were associated with processions, or with movements of a less
 regular character, the performers of which were invariably specially
 dressed for the occasion— usually there was a special costume for a
 particular rite, one distinguishing feature of which was the wearing
 of masks or head-dresses. It is convenient to describe these functions
 as dances ; and a series can be traced extending from the most sacred
 initiation and funeral dances on the one hand, through the seasonal
 dances to the war and ordinary festive dances on the other.
     Profanation of the initiation or of the funeral ceremonies was
punished with immediate death. In some instances, at all events,
dance-masks could only be worn at the appropriate festival ; even
the casual putting on of one was supposed to cause slow but certain
death. It watt my good fortune to witness a seasonal dance at
Thursday Island. This was anticipatory of the fishing season during
the north-west monsoon.
     The men were clothed with a petticoat made of the shredded
sprouting leaves of the coco-palm, and adorned with various armlets
and leglets ; but the striking part of the costume was the mask, of
which the lower portion represented a conventional crocodile's head,
surmounted by a human face ; above this was a representation of a
saw-fish, some five feet in length, and overtopping all was a long red
triangular erection decked with feathers. The ceremony was called
the Waiitittu leap, or " Saw-fish dance." The actual dance consisted
of two men at a time coming out from behind a screen and going
through their simple evolutions to the monotonous accompaniment of
the drum and a lugubrious chant.
     More varied was the costume of the secular dance. All their
bravery was donned. The effective head-dress of egret's feathers, or
the cassowary coronet, framed the face, a shell skewer pierced the
nose, breast ornaments, coco-palm leaf petticoats, armlets, leglets,
ornaments or implements carried in the hand, all went to make up a
picture of savage finery. Here, too, the women were occasionally
allowed to participate, though of course both sexes never danced
together. When women were allowed to be present at the more
important dances, they were merely spectators.

154                     Professor A. C. Haddon                [May 23,
     The large canoes of the Torres Straits Islander of former times
must have been very imposing objects when painted with red, white,
and black, and decorated with white shells, black feathers, and
flying streamers ; and not less so when actively paddled by a noisy,
gesticulating, naked crew, adorned with cassowary coronets, shell
ornaments, and other native finery ; or swiftly sailing, scudding
before the wind with mat sails erect.
     The body of a canoe is a simple dug-out, on to the sides of which
gunwale boards are lashed. There is a central platform supported
on a double outrigger. The thwart poles of the outriggers are
usually six feet apart, and extend to some ten feet beyond the stem of
the canoe ; a doubly-pointed float is attached to the ends of the
thwart poles on each side. Receptacles are built into each side of
the platform for the storage of bows and arrows, fishing gear, water-
bottles, and other belongings.
     The sails are two in number, and are oblong erections of matting
placed in the bows, some twelve feet in height, and each about five
feet wide. The mats are skewered on to two long bamboos, which
support the sails along their length ; a bamboo stay also serves to
keep the sail upright.
     The longest canoe I measured was nearly sixty-eight feet in
length. A stone lashed on to a rope is kept in the bow for an
anchor. When sailing, a man stands in the stern holding the
steering board.
     The canoes are made at the mouth of the Fly River, in New
 Guinea, and are fitted with but a single outrigger, as theirs is only
river navigation. I was informed that it was at Saibai that the canoes
 were refitted, this time with two outriggers, and an attempt at
 decoration was made, but the latter having a purely commercial
 significance was rather scant. The ultimate purchasers ornamented
 their canoes according to their fancy, as they usually prided them
 selves on having fine canoes.
     I was much puzzled when I first went to Torres Straits by
 occasionally seeing a canoe with a single outrigger. I afterwards
 found it belonged to a native of Ware (one of the New Hebrides)
 residing at Mabuiag, and that he had re-outrigged a native canoe
 according to the fashion of his own people. When I was staying
 at Mabuiag some natives of that island were fitting up a canoo in
 imitation of this one. Here a foreign custom is being copied ; how
 far it will spread among the Western Tribe it is impossible to say ; but,
  strangely enough, the Eastern Tribe has entirely adopted an intro
 duced fashion, and I did not see a solitary canoe with a double
 outrigger. It would be tedious to enter into a comparison between
 these various canoes. In the Eastern Islands the platform baskets
 are absent, and Europern sails are in universal use—mainsail, fore
 sail, and jib. Among the Western Tribe, European sails have not
 yet quite supplanted the original mat sails. Throughout the Straits

1890.]     on Manners and Customs of Torres Straits Islanders.        155
the canoes are not decorated in the old style. It was in Mabuiag
nlone that I found two canoes which were more or less decorated.
Utilitarian ideas are now too widely spread for the aesthetic faculty
to be indulged in.
     I have dwelt at some length on this subject, as it is important
to record all transitions. As an example of how rapidly and com
pletely some changes occasionally come about, I may mention that at
Mer, one of the Eastern Islands, some, at all events, of the young
men did not appear to know that there had been a change in the rig
of their canoes.
     But, after all, the most interesting feature in connection with the
canoes is the method by which they are purchased. I have previously
mentioned that they were made on the mainland of New Guinea
on the banks of the Fly River. Supposing a native of Muralug
(Prince of Wales' Island, the island which is nearest to Cape York),
wants a canoe. He sends word, say, to a relation of his in Moa, for
the inhabitants of these two islands often intermarry. The latter
sends a message to the next island of Badu. A Badu man passes on
the word to Mabuiag (these two also were intermarrying islands) ; the
Mabuiag native informs a friend in Saibai, who in turn delivers the
message at Mowat, on the mainland of New Guinea, or Daudai, as
the islanders call it, thence the word passes along the coast till it
reaches the canoe makers. As soon as the canoe is ready it retraverses
the route of the order, being handed on from place to place, and
island to island, until it at length reaches its destination. Should,
however, there be a new canoe for sale on any of the intermediate
stations, this might be sold, and thus obviate the tedious delay of
waiting for one to be made to order. Another trade route is through
Nagir and Tud to Mowat. The Murray Islanders send to Erub, and
the natives of the latter island trade directly with Parem and the
mouth of the Fly River. The most remarkable feature in these
transactions is that payment is usually extended over three years : in
fact, that canoes are purchased on the three years' hire system. This
method of purchase, though but recently adopted by ourselves, has
for an unknown period been practised by the naked islanders. The
mere fact of its existence demonstrates a high level of commercial
morality, for if the debts were often repudiated, the whole system
would long ago have collapsed.
    This commercial morality corroborates to a considerable extent
the ethical standard said to be imparted to the youths during initia
tion. Nor would I like to say that they acted less up to their
standard than we up to ours ; I doubt whether we would be much
the gainers by a comparison. In making this statement it must be
distinctly understood that I am only comparing their lives with their
own ideals, and not judging them by the ethical standards of other races.
It is true they were treacherous, often murdered strangers, and were
head-hunters ; that their ideas of sexual morality differed from ours,

156          Professor Haddon on Torres Strails Islanders.      [May 23,
but these " crimes " were not prohibited by public conscience, and
there was therefore no wrong in their committing them.
     Our higher civilisation has swept over these poor people like a
flood, and denuded them of more than their barbarous customs ; the
old morality has largely gone too.*
                                                           "[A. C. H.]
    * Further information as to customs and legends of the Torres Straits
Islanders will be found in 'The Journal of the Anthropological Institute,'
vol. xix. 1890, and in ' Folk-lore,' vol. i. 1890.

1890.]        Mr. A. A. Common on Astronomical Telescopes.           157
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 30, 1890.
    WILLIAM HUGOINS, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S., Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
           A. A. COMMON, ESQ. F.E.S. Treas. E.A.S. M.B.I.
                         Astronomical Telescopes.
BEFORE speaking of the enormous instruments of the present day,
with their various forms and complicated machinery, it will be well
to give some little time to a consideration of the principles involved
in the construction of the telescope, the manner in which it assists
the eye to perceive distant objects, and in a brief and general way to
the construction and action of the eye as far it affects the use of the
telescope, all as a help to consider in which way we may hope to still
further increase our sense of vision.
     I will ask you to bear with me when I mention some things that
are very well known, but which if brought to mind may render the
subject much more easy. Within pretty narrow limits the principles
involved in the construction of the telescope are the same whatever
form it ultimately assumes. I will take as an illustration the telescope
before me, which has served for the finder to a large astronomical
telescope, and of which it is really a model. On examination we find
that it has, in common with all refracting telescopes, a large lens at
 one end and several smaller ones at the other ; the number of these
small lenses varies according to the purpose for which we use the
telescope. Taking out this large lens we find that it is made of two
pieces of glass ; but as this has been done for a purpose to be presently
 explained which does not affect the principle, we will disregard this,
 and consider it only as a simple convex lens, to the more important
properties of which I wish first of all particularly to draw your
attention, leaving the construction of telescopes to be dealt with
 later on.
     Stated shortly, such a lens has the power of refracting or bending
the rays of light that fall upon it : while they are passing through
the lens the course they take is altered ; if we allow the light from a
 star to fall upon the lens, the whole of the parallel rays coming from
the star on to the front surface are brought by this bending action to
a point at some constant distance behind, and can be seen as a point
 of light by placing there a flat screen of any kind that will intercept
the light. For all distant objects the distance at which the crossing
 of the rays takes place is the same. It depends entirely on the

158                        Mr. A. A. Common                      [May 30,
substance of the lens and the curvature we give to the surfaces, and
not at all upon the aperture or width of the lens. The brightness
only of the picture of the star, depends upon the size of the lens, as
that determines the amount of light it gathers together. If, instead of
one star we have three or four stars together, we will find that this
lens will deal with the light from each star just as it did with the light
of the first one, and just in proportion to the angular distance they
are apart in the sky, so will the pictures we see of them be apart on
our screen. So if we let the light from the moon fall on our lens, all
the light from the various parts of the moon's surface will act like
the separate stars, and produce a picture of the whole moon (in the
photographic camera the lens produces in this manner a picture of
objects in front of it, and this picture we see on the ground glass).
When we attempt to get pictures of near objects that do not send
rays of light that are parallel, we find that as the rays of light from
them do not fall on the lens at the same angle to the axis, the
picture is formed further away from the lens. The nearer the object
whose picture we wish to throw upon the screen is to the lens, the
further the screen must be moved. If we try this experiment we
shall find, when we have the object at the same distance as the screen,
the picture is then of the same size as the object, and the distance
of the screen from the lens is twice that which we have found as
the focal length ; on bringing the object still nearer the lens, we
find we must move the screen further and further away, until when
the object is at the focus the picture is formed at an infinite distance
away, or, what is more to our purpose, the rays of light from an
object at the focus of a convex lens after passing through the lens
are parallel, exactly as we have seen such parallel rays falling on the
glass come to a focus, so that our diagram answers equally well
whatever the direction of the rays ; and this holds good in other
cases where we take the effect of reflection as well as refraction.
    We can also produce pictures by means of bright concave surfaces
acting by reflection on the light falling upon them. Such a mirror
or concave reflecting surface as I have here will behave exactly as
the lens, excepting, of course, that it will form the picture in front
instead of behind. The bending of the rays in the case of the convex
lens is convergent, or towards the axis, for all parallel rays; if we
use the reverse form of lens—that is, one thicker at the edge than in
the middle —we find the reverse effect on the parallel rays ; they will
now be divergent, or bend away from the axis ; and so with reflecting
surfaces if we make the concavity of our mirror less and less, till it
ceases and we have a plane, we shall get no effect on the parallel rays
of light except a change of direction after reflection. If we go beyond
this and make the surface convex we shall then have practically the
same effect on the reflected rays as that given to the refracted ray by
the concave glass lens.
    As regards the size of the picture produced by lenses or mirrors
of different focal length, the picture is larger just as the focal length

1890.]                  on Astronomical 2'elescopes.                   159
is greater, and the angular dimension is converted into a linear one
on the screen in due proportion. Now, as wo shall assume that the
eye sees all things best at the distance of about nine inches, we may
any that the picture taken with a lens of this focal length gives at
once the proper and most natural representation we can possibly
have of anything at which we can look. Such a picture of a land
scape, if placed before the eye at the distance of nine inches, wonld
exactly cover the real landscape point for point all over. A picture
taken with a lens of shorter focal length, say four inches, will give a
picture as true in all the details as the larger one, but if this picture
is looked at, at nine inches distance, it is not a true representation of
what wo see ; in order to make it so, we must look at it with a
lens or magnifier. With a larger picture one can look at this at the
proper distance, which always is the focal distance of the lens with
which it was obtained, when we will see everything in the natural
angular position that we have in the first case.
     But if, instead of looking at this larger picture, which we may
consider taken with a lens of say ninety inches focal length, at a dis
tance of ninety inches, we look at it at a distance of nine inches, we
have practically destroyed it as a picture by reducing the distance at
which we are viewing it, and we have converted it into what is for
that particular landscape a telescopic picture ; we see it, not from the
point at which it was taken, but just as if we were at one-tenth of
the distance from the particular part that we examine. A telescope
with a magnifying power of ten, would enable us to see the landscape
just ns we see it in the photograph, when we examine it in the way I
have mentioned.
     Having thus seen how a lens or mirror acts, we will turn our at
tention to the eye. Here we find an optical combination of lenses
that act together in the same way as the single convex lens of which
we have been speaking. We will call this combination the lens of
the eye. It produces a picture of distant objects which in the normal
eye falls exactly in focus upon the retina. We are conscious that
we do see clearly at all distances beyond about nine inches.
     At less than this distance objects becomes more and more indistinct
as they are brought nearer to the eye. From what we have seen of
the action of the lens in producing pictures of near and distant objects,
we know that some movement of the screen must be made in order to
 get such pictures sharply focussed, a state of things necessary to perfect
 vision. We might therefore suppose that the eye did so operate by
 increasing when necessary the distance between the lens and retina,
but we know that the same effect is produced in another way ; in fact,
the only other way. The eye by a marvellous provision of nature,
secures the distinctness of the picture on the retina of all objects
beyond a distance of about 9 inches, by slightly but sufficiently varying
the curvature of one of the lenses ; by an effort of will, we can make
the accommodating power of the eye slightly greater, and so see things
clearly a little nearer ; but at about the distance of 9 inches, the

160                       Mr. A. A. Common                       [May 80,
normal eye is unconscious of any effort in thus accommodating itself to
different distances. The picture produced by the lens of the eye,
whose focal length we will assume to be six-tenths of an inch, falls on
the retina, which we will assume further to bo formed of a great
number of separate sensible points, which, as it were, pick up the
picture where it falls on these points, and through the nervous organi
sation, produce the sense of vision. Possibly when these points are
affected by light, there may bo some connective action, either produced
by some slight spherical aberration of the lens or otherwise ; but I do
not wish to go any further in this matter than is necessary to elucidate
my subject. What I am concerned with now is the extent to which
the sensibility of the retina extends. Experiment tells us that it ex
tends to the perception of two separate points of light whose angular
distance apart is one minute of arc, or in other words, at the distance
we can see best, two points whose distance apart is about 1/400 of
an inch.
    This marvellous power can be better appreciated when we remem
ber that the actual linear distance apart of two such points on the
retina is just a little more than 1/6000 of an inch.
    In dealing with the shape of small objects the difference between
a circle, square, and triangle, can be detected when the linear size of
their images on the rotina is about 1/2000 of an inch. It may be
therefore fairly taken that these separate sensible points of the retina
are somewhere about 1/12,000 part of an inch apart from each other.
Wonderfully minute as must this structure be, we must remember,
as we have already shown, that the actual size of the image it deals
with is also extremely small. This minuteness becomes apparent
when we consider what occurs when we look at some well-known
object, such as the full moon. Taking the angular diameter of the
moon as 30 minutes of arc, and the focal length of the eye at six-
tenths of an inch, we find the linear diameter of the picture of the
full moon on the retina is about 1/200 of an inch, and assuming that
our number of the points in the retina is correct, it follows that the
moon is subject to the scrutiny of 2800 of these points, each capable
of dealing with the portion of the picture that falls upon it.
    That is to say, the picture, as the retina deals with it, is made up
to this number of separate parts, and is incapable of further division
just as if it were a mosaic. I think this is really the case, and as such
a supposition permits us to explain not only what occurs when we assist
the eye by means of a telescope, but also what occurs when we use
the telescope for photographing celestial objects, we will follow it
up.
    In the case of the eye we suppose the image of the moon to be
made up through the agency of these 2800 points, each one capable
of noting a variation in the light falling upon it. In order to make
this rather important point plainer, I have had a diagrammatic draw
ing made on this plan. Taking a circle to represent the full moon
I have divided it into this number of spaces, and into each space

1890.]                 on Astronomical Telescopes.                    161
I have put a black dot, large or smail, according to the intensity of the
light falling on that part of the image as determined by looking at a
photograph of the moon. You will see by the picture of this moon
the effect produced. It represents to those who are at a sufficient
distance the moon much as it is really seen in the sky.
     We can now with a lens of the same focal length as the eye obtain
a picture of the full moon exactly of the size of the actual picture on
the retina, and if we take a proper photographic process we can get
particles of silver approximately of the same sizes as the dots we have
used in making our diagram of the moon ; the grouping is not exactly
the same, but we may take it as precisely so for our purpose. I have
not any photographs of tho full moon of this size, but I have some here
of the moon about five, seven and eight days old, which give a good
idea of what I mean by the arrangements of the particles of silver
 being like our diagram.
     It is now quite apparent that if we can by any means increase the
size of the picture of the moon on the retina or make it larger on the
 photographic plate, we shall be able to employ more of our points
 in the retina of the eye or of our particles of silver in the photo
graphic film, and so be able to see more clearly just in proportion
 as we increase the size of the picture in relation to the size of the
 separate parts that make it.
     Now the telescope enables us to do this for the eye, and a lens of
 longer focal length will give us a larger photographic picture.
     Let us assume that by means of the telescope we have increased
 the power of the eye one hundred times. The picture of the moon
on the retina would now be one-half inch diameter, and instead of
 employing 2800 points to determine its shape, and the various mark
 ings upon it, we should be employing 28,000,000 of these points ; and
 similarly with the photograph, by increasing the size of our lens we
 shall obtain a picture made up of this enormous number of particles
 of silver. But we can go further in the magnification of the picture
 on the retina—we can also use a still longer focus photographic lens.
     A power of magnification of one thousand is quite possible under
 favourable circumstances ; this means that the picture of one two-hun
 dredth of an inch would be now of five inches in diameter, so we must
 deal with only a portion of it. Let us take a circle of one-tenth of
 this, equalling one-hundredth of our original picture, which in the
 eye, unaided by the telescope, would have a diameter of one two-
 thousandth of an inch, or an area of less than one five-millionth of a
 square inch. This means that with this magnification, we have in
 creased the power so enormously that we are now employing for the
 photographic picture two thousand eight hundred million particles of
 silver, and in the eye the same degree of increase in the number
 of points of the retina employed in scrutinising the picture
 piece by piece as successive portions are brought into the central
 part.
     Photography enables me to show that the result I have given of
     VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)                                       M

 162                       Mr. A. A. Common                     [May 30,
the wonderful effect of increasing the optical power is perfectly correct
as far as it is concerned. Wo will deal with a part only of the moon,
representing, as I have just said, ahout one-tenth of its diameter, or
one-hundredth of its visible surface. Two such portions of the moon
are marked, as yon see, on the diagram. I have selected these por
tions as I am able to show you them just as taken on a large scale by
photography so that you can make the comparison in the most certain
manner ; but let us first analyse our diagrammatic moon—let us
magnify it about ten times, and see what it looks like.
    I now show you a picture of this part of the diagram, inclosing
the portions I wish to speak about, magnified ten times, so that you
can see that about twenty-eight of our points, and by supposition
twenty-eight of our particles of silver on the photographic plate,
make up the picture. You will see that these dots vary in size ; the
difference is due to the amount of light falling within what we may
call the sphere of action of each point, and should represent it exactly.
The result can hardly be called a picture, as it conveys no impression
of continuity of form to the mind. We have got down to the structure
or separate parts, and to the limit of the powers of the eye and the
photographic plate, of course on the assumption we have made as to
the size of the points in the one case and the particles of silver in the
other. I will now show you the same parts of the moon as repre
sented by the circles on our diagram exactly as delineated by photo
graphy. You now see a beautiful picture giving mountains, valleys,
craters, peaks, and plains, and all that makes up a picture of lunar
scenery. We have thus seen how the power of the eye is increased
by the enlargement of the picture on the retina by the telescope, and
also how, by increasing the size of the photograph, we also get more
and more detail in the picture.
    We know we cannot alter the number of those separate points on
the retina which determine the limit of our powers of vision in one
direction, but we may be able to increase enormously the number of
particles of silver in our photographic picture by processes that will
give finer deposits, and so, in conjunction with more perfect and
larger photographic lenses, we may reasonably look for a great
improvement in our sense of vision —it may be even beyond that
given by the telescope alone ; although it always will be something
in favour of the telescope that the magnification obtained in the eye
is about fifteen times greater than that obtained by photography
when the image on the retina is pitted against the photograph of the
same size, unless we use a lens to magnify the photograph of the
same focal length as the eye, in which case it is equal. But we may
go much further in our magnification of the photographic image. In
other ways there is great promise when we consider the difference
in the action of the eye and the chemical action in the sensitive film
under the action of light. As I pointed out in the discourse I gave
about four years ago in this theatre, the eye cannot perceive objects
that are not sufficiently illuminated, though this same amount of

1890.]                  on Astronomical Telescopes.                  163
illumination will, by its cumulative effect, make a photographic
picture, so that there are ways in which the photographic method of
seeing celestial bodies can be possibly made superior to the direct
method of looking with a telescope.
    With some celestial objects this has been already done : stars too
faint to be seen have been photographed, and nebulae that cannot be
seon have also been photographed; but much more than this is
possible : we may be able to obtain photographs of the surface of the
moon similar to those I have shown, but on a very much larger scale,
and we may obtain pictures of the planets that will far surpass the
pictures we would see by the telescope alone.
    I have mentioned that the distance at which the normal eye can
best see things is about nine inches, as that gives the greatest angular
size to the object while retaining a sharp picture on the retina; but,
as many of ns know, eyes differ in this power : two of the common
infirmities of the eyes are long or short-sightedness, due to the
pictures being formed behind the retina, in the first case, and in front
of it in the other. Towards the end of the thirteenth century it was
found that convex lenses would cure the first infirmity, and, soon
afterwards, that concave lenses would cure the second, as can be easily
seen from what I have said about the action of these lenses ; so that
during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries the materials for the
making of a telescope existed ; in fact, in the sixteenth century, Forta
invented the camera obscura, which is in one sense a telescope. It
seems very strange that the properties of a convex and concave lens
when properly arranged were not known much earlier than 1608.
Most probably, if we may judge from the references made by some
earlier writers, this knowledge existed, but was not properly appre
ciated by them. Undoubtedly, after the first telescopes were made in
Holland in 1608, the value of this unique instrument was fully
appreciated, and the news spread rapidly, for we find that in the next
year " Galileo had been appointed lecturer at Padua for life, on
account of a perspective like the one which was sent from Flanders
to Cardinal Borghese." As far as can be ascertained, Galileo heard
of the telescope as an instrument by which distant objects appeared
nearer and larger, and that he, with this knowledge only, reinvented
it. The Galilean telescope is practically, though not theoretically,
the simplest form. It is made of a convex lens in combination with a
concave lens to intercept the cone of rays before they come to a focus,
and render them parallel so that they can be utilised by the eye. It
presents objects as they appear, and the picture has less colour in
this form than in the other where a convex eye-glass is used. It is
used as one form of opera-glass at the present time. Made of one piece
of glass in the shape of a cone, the base of which is ground convex, and
the apex slightly truncated and ground concave, it becomes a single-
 lens telescope that can be looked upon just as an enlargement of the
 outer lens of the eye.
    Galileo was undoubtedly the first to make an astronomical
                                                             M 2

164                         Mr. A. A. Common                     [May 30,
discovery with the telescope: his name is, and always will be,
associated with the telescope on this account alone.
     Very soon after the introduction of the Galilean telescope, the
difficulties that arise from the coloured image produced by a single
lens turned attention to the possibility of making a telescope by
using the reflecting surface of a concave mirror instead of a lens.
Newton, who had imperfectly investigated the decomposition of light
produced by its refraction through a prism, was of opinion that the
reflecting principle gave the greatest possibilities of increase of power.
He invented, and was the first to make, a reflecting telescope on the
system that is in use to the present day ; thus the two forms of
telescope—the refracting and reflecting— came into use within about
60 years of each other. It will be perhaps most convenient in briefly
running through the history of the telescope, that I should give what
was done in each century.
     Commencing, then, with the first application of the telescope to
the investigation of the heavenly bodies by Galileo in 1609, we find
that the largest telescope he could make gave only a magnifying
power of about 30.
     The first improvement made in the telescope, as left by Galileo,
was due to a suggestion—by some attributed to Kepler, but certainly
used by Gascoigne— to replace the concave eye-lens that Galileo used
by a convex one. Simple as this change looks, it makes an important,
indeed vital improvement. The telescope could now be used, by
placing a system of lines or a scale in the common focus of the two
lenses, to measure the size of the image produced by the large lens ;
 the axis or line of collimation could be found, and so the telescope
 could be used on graduated instruments to measure the angular
 distance of various objects ; in fact, we have now in every essential
 principle the true astronomical telescope. It is useless as an ordinary
 telescope, as it inverts the objects looked at, while the Galilean retains
 them in their natural position. The addition, however, of another
 lens or pair of lenses reinverts the image, and we then have the
 ordinary telescope. It was soon found that the single lens surrounds
 all bright objects with a fringe of colour, always of a width of about
 one-fiftieth of the diameter of the object-glass, as we must now call
 the large lens ; and as this width of fringe was the same whatever the
 focal length of the object-glass, the advantage of increasing this focal
 length and so getting a larger image without increasing the size of
 tho coloured fringe became apparent, and the telescope therefore was
 made longer and longer, till a length of over one hundred feet was
 reached; in fact, they were made so long that they could not be
 used. A picture of one of these is shown, from which it can be easily
 imagined the difficulties of using it must have been very great, yet
 some most important measurements have been made with these long
 telescopes. Beyond the suggestions of Gregory and Cassegrain for
 improvements in the reflecting telescope, little was done with this
 instrument.

 1890.]                 on Astronomical Telescopes.                   165
     During the eighteenth century immense advances were made in
 both kinds of telescopes. With the invention of the achromatic
 telescope by Hall and Dollond, the long-focus telescopes dis
appeared.
     Newton had turned to the reflecting telescopes believing from hia
investigations that the dispersion and refraction were constant for all
substances; this was found not to be so, and hence a means was
possible to render the coloured fringe that surrounds bright objects
when a single lens is used less prominent, by using two kinds of
glass for the lens, one giving more refraction with somewhat similar
dispersion, so that while the dispersion of one lens is almost corrected
or neutralised by the other, there is still a refraction that enables the
combination to be used as a lens giving an image almost free from
colour.
     In 1733, Hall had made telescopes having double object-glasses
on this plan, but never published the fact. Dollond who had worked
independently at the subject, came to the conclusion that the thing
could be done, and succeeded in doing it ; the invention of the
achromatic telescope is with justice, therefore, connected with his
name.
     Although this invention was a most important one, full advantage
could not be taken of it owing to the difficulty of getting disks of
glass large enough to make into the compound object-glass, disks of
about four inches being the largest diameter it was possible to
obtain. With the reflecting telescope, unhampered as it always has
been by any except mechanical difficulties, advance was possible, and
astronomers turned to it as the only means of getting larger instru
ments. Many most excellent instruments were made on the Newtonian
plan. The plan proposed by Gregory was largely used, as in this
instrument objects are seen in their natural position, so that the
telescope could be employed for ordinary purposes.
     Many were also made on the plan proposed by Cassegrain. The
diagrams on the wall enable you to at once see the essential points
of these different forms of reflectors.
     About 1776 Herschel commenced his astronomical work ; beginning
'with reflecting telescopes of six or seven inches, he ultimately suc
ceeded in making one of four feet aperture. With these instruments,
as everyone knows, most brilliant discoveries were effected, and the
first real survey of the heavens made.
     Herschel's larger telescopes were mounted by swinging them in a
enrrounding framed scaffolding that could itself be rotated. The
smaller ones were mostly mounted on the plan of the one now before
us, which the Council of the Royal Astronomical Society have kindly
allowed me to 'bring here. The plan nearly always used by Sir
William Herschel was the Newtonian, though for the larger instru
ments he used the plan proposed years before by Le Maire, but
better known as the Herschelian, when the observer looks directly at
the large mirror, which is slightly tilted, so that his body does not

166                        Mr. A. A. Common                    [May 30,
hinder the light reaching the telescope. In all cases the substance
used for the mirrors was what is called speculum metal.
     During the present century the aperture of the refracting
telescope has increased enormously ; the manufacture of tin- glass
disks has been brought to a high state of perfection, particularly in
France, where more attention is given to this manufacture than in
any other country. Early in the century the great difficulty was in
making the disk of flint glass. M. Guinand, a Swiss, beginning in
1784, succeeded in 1805 in getting disks of glass larger and finer
than had been made before, and refractors grew larger and larger as
the glass was made. In 1823 we have theDorpat glass of 9-6 inches,
the first large equatorial mounted with clock-work ; in 1837 the
12-inch Munich glass; in 1839 the 15-inch at Harvard, and in 1847
another at Pulkowa; in 1863 Cooke finished the 25-inch refractor
which Mr. Newall gave, shortly before his death last year, to the
Cambridge University.
     This telescope the University has accepted, and it is about to bo
removed to the Observatory at Cambridge, where it will be in charge
 of the Director, Dr. Adams. In accordance with the expressed wish
of the late Mr. Newall, it will be devoted to a study of stellar and
astronomical physics. There is every prospect that this will be
properly done, as Mr. Frank Newall, one of the sons of the late Mr.
 Newall, has offered his personal services for five years in carrying on
 this work. Succeeding this we have the 26-inch telescope at
 Washington, the 26-inch at the University of Virginia, the 30-inch
 at Pulkowa, and the 36-inch lately erected at Mount Hamilton,
 California—all these latter by Alvan Clark and his sons. By Sir
 Howard Grubb we have many telescopes, including the 28-inch at
 Vienna. Most of these telescopes have been produced during the
 last twenty years, as well as quite a host of others of smaller sizes,
 including nearly a score of telescopes of about 13 inches diameter
 by various makers, to be employed in the construction of the photo
 graphic chart of the heavens, which it has been decided to do by
 international co-operation.
      The first of these photographic instruments was made by the
 Brothers Henry, of the Paris Observatory, who have also made
 many very fine object glasses and specula, and more important than
 all, have shown that plane mirrors of perfect flatness can be made of
 almost any size ; the success of M. Loewy's new telescope, the
 equatorial coude, is entirely duo to the marvellous perfection of the
 plane mirrors made by them.
      The reflecting telescope has quite kept pace with its elder
 brother.
      Lassell in 1820 began the grinding of mirrors, he like Sir
 William Herschol working through various sizes, finally com
 pleting one of 4 feet aperture, which was mounted equatorially
 Lord Rosso also took up this work in 1840 ; he made two 3-foot
 specula, and in 1815 finished what yet remains the largest telescope,

1890.]                   on Astronomical Telescopes.                 167
one of 6 feet aperture. All these were of speculum metal, and all on
the Newtonian form. In 1870, Grubb completed for the Melbourne
Observatory a telescope of 4 feet aperture, on the Cassegrain plan,
the only large example. The mirror of this is of speculum metal.
In 1856 it was proposed by Steinheil, and in 1857 by Foucault, to
use glass as the material for the concave mirror, covering the surface
with a fine deposit of metallic silver in the manner that had then
just been perfected. In 1858 Draper in America, completed oae on
this plan of 15 inches aperture, soon after making another of -8 inches.
In France several large ones have been made, including one of 4 feet at
the Paris Observatory : in England this form of telescope is largely
used, and mirrors up to 5 feet in diameter have been made and
mounted equatorially.
    Optically the astronomical telescope, particularly the refractor,
has arrived at a splendid state of excellence ; the purity of the glass
disks and the perfection of the surfaces is proved at once by the
performances of the various large telescopes. No limit has yet been
set to the increase of size by the impossibility of getting disks of
glass or working them, nor is it probable that the limit will be set
by either of these considerations. We must rather look for our
limiting conditions to the immense cost of mounting large glasses,
and the absorption of light by the glass of which the lenses are made,
coming injuriously into play to reduce the light-gathering power,
though it will be probably a long time before this latter evil will
be much felt.
    With the reflecting telescope the greater attention given to the
working and testing of the optical surface has enabled the concave
mirror to be made with a certainty that the earlier workers never
dreamed of. The examination of the surface can be made optically
at the centre of curvature of the mirror in the manner that was used
by Hadley in the beginning of the last century, and revived some
years ago by Foucault who brought this method of testing specula
to a high degree of perfection ; in fact, with the addition of certain
methods of measuring the longitudinal aberrations we have now a
means of readily testing mirrors with a degree of accuracy that far
exceeds the skill of the worker. It enables every change that is
made in the surface during the progress of the figuring, as the para-
bolisation of the surface is called, to be watched and recorded, and
the exact departure of any part from the theoretical form measured
and corrected ; mirrors can be made of very much greater ratio of
aperture to focal length. I have one here where the focal length is
ouly 2£ times the aperture : such a mirror in the days of speculum
metal mirrors with the methods then in UFO would have necessarily
had a focal length of about 20 feet. The difference in curvature
between the centre and edge of this mirror is so great that it can be
easily measured by an ordinary spherometer, amounting as it does
with one of 6 inches diameter to 3/10,000 of an inch, an amount
sufficient to make the focus of the outer portion about 1 inch longer

168                        Mr. A. A. Common                     [May 30,
than the inner when it is tested at the centre of curvature. The
diagram on the wall, copied roughly from one of the records, I keep
of the progress of the work on a mirror during the figuring, shows
how this system of measurements enables one to follow closely the
whole operation.
    The use of silver on glass as the reflecting surface is as important
an improvement in the astronomical telescope as the invention of the
achromatic telescope. It gives a permanency to a good figure once
obtained that did not exist with the mirrors of speculum metal. To
restore the surface of silver to the glass speculum is only a small
matter now. How readily this is done may be seen by the practical
illustration of the method I will give. I have here two liquids—one
a solution of the oxide of silver, and another a reducing agent, the
chief material in solution being sugar. I pour the two together in
this vessel, the surface of which has been cleaned and kept wet by
distilled water, which I shall partly empty, leaving the rest to mix
'with the two solutions ; you will see in the course of about 5 minutes
the silver begin to form, eventually covering the whole surface with a
brilliant coating that can be polished on the outer surface as bright
as that you will see through the glass.
    ^Reflecting telescopes have advantages over the refracting telescopes
in many ways, but in some respects they are not so good. They give
images that are absolutely achromatic, while the other form always
has some unconnected colour. They can be made shorter, and as the
light-grasping power is not reduced by the absorption of the glass of
which the lenses are made, it is in direct proportion to the surface
or area of the mirror. They have not had in many cases the same
care bestowed upon either their manufacture or upon their mounting
as has been given in nearly every case to the refracting telescope.
Speaking generally, the mounting of the reflecting telescope has
nearly always been of a very imperfect kind—a matter of great con
sequence, for upon the mounting of the astronomical telescope so
much depends. To direct the tube to any object is not difficult, but
to keep it steadily moving so that the object remains on the field of
view requires that the tube should be carried by an equatorial mount
ing of an efficient character. The first essential of such a mounting
is an axis parallel to the axis of rotation of the earth. The tube, being
supported on this, will follow any celestial object, such as a star, by
simply turning the polar axis in a contrary motion to that of the earth,
and at the same rate as the earth rotates on its axis. If we make
the telescope to swing in a plane parallel to the polar axis, we can
then direct the telescope to any part of the sky, and we have the
complete equatorial movement. There are several ways in which
this is practically done : we can have a long open-work polar axis
supported at top and bottom, and swing the telescope in this, or
we can have short strong axes. As examples of the first, I will
 show you pictures of the mountings designed for Cambridge and
 Greenwich Observatories some forty years ago by Sir G. Airy,

1890.]                  on Astronomical Telescopes.                   169
lately and for so long our eminent Astronomer-Koyal ; and as
examples of the other form, amongst others, the large telescope
lately erected at Nice, and also the larger one at Mount Hamilton,
California, now under the direction of Prof. Holden.
     The plan of bringing all the various handles and wheels that
control the movement of the telescope and the various accessories
down to the eye end, so as to be within reach of the observer, is
carried to the highest possible degree of perfection here, as we can
see by an inspection of the picture of the eye end of this telescope.
The observer with the reflecting telescope is, with moderate-size
instruments, never very far from the floor, but in the case of the Lick
telescope he might have to ascend some thirty feet for objects low
down in the sky. Thanks to the ingenuity of Sir Howard Grubb, to
'whom the idea is due, the whole of the floor of the Observatory is made
to rise and fall by hydraulic machinery at the will of the observer—a
charming but expensive way of solving the difficulty, as far as safety
goes, but not meeting the constant need of a change in position as the
telescope swings round in keeping up with the motion of the object
to which it is directed. The great length of the tube of large re
fractors is well seen in this picture of the Lick telescope : it suggests
flexure as the change is made in the direction in which it points, and
the consequent change of stress in the different parts of the tube.
    The mounting of the reflector has been treated, if not so success
fully, with more variety than in the case of the refractor as we shall
see from the pictures I will show you, especially where the Newtonian
form is used. The 4-foot reflector at Melbourne is mounted on the
German plan, in a similar way to a refractor, and an almost identical
plan has been followed by the makers of the 4-foot at the Paris
Observatory. Lassell, who was the first to mount a large reflector
equatorially, used a mounting that may be called the forked mounting,
the polar axis being forked at its upper end, and the tube of the
telescope swinging between the forks ; a very excellent plan,
dispensing with all counterpoising. Wishing to obtain certain con
ditions that I thought and think now favourable to the performance
of the reflector, I devised a mounting where the whole tube was
supported at one end on a bent arm ; a 3-foot mirror was mounted on
this plan in 1879, and worked admirably. The Newtonian form
demands the presence of the observer near the high end of the tele
scope, and the trouble of getting him there and keeping him safely
close to the eye-piece is very great. As we see from the various
photographs, several means have been employed to do this, none of
them quite satisfactory.
    All the refracting telescopes of note in the world are covered by
domes that effectually protect them from the weather ; these domes
are in some cases comparable in cost with the instruments they cover.
It is not surprising, therefore, that efforts have been made to devise a
means of getting rid of this costly dome and the long movable tube.
    It was suggested many years ago that a combination of piano

170                        Mr. A. A. Common                         [Hay 30,
mirrors could bo used to direct light from any object into a fixed
telescope. This idea in a modified form has often been used for
special work, one plane mirror being used as we see in the picture
on the screen to throw a beam of light into a telescope fixed horizon
tally ; for certain kinds of work this does admirably, but the range
is restricted as can be easily seen, and the object rotates in the
field of view as the earth goes round. The next step would be to place
the telescope pointing parallel to the axis of the earth and send the
beam of light into it from the mirror, which could now be carried by
the tube so that by simply rotating the tube on its own axis the object
would be kept in the field of view. Sir Howard Grubb makes a
small telescope on this plan, and some years ago proposed a somewhat
similar plan. A sketch of this plan I will show you. You will see,
however, that here again the range is restricted, and to use the tele
scope, means would be required to constantly vary the inclination of
the small mirror at one-half the rate of inclination of the short tube
carrying the object-glass.
     By the use of two plane mirrors, however, the solution of the
problem of a rotating telescope tube placed as a polar axis is solved.
By having such a telescope with a plane mirror at an angle of 45° to
the axis of the telescope in front of the object-glass, we can, by
simply rotating the telescope, see every object lying on the equator ;
and by adding another similar plane mirror at an angle of 45° to the
axis of the telescope, as bent out at right angles by the first plane mirror.
and giving the mirror a rotation perpendicular to this axis, we obtain
the same power of pointing the telescope as we have in the equatorial.
The idea of doing this was published many years ago, but it was left
to the skill and perseverance of M. Loewy, of the Paris Observatory, to
put it into practical use. He devised, and had made, a telescope on
this principle, of 10£ inches aperture, which was completed in 1882.
It has proved itself an unqualified success, and many other larger ones
are now being made in Paris, including one of 23 inches aperture,
now nearly completed, for the Paris Observatory.
     A lantern copy of a drawing of this latter telescope will be thrown
on the screen, in order that you may see what manifest advantages
exist in this form of telescope. There is but one objection that can
be urged— that is, the possible damage to the definition by the plane
mirrors ; but this seems, from what I have seen of the wonderful per
fection of the plane mirrors made by the Brothers Henry, to be an
unreasonable one—at any rate not an insurmountable one. In every
other respect, except perhaps a slight loss of light, this form of tele
scope is so manifestly superior to the ordinary form that it must
supersede it in time, not only for general work, but for such work as
photography and spectroscopy.

1890.]                  on Astronomical Telescopes.                   171
          NOTE ON A METHOD or SILVERING GLASS MIRRORS.
    Solutions.—Make up 10 per cent, solutions of pure recrystallised
nitrate of silver, pure caustic potash, and loaf sugar. To the sugar
solation add £ per cent, of pure nitric acid and 10 per cent, of alcohol.
The sugar solution is very much improved by keeping, its action
being more rapid and the film cleaner when the sugar solution has
been made for a long time. Make up also a weak solution, say 1 per
cent, of nitrate of silver and a 10 per cent, solution of ammonia.
(90 per cent, distilled water, 10 per cent, ammonia, -880 specific
gravity). Distilled water must be used for all the solutions.
     Cleaning the Mirror.—Thoroughly clean the mirror. To do this
pour on a strong solution of caustic potash, rub well with cotton wool,
rinse with ordinary water, wash again with absolute alcohol, and rinse ;
finally pour on strong nitric acid, and rub with a piece of cotton
wool, inserted in the open end of a test tube. Rinse again thoroughly
with ordinary water, and then place the mirror face downwards in
distilled water in a dish sufficiently large to leave two inches margin
round the edge of the mirror, and to keep the face of the mirror one
inch from the bottom of the dish. The liquid should stand half an
inch above the face of the mirror which should not be completely
submerged, and care should be taken to exclude all air-bubbles.
     For Silvering a 12-inch Mirror.—Take 400 c.c. of the nitrate of
silver solution and add strong ammonia until the brown precipitate
first formed is nearly dissolved, then use the diluted ammonia until
 the solution is just clear. Then add 200 c.c. of the caustic potash
 solution. A brown precipitate is again formed, which must be dis
 solved in ammonia exactly as before, the ammonia being added until
 the liquid is just clear. Now add the 1 per cent, solution of silver
 nitrate until the liquid becomes a light brown colour, about equal in
 density of colour to sherry. This colour is important, and can
 only be properly obtained by adding the weak solution. Dilute the
 liquids to 1500 c.c. with distilled water.
     All being ready add 200 c.c. of the sugar solution to 500 c.c. of
 water. Then lift the mirror out of the dish, taking care to keep its
 face downwards during the time it is out of the water, pour tho
 washing water away, add the sugar solution to the silver potash
 solution, taking care they are thoroughly mixed, and pour them into
 the dish. Place the mirror face downwards in this solution, taking
 care to exclude all air-bubbles.
     The liquid will turn light brown, dark brown, and finally black.
 In four or five minutes, often sooner, a thin film of silver will com
 mence to form on the mirror, and this will thicken until in about
 twenty minutes the whole liquid has acquired a yellowish brown
 colour, with a thin film of metallic silver floating on the surface.
     Lift the mirror out, thoroughly wash with distilled water, and stand
 the mirror on its edge, or rest it in an inclined position until it is
 dry ; if time can bo allowed, tho silvered mirror may be left to soak

172           Mr. A. A. Common on Astronomical Telescopes.        [May 30,
in distilled water over night. Leave it to dry until next day, then
the slight yellowish " bloom " can be polished off by rubbing softly
with a pad of chamois leather and cotton wool. Carefully polish
afterwards with a little dry well-washed rouge on the leather pad.
The film should be opaque and brilliant, and with careful handling
will bo very little changed with long use.
     Dishes.—Use porcelain, glass, or earthenware dishes whenever
possible ; but, if these are not available, a zinc dish, coated inside
with paraffin or best beeswax.
     For small mirrors (np to 12 inches) the easiest method of
supporting them during silvering is to attach them to a wooden rod
by pitch, and arranga the dish thus
          WOODEN ROD             WOODEN  BLOCK
                                    MIRROR
SUPPORTING BLOCK        DISH CONTAININC sILVERING sOLUTION
     Temperature and Time.—Half an hour is the usual time taken in
 silvering, but this is shortened by using warmer liquids. About
 65° F. is best for silvering. In colder weather longer time must be
 allowed for the film to be deposited. In very hot weather a smaller
 quantity of sugar can be used, say 150 c.c. For a 12-inch mirror it is
 a safe rule to allow four times the time required to get the first indi
 cations all over the mirror as the total time for the mirror to be in
 the bath.
     In cases when it is necessary to silver face upwards, a band may
 be put round the mirror, and the solutions poured on. It is necessary
 in this case to leave out the potash solution, and allow a longer time
for the silver to deposit ; as much as two hours being sometimes
necessary.
     If a very thick film is required, two silvering baths can be used,
the mirror being left in the first for 1 5 minutes, then lifted out, rinsed
 with distilled water, and at once immersed in the second bath, which
should be ready in a second dish. The film must not be allowed to
dry during the operation of changing from one bath to the other.

1890.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                        173
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, June 2, 1890.
 SIR JAMES CBIOHTOS BIIOWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.B.S. Treasurer and
                          Vice-President, in the Chair.
                   C. J. Cullingworth, M.D. F.R.C.P.
                   Jonathan Hutchinson, Esq. F.E.S. F.R.C.S.
                   Rudolph Messel, Esq. Ph.D. F.C.3.
                   Henry Charles Mylne, Esq.
                   Dan Rylands, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz :—
      FOR
Accademia del Lincei, Reale, Roma—Alii, Serie Quarta: Rendieonti. 1° Semes-
      tee, Vol. VI. Fase. 5, 6. 8vo. 1890.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Third Series, Vol. I. Part 1.
      8vo. 1890.
Aziatic Society of Bengal—Journal, VoL LVIII. Part I. No. 2 ; Part II. Nos. 3 4.
      and Sup. 8vo. 1889-90.
   Proceedings, 1889, Parts 7-10. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. L. No. 6. 8vo. 1890.
Babbage, Henry P. Esq.—Babbage's Occulting Telegraph. 8vo. 1890.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XL Part 5. 8vo. 1890.
Brazil Republic —Boletins Mensaes do Observatorio Meteorologico, Vols. I.-IIL
      8vo. 1866-1888.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1889-90, Nos. 14, 15. 4to.
 British Association for Advancement of Science—Report of Meeting at Newcustle-
      on-Tyne, 1889. 8vo. 1890.
 Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. IX. No. 4. 4to. 1890.
 Chemical Society—Journal for May, 1890. 8vo.
 Craeome, T'Academic dee Sciences—Bulletin, 1890, No. 4. 8vo.
 Dax : Socifte de Borda—Bulletin, 1890, 1" Trimestre. 8vo.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for May, 1890. 8vo.
   Analyst for May, 1890. 8vo.
   Atheuseum for May, 1890. 4to.
   Chemical News for May, 1890. 4to.
    Chemist and Druggist for May, 1890. 8vo.
    Electrical Engineer for May, 1890. fol.
    Engineer for May, 1890. fol.
    Engineering for May, 1890. fol.
    Horological Journal for May, 1890. 8vo.
    Industries for May, 1890. fol.
   Iron for May, 18HO. 4to.
    Ironmongery for May, 1890.
    Murray's Magazine for May, 1890. 8vo.
    Nature for May, 1890. 4to.
    Photographic News for May, 1890. 8vo.
    Revue Scientifique for May, 1890. 4to.
    Telegraphic Journal for May, 1890. fol.
    Zoophilist for May, »K90. 4to.
 Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, No. 86. 8vo. 1890.
 Florence Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale—Bolletino, Nos. 1 04-100. 8vo. 1890.

174                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [Juno 2,
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 773. 8vo. 1890.
Geneva, Societe de Physique et d'Histoire NatureUe—Me'moiret, Tome XXX.
      Partie 2. 4to. 1889-90.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. XI [. No. 5. 8vo.
      1890.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—AbUandlungen, Band XIII. Heft 1 ;
      Band XV. Heft 1. fol. 1890.
   Jahrbueh, Band XXXVIII. Heft 4; Band XXXIX. Heft 3, 4. 8vo. 1890.
   Verhandlungen, 1889, Nos. 13-17. 8vo.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, Vol. XLVI. Part 2, No. 182. 8vo. 1890
GeorgoJUi, Reale Accademia - A.tti, Vol. XIII. Diap. 1. 8vo. 1890.
Johns Hopkins University—University Circulars, No. 80. 4to. 1890.
Laboratory Club—Transactions, Vol. III. No. 5. 8vo. 1890.
Linnean Society—Journal, Vol. XXVII. No. 182. 8vo. 1890.
Meteorological Office—Weekly Weather Reports. Nos. 17-21. 4to. 1890.
   Meteorological Observations at Foreign and Colonial Stations, 1852-1886. 4to.
      1890.
Meteorological Society, Boynl—Quarterly Journal, No. 74. 8vo. 1889.
   Meteorological Record, No. 35. 8vo. 1889.
National Life-boat Institution—Annual Report for 1890. 8vo. 1890.
North of England Inttitute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Trans ictior.s.
      Vol. XXXVIII. Part 5. 8vo. 1890.
Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXII. No. 6. New
      Series. 8vo. 1890.
Paris Universal Exhibition, 1889—British Section, Report of the Council. 12mo.
      1890.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, May, 1890. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XIV. Nos. 7, 8. 8vo. 1890.
Rathbone, E. P. Esq. (the Editor)—The Witwatersrand Mining and Metallurgical
      Review, No. 4.   8vo.   1890.
Rio de Janeiro Observatory—Revista, No. 4. 8vo. 1890.
Royal Irinh Academy—Transactions, Vol. XXXIX. Part 13. 4to. 1890.
   " Cunningham Memoirs," No. 5. 4to. 1890.
Royal Society of Antiquaries of Ireland—Journal, Vol. I. No. 1. 5th Series. 8vo.
      1890.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings No. 288. 8vo. 1890.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Philologisch-historischen Classe :
      Abhandlungen, Band XI. No. 6 8vo. 1890.
      Berichte, 1S89, No. 4. 8vo. 1890.
   Mathematische-Phyaischen Classe :
     Abhandlungeu, Band XV. Nos. 7-9. 4to. 1889.
     Beriohte, 1889, Nos. 2-4. 8vo. 1890.
     Resister-Berichte, 1846-1885; Ahhandlungen, Band I.-XII. 8vo. 1889.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes, Vol. I No. 5. 8vo. 1890.
Simpson, Jatnes, Esq. (the Author)—The Scottish Press and the Gipsies. 8vo.
      1890.
Smithsonian Institution—Bureau of Ethnology, Fifth and Sixth Reports. 4to.
     18S7-1888. Various Papers. 8vo. 1887'-1889.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. II. No. 10. 8vo. 1890.
Society of Arts—Journal for May, 1890. 8vo.
Teyler Museum—Archives, Se'rie II. Vol. III. Fas. 4. 4to. 1890.
   Catalogue de la Bibliotheque, Vol. II. Livraison 1-3. 4to. 1890.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 152. 8vo. 1890.
United States Geological Survey—Seventh Annual Report, 1885-86. 4to. 1890.
 University of London—Calendar, 1890-91. 8vo.
 Vereins zur Beforderiing des Gewerbfleises in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1890:
      H.ift4. 4to.
 Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 92. 8vo. 1890.
 Yorkshire Archaiological and Topographical Association—Journal, Parts 41, 42.
      8vo. 1890.

1890.]        Prof. W. Boyd Dawkint on Search for Coal, de.               175
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, June 6, 1890.
  BASIL WOODD SMITH, Esq. F.R.A.S. F.S.A. Vice-President, in the
                                   Chair.
               PROFESSOR W. BOYD DAWKINS, M.A. F.R.S.
                The Search for Coal in the South of England.
1. Introductory—2. The conditions under which the coal-measures were formed
     —3. The break up of the Carboniferous alluvia into isolated conl-basins—
     4. Godwin-Austen's conclusions—5. The conclusions of Prestwich and the
     Coal Commission—6. Tlie range of the coal-measures under the Newer Rocks
     of Somerset—7. Coal-measures in Oxfordshire—8. The district of London—
     9. The Weald of Sussex—10. The coal-fields of Northern France, Belgium,
     and Westphalia—11. The discovery of a coal-field at Dover— 12. General
     conclusions.
1. THE bare facts of the recent discovery of coal-measures at Shake
speare Cliff, near Dover, have been published in the press, and the
full account cannot be written till the completion of the inquiry which
is now going on. It is, however, not unfitting that the bearing of the
discovery on the general question of the existence of workable coal
 fields in Southern England should be discussed within these walls, not
 merely on account of its general interest, but because it naturally
 follows the paper read by Mr. Godwin-Austen before the Royal
 Institution, in 1858, " On the Probability of Coal beneath the South
 eastern parts of England." In 1855 he had placed before the Geo
 logical Society of London the possibility of the existence of coal in
 South-eastern England at a workable depth. In the two years which
 had elapsed, " the possibility " had grown in his mind into the " pro
 bability," and in the thirty-two years which have passed between the
 date of the paper before this Institution and the present time, " the
 probability" has been converted into a certainty by the recent dis
 covery at Dover. In this communication, the lines of the inquiry
 laid down by Godwin-Austen will be strictly followed. We must
 first examine the conditions under which the coal-measures were
 accumulated.
      2. The seams of coal are proved, by the surface-soil traversed by
 roots and rootlets, to which in some cases the trunks are still attached,
 to have been formed in situ by the growth and decay of innumerable
 generations of Plants (Lepidodendra, Sigillaria, Calamites), Pines,
 ( Trigonocarpa, Dadoxylvn, Sternbergia), allied to Salisburia, and a
 vast undergrowth of Ferns, all of which contributed to form a peat-
 like morass. Each seam represents an accumulation on a land-
 surface, just as the sandstones and shales above it point to a period

176                    Professor W. Boyd Dawkius                   [June 6,
of depression during which sandbanks and mndbanks were deposited
by water. The fact also that the coal-seams in a given sinking are
parallel, or nearly parallel, implies that they were formed on horizontal
tracts of alluvium, while the marine and fresh-water shells in the
associated sandstones and shales prove that they were near the level
of the sea, or within reach of a mighty river. This tract of forest-
clad marsh-lands, as Godwin-Austen and Prestwich have pointed out,
occupied the greater part of the British Isles, from the Highlands of
Scotland southwards as far as Brittany, and eastwards far away into
the valley of the Rhine, and westwards over the greater part of
Ireland. It swept round the hills of South Scotland and the Lake
district and the region of Cornwall. It occupied a delta like that of
 the Mississippi, in which the forest-growths were from time to time
 depressed beneath the water-line, until the whole thickness of the coal-
 measures (7200 feet thick in Lancashire, 7600 in South Wales, and
 8400 in Somersetshire) was built up. After each depression the
 forest spread again over the sand and mud of the submerged parts,
and another peat-layer of vegetable matter was slowly accumulated
above that buried beneath the sand and mud. The great extent of this
delta implies the existence of a large river draining a large continent,
of which the Highlands of Scotland and the Scandinavian peninsula
formed parts, and which I have described before the Royal Institution
under the name of Archaia.
     3. At the close of the Carboniferous age, this vast tract of alluvium
was thrown into a series of folds by earth-movements. These have
left their mark in the south of England and the adjacent parts of
France, in the anticline of the English Channel, the syncline of
Devonshire, the anticline of the Mendip Hills and of the lower Severn,
and the syncline of the South Wales coal-fields. These great east and
west folds have been traced from the south of Ireland on the west,
through 35 degrees of latitude, through North France and Belgium,
as far as the region of Westphalia. N ext, the upper portions of the
folds were attacked by the subaerial and marine agents of denudation
over the whole of the Carboniferous area, leaving the lower parts to
form the existing coal-fields which lie scattered over the surface of
the British Isles, and are isolated from eaoh other by exposures of
older rocks ; and a broad east and west ridge was carved out of the
folded and broken Carboniferous and older rocks, extending from the
anticline of the Mendip Hills eastward through Artois into Germany,
and constituting the ridge or axis of Artois of Godwin-Austen.
     The next stage in the history of the folded Carboniferous and
older rocks is marked by the deposition of the Permian and Secondary
rocks on their eroded and waterworn edges, by which they were
partially concealed or wholly buried, and these newer strata thin off
as they approach the ridge of Artois. This barrier, also, of folded
Carboniferous and older rocks sank gradually beneath the sea in the
Triassic, Liassic, Oolitic, and Cretaceous ages, and against it the
strata of the first three named ages thin off, while in France and

1890.]       on the Search far Coal in tlte South of England.        177
Eelginm the Cretaceous deposits rest immediately upon the waterworn
older rocks.
    From these general considerations it is clear that the coal-measures
which formerly extended over nearly the whole of Southern England
can now only be met with in isolated basins under the newer rocks,
and that these are thinnest along the line of the above-mentioned
barrier.
    4. The exposed coal-fields in Britain, and on the Continent also,
Godwin-Austen pointed out, along this line, are of the same mineral
character, and the pre-Carboniferous rocks are the same. This ridge
or barrier also, where it is concealed by the newer rocks, is marked
by the arch-like fold (anticlinal) of the chalk of Wiltshire, and by
the line of the North Downs in Surrey and Kent. Godwin-Austen
finally concluded that there are coal-fields beneath the Oolitic and
Cretaceous rocks in the South of England, and that they are near
enough to the surface along the line of the ridge to be capable of
being worked. He mentioned the Thames valley and the Weald of
Kent and Sussex as possible places where they might be discovered.
    These strikingly original views gradually made their way, and in
the next eleven years became part of the general body of geological
theory. They were, however, not accepted by Sir Roderick Murchison,
the then head of the Geological Survey, who maintained to the last
that there were no valuable coal-fields in Southern England.
    5. The next important step in the direction of their verification
was that taken by the Coal Commission of 1866-67, by whom
Mr. Godwin-Austen was examined at length, and the results of the
inquiry embodied in the Report by Mr. Prestwich. In the Report
Mr. Godwin-Austen's views are accepted, and fortified by a vast
number of details relating both to the coal-fields of Somersetshire and
of France and Belgium. Mr. Prestwich also calls special attention
to the physical identity of the coals of these two regions, and to the
fact that the Carboniferous and older rocks in both are similarly
disturbed. He concludes, further, that the coal-fields which now lie
buried beneath the newer rocks are probably equal in value and in
extent to those which are exposed in Somerset and South Wales on
the west, and in Belgium and France on the east.
    We will now proceed to tost these theoretical conclusions by the
light of recent observations.
    6. The coal-fields of Somerset and Gloucester were proved by the
labours of Prof. Prestwich and the Coal Commission of 1866-67 to be
small fractions of the great coal basin which lies buried beneath the
Triassic, Liassic, and Oolitic rocks, from the Mendip Hills northwards
past Bristol to Wickwar. On the west also three small isolated
coal-basins occur —those of Nailsea and Portishead, which are par
tially, and that of Aust, which is wholly, concealed by the newer
rocks. The coal-measures are folded and broken, and traversed by
great " overthrust " faults, which at Kingswood give the same series
of coals twice over in the sinkings of one colliery. Their southern
    VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)                                        N

178                    Professor W. Boyd Dawltins                [June 6,
boundary is the line of the Mendip Hills. They also probably occur
at a depth which remains to be proved, still further to the south, in
the valley of the Axe and the district of Glastonbury, the most
southern boundary being the mountain limestone of Canniugton, near
Bridgwater (see map). The great Somerset and Gloucester field may
extend to the east under the newer rocks, between Freshford and
Beckington, in the district south of Bath.
    The value of the evidence of the coal-fields of the West of
England on the general question consists in the fact that they may
be taken as fair samples of those which lie concealed along the line
of the buried ridge through South-eastern England in the direction
of France, Belgium, and Germany.
    7. One of these concealed coal-fields has been struck in a deep
boring at Burford, near Witney, in Oxfordshire, at a depth of
1184 feet, under the following rocks:—
                 Oolites                             148 feet.
                 Lias                                598 „
                 Rhoetic                              10 „
                 Triassic rocks                      428 „
The sandstones and shales of the coal-measures were penetrated to a
depth of 225 feet.*
    These coal-measure rocks form, as suggested by Hull, one of the
same series of coal-basins as those of South Wales and the Forest of
Dean, and probably mark the line of the continuation of the South
Wales syncline in the direction of Harwich, where Carboniferous
shale has been struck at a depth of 1052 feet from the surface.
    This boring proves not merely the presence of coal-measures at a
workable depth in Oxfordshire, but also the important fact that the
Triassic rocks, which are of great thickness further north, have
dwindled down to an unimportant thickness in their range south
wards and eastwards. Further, that south, in the London area, these
 rocks are wholly absent ; and farther to the east, at Harwich, the
 Liassic and Oolitic strata and Lower Greensand are absent, and the
 Gault rests on the eroded Lower Carboniferous rocks, inclined at a
 high angle.
     8. The water-worn surface of the folded rocks, which are older
 than the Carboniferous, has been repeatedly struck in deep borings
 for water in the neighbourhood of London, at depths ranging from
 839 feet at Ware to 1239 feet at Eichmond. They consist of Silurian
 strata in the north at Ware, and of Old Red Sandstone or Devonian
 rocks in the other localities. From their high angle of dip, as in
 the case of similar rocks underlying the coal-fields of Somerset and
 Northern France and Belgium, it may be inferred that coal-fields lie
 in the synclinal folds in the neighbouring areas.
     From the fact of the Silurian rocks being in the north, while all
               * DC' Ranee, Munch. Gcol. Soc., 261k March, 1878.

1890.]         on the Search for Coal in the South of England.      179
the rest of the borings to the south terminate in the Devonian or Old
Red rocks, it may be inferred that the chalk of the North Downs
probably conceals the coal-measures. It must also be noted that
there are no Wealden rocks in the London area, and no Lower
Greensands, and that the Lower Oolites at their thickest are only
87 feet. The secondary rocks, which are of great thickness in the
midland and northern counties, thin off as they pass southwards
towards London, against the ridge of older rocks, as both Austen and
Prestwich have pointed out.
     It is therefore in the area south of London, rather than in that
immediately to the north, that the coal-measures are to be looked for
at a workable depth beneath the surface, and underneath the chalk of
the North Downs. It must, however, be noted that the line of the
South Wales syncline through Burford passes to the north of Ware,
and that there may be coal-measures in the northern parts of Essex
and of Hertfordshire at a workable depth.
     9. The Report of the Coal Commission was published in 1871,
and in the following year the Sub-Wealden Exploration Committee
was organised by Mr. Henry Willett, to test the question of the
existence of the Carboniferous and pre-Carboniferous rocks in the
Wealden area by an experimental boring. The site chosen was
Netherfield, about three miles south of Battle, in Sussex, where the
lowest rocks of the Wealden formation constitute the bottom of the
valley. The rocks penetrated were as follows :—
                            SECTION OF NETHERFIELD.
              Purbeck strata                           200feet.
              Portland strata                           57 „'
              Kimmeridgo clay                         1073 ,.
              Corallian strata                         515 „
              Oxford clay                               60 „
                                                      1905 „
     This boring showed that the coal-measures and older rocks are,
 in that region, more than 1900 feet from the surface of the ground.
 We may also infer, from the fact of the bottom of the bore-hole being
in the Oxford clay, and from the known thickness of the Bath Oolitic
 strata in the nearest places, that it lies buried beneath considerably
more than 2000 feet of newer rocks. With this valuable, though
negative result, the Sub-Wealden Exploration came to an end. It
was a purely scientific inquiry, paid for by subscription, and largely
supported by those who had no pecuniary interest in the result.
     The experience of the boring at Netherfield showed that the search
for the coal-measures and older rocks of God win-Austen's ridge would
have to be carried out at some spot further to the noith, in the
direction of the North Downs. In the district of Battle the Oolitic
rocks were proved to be more than 1700 feet thick, and the great and
increasing thickness of the successive rocks of the Wealden formation
above them, which form the surface of the ground between Nethcr
                                                                N 2

180                     Professor W. Boyd Dawkins                    [Juue 6,
field and the North Downs, rendered it undesirable to repeat the
experiment within the Wealden area proper, where the Wealden
rocks presented a total thickness of more than 1000 feet, in addition
to that of the Oolites. My attention, therefore, was directed to the
lino along the North Downs, where Godwin-Austen believed that the
Wealden beds abruptly terminated against the ridge of coal-measures
and older rocks, and where, therefore, there would be a greater
chance of success.
     10. The evidence, also, of the French, Belgian, and Westphalian
coal-fields pointed in the direction of the North Downs.
     The Carboniferous and older rocks, which we have hitherto
traced only as far as the area of London from their western outcrops
in Somerset, Gloucestershire, and South Wales, reappear at the sur
face in Northern France, Belgium, and Westphalia, and contain most
valuable coal-fields, which are long, narrow, and deep. These extend
from the district of the Ruhr on the east, through Aachen, Liege,
 Namur, Charleroi, Mons, and Valenciennes. The enormous value of
 the last field led, during the last hundred years, to numerous borings
 through the newer rocks, which have extended the western range
 of the coal-measures upwards of 95 miles away from its disappear
 ance under the Oolites and chalk, as far as Flechinelle, south of Aire,
 or to within 30 miles of Calais. It occupies throughout this distance
 a narrow trough or syncline, 11 miles across at Douohy, and about
 half a mile at its western termination. It is represented still further
 to the west by the faulted and folded coal-fields of Hardinghen and
 Marquise, which are within about 12 miles of Calais. The coal-
 measure shales and sandstones found in a boring at Calais, at a depth
 of 1104 feet from the surface, in 1850,* reveal the existence of
 another coal-field in the same general line of strike, and making for
 Dover and the North Downs.
      11. We have seen that the range of the coal-measures has been
 pushed farther and farther to the west by experimental borings, until
  they have been proved to exist underneath Calais. The opposite shores
 of the Straits of Dover, therefore, presented the best locality for a trial
 still further to the west. In choosing a site, the Channel Tunnel
 works, close to Shakespeare Cliff, Dover, appeared to mo to present
 great advantages, which I embodied in a report to Sir Edward W.
 Watkin, in 1886. The site is within view of Calais, and not
 more than six miles to the south of a spot where about 4 cwt. of
 bituminous material was found imbedded in the chalk in making
 a tunnel, which, according to Godwin-Austen, had been probably
 derived from the coal-measures below.
      Prestwich also had pointed out, in 1873, in dealing with the
 question of a tunnel between England and France, that the older
     * This fact is doubted by Gosselet. I am, however, informed by Prestwich
 that both he and Elie de Beaumont identified them as coal-measures at the time,
 and I see no reason for doubting the accuracy of those two eminent observers.
 The cores were, unfortunately, lost in the first Paris Exhibition.

1890.]       on the Search for Coal in the South of England.                  181
rocks were within such easy reach at Dover, that they could be
utilised for the making of a submarine tunnel. Sir Edward Watkin
acted with his usual energy, and the work was begun in 1886, and
has been carried on down to the present time, under my advice, and
at the expense of the Channel Tunnel Company. The boring
operations have been under the direction of Mr. F. Brady, the Chief
Engineer of the South-Eastern Railway, to whose ability we owe the
completion of the work to its present point, under circumstances of
                                 Fio. 1
                                                                    CJialk.
                                                        'A           Rorinti.
                                                        iB.Channel Tunnel Shaj't
                       BOEING AT SHAKESPEARE CLIFF.
great difficulty. A shaft has been sunk (A) [See Fig. 1] on the
west side of the Shakespeare Cliff, close to the shaft of the Channel
Tunnel (B) to a depth of 44 feet, and from this a bore-hole has been
made to a depth of 1180 feet.
                   SECTION AT SHAKESPEARE CLIFF, DOVER.
                                                                Feet.
             Lower prey chalk, and chalk marl
             Glanconite inarl                                    500
             Gault
             Neocomian
             Portlandiau
             Kimmeridginn
             Corallian
             Oxfordiau                                        J660
             Callovian
             Bathonian
             Coal measures, sandstones, and shales and clays, I „»
               with one seam of coal                          |

  182                  Professor W. Boyd Datokins               [June G
     The coal-measures were struck at a depth of 1204 feet from the
 surface, or 1160 feet from the top of the bore-hole, and a seam of
 good blazing coal was met with 20 feet lower.
      12. This discovery proves up to the hilt the truth of Godwin-
 Austen's views as to the range of the coal-measures along the line of
 the North Downs, and as to the thinning off of the Oolitic and
 Wealdon strata against the buried ridge. The former are less than
 one-third of their thickness at Netherfield, and the latter are wholly
 unrepresented. It establishes the existence of a coal-field in South
 eastern England, at a depth well within the limits of working at a
 profit. The principal coal-pits in this country are worked at depths
 ranging from over 1000 to 2800 feet, and one at Charleroi, in Belgium,
 is worked to a depth of 3412 feet.
      The Dover coal-field probably forms part of tho same narrow
 trough as the Calais measures, prolonged westward under the
 Channel further to tho south than Godwin-Austen drew it in 1858.
 Whether it is a trough similar to that which extends through
 Northern Franco for more than 100 miles from east to west, as
 Godwin-Austen has drawn it in the diagram on the wall, reaching
 as far to tho west as Reading, or whether it is a small, faulted,
 insignificant fragment of a field, such as that of Marquise and
                                  FIG. 2.
     Chan
     Gault
Greentand
       PRORARLE RANGE OF COAL MEASURES RETWEEN DOVER AND CALAIS.
 Hardinghen, remains to be proved. It is, however, one of a chain of
 coal-fields, which will, in my opinion, ultimately be proved to extend
 under the newer rocks between Dover and Somerset, along the line of
 the North Downs, in long narrow east and west troughs. It is
 probably a continuation beneath the Straits of Dover of the coal
 measures struck at Calais. (See Fig. 2.)
     The further question as to the value of these fields may be
 answered by the amount of coal in the fields which are now being

1890.J       on the Search for Coal in the South of England.        183
worked in Westphalia, Belgium, France, and Somersetshire. The
Westphalian coal-field contains 294 feet of workable coal, distributed
in 117 seams; that of Mons, 250 feet, in 110 seams; and that of
Somerset, 98 feet, in 55 Beams. The North French coal-field in
 1887 yielded 7,119,633 tons, and gave employment at the pits to
29,000 men, and is rapidly increasing its output.
    It may be inferred that the buried coal-fields which await the
explorer in the North Downs are in all probability not inferior to
these. Godwin-Austen, in his memorable paper before the Geological
Society, in 1855, said that if one of these buried fields had once been
struck in South-eastern England, their exploration would be au easy
matter. It has been struck at Dover, and the necessary base is laid
down for further discoveries, which in all probability will restore to
South-eastern England the manufactures which have long since fled
away to the coal districts of the West and North, and which will put
off by many years the evil day when the energy stored up in the
shape of coal in these islands shall have been spent.
                                                           [W. B. D.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 7, 1890.
  SIR JAMES CRIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
        FRANCIS GQTCH, Esq. Hon. M.A. Oxon. B.A. B.Sc.
          Ekctrical Relations of the Brain and Spinal Cord.
                                (Abstract.)
(1) THE lecturer first described the anatomical structure of the
nerve fibres and nerve cells found in the various parts of the
mammalian nervous system. He then drew attention to the only
physical indication of the passage of a nervous impulse along a
nerve fibre, viz. the development in each successive portion of the
nerve of an electrical effect. This electrical indication was then
demonstrated to the audience by connecting the surface and cross-
section of one portion of an isolated frog's nerve with the terminals
of a sensitive reflecting galvanometer, and exciting a series of nerve
impulses by applying rapidly recurring stimuli to a more distal
portion of the same nerve.

184    Mr. F. Gotch on Electrical Relations of Brain, dec.   [March 7,
    (2) The anatomical plan and minute structure of the spinal cord
and brain were then described, and the condition of the brain in
different mammals was depicted. Special attention was drawn to
the important recent additions which had been made to our knowledge
of the course of nerve fibres through these complex organs, by the
employment of histological methods which differentiated between
degenerated and sound nerve fibres, and between partially and com
pletely developed nerve fibres. Observations made along such lines
had, it was pointed out, grouped together certain fibres as having
common centres both of nutrition and of growth.
    (3) The results of the investigations of the last ten years into
the physiological relations of the brain and spinal cord were then
referred to, and the extent of our knowledge of cerebral localisation
determined. The indirect nature of the evidence as to the actual
passage of nerve impulses in either direction along the nerve fibres
composing the spinal cord was next alluded to—this evidence being
the arrival of the nerve impulses at outlying muscles.
    (4) Details were then given of the application of the method
previously used to determine the electrical changes in the nerves in
order to ascertain what changes of a similar kind were present in
the spiwal cord. Experiments made for the first time by V. Horsley
and the lecturer were cited to show that such electrical effects were
produced when (a) the so-called motor regions of the 'brain, (6) the
columns in the spinal cord, and (c) the entering sensory spinal nerves
were stimulated ; and evidence was adduced to prove that the
electrical effects thus obtained were true indications of the passage
of nerve impulses along the nerve fibres in the particular region of
the cord investigated.
    (5) The physiological relations of the brain, spinal cord, and
spinal nerves as determined by the newly discovered electrical
relations of these organs were then touched upon ; and a series of
experimental investigations still in progress were referred to which
seemed to warrant the belief that a basis had been reached for the
construction of a scheme of physiological localisation in the fibres of
the cord for both efferent (motor), and afferent (sensory) fibres, such
as would be in harmony with the known anatomical relations of the
central nervous system.
                                                             [F. G.]

1890.J     Sir Frederick Bramwell on Welding by Electricity.           185
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, April 18, 1890.
SIR FREDERICK AREL, C.B. D.C.L. F.E.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
     SIR FREDERICK BRAMWELL, Bart. D.C.L. M. Inst. C.E. F.R.S.
                           Hon. Sec. and V.P.R.I.
                            Welding by Electricity.
THERE are certain technical words which relate to operations of a
character so decisive, that the words have been adopted into ordinary
language, such words as "grafting," " safety valve," "stereotyping,"
" welding." I dare say that every one who speaks of "grafting,"
or of a " safety valve," knows something of the operation or of the
function of the apparatus of which ho is speaking -f perhaps he is
not quite so clear about " stereotyping." But when it comes to
" welding," I doubt whether many persons know what the term really
means, as we engineers understand it, or could tell how many and
what metals are capable of being united by welding ; and I also doubt
 whether there are many who could distinguish between " fusing and
 bunding together " and true " welding."
     I do not myself know how to give a definition of " welding "
as it is understood by practical men ; but Dr. Percy did know, and
if you will pardon me I will read a few lines from his book,
which state more clearly than I could hope to do in words of
my own, the meaning of welding, as ordinarily practised. He
says :*—" Iron has one remarkable and very important property,
namely, that of continuing soft and more or less pasty through a
 considerable range of temperature below its melting-point. It is
sufficiently soft at a bright red-heat to admit of being forged with
facility, as every one knows ; and, at about a white-heat, it is so pasty
that when two pieces at this temperature are pressed together they
unite intimately and firmly. This is what occurs in the common
process of welding. Generally metals seem to pass quickly from the
solid to the liquid state, and so far from being pasty and cohesive at
the temperature of incipient fusion, they are extremely brittle, and
in some cases easily pulverisablc. But, admitting that there is a
particular temperature at which a metal becomes pasty, its range is
so limited in the case of the common metals, that it would scarcely be
 possible to hit upon it with any certainty in practice ; or, if it were
 possible, its duration would be too short for the performance of the
            * Percy's ' Metallurgy,' Iron and Steel, 1864, pp. 5 and 6

186                       Sir Frederick Bramwell               [April 18,
necessary manipulations in welding." This, to my mind, is a concise
and complete description of welding as we engineers understand it.
    In the Arts, I suppose there are practically, only two easily weld-
able metals—iron (with its variant, steel, now so commonly substituted
for it) and platinum. I had hoped to have practised before you to
night, welding in an ordinary fire, in order to show you the metals
which could be welded by this means, and those which could not ;
and then to show you that metals which could not be welded
by the ordinary fire could be easily welded by electricity. But I
must ask you to tako my word in respect to these matters because
wo have not room, in this extraordinary structure which has been
put up to prevent the sparks flying about, for a fire-heating implement
of any kind along with the workmen and the anvil ; and therefore
the idea had to be given up. I am sorry, for I had hoped there
would have been time for all ; but probably you have all seen the
art of welding practised in the ordinary manner.
    Now there are several kinds of welds, and I cannot do better than
show you some of them as used in former days to weld the tyres of
railway carriage and engine wheels. During the last quarter of a
century such tyres have not been welded, but have been made in
the circular or hoop form, without welding, still their former mode
of manufacture will serve to illustrate the different kinds of welds.
The most commonly used kind was that known as a scarf weld. In
this the two portions of the tyre before being brought together were
made with inclined surfaces. Preparatory to this being done the
ends of the bar were thickened by beating them endways—technically
known as " upsetting." Then they were " scarfed " or thinned down
in a regular incline ; the object of this was twofold : one to in
crease the amount of the surfaces brought into contact, and by thus
magnifying these surfaces to increase the strength of the joint —the
other to bring the two faces into a good position and shape for being
operated upon by the hammer of the workman.
    Another form of weld is that known as " a double-wedge weld " ;
in this case each end of the bar is cut to an obtuse double bevel,
so that when the ends are brought together and laid upon the anvil,
there are two V-shaped cavities,—one above the centre of the bar, and
the other below it,—two separate wedge-shaped pieces are prepared
to fill these cavities and the whole is brought to a welding heat. You
can imagine that, if a bar thus prepared and fitted with the wedges
is laid down on its edge, and is hammered upon its top edge, that
these two separate wedge pieces will be forced into the cavities in
the ends of the bar, and a weld will thus be made. But in the
later days of tho manufacture of tyres by welding, at any rate for
passenger carriage wheels, the weld was made by what is called a
" butt " weld. In this case the ends of the bar were cut perfectly
square, were put into the fire, having a screwed clamp placed round
about the tyre, and, being heated to the welding heat, the pressure of
the screw was exerted, and one end of the bar was forced against the

1890.]                 on Welding by Electricity.                     187
other, with the result that the surfaces were welded and that there
was made a projection all round the weld (owing to the plastic con
dition of the metal), which projection was afterwards beaten down
on the anvil. That is the kind of weld that you will see practised
to-night electrically. I bring the matter forward now to show you
that a butt weld is old in itself.
     Now the heating of these pieces of metal was done in a " smith's
fire," and the smith's fire, as made in London with Newcastle coal,
was really a work of art. The smith succeeded in building up a
perfect " grotto " of small coal, and coal dust, beaten together and
moistened. In this grotto the thing to be welded could be put. The
object of that was as far as possible to obtain the heat, while prevent
ing the introduction of dirt between the surfaces to be united ; for
one of the greatest difficulties in welding is that there is a danger
of foreign matter being introduced between the surfaces, thus pre
venting a good union being effected. In this way the heating and
welding were done in former times, and when proper care and skill
were exercised the welds were extremely good. To my mind, there
is no more interesting work than that of the smith. It is one
of the few things left, in which skill of eye and hand, and the
intuitive knowledge born of experience, are all that the man hiis
 to trust to, and in which the result of the work is in no wise due to
 dies and moulds, which have in some other departments of handicraft
 pretty well superseded the skill of the num. It has always been to
 me, and is still, a source of pleasure, to see a smith at work. I
 must qualify this remark about the use of dies a little, because
 there are those present who know that we do in these days, even in
 smiths' work, use dies which get rid to some extent of the necessity
 for his skilled labour.
      It is obvious that in all welds where the heat is obtained from
 the ordinary fire the metal must be heated from the outside. Under
 that condition you are sometimes subjected to the difficulty which
 at times occurs in the unskilful cooking of a joint of meat, the out
 side being burnt, while the inside is raw. But this difficulty is, you
 will find, entirely obviated in the case of electric welding.
      Now, the desiderata in heating for welding are —uniformity of
 heating throughout the sectional area of the metal, regulation of the
 heat, freedom from the possibility of introduction of dirt, arising
 either from particles of fuel or from the presence of sulphur in the
 coal, or any matter of that sort ; and also, facility of inspection
 during heating. This last point is of great importance, because in
  the ordinary method of welding by heating in a forge, the work has
  to be frequently taken out to see how the heat is progressing, and in
  this taking it out, and in putting it back, the risk is run of doing that
  which you wish to avoid, i. e. introducing dirt between the surfaces.
      Probably the majority of the present audience are aware, that the
  heating effact of an electric current depends upon the quantity of
  that current and not upon its pressure, or voltage, or, to use the

188                      Sir Frederick BramweU               [April 18,
common term, its electromotive force. It also depends upon the
electrical resistance of the material through which the current is
passing. This resistance is very different in various substances, and
varies even in the same substance under varying conditions, as I shall
show you hereafter.
    Yon have all seen over and over again the experiment of heating
a wire which seemed, before heating, to be the same from end to end,
that is to say, all of one diameter and of one appearance ; but on
passing an electric current through it you found that it was made up
of two different materials ; for while it was white-hot in alternate
sections, it was dull in the intermediate portions. Those parts which
remained dull did so because they were made of a metal (probably
of Silver) which allowed the electric current to pass without much
opposition, as compared with the parts which glowed, these being
probably of Platinum, this metal offering a greater resistance to the
current, and thus generating greater heat. I have placed in the
" jaws " or " holders " of the electric welding machine before you, a
compound wire made of a length of copper, a length of iron, and a
length of German silver, or, as a matter of fact, the German silver is
between the other two, all being of equal diameter. On passing the
electric current through, I trust you will find that the German silver
becomes hotter than the iron, because the resistance of an equal sec
tional area of it is in round numbers double that of iron, and that the
copper does not apparently become hot at all, because its resistance
is only one-sixth that of the iron, or one-twelfth that of German
silver; in stating these proportions I am referring to ordinary atmo
spheric temperature, for when metals are heated an entirely new
set of resistances come into play, these varying considerably with
variations in their temperature. That upper arch is the German
silver. It is, as you see, very hot ; the left-hand portion is less hot,
and the right-hand part is apparently unheated. Those metals are,
as I have said, iron, German silver, copper.
    I told you just now that the electrical resistance of metals and of
other bodies alters with their temperature. This alteration is different
with different metals ; but in the case of the metal with which I am
concerned to-night—iron—the variation is very considerable. Many
persons have studied this question of the changes of resistance due
to the increase of temperature, and among them Dr. Hopkinson. He
has kindly furnished me with the results of his experiments, and I
exhibit them to you on this diagram in the form of a curve.
    From this wo find that if the resistance of iron at 32° Fahr. be
taken as unity, at 1832° Fahr. the resistance has gone up to over
eleven times. You see the way in which it rises, and the peculiar
kink there is in the curve at about 1400' or 150CF, when the resist
ance is about ten times what it is at 32'. This fact of the large
increase of electrical resistance with the increase of temperature is a
 matter of the utmost importance in welding by electricity, as I hope
to show you later on.

1890.]                  irn Welding by Electricity.                   189
     I have said that the heating effect of an electric current depends
upon the quantity of the current, aud upon the drop or reduction in
electrical pressure. We have four lamps here upon the table, and I
think you will see when I turn on the current they are glowing uni
formly; not giving much light, however, for they are glowing very
badly, but all of them uniformly bad, no one better than the other.
Now I will ask you to remember that if we are introducing a given
quantity of electric current here, at the first lamp, at a pressure of say
100 volts, and it is leaving the fourth lamp at zero, we are introducing
the same quantity of electricity here at the second lamp as at the first,
but the pressure is only 75 volts, we have therefore dropped 25 volts
between the two. We are also introducing the same quantity of current
to the third lamp, but at 50 volts, we therefore drop another 25 volts.
 We are introducing it to the fourth lamp at 25, and using this pressure
up in this lamp, we come down to zero. What we have done is this :
 we have destroyed an equal amount of electrical energy in every lamp
 by these reductions, and have turned it into heat, making the lamps
 glow, and it is, as you will have seen, a matter of absolute indiffer
 ence as regards heating effect, whether we have done this by taking
 25 out of 100 and leaving 75, or by taking 25 out of 25 leaving
 zero. If we change the switch and throw one of the lamps out of
 circuit, we have now the same initial electrical pressure, i. e. 100
 volts, but there are only three resistances instead of four, and we
 are consequently now dropping by 33 volts at each lamp. You
 observe the increase in brightness, but still the three lamps all glow
 alike. If we switch another lamp out we have only two lamps' re
 sistance to overcome, and are dropping by 50 instead of by 33 volts.
 We therefore get a further increase of brightness. We take the third
 lamp out, and may thus destroy the one remaining, for we now have
 the whole drop of 100 volts occurring at this one lamp, and you see
 the intense glow that results, although fortunately it has not given
 way.
      But the increases in the heating effect have not varied in the mere
 ratios of 25 to 33J, 25 to 50, or 25 to 100 ; but have varied as the
 squares of these ratios, aud have done so for this very simple reason.
 During our experiment, wo have always commenced with the same
 electrical pressure of 100 volts ; but when we used only three
 lamps in the circuit, instead of the four which I first showed you, the
 resistance was only that of the three lamps, i. e. three-fourths of the
 four, but the pressure being the same the current became four-third
 times that which it originally was when each of the four lamps was
 used. The drop in voltage was 33^ volts for each lamp, instead of
 25, that is to say, this was also four-third times as much as before.
 The disappearance of electrical energy was therefore four-third
 times four-thirds = sixteen-niuths, or, in other words, each of the
 three lamps was heated to I. .",! h times the heat which was generated
 in each one of the four lamps. When we had only two lamps in the
 circuit, the resistance was one-half that which it was when we had

190                     Sir Frederick Bramwell               [April 18,
the four, thus the current was doubled, the drop of pressure per
lamp was also doubled, giving, therefore, the double of the double,
or four times the heating effect ; while when we had only one lamp
in the circuit the current and the drop were each four times as great
as when the four lamps were in, so that in this case we had four
times four, or sixteen times the heat generated.
    Here is another way of showing this effect. We have in this
machine two hoops, side by side and shaped like small croquet hoops.
They are made of similar iron wire, but one is double the length of
the other. The electrical pressure being the same at the two ends
of each of the two hoops, we shall have quantities of currents coming
through which will be in proportion to the lengths of these hoops.
That is to say, you will have half the current coming through the
long one which comes through the short one. The short one there
fore ought to glow more brightly, because it will be hotter than
the long one. Now I turn on the current and the short one
begins to glow, but you cannot see any light at present from the
loug one. Now I can see a feeble light appearing in the long
one, but probably those who are not so near as I am cannot do
so yet. I am sorry that we have not sufficient horse-power in our
engine here to enable us to do that which I did at the Institution of
Civil Engineers—to go on with an increased current till the short
one is fused. Now the long one is glowing fairly, and the short hoop
is very bright indeed. There you see an instance where, the electric
potential being the same at each end of two bars, but one being double
the length of the other, and carrying therefore only half the amount
of current, shows hardly any light at all, while the other has a con
siderable amount of luminosity.
    It is obvious that if we were using a perfect conductor of
electricity we could have no electric heating whatever, because
a perfect conductor would not destroy any of the electrical
energy of the current passing through it, and, therefore, no heat
would be produced. It is equally obvious that if we had sub
stances absolutely impermeable to electricity, so that no current could
pass through it, we could not heat such a substance. What we want,
therefore, is something between the two. Fortunately for us, both
iron and steel hold a very happy position in respect of their electrical
conducting power, or to use the converse term which I have hitherto
employed—their resistance. At the ordinary temperature of 60°
Fahr. a piece of wrought iron, 1 foot long and 1 square inch in
section, would need half a volt to drive 10,000 amperes through it,
and in doing this 3700 foot-pounds of electrical energy would be
destroyed in every second of time, equal, therefore, to the production
of 4J units of heat in the conductor. If we had a similar length
and area of German silver, as it is so much worse as a conductor,
we should in the same time destroy rather more than double the foot
pounds of electrical energy, namely, 7700. This is equivalent to the
production of a little over ten units of heat in each second. A

1890.]                on Welding by Electricity.                       191
similar length and area of silver would, however, destroy only some
515 foot-pounds of electrical energy in the same time, giving only
two-thirds of a unit of heat. Iron (which is nearly as good a con
ductor as silver) is therefore, as you will see, happily placed between
silver and copper on the one hand, and German silver on the
other.
     It is extremely likely that at the temperature at which welding can
be performed, the resistance of iron to the passage of an electric current
is increased to very much more than eleven-fold that which it had
at 323 Fahr., because, probably, the welding temperature is about
3000° Fahr., while, as we saw from Dr. Hopkinson's curve, at
1532° Fahr., we get eleven times the resistance there is at freezing-
point. But assume the electrical resistance to bo increased only to
eleven times that which the iron had when cold. What follows ?
Why this : tl at, a piece of iron 1 foot long, and having a section of
 1 square inch, would, under these circumstances, destroy in a second
of time 40,700 foot-pounds of electrical energy. But, as you see, the
bar which is being heated, is much shorter, than a foot. It is only
about 2 inches, and thus it only destroys about one-sixth of this, or
about 6600 foot-pounds of electrical energy per second of time, equal
to about nine units of heat, or a little more. But the specific heat
of wrought iron being only '11379—water, as you know, being unity
—these ten units would raise one pound weight of iron 90 degrees in
each second. But the portion heated up is only about two-thirds of a
pound, and it would be heated, therefore, 135° Fahr. each second ;
but, as I have told you, as the temperature increases, the resistance,
 and therefore the heating effect, increases In a lengthened trial
 with a machine dealing with pieces of good bar iron having a
 sectional area of about 1 square inch, the maximum heat developed
 per second of time was 18 units, and the welding heat was reached in
 22 seconds.
     Now I shall have to refer, as an illustration of electrical phe
 nomena, to a very old friend for this purpose, viz. water. Suppose it is
 a question of working a hydraulic lift, or anything of that kind. If
 you have 100 gallons of water, multiplied by 50 lbs. of pressure, you
 get 5000 gallon-pounds. If you multiply 50 gallons by 100 lbs. of
 pressure, you equally get 5000 gallon-pounds. Similarly, if you
 multiply 100 amperes of electrical current by 50 volts of pressure of
 electrical current, you get 5000 watts, which is the equivalent in this
 illustration of the gallon-pounds of the water ; and if you multiply
 50 amperes by 100 volts, you equally get 5000 watts. From what I
 have told yon as to tho resistance of metals, it is clear that
 for welding purposes we want the electrical energy in the form of
 large quantity and of low pressure. So that if I have at my disposal
 a total energy of 5,000,000 watts, it may for some purposes suit
 me to have it in the form of 1000 amperes of quantity by 5000
 volts of pressure, but for welding I should undoubtedly prefer to
 have it in tho form of larger quantity and low pressure, say,

192                      Str Frederick Bramwell                [April 18,
5,000,000 amperes of quantity by 1 volt of pressure ; but whatever
the form may be, there are still 5,000,000 watts.
    Now let us take another illustration, a monetary one. Suppose I
wish to send five pounds of money by post ; it would obviously be
best that I should send it in the form of a ' >!. note. It weighs loss
than five sovereigns, and takes up less room. Take this as an illus
tration of the greatest " pressure " and the least " quantity." Suppose,
however, I waut to give 100 Sunday school children each a shilling, I
do not want either a 51. note, or even five sovereigns ; I want 100
shillings. I should have then a comparatively great weight, which it
would not be so convenient to send by post, but which is, however,
in a suitable form for my purpose of distribution to the children.
This is my five pounds sterling in the form illustrating large
quantity and low pressure.
    Similarly in the case of electricity. Depending upon the con
struction of the dynamo, and upon its velocity of revolution, you
can produce your electricity either in the form of high voltage and of
small quantity, or, if the construction is varied, of low voltage and
of large quantity—either the 5Z. note or the shillings. But if you
produce it in the condition of large quantity and of low pressure,
and you desire to transmit it to the smith for him to use it in welding
machines, you will find that form of current to be very inconvenient,
because it clearly involves the employment of conductors so ample
in sectional area as to admit of all this large quantity being brought
through, them to the iron, to heat it up to the welding point, without
the waste of electrical energy due to useless heating up of the con
ductors themselves. The conductors must therefore be very large,
and of very excellent conducting material. Therefore it is desirable
to produce the electricity in the 51. note form in the first instance,
and convert it into the shilling form, or it may be even into the
form of farthings, after it has been transported to the very machine
in which it is to be used.
    Now how is this change to be made ? Who is to be our money
changer? Who is to change the electricity of small quantity and of
high pressure into that of large quantity and low pressure? Some
half century ago Ruhmkorff invented the coil by which, as you have
all seen, the low potential or pressure of a few cells of a battery,
incapable of making an appreciable spark, is translated into small
quantity and large voltage, capable of leaping through considerable
distances. We have before us here, at my right hand, a Euhmkorff
coil, which contains 70 yards of primary wire, weighing 6 lbs. The
secondary coil is 8 miles in length, and weighs 12 lbs. The sec
tional areas of these two wires are as 100 to 1. We have a battery
here of five cells. We will put it to work, in conjunction with the
coil, in the first instance simply to give us a spark. You will see
now it hus converted the low potential of the five cells into 'that
which is capable of leaping across a space of 1 1 inches, and you
can, with suitable arrangements, get results a great deal higher than

 1890.]                  on Welding by Electricity.                    193
 that. You will see that there we have transformed our 100 shillings
 into a 5Z. note. We are now about to transport the 5Z. note across
 these wires [they might have heen even finer], and we are putting this
 current into the secondary coil of another Ruhmkorff coil. We shall
 by this arrangement change the 5Z. note into the 100 shillings again,
 and deliver them through that little incandescent lamp, which will
 glow, because we have lowered the pressure, and thereby increased the
 quantity sufficiently to enable us to get a current suitable for that
purpose. This lamp, which is glowing, is, as you can see, on the 100
shilling circuit ; theother lamp, to which I should have previously called
 your attention, is on the 5Z. note circuit, and although the same number
of watts are passing through, it is dull, and does not glow. Similarly,
if we had put a fine wire from the secondary coil of the first Kuhmkorff
to the secondary coil of the second Euhmkorff, that fine wire would
have remained absolutely cold. We have taken a piece of the same
wire, and put it in position there ; as you will see when I turn on the
current, I can melt it. That shows the different effect for heating
purposes of a large or of a small quantity of current, and shows,
too, that you can vary your electricity, so as to have it in whichever
form yon please.
     And now, I think, the time has come to describe and to show you
the electrical welding machine itself in work. Unhappily, we have
not sufficient power at our command in this building to work the large
machine. We can only work the second sized one. The drawings
that I have here are drawings of the large machine ; but if you will
allow me, I will describe the machine from the machine itself.
     This is the machine, nnd in these two pairs of jaws are fixed the
pieces to be welded together : in this case pieces of wire rope. The
pieces of rope are grasped by the two jaws, which are made of gun-
inctitl. They are in electrical communication with two conductors,
and these two conductors are the terminals of a hollow copper core
that passes through coils at the back of the machine, these coils
being similar to those of a Kuhmkorff coil. Inside these we have a
cylinder built up of a number of sheet-iron discs insulated one from
another, and round about these there go 70 convolutions of wire, and
therefore of the current from the dynamo. That is, the 5Z. note
form of electricity passes from the dynamo through these 70 con
volutions of wire. But by the time the current has passed through, the
pressure has exhausted itself in producing the shilling state in the
copper core and in the conductors connected with it. One of the
jaws is movable, and can be forced forward by this screw arrange
ment ; the other jaw is fixed, and forms the abutment. This other
apparatus is one by which the strength of the current can bo regu
lated as desired by the operator ; it consists of a number of lengths
of wire, the regulation of the current being performed by the
operator switching into or out of the circuit of wire (through
which the 5Z. note current flows to the machine), a greater or less
number of these lengths, thus delivering to the welding machine a
     VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)                                         o

194                      Sir Frederick Bramwell               [April 18,
varying amount of electrical energy for it to convert into the welding
current.
    I have already, when dealing with the weld itself, called your
attention to the important part played by the increase in electrical
resistance due to increase in temperature, but I now wish you to see
how valuable this increase of resistance is when considered in relation
to the question of obtaining uniformity of temperature over the whole
of the surfaces to be united.
    These surfaces, when first brought into contact, are rough, and
thus only a very small portion of them—that is to say, the extreme
prominences—come together, and, as a consequence, the current
which is passing is confined to these points. As these become
heated, however, by the passage of the current, they soften ; the
continued pressure applied by means of the screw flattens them, and
thus enlarges the area of contact. But, as I have shown you, the
hottest parts are the worst conductors, and thus the greater quantity
of electricity passes through the less hot parts of the enlarged area
of contact, raises their temperature, and the flattening of these by the
continued pressure causes further surfaces to come together, till all
are in contact ; while the current, still seeking out the coolest parts
as offering less resistance to its passage, raises their temperature
until a uniform heat and a uniform resistance are established, and
then this heating goes on still increasing as the current is continued,
in consequence of the increased electrical resistance due to the
increased temperature.
    I think you will agree with me that this increase of electrical
resistance, which follows from the riso of temperature, is most
valuable in enabling the necessary welding heat to be produced by
the passage of an electric current.
    You will observe presently, when we work the machine, that
the careful operator, in order to avoid burning the small surface
of the prominences which first come into contact, takes great care
to apply the current very gently.
    I will now ask to have a piece of cast steel welded to another
piece of cast steel. I should explain that the machine Las been put
on to a turn-table, with the object of moving it round to face different
parts of the room, so as to afford a better view to the audience. I do
not know how many of you are aware of the difficulty of welding
cast steel as compared with the welding of iron. This difficulty
depends largely on the amount of carbon in the steel. An extremely
mild steel, such as is used for gun making, is easily weldable, contain
ing as it does only a very low percentage of carbon ; while tool steel,
containing over one per cent, of carbon, presents great welding
difficulties. We have here two pieces of tool steel, which it would
be almost impossible to weld in the ordinary manner. The humming
noise which you hear when the current is turned on to the machine is
produced by our coil (our money changer) at work.
    1 may tell you that I shall have to talk about a number of welds

1890.]                   on Welding by Electricity.                        195
made at Fanshawe Street by two electricians, who, not being smiths,
of course worked at a disadvantage ; but the competent smith who
is now before you was then taken to the machine, and at the fourth
 attempt he made a satisfactory weld, and has been working the
 machine ever since. You see that the two pieces of steel have been
 welded together, and then bent at an acute angle, thus showing roughly
 the satisfactory nature of the weld. As time is running short, I will
 ask the smith next to show you the welding of a tube. These are
 two pieces of ordinary steel tube which will now be welded in the
machine. I do not know whether I can manage to direct this machine
so as to be seen by every individual in the room ; but I hope that I
shall succeed in enabling most of you to see completely through the
 tube when it Las been welded, and thus to show you that the internal
 circularity of the tube has in no way suffered by the welding.
     Though I believe that the function of this machine will not be
the performance of ordinary work, but that it will be applied to
welding difficult sections or difficult metals, I thought it well to have
it tested, by making 80 welds in l|th inch round iron bars. These
were made, as I have said, by two electricians, not smiths, and
they took an average of 2£ minutes to make each weld, equal to 135
seconds, and the time was roughly divided thus:—Fixing the iron
and heating up to full heat at one operation, 26 seconds ; full heat
to taking out of jaws, 11 seconds ; work on anvil, 15 seconds ;
re-putting in to full hot, 21 seconds ; full hot to taking out again,
10 seconds ; retaking out to completion, 32 seconds ; completion
and putting in next piece, 20 seconds ; making a total, as I have
said, of 135 seconds. Then two smiths were put to make welds
in the ordinary manner, that is to say, scarf welds in an ordinary
smith's fire. They made 44 welds in three hours and a little
over, or practically the same time as was taken in making the 80
welds (nearly twice the number) in the machine. Then all the
welds were sent to a well-known tester of metals, Mr. Kirkaldy,
and he tested about one-half of them, with the following results, which
I think it important you should hear :—
                     RESULTS OF MR. KIHKALDY'B TESTS.
                                                        Per Square Inch of
                                                        Original Sectional
                                                              Area.
       Average strength of the bare before welding .. .. 52,642 Ibs.
       Average strength of those which broke at the weld
         when welded electrically                          48,215,,
       Average strength of those which broke at the weld
         when the welds were made by hanJ                  46,899,,
    From these tests we thus have a right to say that this electrical
butt welding gives at least an equal tensile strength with the scarf
welding done by hand.
    It is probable, as I have said, that the great value of this inven
tion will not be for common work, but for difficult sections and for
refractory metals. I have shown you the butt welding of wire rope
                                                                  o 2

196     Sir Frederick Bramwell on Welding by Electricity.        [April 18,
and could show you work done on T-iron and on various other
forms of metal. But there is not time to do so, and I, of all men,
should not offend by exceeding the allotted hour, for if I did I could
not as Secretary, call others to account. The most difficult metals can
be dealt with in this machine. You will remember Dr. Percy tells us
that the great difficulty in welding most metals is to find ont the critical
point of temperature and to maintain it. I wish now to prove to
you that the current is under absolute control in the machine, and
the object to bo welded being under continuous observation during
the operation, one is enabled to deal with any one of the refractory
metals in the required way, and so to get a union, by bringing the
surfaces into the necessary pasty condition of temperature and at the
right moment to operate upon them.
     We have here a much smaller welder, which is automatic in its
action. It is intended for welding together pieces of wire, &c. By
the time the two portions are sufficiently heated and are pressed
together, the machine is automatically thrown out of gear, and the
operation is completed. Two pieces of copper wire are in now, and,
it you observe the machine you will see that when the work is done,
it of itself, stops the current. There is the welded wire, and I think
yon will admit that the work is good ; for you see I cannot by
bending it backwards and forwards break it at the weld. Now we
will try a piece of aluminium. That is commonly supposed to be a
very difficult metal to unite, but this machine will do it easily. Here
it is, welded, and you see that it is perfectly competent to be bent
without breaking at the weld. And now a piece of German silver,
this being the metal which, you will remember, gave such a high
resistance when we used it before.
     I regret that time does not admit of my showing you other
different kinds of work done in the machines, and that I must bring
 my remarks to a conclusion by saying :—I think it is obvious that a
 machine which gives us this power of heating any metal, with
 absolute control over the heat, and that affords such thorough facility
 for inspecting the work during the heating, must have many uses
 in the Arts. Indeed, there can be no doubt that the existence of
 such a machine will of itself give rise to a large number of new uses.
                                                                  [P. B.]

1890.]                            General MontUij Meeting.                  197
                          GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING.
                                   Monday, July 7, 1890.
  SIR JAMBS CRIOHTON BROWNB, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                               Vice-President, in the Chair.
                         Thomas Townsend Bucknill, Esq. Q.C.
                         Edward A. Harvey, Esq.
                         Malcolm Morris, Esq. F.E.C.S.
                         William Thomas Rabbits, Esq. F.L.S.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on th«
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz :—
The Governor-General of India—Geological Survey of India : Records, Vol. XXIII.
     Part 2. 4to. 1890.
Accademia dei Lincei, Seals, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarto : RendicoDti. 1° Semea-
     tre, Vol. VI. Faso. 7. 8vo. 1890.
Academy of Natural Sciences. Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1890, Part 3. 8vo.
American Philosophical Society—Transactions, Vol. XVI. Part 3. 4to. 1890.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. L. No. 7. 8vo. 1890.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XI. Part 6. 8vo. 1890.
Bischofsheim, Jf. R. L.—A unities de 1'Observatoire de Nice. Tome III. Teit
      and Atlas. 4to and fol. 1890.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1889-90, Nos. 16, 17. 4to.
Chemical Society—Journal for Jane, 1890. 8vo.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, Vol. C. 8vo. 1890.
 Cornwall Polytechnic Society, Royal—Annual Report for 1889. 8vo. 1890.
Cracovie, VAcademie dee Sciences—Bulletin, 1890, No. 5. 8vo.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. &e. M.R.I.—Journal of the Royal Microscopical
       Society, 1890, Part 3. 8vo.
East India Association—Journal, Vol. XXII. No. 2. 8vo. 1889.
Editors—American Journal of Science for June, 1890. 8vo.
   Analyst for June, 1890. 8vo.
   A I huii.-1.111111 for June, 1890. 1 In.
   Brewers' Journal for June, 1890. 4to.
   Chemical News for June, 1890. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for June, 1890. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for June, 1890. fol.
   Engineer for June, 1890. fol.
   Engineering for June, 1890. fol.
   Horological Journal for June, 1890. 8vo.
   Industries for June, 1890. fol.
   Iron for June, 1890. 4to.
   Ironmongery for June, 1890. 4to.
   Murray's Magazine for June, 1890. 8vo.
   Nature for June, 1890. 4to.
   Photographic News for June, 1890. 8vo.
   Revne Scientifique for June, 1890. 4lo.
   Telegraphic Journal for June, 1890. fol.
   Zoopbilist for June, 1890. 4to.

198                         Getieral Monthly Meeting.                     [July 7,
Electrical Engineen, Institution of—Journal, No. 87. 8vo. 1890.
Florence Biblioleca Nazionale Centrale—Bolletino, Nos. 107, 108. 8vo. 1890.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 774. 8vo. 1890
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. XII. Nos. 6, 7. 8vo.
     isao.
Geological Institute. Imperial, Vienna —Abhandlungen, Baud XV. Heft 2. fol.
     1890.
Johns Hopkins University—University Circulars, No. 81. 4to. 1890.
   American Chemical Journal, Vol. XI. No. 7. 8vo. 1889.
   American Journal of Philology, Vol. X. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1889.
   Studies in Historical and Political Science, 7th Series, Nos. 21,22. 8vo. 1889.
   Annual Report. 8vo. 1889.
Laboratory Club—Transactions, Vol. III. No. 6. 8vo. 1890.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, May, 1890. 8vo.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XX. Parts 18, 19. 8vo. 1890.
Mechanical Engineers Institution— Proceedings, 1890, No. 1. 8vo.
Meteorological Office—Weekly Weather Reports, Nos. 22-26. 4to. 1890.
Ministry of Public Works, Rome—Giornule del Genio Civile, Seria Quinta,
     Vol. IV. Nos. 2, 3. And Disegni. fol. 1890.
New York Academy of Sciences—Transactions, Vol. IX. Parts, 1, 2. 8vo. 1890.
   Annals, Vol. XV. Nos. 1, 2, 3. 8vo. 1889.
Norwegian North Atlantic Expedition, Editorial Committee—Danielsaen, D.C.
     Actinida, Part 19. fol. 1890.
Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXII. No. 7. New
     Series. 8vo. 1890.
Pennsylvania Geological Surrey—Atlases, A.A. Parts 2-4. 8vo. 1889.
                      ty of Great Britain —Journal, June, 1890. 8vo.
Popoff, Constantine, Esq. (the Translator)—Boyhood, Adolescence, and Youth.
     By L. Tolstoi. 8vo. 1890.
Ralhbone, E. P. Esq, (the Editor)—The Witwatersrand Mining and Metallurgical
     Ruview, No. 5. 8vo. 1890.
Richardson, B. W. (the Author)—The Asolepiad, No. 26. 8vo. 1890.
Rio de Janeiro Observatory— Revista, No. 5. 8vo. 1890.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 289, 290. 8vo. 1890.
Selborne Society- Nature Note*, Vol. I. No. 6. 8vo. 1890.
Smithsonian Inrtitution—Contributions to Knowledge, Vol. XXVI. foL 1890.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. II. No. 11. 8vo. 1890.
Society of Arts—Journal for June, 1 890. 8vo.
St. Petersbourg Acadfmie Impe~riales des Sciences—Me'moires, Tome XXXVII.
     NOs. 6, 7. 4to. 1890.
Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleises in Preussen—Verhandluugen, 1890:
     HeftU. 4to.
Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 93. 8vo. 1890.
TTiscOTi«;i Academy of Sciences, rtc.—Transactions, Vol. VII. 1883-7. 8vo. 1889.
Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1890, Part I. 8vo.

1890.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                        199
                  GENEEAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, November 3, 1890.
   SIR JAMES CRIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                         Vice-President in the Chair.
         J. Viriamu Jones, Esq. M.A.
         C. N. Nicholson, Esq. M.A.
         John Hartley Perks, Esq. J.P.
         The Hon. Sir James Stirling (Justice of the Supreme Court),
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Dr. J. A
Fleming, M.R.I, for the presentation on behalf of Professor Elihu
Thomson of the apparatus employed by Professor Thomson in his
experiments on Electro-magnetic Repulsion ; and to Hervey Pechell,
Esq. M.R.I. for his present of an old engraving (1809) of the Library
of the Eoyal Institution.
    The Managers reported, That at their Meeting held this day they
had elected Victor Horsley, Esq. F.E.S. M.R.I. Fullerian Professor of
Physiology for three years (the appointment dating from January 12,
1891).
    The Managers further reported, That the Royal Institution was
now connected with the National Telephone Company's Exchange
System, No. 3669.
    THE PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. : —
     FROM
The Governor-General of India—Geological Survey of India: Records, Vol. XXIII.
     Part3. 4to. 1890.
  Memoirs, Vol. XXIV. Part 2. 4to. 1890.
Madras Goi ernment— South Indian Inscriptions. By E. Hullzacb. Vol. I. fol.
     1890.
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1890, Part 1. 8vo.
Accademia dei Lincei, Reals, Roma—Atti, 8erie Quarta : Rendiconti. 1" Semea-
    tre, Vol. VI. Faso. 8-11. 8vo. 1890.
  Atti, Anno 42, Bess. 4-7. 4to. 1889.
  Memorie, Vol. V. 4to. 1888.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, 3rd Series, Vol. I. Parts 2, 3.
     8vo. 1890.
  General Index, Vol. I.-XXV. 8vo. 1890.
American Academy of Artt and Sciencet—Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. 8vo. 1889.
American Association for the Advancement of Science—Proceedings, 38th Meeting
    held at Toronto, 1889. 8vo. 1890.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Nos. 131-133. 8vo. 1890.
Antiquaries. Society o/—Proceedings, Vol. XIII. No. 1. 8vo. 1890.
  Index to Archmologia, Vols. I.-L. fol. 1889.

200                          General Monthly Meeting.                   [Nov. 3,
Aristotelian Society—Proceedings, Vol. I. No. 3, Part 2. 8vo. 1890.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Vol. LVII. Part 2, No. 5 ; Vol. LVIII. Part 1,
     Supplement; Vol. LIX. Part 1, NOs. 1, 2 ; Part 2, Noa. 1, 2. 8vo. 1890.
  Proceedings, 1890, Parts 1-3. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. L. No. 8. 8vo. 1890.
  Memoirs, Vol. XLIX. Part 2. 4to. 1890.
Bankers, Institute o/—Journal, Vol. XI. Parts 7, 8. 8vo. 1890.
Barnard, Frank, Esq. (the Author)—Picturesque Life in Shetland, fol. 1890.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Abhandlungen, Bund XVII. Abth. 1. 4to. 1890.
  Sitzunirsberichto, 1890, Heft 1-3. 8vo.
Sell and Sons, Messrs. G. (the Publishers)--School Calendar, 1890. 12mo.
Bischo/sheim, M. R. L.—Annales de 1'Observatoire de Nice. Tome II. 4to. 1887.
British Architects, /loyal Institute of—Proceedings, 1889-90, Nos. 18-20; 1890-1,
     No. 1. 4to.
British Museum -Catalogue of Oriental Coins, Vol. IX. (1870-88). 8vo. 1889.
  Catalogue of the Cuneiform Tablets. By C. Bezold. Vol. I. 8vo. 1889.
British Museum (Natural History}—Catalogue of Birds, Vols. XIII. XV. XVIII.
     8vo. 1890.
  Catalogue of Fossil Reptilia and Amphibia, Part 4. 8vo. 1890.
  Guide to Galleries of (ieology and Palseontologv, Parts 1 and 2. 8vo. 1890.
Buchton, O. B. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Monograph of the British Cicadas
     or Tettigidte, Parts 3, 4. 8vo. 1890.
California, University of—Publications, 1888-00. 8vo.
Cambridge University Press, Syndics of—Scientific Papers of James Clerk
     Maxwell. Edited by W. D. Niven. 2 vols. fol. 1890.
Canadian Institute— Proceedings, 3rd Series, Vol. VII. Fas. 2. 8vo. 1890.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. IX. Nos. 6-9. 8vo. 1890.
Chemical Society—Journal for July to October, 1890. 8vo.
Chief Signal Officer, U.S. Army—Annual Report for 1889. 8vo. 1890.
Civil Engineers' Institution— Proceedings, Vol. CI. CII. 8vo. 1890.
City of London College—Calendar, 1890-91. 8vo. 1890.
Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. XXIII. 8vo. 1890.
Colonial Institute, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XXI. 8vo. 1890.
Cracovie, V Academic des Sciences—Bulletin, 1890, Nos. 6, 7. 8vo.
Crisp, Franii, Esq. l.L.B. F.L.S. &e. M.R.I.—Journal of the Royal Microacopcinl
     Society, IK0O, Parts 4, 5. 8vo.
Devonshire Association for Advancement of Science, Literature, and Art— Report
     and Transactions, Vol. XXII. 8vo. 1890.
   Devonshire Domesday, Part VII. 8vo. 1890.
East India Association—Jaurna.1, Vol. XXII. Nos. 3, 4, 5. 8vo. 1889.
Editors—American Journul of Science for July-October, 1890. 8vo.
  Analyst for July-October, 1890. 8vo.
   Athcnseum for July-October, 1890. 4to.
   Brewers' Journal for July-October, 1890. 4to.
  Chemical News for July-October, 1890. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for July-October, 1890. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for July-October, 1890. fol.
   Engineer for July-October, 1890. fol.
  Engineering for July-October, 1890. fol.
   Horological Journal for July-October, 1890. 8vo.
  Industries for July-October, 1890. fol.
  Iron for July-October, 1890. 4to.
  Ironmongery for July-October, 1890. 4to.
  Murray's Magazine for July-October, 1890. 8vo.
  Nature for July-October, 1890. 4to.
  Open Court for July-October, 1890. 4to.
  Photographic News for July-October, 1890. 8vo.
  Public Health for July-October, 1890. 8vo.
  Itevue tScienlin'iiuo for July-October, 1890. 4to.

1890.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                         201
Editors—cont.—Telegraphic Journal for July-October, 1890. fol.
   Zoophilist for July-October, 1890. 4to.
Edmundt, Lewis, Esq. D.Sc. F.C.S. M.R.L (the Author)— Law and Practice of
     Letters Patent tor Inventions. 8vo. 1890.
Electrical Engineers, Institution o/—Journal, No. 89. 8vo. 1890.
Engineering, The Editor of—Metallurgy of Silver, Gold, &o. in United States.
     By T. Egleston. Vol. II. 4to. 1890.
Fleming, J. A. Esq. M.I.E.E. M.R.I, (the Author)—Electrical Papers. 8vo. 1874-89.
   Alternate Current Transformer, Vol. I. 8vo. 1889.
Florence Biblioteca Nruionale Centrale—Bolletino, NOs. 109-116. 8vo. 1890.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 775-778. 8vo. 1890.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. XII. Nos. 8-10. 8vo.
   Supplementary Papers, Vol. III. Part 1. 8vo. 1890.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1890, Nos. 6-9. 8vo.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 183. 8vo. 1890.
GoppeUsroeder, Dr. F. (the Author)—Ueber Feuerbestattung. 8vo. 1890.
Harlem, Societe Hollandaise des Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Tome XXIV.
     Liv. 2, 3. 8vo. 1890.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XII. No. 2. 8vo. 1890.
Iowa Laboratories of Natural History—Bulletin, Vol. I. Nos. 3 and 4. 8vo. 1890.
Iron and Steel Institute—Journal for 1890, Vol. I. 8vo.
Johns Hopkins University—University Circulars, No. 82. 4to. 1890.
   American Chemical Journal, Vol. XI. No. 8; Vol. XII. Nos. 1-5; General
     Index, Vols. I.-X. 8vo. 1889-90.
  American Journal of Philology, Vol. X. No. 4 ; Vol. XI. No. 1. 8vo. 1889-90.
  Studies in Historical and Political Science, 8th Series, Nos. 1-4. 8vo. 1890.
Kerslake, Thomas, Esq. (the Author)—Richard, the King of Englishmen. 8vo. 1890.
Laboratory Club—Transactions, Vol. III. No. 7. 8vo. 1890.
Law/ley, S. P. and F. W. Very—On the Cheapest Form of Light. 8vo. 1890.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 124, 125, 145, 146, 175, 183, 184. 8vo. 1890.
Lisbon Academy of Sciences—Historia do Infante D. Duarte. Por J. Ramos
     Coelho. TomoII. 8vo. 1890.
Madras Government Central Museum—Report, 1889-90. fol. 1890.
Maiden, J. H. Esq. F.L.S. F.C.S. (the Author)—Wattles and Wattle Barks. 8vo.
     18;iO.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs and Proceedings, Vol. III.
     N.S. 8vo. 1890.
Manchester Steam Users' Association—Report on Red-hot Furnace Crown Ex
     periments. 8vo. 1889.
Manila Unicersidad de Sto. Tomds—DiscuitO, Por F. J. M. Ruiz. 4to. 1890.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, 1890, No. 2. 8vo.
Mensbrugghe, M. G. Van der (the Author)—La Surface Commune a deux
     Liquides, 1° and 2e Partie. 8vo. 1890.
Meteorological Office—Weekly Weather Reports, Nos. 27-43. 4to. 1890.
   Quarterly Weather Report, No. 50. fol. 1890.
  Variability of Temperature of BiitL3h Isles, 1869-1883. By R. H. Scott.
     (Proceed. R.S.) 8vo. 1890.
Meteorological Society, Royal—Quarterly Journal. No. 75. 8vo. 1890.
   MeteorolOL'ical Record, Nos. 36, 37. 8vo. 1890.
Minister of Finance, Halifax—Dictionary of Languages of Micmac Indians. By
     Rev. 8. Rand. 4to. 1888.
Ministry of Public Works, Rorne—Giornale del Genio Civile, Seria Quinta,
     Vol. IV. Nos. 4, 5, 6. And Design!, fol. 1890.
Mitchell, C. Pitfield, Esq. M.R.L (the Author)—The Philosophy of Tumour
     Disease. 8vo. 1890.
Musical Association—Proceedings, Itith Session, 1889-90. 8vo. 1890.
OdontolfHiical Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXII. No. 8. Now
     Scries. 8vo. 1890.

202                        General Monthly Meeting.                   [Nov. 3,
New South Wales Agent-General—History of Progress of New South Wales. By
     T. Ooghlan. 8vo. 1889.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Report of Use
     of Explosives in Mines, Pnrt 1. 8vo. 1890.
Norwegischen Commission der Europdischen Gradmessung—Geodatiache Arbeiten,
     Heft 6 and 7. 4to. 1888-90.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, July-October, 1890. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XIV. No. 9; Vol.'XV. No. 1. 8vo. 1890.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Sitzungsberichte, Nos. I.-XIX. 8vo.
     1890.
Bathbone, E. P. Esq. (the Editor)—The Witwatersraud Mining and Metallurgical
     Review, Nos. 6-9. 8vo. 1890.
Richardson, B. W. (the Author)—The Asclepiad, No. 27. 8vo. 1890.
Bio de Janeiro, Observatoire Imperial de—Aunales, Tome IV. Parts 1, 2. fol.
     1889.
   Annuario, Tomes V. and VI. 12mo. 1889-90.
   Revista, Nos. 6, 7, 8. 8vo. 1890.
Royal College of Surgeons in England—Calendar, 1890. 8vo.
Royal Dublin Society—Proceedings, Vol. VII. Parts 7-9. 8vo. 1890.
Royal Institution of Cornwall— Journal, Vol. X. No. 1. 8vo. 1890.
Royal Society of Antiquaries of Ireland—Journal, Vol. I. (5th Series), No. 2.
     8vo. 1890.
Royal Society of Canada—Proceedings and Transactions, Vol. VII. 4to. 1889-90.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XXIII. Part 3; Vol. XXV.
     4to. 1888-90.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 291-294. 8vo. 1890.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Muthematisch-physische Classe :
     Abhandlung. Band XVI. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1890.
     Berichte, 1890, No. 1. 8vo. 1890.
   Philologisch-historischen Classe :
     Abhandlung. Band XI. No. 7. 8vo. 1890.
Seismological Society of Japan—Transactions, Vol. XIII. Part 2. 8vo. 1890.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes, Vol. I. Nos. 7-10. 8vo. 1890.
Smithsonian Institution—Annual Report, 1886, Part 2; 1887, Parts 1,2. 8vo.
      1889.
Society of Arts—Journal for July-October, 1890. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. LIII. Parts 2, 8. 8vo. 1890.
St. Petersbourg Academic Impfriales des Sciences—Me'moires, Tome XXXVII.
      Nos. 8-10. 4to. 1890.
 Tasmania Royal Society—Proceedings for 1889. 8vo. 1890.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 153. 8vo. 1890.
 United States Geological Surrey—Eighth Annual Report, 1886-7. 4to. 1890.
   Monographs, Vol. XV. XVI. 4to. 1889.
   Bulletins, Nos. 54-57. 8vo. 1889-90.
 United States Navy—General Information Series, No. 9. 8vo. 1S90.
 Upsal Royal Society of Sciences—Nova Acta, Series 3, Vol. XIV. Fas. 1. 4to.
      1890.
   Catalogue Melhodique, 1744-1889. 4to. 1890.
 Upsal University—Bulletin de L'Observatoire Me'teorologique, Vol. XXI. 4to.
      1889-90.
 Uruguay Consulate General—Catalogues, Reports, &c. of International Exhibition
     of Mining and Metallurgy, 1890, Parts 1 and 2. 8vo.
 Vereins sur Beforderung des Gewerbfleises in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1890:
      Heft 7, 8. 4to.
 Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 94. 8vo, 1890.
 Wagner Free Institute of Sciences—Transactions, Vol. III. 4to. 1890.
 Wild, Dr. H.—Annalen der Physikalischen Central—Observatoriums, 1889,
      Theil I. 4to. 1890.
Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1890, Parts 2, 3. 8vo.

1890.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                     203
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, December 1, 1890.
  Sin JAMES CRICIITON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                          Vice-President, in the Chair.
                   Charles Arthur Aikin, Esq. F.R.C.S.
                    Louis Brennan, Esq.
                   A. M. Dunlop, Esq.
                   Henry Gourlay, Esq.
                    John Rose limes, Esq. B.Sc. B.A.
                    Maurice Marcus, Esq.
                   Charles Gibson Millar, Esq.
                   George Danford P. Thomas, M.D. M.R.C.S.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The following Lecture Arrangements were announced :—
    PROFESSOR VICTOR HOHSLEY, F.R.S. B.8. F.R.C.S. M.R.I. Fullerian Professor
of Physiology, R.I. Nine Lectures on THE STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE
NERVOUS SYSTEM: Part I. The Spinal Cord, and Ganglia. On Tuesdays,
Jan. 20, 27, Feb. 3, 10, 17, 24, March 3, 10, 17.
    HALL CAISE, Esq. Three Lectures on THE LITTLE MANX NATION. On
Thursdays, Jan. 22, 29, Feb. 5.
    PROFESSOR C. HURERT H. PARRY, Mus. Doo. M.A. Professor of Musical
History and Composition at the Royal College of Music. Three Lectures on
THE POSITION OF LULLI, PURCELL, AND SCARLATTI IN THE HISTORY OF THE OPERA
(with Musical Illustrations). On Thursdays, Feb. 12, 19, 26.
    PROFESSOR C. MEYMOTT TIDY, M.B. F.C.S. M.R.I. Professor of Chemistry
and of Forensic Medicine at the London Hospital. Three Lectures on MODERN
CHEMISTRY IN RELATION TO SANITATION. On Thursdays, March 5, 12, 19.
    W. MARTIN CONWAY, Esq. M.A. F.S.A. Three Lectures on PRE-GREEK
SCHOOLS OF ART. On Saturdays, Jan. 24, 81, Feb. 7.
    THE EIGHT HON. LORD RAYLEIGH, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
Professor of Natural Philosophy, R.I. Six Lectures on the FORCES OF COHESION.
On Saturdays, Feb. 14, 21, 28, March 7, 14, 21.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, aad the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale. Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta : Eendioonti. 2° Semes-
     tre, Vol. VI. Fasc. 5. 8vo. 1890.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. L. No. 9 and Appendix. 8vo.
     18MO.
Bankers, InMtute of—Journal, Vol. XI. Part 9. 8vo. 1890.

204                        General Monthly Meeting.                     [Dec. 1,
Birmingham Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. VII. Part 1. 8vo. 1889-90.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1890-1, NOs. 2, 3. 4to.
   Calendar, 1890-1. 8vo.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings. Vol. VII. Part 2. 8vo. 1890.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. IX. No. 10. 8vo. 1890.
Chemical Society—Journal for November, 1890. 8vo.
Crocovie VAcademie des Sciences— Bulletin, 1890, No. 8. 8vo.
Dax : Society de Dorda—Bulletin, quinzieme anne'e. lr Tremestre. 8vo. 18U0.
Editors—American Journal of Science for November, 1890. 8vo.
   Analyst for November, 1890. 8vo,
   Athenaeum for November, 1890. 4to.
   Brewers' Journal for November, 1890. 4to.
   Chemical News for November, 1890. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for November, 1890. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for November, 1890. fol.
   Engineer for November, 1890. fol.
   Engineering for November, 1890. fol.
   Horological Journal for November, 1890. 8vo.
   Industries for November, 1890. fol.
   Iron for November, 1890. 4to.
   Ironmongery for November, 1890. 4to.
   Murray's Magazine for November, 1890. 8vo.
   Nature for November, 1890. 4to.
   Open Court for November, 1890. 4to.
   Photographic News for November, 1890. 8vo.
   Public Health for November, 1890. 8vo.
   Revue Scientifique for November, 1890. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for November, 1890. fol.
   Zoophilist for November, 1890. 4to.
Fleming, J. A. Esq. M.A. D.Sc. M.I.E.E. M.R.I. (the Author)—On Prof. E.
      Thomson's Electro-Magnetic Induction Experiments. 8vo. 1890.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 779. 8vo. 1890.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. XII. No. 11. 8vo.
      1890.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 184. 8vo. 1890.
Georgofili, Beale Accademia—Atti, Vol. XIII. Disp. 2». 8vo. 1890.
Glasgow Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XXI. 8vo. 1889-90.
Houghton, George W. W., Esq., (the Author)—The Coaches of Colonial New York.
     1890.
Johns Hopkins University—University Circulars, No. 83. 4to. 1890.
Lewins, R. M.D.—Induction and Deduction, by 0. 0. W. Naden. 8vo. 1890.
Linnean Society—Journal, NOs. 185, 186, 189, 191. 8vo. 1890.
Maryland Medical and Chirurgical Faculty—Transactions, 92nd Session. 8vo.
      1890.
Meteorological Office—Weekly Weather Reports, NOs. 44, 45. 4to. 1890.
Meteorological Society, Royof—Quarterly Journal, No. 76. 8yo. 1890.
Ministry of Public Works, Rome—Giornale del Genio Civile, Seria Quinta,
      Vol. IV. NOs. 7, 8. And Designi. foL 1890.
 A<«- South Wales, Agent General—Official Record of the Australian Federation
      Conference, 1890. 8vo. 1890.
   Wealth and Progress of New South Wales. 1888-9. ByJ. Coghlan. 8vo. 1889.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Report on Use
      of Explosives in Mines, Part 2. 8vo. 1890.
 Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXIII. No. 1. New
      Series. 8vo. 1890.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, November, 1890. 8vo.
Physical Society of London—Proceedings, Vol. X. Part 4. 8vo. 1890.
Preuseitche Akademie der Wissensehaften—Sitzungsberichte, Nos. XX. -XL. 8vo.
      1890.

1890.]                      General MonMy Meeting.                        205
Richardson, B. W. M.D. F.R.S. M. R.I. (the Author^,—The Asclepiad, N,x 28.
     8vo. 1890.
Rio de Janeiro, Obtervatoire Imperial de—Revista, No. 9. 8vo. 1890.
Sanitary Institute—Transactions, Vol. X. 8vo. 1890.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes, Vol. I. No. 11. 8vo. 1890.
Soci&e Archeologigue du midi de la France—Bulletin. Serie in 8vo, No. 4. 1889.
   Memoires. 2" Serie. Tome XIV. 1886 & 1889.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. III. No. 1. 8vo. 1890.
Society of Art*—Journal for November, 1890 . 8vo.
Stapes, H. Esq. F.G.S. F.R.H.S. *c.—Indication of Ketrogression in Pre
     historic Civilization. 4to. 1890.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 154. 8vo. 1890.
 Veneto, L'Ateneo—RmettL, Serie XIII. Fagc. 4-6 ; Serie XIV. FHBC. 1-6. 4to.
      1889-90.

 206                 Professor Silvanus P. Thompson           [June 13,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, June 13, 1890.
      Sin JAMBS CRICHTON BKOWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.8. Treasurer
                    and Vice-President, in the Chair.
            PROFESSOR SILVANUS P. THOMPSON, D.So. M.B.I.
                   The Physical Foundation of Music.
 SOMETHING in the constitution of the human mind impels us to
 search, to examine, to analyse. Even music— the art which appeals
 above all to the emotions—cannot remain exempt. We receive the
 impression on our senses, and forthwith are impelled to the enquiry :
 Why does this move us ? How can the mere movement or tremor of
 the air enter thus into our senses ? The instinct to analyse will not
let us alone until we have found some sort of an explanation—a
 mental resting-place—enabling us to account to ourselves for the
 things that would otherwise seem an inscrutable mystery.
     Now, in music, there are three main questions for which in this
 way an answer has been sought :—
     (1) Why is it that the ear is pleased by a succession of sounds
belonging to a certain particular set called a scale ?
     (2) Why is it that when two (or more) musical sounds are
simultaneously sounded, the ear finds some combinations agreeable
and others disagreeable ?
     (3) Why is it that a note sounded on a musical instrument of
one sort is different from, and is distinguishable from, the same note
sounded with equal loudness upon an instrument of another sort ?
    In brief, we desire to know the origin of melody, the cause of
harmony, and the nature of timbre.
    The theories which have been framed to account for each of
these three features of music are based on a double foundation—
partly physical, partly physiological. With the physiological aspect
of this foundation we have to-night nothing to do, being concerned
only with the physical aspect. What, then, are the physical founda
tions of melody, of harmony, and of timbre? Demonstrable by
experiment they must be, in common with all other physical facts,
otherwise they cannot be accepted as proven. What are the facts,
and how can they be demonstrated ?
    To Pythagoras and the Greeks it was known that the notes of the
melodic scale corresponded in a curiously- perfect way to certain
numerical relations between the lengths of the stretched strings.
Modern research has transferred these numerical relations to the
frequency of the vibrations executed by the moving body, and pitch
is now a matter assignable in definite numbers. In the philosophical

1890.]             on the Physical Foundation of Music.                 207
pitch the middle t'' between the bass and treble staves is defined as
consisting of 256 complete vibrations. In concert pitch the usual
number given to the same note is 268 or 270. Further, the notes
of the major scale are always related to one another in the following
definite ratios :—
                     9     5     4      3     5       15
                     8:4:3:2:3: 8 : "
    In the execution of music the performer does not always adhere
rigidly to these ratios. For pure melodic purposes, the actual scale
is nearer to that culled the Pythagorean ; but for the purpose of
harmony in any one key the above ratios must be precisely observed.
But, obviously, a scale is wanted which will serve both purposes,
melodic and harmonic ; hence the same scale is attempted to be used
for melody as for harmony. Further, the requirements of modern
music, ever since the time of Bach, have necessitated a further
modification of the scale to enable the performer to modulate into
hiu-monies, not in one key, but in all ; so that he may enjoy the
tonal relations of contrasted keys, modulating from koy to key. In
order that this may be done, and yet that all the keys may be played
from one key-board, musicians have been content to spoil the exact
consonances in individual keys by departing from these exact ratios
by the device of tempering all the keys, so that twelve successive
fifths shall exactly equal seven successive octaves.
     I am not here, however, to fight over again the battle of the
temperaments, nor do I purpose to enter upon a discussion of the
origin of melody, which, indeed, I believe to be associative rather
than physical. I shall confine myself to two matters only—the
cause of harmony and the nature of timbres.
     Eeturning, then, to the ratios of the vibration-numbers of the
major scale, we may note that two of these, namely, the ratios 9 : 8
and 15 : 8, which correspond to the intervals called the major whole
tone and the seventh, are dissonant—or, at least, are usually so re
garded. It will also be noticed that these particular fractions are
more complex than those that represent the consonant intervals.
This naturally raises the question : Why is it that the consonant
intervals should be represented by ratios made up of the numbers 1 to 6,
and lii/ no others ?
     To this problem the only answer for long was the entirely evasive
and metaphysical one that the mind instinctively delights in order
and number. The true answer, or rather the first approximation to
a true answer, was only given about forty years ago, when von Helm-
holtz, as the result of his ever-memorable researches on the sensa
tions of tone, returned the reply : Because only byfulfilling numerical
relations which are at once exact and simple, can the " beats " be avoided,
which are the cause of dissonance. The phenomenon of beats is so
well known that I may assume the term to be familiar. An excellent
mode of making beats audible to a large audience is to place upon a

208                 Professor Silvanus P. Thompson            [Juno 13,
wind chest two organ-pipes tuned to nt* = 128, and then flatten one
of them slightly by holding a finger in front of its mouth. Von
Helmholtz's theory of dissonance may be briefly summarised by say
ing that any two notes are discordant if their vibration numbers are
such that they produce beats, maximum discordance occurring when
the beats occur at about 33 per second ; beats if either fewer than
these, or more numerous, being less disagreeable than beats at this
frequency. It is an immediate consequence that the degree of disso
nance of any given interval will depend on its position on the scale.
For example, the interval of the major whole tone, represented by
the ratio 9 : 8, produces four beats per second at the bottom of the
pianoforte keyboard, 32 beats per second at the middle of the key
board, and 256 beats per second at the top. Such an interval ought
to be discordant, therefore, in the middle octaves of the scale only.
Von Helmholtz expresses elsewhere the opinion that beats only occur
between two tones when the intervals between these tones are within
a minor third of one another.
    To this view of von Helmholtz it was at first objected that if that
were the whole truth, all intervals should be equally harmonious
provided one got far enough away from being in a bad unison: fifthR,
augmented fifths, and sixths minor and major ought all to be equally
harmonious. This no musician will allow. To account for this von
Helmholtz makes the further supposition that the beats occur, not
simply between the fundamental or prime tones, but also between the
upper parti als which usually accompany prime tones. This leads
me to say a word about upper partial-tones and harmonics. I believe
many musicians use these two terms as synonymous ; but they ought
to be carefully distinguished.      The term harmonics ought to be
rigidly reserved to denote higher tones which stand in definite har
monic relations to the fundamental tone. The great mathematician
Fourier first showed that any truly periodic function, however complex,
could be analysed out and expressed as the sum of a certain series of
periodic functions having frequencies related to that of the funda
mental or first member of the series as the simple numbers 2, 3, 4,
5, &c. Thirty years later G. S. Ohm suggested that the human ear
actually performs such an analysis, by virtue of its mechanical
structures, upon every complex sound of a periodic character, resolving
it into a fundamental tone, the octave of that tone, the twelfth, the
double octave, &c. Von Helmholtz, arming himself with a series of
tuned resonators, sought to pick up and recognise as members of a
Fourier-series, the higher harmonics of thetonesof various instruments.
In his researches he goes over the ground previously traversed by
Kameau, Smith, and Young, who had all observed the co-existence in
the tones of musical instruments, of higher partial tones. These higher
tones correspond to higher modes of vibration, in which the vibratile
organ—string, reed, or air column,—subdivides into two, three, four,
or more parts. Such parts naturally possess greater frequency of
vibration, and their higher tones, when they co-exist along with the

1890.]            on the Physical Foundation of Music..             209
lower or fundamental tone, are denominated upperpartial tones, thereby
signifying that they are higher in the scale, and that they corre
spond to vibrations in parts. It is to be regretted that Professor
Tyndall in his Lectures on Sound, rendered von Helmholtz's
Oberpartialtone by the term overtones, omitting the most significant
half of the word. To avoid all confusion in the use of such a term
I shall rather follow Koenig in speaking of these as sounds of sub
division. And I must protest emphatically against calling these
sounds harmonics, for the simple reason that 'in many cases they
are very inharmonious. It is a matter to which I shall recur
hereafter.
     Returning to the subject of beats, the question arises : What
becomes of the beats when they occur so rapidly that they cease
to produce a discontinuous sensation upon the ear? The view
which I have to put before yon to-night in the name of Dr. Koenig
is that they blend to make a tone of their own. Earlier acousticians
have propounded, in accordance with this view, that the grave
harmonic of Tartini (a sound which corresponds to a frequency of
vibration which is the difference between those of the two tones pro
ducing it) is due to this cause. Von Helmholtz has taken a different
view, denying that the beats can blend to form a sound, giving reasons
presently to be examined. Von Helmholtz considered that he had
discovered a new species of combinational tone, namely one corre
sponding in frequency to the sum of the frequencies of the two tones,
whereas that discovered by Tartini (and before him by Sorge)
corresponded to their difference. Accordingly he includes under the
term of combinational tones the differential tone of Tartini and the
snmmational tone which he considered himself to have discovered.
To the existence of such combinational tones he ascribed a very impor
tant part in determining the character, harmonious or otherwise, of
chords ; and to them also he attributes the ability of the ear to
discriminate between the degrees of harmoniousness possessed by
snch intervals (fifths, sixths, Ac.) as consist of two tones too widely
apart on the scale to give beats of a discontinuous character. He also
considers that snch combinational tones are chiefly effective in pro
ducing beats, the snmmational tones of the primaries beating with
their upper partial tones ; and that this is the way in which they
make an interval more or less harmonious.
     The whole fabric of the theory of harmony as laid down by Von
Helmholtz is thus seen to repose upon the presence or absence of
beats ; and the beats themselves are in turn made to depend not
upon the mere interval between two notes but upon the timbres also
of those notes, as to what upper partials they contain, and whether
those partials can beat with the summational tone of the primaries.
It becomes then of the utmost importance to ascertain the precise
 facts about the beats and about the supposed combinational tones.
 What the numbers of beats are in any given case : whether they do
 or do not correspond to the alleged differential and summational
     VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)                                       r

210                 Professor Silvamis P. Thompson            [June 13,
tones : these are vital to the theory of harmony. Equally vital is
it to know what the timbres of sounds are, and whether they can
be accurately or adequately represented by the sum of a set of pure
harmonics corresponding to the terms of a Fourier-series.
     And here let me take the opportunity of saying that the views
which I am about to propound, and which for to-night I must be con
sidered to adopt, are those which have been put forth as the result
of a quarter of a century of patient work by Dr. Rudolph Koenig
of Paris.
    Dr. Koenig, whose recent visit to this country will be remembered
by some here present, is, as is well known, the constructor of the
finest and most accurate acoustical instruments in the world, and
is not only a constructor but an investigator of great distinction, and
author of numerous memoirs on acoustics which have from time to
time appeared in the Annalen of Poggendorff, and in those of Wiede-
mann, and elsewhere. The splendid apparatus around me belongs to
him, and forms but a very small part of the collection which adorns
his atelier on the Qnai d'Anjou. He lives and works in seclusion,
surrounded by his instruments, even as our own Faraday lived and
worked amongst his electric and magnetic apparatus. His great
tonometer, now nearly completed, comprises a set of standard tuning
forks, adjusted each one by his own hands, ranging from 20
vibrations per second up to nearly 40,000, with perfect continuity,
many of the forks being furnished with sliding adjustments, so as to
give by actual marks upon them any desired number of vibrations
within their own limits. Besides this colossal masterpiece, Dr.
Koenig's collection includes several large wave-sirens, and innumer
able pieces of apparatus in which his ingenious manometric flames are
 adapted to acoustical investigation. There also stands his tonometric
clock ; a timepiece governed, not by a pendulum, but by a standard
tuning-fork, the rate of vibration of which it accurately records.
Lest I should forget it at a later stage, let me here return my most
 cordial thanks to Dr. Koenig for the extreme kindness and courtesy
with which he has put at my disposal for this discourse all the
apparatus wherewith to illustrate the various points in his researches.
     In investigating beats and combinational tones Dr. Koenig deemed
it of the highest importance to work with instruments producing the
 purest tones ; not with harmonium reeds or with polyphonic sirens,
 the tones of which are avowedly complex in timbre, but with massive
 steel tuning-forks, the pendular movements of which are of the
 simplest possible character. Massive tuning-forks properly excited
 by bowing with a violoncello bow, or, in the case of those of high
 pitch, by striking them with an ivory mallet, emit tones remarkably
 free from all sounds of subdivision, and of so truly pendular a
character (unless over-excited) that none of the harmonics corre
sponding to the members of a Fourier-series can be detected. No
living soul has had a tithe of the experience of Dr. Koenig in the
handling of tuning-forks. Tens of thousands of them have passed

  1890.]            on the Physical Foundation of Music.              211
 through his hands. He is accustomed to tune them himself, making
  use of the phenomenon of bents to test their accuracy. He has traced
  out the phenomena of beats through every possible degree of pitch, even
 beyond the ordinary limits of audibility, with a thoroughness utterly
  impossible to surpass or to equal. Hence, when he states the results
 of his experience, it is idle to contest the facts gathered on such
 an unique basis.
      The results of Dr. Koenig's observations on beats are easily
 stated. He has observed primary beats, as well as beats of secondary
 and higher orders, from the interference of two simple tones simul
 taneously sounded. When two simple tones interfere, the primary
 beats always belong to one or other of two sets, called an inferior and
 a superior set, corresponding respectively in number to the two
 remainders, positive and negative, to be found by dividing the
 frequency of the higher tone by that of tho lower.
      This mode of stating the facts is a little strange to those trained
 in English modes of expressing arithmetical calculations : but an
 example or two will make it plain. Let there be as the two primary
 sounds two low tones having the respective frequencies of 40
 vibrations and 74 vibrations. What are the two remainders, positive
 and negative, which result from dividing the higher number, 74 by the
 lower number 40 ? Our English way of stating it is to say that 40
 goes into 74 once, and leaves over a (positive) remainder of 34. But
 it is equally correct to say that 40 goes into 74 twice, all but 6 : or
 that there is a negative remainder of 6. Well, Dr. Koenig finds that
 when these two tuning-forks are tried, the ear can distinguish two
 sets of beats, one rapid, at 34 per second, and one slow, at 6 per
 second.
     Again, if the forks chosen are of frequencies 100 and 512, we
 may calculate thus : 100 goes into 512 five times, plus 12 ; or 100
 goes into 512 six times, minus 88. In this actual case the 12 beats
 belonging to the inferior set would be well heard: the 88 beats
 belonging to the superior set would probably be almost indistin
guishable. As a rule the inferior beat is heard best when its
 number is less than half the frequency of the lower primary, whilst,
when its number is greater, the superior beat is then better heard.
Dr. Koenig has never been able to hear any primary beat which did
not fall within the arithmetical rule which I have previously stated.
     I will now illustrate to you the beats, inferior and superior, as
produced by these two massive tuning-forks, each weighing about 50
pounds, and each provided with a large resonating cavity consisting
of a metal cylinder with an adjustable piston. One of them is tuned
to the note at, = 64. The other also sounds »/ , ; but by sliding
down its prongs the adjustable weights of gun-metal, and screwing in
the piston, I can raise its pitch a whole tone to /'<', = 72. I excite
them with the "cello bow, first separately, that you may hear their
individual tones, then together. At once you hear an intolerable
beating—the beats coming 8 per second. This is the inferior beat,
                                                              p 2

212                        Professor Silvanus P. Thompson             [June 13,
corresponding to the positive remainder, the superior beat you cannot
hear. I raise the note of the second fork from re^ to W, .-. 80 ;
and the beats quicken to 16 per second. Raising it to /«, = N .'>.!.,
and then to sol, = 96, while the first fork is still kept at s/,, the
beats increase in rapidity, but are fainter in distinctness. If I now
substitute for the second fork a similar one which begins with sol,,
and raise its pitch to /</ , — 106J yon may be able to hear two beats,
the inferior one rapid and lUiiit at 42§ per second, and the superior
one slower, but also faint, at i! 1 .'. per second. Still raising the pitch
to the true seventh tone = 112, the rapid inferior beat has died out,
but now you hear the superior strongly at 16 per second. I raise
it once more to sii = 120 (the seventh of the ordinary scale) and the
beats are still stronger and slower at 8 per second. Finally I bring
the pitch up to the octave »t, = 128, to find that all beats have
disappeared ; there is a perfectly smooth consonance. The facts so
observed are tabulated for you as follows :—
                                      TABLE I.
                                   PRIMARY BEATS.
             Primary Tones.              Ratio.    Inferior Reats. Superior Reats.
              • „«,       «, i          8 : 9             8              —
             I 64         72 |
             I trf,      mi, 1
                                        4 : 5            16              —
            1 64          80 1 "
             1  s<l      /s1 \
                                        3 : 4            81*          '  —
             \ 64         85i) "
             1 s*,       >»', J
                                        2 : 3            32              32
             (64          96 J "
             1  s<1       's, 1
                                        3 : 5            42=             21*
             I 64       106fl "
             J s«,       (7) 1
                                        4 : 7            —               16
             1 64       112 | "
              1 s*1       "l  I
                                        8 : 15           —                8
             I 64       120 [ '
              1 trf,     id, 1
                                        1 : 2            —                0
              I 64      128 | "
       Suppose now, keeping the lower fork unaltered, we raise the pitch
 of the higher note (taking a new fork that starts at the octave) from
 »//_, to mil. by gradual steps, we shall find that there begins a new set
 of primary beats—an inferior set, which are at first slow, then get

  1890.]           on the Physical Foundation of Music.               213
 more rapid and become undistinguishable ; but these are succeeded
 by another set which gradually emerge from the intolerable vacarme,
 and, though rapid at first and indistinct, grow slower and stronger as
 the pitch is raised, until, when it reaches sol., the frequency of which
 is exactly three times that of »/,, all beats again vanish. This range
 between the octave and the twelfth tone may be called the second
 " period," to distinguish it from the period from unison to the first
 octave, which was our first period. Similarly, the range from the
 twelfth tone to the second octave is the third period, and from thence
 to the major third above is the fourth period, and so forth. In each
 period, up to the sixth or seventh of such periods, a set of inferior
 and a set of superior beats nay be observed ; and in every case the
 frequency of the beats corresponds, as I have said, to one or other
 of the two remainders of the frequencies of the two tones. No beat
 has ever been observed corresponding to the sum of the frequencies,
 even when using the slowest forks. None has ever been observed
 corresponding to the difference of the frequencies, save in the first
 period ; where, of course, the positive remainder is simply the
 difference of the two numbers.
      That you may hear for yourselves the beats belonging to one of
 the higher periods, I will take a pair of forks which will give us
 some of the superior beats in the fourth period. One of the
 forks is the great «<„ 64 as previously used. The other is '«/',
  = 320 ; their ratio being 1 : 6. Sounded together they give a
 pure consonance, but if the smaller one is loaded with small
 pellets of wax to lower its pitch slightly, and I then bow it, at once
 you hear beats. It was in studying the beats of these higher periods
 that Dr. Koenig made the observation that whereas the beats of an
 imperfect unison are heard as alternate silences and sounds, the beats
 of the imperfect consonances of higher periods—twelfth tone, double
 octave, &c.—consist mainly in variations in the loudness of the lower
 of the two primary tones ; an observation which was independently
 made by Mr. Bosanquet, of Oxford.
     Passing from the beats themselves, I approach the question, what
becomes of the beats when they occur too rapidly to produce on the
ear a discontinuous sensation ? On this matter there have been
several conflicting opinions : some holding with Lagrange and
Dr. Thomas Young, that they blend into a separate tone ; others, with
von Helmholtz, maintaining that the combinational tones cannot be
so explained, and arise from a different cause. Let it be observed
that, even if beat-tones exist, it is quite possible for beats and beat-
tones to be simultaneously heard. A similar co-existence of a
continuous and discontinuous sensation is afforded by the familiar
experiment of producing a tone by pressing a card against the
periphery of a rapidly rotating toothed wheel. There is a certain
speed at which the individual impulses begin to blend into a
continuous low tone, while yet there are distinguishable the discon
tinuous impulses ; the degree of distinctness of the two co-existing

214                  Professor Silvanus P. Thompson            [June 13,
sounds being dependent on the manner in which the card is pressed
against the wheel—that is to say, on the nature of the individual
impulses themselves. The opponents of the view that beats blend
into a tone, state plainly enough that, in their opinion, a mere
succession of alternate sounds and silences cannot blend into a tone
different from that of the beating tone. Having said that the beats
cannot blend, they then add that they do not blend ; for, say they,
the combinational tones are a purely subjective phenomenon. Lastly,
they say that if even the beats blend they will not so explain the ex
istence of combinational tones, because the combinational tones have
frequencies which do not correspond to the number of the beats.
     In the teeth of all these views and opinions, Dr. Koenig—
without dogmatising as to how or why it is—emphatically affirms
that beats do produce beat-tones; and he has pursued the matter
down to a point that leaves no room for doubting the general truth
of the fact. The alleged discrepancy between the frequency of the
observed combinational tones and that of the beats disappears when
closely scrutinised. Those who count the beats by merely taking
the difference between the frequencies of the two primary tones,
instead of calculating the two remainders, will assuredly find that
their numbers do not agree in pitch with the actual sounds heard.
But that is the fault of their miscalculation. Those who use harmo
nium reeds or polyphonic sirens instead of tuning-forks to produce
 their primary tones must not expect from such impure sources to
 reproduce the effects to be obtained from pure tones. And those
 who say that the beats calculated truly from the two remainders will
not account for the summational tones, have unfortunately something
to unlearn—namely, that, when pure tones are used, under no circum
 stances is a tone ever heard, the frequency of which is the sum of the
 frequencies of the two primary tones.
     The apparatus before you enables me to demonstrate, in a manner
 audible, I trust, to the whole assembly in this theatre, the existence
 of the beat-tones. My first illustrations relate to tones of primary
 beats, some belonging to the inferior, others to the superior set, in
 the first period.
     I take here the fork »/,- = 2048, five octaves higher than the
 great utr To excite it, I may either bow it or strike it with this
 ivory mallet. With it I will take the fork one note higher, res = 2304.
 When we took the same interval with H/, and re,, the number of beats
 was 8. The ut and re of the next octave higher would have given us
 16 beats, that of the next 32, that of the next 64, of the fourth octave
 128, and that of the fifth octave higher 256. But 256 per second is
 a rapidity far too great for the ear to hear as separate sounds. If
 there were 256 separate impulses, they would blend to give us the
 note ut3 = 256. They are not impulses, but In nix: nevertheless,
 they blend. I strike the «<6, then the re6, both shrill sounds when
you hoar them separately ; but when I strike them in quick suc
 cession one after the other, at the moment when the mallet strikes

1890.]              on the Physical Foundation of Music.             216
the second fork yon hear this clear s/., sounding out. I am not going
to waste your time in a disputation as to whether the sound you hear
is objective or subjective. It is enough that you hear it, pure and
unmistakable in pitch. It is the grave harmonic ; and the number
256, which is its frequency, corresponds to the positive remainder
when you divide 2304 by 2048.
     Now let me give you a beat-tone belonging to the superior set :
it also will be a grave harmonic, if yon so please to call it ; but its
frequency will correspond neither to the difference nor to the sum
of the frequencies of the two primary tones. I take uta = 2048
as previously, and with it «6 = 3840. Let us calculate what the
superior beats onght to be. 2048 goes into 3840 twice, less 256.
Then, 256 being the negative remainder, we ought to hear from these
two forks the beat-tone of 256 vibrations, which is ut3t the same
note as in our last experiment. I strike the forks, and you hear the
result. The beat-tone, which is neither a differential tone nor a
snmmational tone, corresponds to the calculated number of beats.
     If I tako «<„ = 2048 and soZ6 = 3072, the two remainders both
come out at 1024, which is »/.,. Let me sound u{5 itself, separately,
on an «<5 fork, that you may know what sound to listen for. Its
Bound has died away : and now I strike vt,, and sole, when at once
you hear tt<5 ringing out. That sound which you all heard corre
sponds in frequency to the calculated number of beats. That is
enough for my present purpose.
     The next illustration is a little more complex. I select a case in
which the beat-tones corresponding to the inferior and the superior
beats will both be present. We shall have four tones altogether—
two primary tones and two beat-tones. The forks I select are
tt<g = 2048 as before, and a fork which is tuned to vibrate exactly
11 times as rapidly as ut3—it is the llth harmonic of that note, but
does not correspond precisely to any note of the diatonic scale. It
has 2816 vibrations, and is related to ntA as 11 : 8. The two
remainders will now be 768 and 1280, which are the respective fre
quencies of so/, and »(/.,. I will first sound those notes on two other
forks, that you may know beforehand what to listen for. Now, on
striking the two shrill forks in rapid succession, the two beat-tones
are heard.
     If I select, instead of the llth harmonic, the 13th harmonic of s< „
vibrating 3328 times in the second, to be sounded along with s/,;, I
shall produce the same two beat-tones as in the preceding case ; but
W.-, = 1280 is now the inferior one, corresponding to the positive
remainder, while W, — 768 is the superior tone, corresponding to
the negative remainder. It is certainly a striking corroboration of
Dr. Komig's view that the beat-tones actually heard in these last
two experiments should come out precisely alike, though on the old
view, that the combination tones were simply the snmmational and
differential tones, one would have been led to expect the sounds in
the two experiments to be quite different.

216                       Professor Silvanus P. Thompson                  [June 13,
     One other example I will give you of a beat-tone belonging to
the second period. The two primary notes are given by the forks
«<5 = 1024 and re6 = 2304. The beat-tone which you hear is
nt . = 256, which corresponds to the positive remainder.
     I may here mention that a mathematical investigation,* which
only appeared a month ago from the pen of Professor W. Voigt,
entirely confirms the views of Dr. Koenig as to the non-existence of
the supposed summational tones, and the existence of those which
accord with the two remainders.
     It will be convenient to draw up in tabular form the results just
obtained. These may be considered as abbreviations of the much
more extended tables drawn up by Dr. Koenig, which hang upon the
walls, and which are to be found in his book, ' Qnelques Experiences
d'Acoustique.'
                                     TABLE II.
                              SOUNDS OF PRIMARY BEATS.
            Primary Tones.              Ratio.   Inferior Reat-tone. Superior Reat-tone.
        ( s'.          «'. >                                                 —
                                        8 : 9        ij '"
        \ 2048       2304 )                            I 256
        ( ut,          «', )
                                        8 : 15            —              l\    **
        ( 2048       3810 )                                                I 250
        C ute         sols )                         4J «•               4{ •*
                                        8 : 12
        I  2048      3072   )                          I 1024              I 1024
        {   st.     (llth)  1
                                        8 : 11       8J "",              5J "'
        (  2048      2816   $                          I 768               I 1280
        C   st,     (13th)  >                        sf mi'
         ( 2048      3328   $ "
                                        8 : 13
                                                       ( 1280
                                                                               5°'4
                                                                         s\1 708
        ( s*.          ™. )
                                        4 : 9         l{ ''*                  —
        ( 1024       2304 ) "                          I 256
      So far we have been dealing with primary beats and beat-tones ;
 but there are also secondary beats and secondary beat-tones, which
 are produced by the interference of primary beat-tones. An example
 of a secondary beat is afforded by the following experiment.
 Kecurring to the preceding table of experiments, it may be observed
 that when the two shrill notes ute, sol,, giving the interval of the
 fifth, are sounded together, the inferior and superior beat-tones are
 both present, and of the same pitch. If, now, one of the two forks
 is lightly loaded with pellets of wax to put it out of adjustment, we
     * " Ueber den Zusammenklang zweier einfacher Tone." ' Gottinger Nach-
 richtcn,' No. 5, 1890.

18DO.]              on the Physical Foundation of Music.             217
shall get beats, not between the primary tones, but between the beat-
tones. Suppose we add enough wax to reduce the vibration of sol,
from 3072 to 3070. Then the positive remainder is 1022, and the
negative remainder is 1026; the former being uts flattened two
vibrations, the latter the same note sharpened to an equal amount.
As a result there will be heard four beats per second—secondary
beats. Similarly the intervals 2 : 5, 2 : 7, if slightly mistuned, will,
like the fifth, yield secondary beats. Or, to put it in another way,
there may be secondary beats from the (mistuned) beat-tones that are
related (as in our experiment) in the ratio 1 : 1, or from those in the
ratios 3 : 4, 3 : 5, 4 : 7, and so forth.
     I have given you an example of secondary beats ; now for an
example of a secondary beat-tone. This is afforded by one of the
previous experiments, in which were sounded t>/,,, and the llth har
monic of ut.t. In this experiment, as in that which followed with the
13th harmonic, two (primary) beat-tones were produced, of 768 and
1280 vibrations respectively. These are related to one another by
the intervals 3:5. If we treat these as tones that can themselves
interfere, they will give us for their positive remainder the number
256, which is the frequency of utt. As a matter of fact, if you
listen carefully, yon may, now that your attention has been drawn
to it, hear that note, in addition to the two primary tones and the two
beat-tones to which you listened previously.
     In von Helmholtz's " Tonemptindungen," he expresses the opinion
that the distinctness with which beats are heard depends upon the
narrowness of the interval between the primary tones, saying that
they must be nearer together than a minor third. But, as we have
seen, using bass sounds of a sufficient degree of intensity and purity,
as is the case with those of the massive forks, beats can be heard with
every interval from the mistuned unison up to tho mistuned octave.
Even the interval of the fifth, utt to soZ,, gave strongly-marked beats
of 32 per second. When this number is attained or exceeded, the
ear usually begins to receive also the effect of a very low, continuous
 tone, the beats and the beat-tone being simultaneously perceptible up
to about 60 or 70 beats, or as a roughness up to 128 per second. If,
using forks of higher pitches but of narrower interval, one produces
the same number of beats, the beat-tone is usually more distinct.
Doubtless this arises from the greater true intensity of the sounds
of higher pitch. With the object of pursuing this matter still more
closely, Dr. Koenig constructed a series of 12 forks of extremely high
pitch, all within the range of half a tone, the lowest giving «/,; and
the highest ut.. The frequencies, and the beats and beat-tones given
by seven of them, are recorded in Table III.
     The first of these intervals is a diatonic semitone ; the second of
them is a quarter-tone ; the third is an eighth of a tone ; neverthe
less, a sensitive ear will readily detect a difference of pitch between
the two separate sounds. The last of the intervals is about half a
 comma.

218                      Professor Silvanus P. Thompson               [June 13,
                                   TABLE III.
       Frequencies of Forks.           Rstlo.    Reats (Calcd.). Resulting Sound.
     f s*' and S1" I
     \ 4006         3810)    "
                                      16    15       256                s*•
                     3968    ..       32    31       128                '',
                    4032     ..       64    63         64               uf,
                    4048     ..      256    253        48             sol.
                    4056     ..      512    507        40             mi.
                    4064     ..      128    127        32              ut-i
                     4070    ..      158    157        26               —
    These forks are excited by striking them with a steel hammer.
Some of the resulting beat-tones will be heard all over the theatre ;
but, in the case of the very low tones of 40 and 82 vibrations, only
those who are close at hand will hear them. The case in which
there are 26 beats is curious. Most hearers are doubtful whether
they perceive a tone or not. There is a curious fluttering effect, as
though a tone were there, but not continuously.
    We have seen, then, that the beat-tones correspond in pitch to
the number of the beats ; that they can themselves interfere, and
give secondary beats ; and that the same number of beats will always
give the same beat-tone irrespectively of the interval between the
two primary tones. What better proofs could one desire to support
the view that the beat-tones are caused, as Dr. Young supposed, by
the same cause as the beats, and not, as von Helmholtz maintains, by
some other cause ? Yet there are some further points in evidence
which are of significance, and lend additional weight to the proofs
already adduced.
    Beats behave like primary impulses in the following respect, that
when they come with a frequency between 32 and 128 per second,
they may be heard, according to circumstances, either discontinuously
or blending into a continuous sensation.
    It has been objected that, whereas beats imply interference
between two separate modes of vibration arising in two separate
organs, combination-tones, whether snmmational, or differential, or
any other, must take their origin from some one organ or portion of
vibratile matter vibrating in a single but more complex mode. To
this objection an experimental answer has been returned by Dr.
Koenig in the following way. He takes a prismatic bar of steel,
about 9 inches in length, and files it to a rectangular section, so as
to give, when it is struck at the middle of a face to evoke transversal
vibrations, a sound of some well-defined pitch. By carefully adjusting
the sides of the rectangular section in proper proportions, the same

1890.]                  on '/"' Physical Foundation of Music.        219
- •'-••! bar can bo made to give two different notes when struck in the
two directions respectively parallel to the long and short sides of the
rectangle. A set of such tnned steel bars are here before you.
Taking one tuned to the note of ut, = 2048, with re5 = 2304, 1 give you
the notes separately by striking the bar with a small steel hammer
when it is lying on two little bridges of wood, first on one face, then
on the other face. If, now, I strike it on the corner, so as to evoke
both notes at once, yon immediately hear the strong boom of u<3=256,
the inferior beat-tone. If I take a second bar tuned to ut5 and si5 =
3840, yon hear also ut,, this time the superior beat-tone. If I take a
bar tnned to ut and the llth harmonic of ut, (in the ratio 8:11),
yon hear the two beat-tones sol4 and mis (in ratios of 3 and 6 respec
tively) precisely as you did when two separate forks were nsed instead
of one tuned bar.
       Dr. Koenig goes beyond the mere statement that beats blend to a
tone, and lays down the wider proposition that any series of maxima
and minima of sounds of any pitch, if isochronous and similar, will
always produce a tone the pitch of which corresponds simply to the
frequency of such maxima and minima. A series of beats may be
regarded as such maxima and minima of sound ; but there are other
•ways of producing the effect than by beats. Let me illustrate some
of these to you.
       If a shrill note, produced by a small organ-pipe or reed, be con
veyed along a tube, the end of which terminates behind a rotating
disk pierced with large, equidistant apertures, the sound will be
periodically stopped and transmitted, giving rise, if the intermittences
are slow enough, to effects which closely resemble beats, but which,
if the rotation is sufficiently rapid, blend to a tone of definite pitch.
 Dr. Eoenig uses a large zinc disk with 16 holes, each about 1 inch in
 diameter. In one set of experiments this disk was driven at 8 revolu
 tions per second, giving rise to 128 intermittences. The forks used
 were all of different pitches from ut5=256 to ut7=4096. In all cases
 there was heard the low note ut. corresponding to 128 vibrations per
 second. In another series of experiments, using forks n1. and »/ ., the
 number of intermittences was varied from 128 to 256 by increasing
 the speed, when the low note rose also from »A. to ut..
        From these experiments it is but a step to the next, in which the
 intensity of a tone is caused to vary in a periodic manner. For this
 purpose Dr. Koenig has constructed a siren-disk (Fig. 1), pierced with
 holes arranged at equal distances around seven concentric circles ;
 but the sizes of the holes are made to vary periodically from small to
 large. In each circle are 192 equidistant holes, and the number of
 maxima in the respective circles was 12, 16, 24, 32, 48, 64, and 96.
 On rotating this disk, and blowing from behind through a small
 tube opposite the outermost circle, there are heard, if the rotation is
 slow, a note corresponding to the number of holes passing per second,
 and a beat corresponding to the number of maxima per second. With
 more rapid rotation two notes are heard—a shrill one, and another

220                  Professor Silvanus P. Thompson                   [June 13,
4 octaves lower in pitch, the latter being the beat-tone. On moving
 the pipe so that wind is blown successively through each ring of
 apertures, there is heard a shrill note, which is the same in each
 case, and a second note (corresponding to the successive beat-tones)
 which rises by intervals of fourths and fifths from circle to circle.
                                    Fro. 1.
             Siren Diak, with apertures varying periodically in aize.
      These attempts to produce artificially the mechanism of beats
 were, however, open to criticism ; for in them the phase of the
 individual vibrations during one maximum is the same as that of
 the individual vibrations in the next succeeding maximum ; whereas
 in the actual beats produced by the interference of two tones the
 phases of the individual vibrations in two successive maxima differ
 by half a vibration ; as may be seen by simple inspection of the
                                     FIG. 2.
               Siren Dink, pierced to imitate mechanism of beats.
  curves corresponding to a series of beats.           When this difference
  was pointed out to Dr. Koenig, he constructed a new siren-disk (Fig.
  2), having a similar series of holes of varying size, but spaced out so
  as to correspond to a difference of half a wave between the sets.
  With this disk, beats are distinctly produced with slow rotation, and
  a beat-tone when the rotation is more rapid.

1890.]           on the Physical Foundation of Music.            221
    Finding this result from the spacing out of apertures to corre
spond in position and magnitude to the individual wavelets of a
complex train of waves, it occurred to Dr. Koenig that the phenomena
of beats and beat-tones might be still more fully reproduced if
the edge of the disk were cut away into a wave-form corresponding
precisely to the case of the resultant wave produced by the composi
tion of two interfering waves. Accordingly, he calculated the wave
forms for the cases of several intervals, and, having set out these
                                  FIG. 3.
                   Wave-disk giving beats and beat-tone.
                                  Fra. 4.                 /
                       /'P*        8:23 ^i
                                   'JpiT
                            .X.-'' 04 '''„_'''
                   Wave-disk, giving beats and beat-tone.
curves around the periphery of a brass plate, cut away the edge of
the plate to the form of the desired wave. Two such wave-disks,
looking rather like circular saws with irregular teeth, are depicted
in Figs. 3 and 4. These correspond to the respective intervals 8 : 15

222                  Professor Silvanus P. Thompson            [June 13,
and 8 : 23. A number of such wave-disks corresponding to other
intervals lie upon the table ; these two will, however, suffice. In the
first of these the curve is that which would be obtained by setting
out around the periphery a series of 120 simple sinusoidal waves,
and a second set of 64 waves, and then compounding them into one
resultant wave. In order to permit of a comparison being made with
the simple component sounds, two concentric rings of holes have
been also pierced with 120 and 64 holes respectively. Regarding
these two numbers as the frequency of two primary tones, there
ought to result beats of frequency 8 (being the negative remainder
corresponding to the superior beat). An interior set of 8 holes is
also pierced, to enable a comparison to be made. To experiment
with such wave-disks they are mounted upon a smoothly running
whirling-table, and wind from a suitable wind-chest is blown against
the waved edge from behind, through a narrow slit set radially. In
this way the air-pressures in front of the wave-edge are varied by
the rush of air between the teeth. It is a question not yet decided
how far these pressures correspond to the values of the ordinates of the
curves. This question, which involves the validity of the entire prin
ciple of the wave-siren, cannot here be considered in detail. Suffice it
to say that for present purposes the results are amply convincing.
     The wave-disk (Fig. 3) has been clamped upon the whirling-table,
which an assistant sets into rotation at a moderate speed. I blow
first through a small pipe through one of the rows of holes, then
through the other. The two low notes sound out separately, just a
seventh apart. Then I blow through the pipe with a slotted
mouth-piece against the waved edge ; at once you hear the two low
notes interfering, and making beats. On increasing the speed of
rotation the two notes become shrill, and the beats blend into a beat-
tone. Notice the pitch of that beat-tone : it is precisely the same as
that which I now produce by blowing through the small pipe against
the ring of 8 holes. With the other wave-disk, having 184 and 64
holes in the two primary circles, giving a wave-form corresponding
to the interval 8 : 23, the effects are of the same kind, and when
driven at the same speed it gives the same beat-tone as the former
wave-disk. It will be noted that in each of these two cases the
frequency of the beat-tone is neither the difference nor the sum of
the frequencies of the two primary tones.
     A final proof, if such were needed, is afforded by an experiment,
which, though of a striking character, will not necessarily be heard
by all persons present, being only well heard by those who sit in
certain positions. If a shrill tuning-fork is excited by a blow of the
steel mallet, and held opposite a flat wall, part of the waves which it
emits strike on the surface, and are reflected. This reflected system
of waves, as it passes out into the room, interfere with the direct
system. As a result, if the fork, held in the hand, be moved toward
the wall or from it, a series of maxima and minima of sound will
successively reach an ear situated in space at any point near the line

1890.]             on the Physical Foundation of Music.              223
of motion and will be heard as series of beats ; the rapidity with
which they succeed one another being proportional to the velocity
of the movement of the fork, the fork I am using is ule, which gives
well-marked beats, slow when I move my arm slowly, quick when
I move it quickly. There are limits to the speed at which the
human arm can be moved, and the quickest speed that I can give to
mine fails to make the beats blend to a tone. But if I take sol,,
vibrating 1 .', times as fast, and strike it, and move it away from the
wall with the fastest speed that my arm will permit, the beats blend
into a short low growl, a non-uniform tone of low pitch, but still
having true continuity.
     This first portion of my discourse may then be summarised by
saying that in all circumstances where beats, either natural or
artificial, can be produced with sufficient rapidity, they blend to
form a beat-tone of a pitch corresponding to their frequency.
     I now pass to the further part of the researches of Dr. Koenig
which relates to the timbre of sounds. Prior to the researches of
Dr. Koanig, it had been supposed that in the reception by the ear
of sounds of complex timbre the ear took no account of, and indeed
was incapable of perceiving, any differences in phase in the
constituent partial tones. For example, in the case of a note and
its octavo sounded together, it was supposed and believed that the
sensation in the ear, when the difference in phase of the two com
ponents was equivalent to one-half of the more rapid wave, was the
same as when that difference of phase was one-quarter, or three-
quarters, or zero. I had myself, in the year 1876, shown reason for
holding that the ear does nevertheless take cognizance of such
differences of phase. Moreover, the peculiar rolling or revolving
effect to be noticed in slow beats is a proof that the ear perceives
some difference due to difference of phase. Dr. Koenig is, however,
the first to put this matter on a distinct basis of observation. That
such differences of phase occur in the tones of musical instruments
 is certain : they arise inevitably in every case where the sounds of
subdivision are such that they do not agree rigidly with the
theoretical harmonics. Fig. 5 depicts a graphic record taken by
Dr. Koenig from a vibrating steel wire, in which a note and its
 octave had been simultaneously excited. The two sounds were
 scarcely preceptibly different from their true interval, but the higher
 note was just sufficiently sharper than the true harmonic octave to
gain about one wave in 180. The graphic trace has in Fig. 5 been
split up into 5 pieces to facilitate insertion in the text. It will be
seen that as the phase gradually changes, the form of the waves
undergoes a slow change from wave to wave.
     Now, it is usually assumed that in the vibrations of symmetrical
systems, such as stretched cords and open columns of air, the sounds
of subdivision agree with the theoretical harmonics. For example,
it is assumed that when a stretched string breaks up into a nodal
vibration of four parts, each of a quarter its length, the vibration is

 224                     Professor Silvanus P. Thompson                     [June 13,
 precisely four times as rapid as the fundamental vibration of the
 string as a whole. This would be true if the string were absolutely
 uniform, homogeneous, and devoid of rigidity. Strings never are
so ; and even if uniform and homogeneous, seeing that the rigidity
                                         Fio. 5.
                    Graphic Record of Vibrations of Steel Wires.
of a string has the effect of making a short piece stiffer in proportion
than a long piece, cannot emit true harmonics as the sounds of sub
division. In horns and open organ-pipes the width of the column
(which is usually neglected in simple calculations) affects the
frequency of the nodal modes of vibration. Wertheim found the
partial tones of pipes higher than the supposed harmonics. Dr.
Kranig found with an open organ-pipe, about 7J feet long, that the
eighth partial tone (or sound of subdivision) was a whole major tone
higher than the theoretical eighth harmonic, and nearly agreed with
the ninth harmonic of the fundamental tone ! Further, there are the
researches of Lord Rayleigh on the tones of bells, in which the
sounds of subdivision are most extraordinarily inharmonious ; afford
ing us probably the reason why concerted hand-bell music is so
unendurable. I do not know what the musicians present would say
to such chords * as
They are given by Lord Eayleigh as representing respectively the
sounds emitted by two of the bells of the peal at Terling.
   * The signs + or — signify that the actual tones were respectively a little
sharper or a little flatter than the note as written in the staff notation.

 1890.]            on the Physical Foundation of Music.              225
     Tin-no things being BO, it is manifestly insufficient to assume, as
 von Helmholtz does in his great work, that all timbres possess a
 purely periodic character ; with the necessary corollary that all
 timbres consist merely in the presence, with greater or less intensity,
 of one or more members of a series of higher tones corresponding
 to the terms of a Fourier-series of harmonics. When, therefore,
 following ideas based on this assumption, Ton Helmholtz constructs
 a series of resonators, accurately tuned to correspond to the terms of
 a Fourier-series (the first being tuned to some fundamental tone, the
 second to one of a frequency exactly twice as great, the third to a
 frequency exactly three times, and so forth), and applies such resona
 tors to analyse the timbres of various musical and vocal sounds, he
 is trying to make Nature fit to an ideal system which Nature does
 not herself follow. He is trying to make his resonators pick up
 things which in many cases do not exist—upper partial tones which
 are exact harmonics. If they are not exact harmonics, even though
 they exist, his tuned resonator does not hear them, or only hears
 them imperfectly, and he is thereby led into an erroneous appreciation
of tho sound under examination.
     Further, when in pursuance of this dominant idea he constructs
 a system of electro-magnetic tuning-forks, accurately tuned to give
forth the trno mathematical harmonics of a fixed series, thinking
therewith to reproduce artificially the timbres not only of the various
musical instruments but even of the vowel sounds, he fails to repro
duce the supposed effects. The failure is inherent in the instrument ;
for it cannot reproduce those natural timbres which do not fall
within the circumscribed limits of its imposed mathematical principle.
Nature does not sort men out into rigidly defined sets, one set exactly
 four feet high, another set exactly five feet high, another exactly six
feet high. Neither does she, in the vibrations of strings, reeds, and
air-columns impose rigid mathematical relations between the funda
mental notes and the sounds of subdivision, though in many cases
such mathematical relations are approximately attained. Harmony
depends, beyond contest, on the approximate fulfilment of exact
mathematical relations, and it is the grand achievement of von Helm
holtz to have shown us why this is so. But the question of timbre
involves the more subtle question of the minuter details of vibration
by virtue of which the sound of a note in one instrument differs from
that of the same note in an instrument of another kind, and depends
therefore on the mechanism of the small vibrating parts. In theso
matters of delicate detail the natural departures from mathematical
relations assert themselves. He who neglects these departures, or
tries to square them to his preconceived theory, misses ono of their
most important characteristics, and can only render an imperfect
account of them.
    Nothing is more certain than that in the tones of instruments,
particularly in those of such instruments as the harp and the piano
forte, in which the impulse, once given, is not sustained, the relations
    VOL. XIII. (No. 84.)                                       Q

226                   Professor Silvanus P. Thompson          [June 13,
between the component partial tones are continually changing, both
in relative intensity and in phase. The wavelets, as they follow one
another, are ever changing their forms ; in other words, the motions
are not truly periodic—their main form may recur, but with modifi
cations ever changing.
     To estimate the part played in such phenomena by mere differ
ences of phase—to evaluate, in fact, the influence of phase of
the constituents upon the integral effect of a compound sound—Dr.
Eoenig had recourse to the wave-siren, an earlier invention of his
own, of which the wave-disks which have already been shown are
examples.
     In the first place, Dr. Koenig proceeded synthetically to construct
the wave-forms for tones consisting of the resultant of a set of pure
harmonies of gradually decreasing intensity. The composition of
complex wave-form out of simple waves belonging to a Fourier-
series has long been a familiar subject to students of acoustics ; and
instruments have been devised by Wheatstone and others to produce
them mechanically. Of such devices one of the most elegant is the
curve-drawing machine of Mr. A. Stroh, here on the table, which he
 has kindly lent me, together with a number of curves produced by its
 incnnH. With this beautiful little machine it is possible to draw
curves compounded of any of the first eight waves of a harmonic
series, in various phases and of various amplitudes.
     In Dr. Koenig's synthetic study he began by drawing to scale the
separate waves of the different orders. The curves of these, up to
 the tenth member of the series, were carefully compounded graphi
 cally : first with zero difference of phase, then with all the upper
members shifted on one quarter, then with a difference of a half-wave,
 then with with a difference of three-quarters. The results are shown
 in the top line of curves in Fig. 6, wherein it will be noticed that
 the curve for difference of phase = £ is like that for zero differ
 ence, but reversed, left for right ; and that the curve for difference
 of phase = ^ is like that for difference = ^, but inverted. Now,
 according to von Helmholtz, the sounds of all these four curves
should be precisely alike, in spite of their differences of form and
 position. To test the matter, these carefully-plotted curves were set
out upon the circumference of a cylindrical band of thin metal, the
 edge being then cut away, leaving the unshaded portion, the curve being
 repeated half a dozen times, and meeting itself after passing round
 the circumference. For convenience, the four curves to be compared
 are set out upon the separate rims of two such metallic cylindrical
 hoops, which are mounted upon one axis, to which a rapid motion of
 rotation can be imparted, as shown in Fig. 7. Against the dentel-
 lated edges of these rims, wind can be blown through narrow slits
 connected to the wind-chamber of an organ-table. In the apparatus
 (Fig. 7) the four curves in question are the four lowest of the set of
 six. It will be obvious that, as these curves pass in front of the slits
 from which wind issues, the maximum displacement of air will result

1890.] on the Physical Foundation of Music.      227
                       FIG. 6.
              Synthesis of Wave-forms.
                       FIG. 7.
        Wave-forms set out to act as Sirens.
                                             Q 2

228                   Professor Silvanus P. Thompson                 [June 13,
when the slit is least covered, or when tho point of greatest
depression of the curve crosses the front of the slit. The negative
ordinates of the curves correspond therefore approximately to
condensations. Air is now being supplied to the slits ; and when I
open one or other of the valves which control the air-passages, yon
hear one or other of the sounds. It must be audible to every one
present that the sound is louder and more forcible with a difference
of phase of \ than in any other case, that produced with ;| difference
being gentle and soft in tones, whilst the curves of phase 0 and K
yield tones of intermediate quality. Dr. Koenig found that, if he
merely combined together in various phases a note and its octave
(which was indeed the instance examined by me binaurally in 1876),
the loudest resultant sound is given when the phase difference of the
combination is j, and tho mildest when it is .[.
     Returning to Fig. 6, in the second line are shown the curves
which result from the superposition of the odd members only of a
harmonic series of decreasing amplitude. On comparing together
the curves of the four separate phases, it is seen that the form is
identical for phases 0 and £, which show rounded waves, whilst for
phases j[ and J the forms are also identical, but with sharply angular
outline. These two varieties of curve are set out on the two edges
of the highest metallic circumference in the apparatus depicted in
 Fig. 7. The angular waves are found to yield a louder and more
strident tone than the rounded waves, though according to von Helm-
holtz, their tones should be alike.
     A much more elaborate form of compound wave-siren (Fig. 8)
was constructed by Dr. Roenig for the synthetic study of these phase-
 relations. Upon a single axis, one behind the other is mounted a
series of 16 brass disks, cut at their edges into sinusoidal wave
forms. These represent a harmonic series of 16 members of de
creasing amplitude, there being just sixteen times as many small
 sinuosities on the edge of the largest disk as there are of large
 sinuosities on that of the smallest disk. A photograph of the ap
 paratus* is now thrown upon the screen. Against the edge of each
 of the 16 wave-disks wind can be separately blown through a slit.
 This instrument, therefore, furnishes a fundamental sound with its
 first fifteen pure harmonics. It is clear that any desired combina
 tion can be obtained by opening the appropriate stops on the
 wind-chest ; and there are ingenious arrangements to vary the
 phases of any of the separate tones by shifting the positions of
 the slits.
      The brass tubes, which terminate in 15 mouth-piece slits, are
connected to the wind-chest by flexible rubber tubes. The mouth
piece tubes are so mounted that they can be displaced laterally in
curved slots concentric with the disks. By the aid of templates
    * It is described fully by Dr. Koenig in his volume ' Quelques Experiences,'
and was figured and described in ' Nature,' vol. xxvi. p, 277.

1890.]            on the Physical Foundation of Music.                    22D
cut out in comb-fashion, and screwed, as shown in Fig. 12, to a lever
handle, the mouth-pieces, or any set of them can be displaced at will,
producing any pre-arranged difference of phase. Fig. 9 shows the
                                  Fio. 8.
    Kranig's Compound Wave-siren fur synthetic researches on the quality of
                            Compound Tones.
way in which the 15 movable slits are arranged with respect to the
wave-disks and to the one fixed slit of the fundamental note ; they
are set in two radial lines for convenience of grouping, and so that
                                                                  Q 3

230                    Professor Silvanus P. Thompson                  [June 13,
each is opposite the crest of the wave of its own wave-disk ; all the
slits being simultaneously closed. This corresponds in Dr. Koenig's
nomenclature to a phase of f ; minimum flow of air occurring
                                        Fia. 9.
    Positions of the Slits in front of the Wave-disks for combining the Sounds
                               with Phase-difference j.
                                       Fio. 10.
                     Position of the Slits for Phase-difference ,] .
                                       FIG. 11.
                   Position of the Slits for Phase-difference i.
simultaneously for all the components. Suppose now it is desired to
change the phase so that the slits shall all be open simultaneously,
all that is necessary is to move forward the slits of alternate

1890.]             on the Physical Foundation of Music.              '231
members of the series, as shown in Fig. 10. This is done by a
special template. Fig. 11 shows the positions required for phase
of ^. Fig. 12 shows the template for zero phase. To produce this
there will be no movement required for the fourth, eighth, and
twelfth members of the movable set, but the intermediate ones will
                                     Fio. 12.
                   Position of the Slits for Phase-difference 0.
need to be shifted by £, ^, and f of their respective waves. When
this set of positions is attained tho condensation is increasing at the
 same moment for all the component waves, and reaches its mean
 values simultaneously. In experimenting the practice is to listen
 first to the combined sound with the undisplaced slits, and then,
 suddenly raising the lever, observe the change in the resultant
 sound.
      The following are the chief results obtained with this instrument.
 If we first take simply the fundamental tone and its octave together,
 the total resultant sound has the greatest intensity when the differ
 ence of phase 8 = £ (i. e. when the maximum displacement of air
 occurs at the same instant for both waves) ; and at the same time
 the whole character of the sound becomes somewhat graver, as if the
 fundamental tone predominated more than in" other phases. The
 intensity is least when 8 = f. If, however, attention is concentrated
 on the octave note while the phase is changed, its intensity seems about
 the same for 8 = ^ as for 8=f, but weaker in all other positions. The
 compound tones formed only of odd members of the series have
  always more power and brilliancy of tone for phase differences of £
  and f , than for 0 and £ ; but the quality for £ is always the same as
 for J, and the quality for 0 is always the same as for £. This
 corresponds to the peculiarity of the corresponding wave-form, of
  which the fourth line of curves in Fig. 6 is an example. For com
  pound tones corresponding to the whole series, odd and even, there
 is, in every case, minimum intensity, brilliancy, and stridenco with

  232                 Professor Silvanus P. Thompson               [June 13,
 8 = £, and maximum with ?> = -\. Inspection of the first and third
 lines of curves in Fig. 6 shows that in these wave-forms that phase
 which is the most forcible is that in which the maximum displacement,
 and resulting condensation, is sudden and brief.
     Observing that wave-forms in which the waves are symmetrical—
 steeper on one side than on the other—are produced as the resultant
 of a whole series of compounded partial tones, it occurred to Dr.
 Koenig to produce from a perfect and symmetrical sinusoidal wave-
curve a complex sound by the very simple device of turning into an
oblique position the slit through which the wind was blown against it.
In Fig. 13 is drawn a simple symmetrical wave-form, eglnprtv. If a
                                    FIG. 13.
                           Effect of Tilting the Slit.
series of such wave-forms is passed in front of a vertical slit, such as
a 6, a perfectly simple tone, devoid of upper partials, is heard. But
by inclining the slit, as at ab', the same effect is produced as if the
wave-form had been changed to the oblique outline e'g'l'n'p'r't'v', the
slit all the while remaining upright. But this oblique form is pre
cisely like that obtained as resultant of a decreasing series of partial
tones (Fig. 6, a). If the slit be inclined in the same direction as the for
ward movement of the waves, the quality produced is the same as if
all the partial tones coincided at their origin, or with 8=0 ; while if
inclined in the opposite direction the quality is that corresponding to
8 = £. It is easy to examine whether the change of phase produces
any effect on the sound. Before you is a simple wave-disk, and air
is being blown across its edge through a slit. On tilting the slit
forward to give 8 = 0, you hear a purer and more perfect sound ; and
on tilting it back, giving 8 = J, a sound that is more nasal and
forcible.
     All the preceding experiments agree then in showing that
differences of phase do produce a distinct effect upon the quality
of compound tones : what then must we say as to the effect on the

1890.]             on the Physical Foundation of Music.              233
timbre of the presence of upper partial tones or sounds of subdivision
that do not agree with any of the true harmonics? A mistuned
harmonic—if the term is permissible—may be looked upon as a
harmonic which is undergoing continual change of phase. The
mistuned octave which yielded the graphic curve of Fig. 5 is a case
in point. The wavelets are continually changing their form. It is
certain that in a very large number of musical sounds, instrumental
and vocal, such is the case.
     It was whilst experimenting with his large compound wave-siren
that Dr. Koenig was struck by the circumstance that under no con
ditions, and by no combination of pure harmonics in any proportion
of intensity or phase could he reproduce any really strident timbres
of sound, like those of harmonium reeds, trumpets, and the like ; nor
could he produce satisfactory vowel qualities of tone. Still less
can these be produced satisfactorily by von Helniboltz's apparatus
with electro-magnetic tuning-forks, in which there is no mode of vary
ing the phases of the components. The question was therefore ripe
for investigation, whether, for the production of that which the ear can
recognise as a timbre, a definite unitary quality of tone, it was
necessary to suppose that all the successive wavelets should be of
similar form. Or, if the forms of the successive wavelets are con
tinually changing, is it possible for the ear still to grasp the result
as a unitary sensation ?
     If the ear could always separate impure harmonic or absolutely
anharmonic partials from their fundamental tone, or if it always
heard pure harmonics as an indistinguishable part of the unity of the
timbre of a fundamental, then we might draw a hard and fast line
 between more mixtures of sound and timbres, even as the chemist dis
 tinguishes between mere mixtures and true chemical compounds.
 But this is not so : sometimes the ear cannot unravel from the in
 tegral sensation the inharmonious partial ; on the other hand, it can
 often distinguish the presence of truly harmonious ones. Naturally,
 something will depend on the training of the ear ; as is the case with
the conductor of an orchestra, who will pick out single tones from a
 mixture of sounds which to less perfectly trained ears may blend
 into a unitary sensation.
     Dr. Koenig accordingly determined to make at least an attempt to
determine synthetically how far the ear can so act, by building tip
 specific combinations of perturbed harmonics or anharmonic partials,
giving rise to waves that are multiform, as distinguished from the
 uniform waves of a true periodic motion. The wave-siren presented
 a means of carrying this attempt to a result. On the table before
 me lie a number of wave-disks constructed with this aim. These I
 will now set into rotation by aid of a silent-running water-motor, and
 will blow against them by means of a wind-chest, which supplies air
 to the slit at a sufficiently great and steady pressure. But I ought to
 warn you that these experiments are intended for the laboratory
 rather than for the lecture theatre, and only those who sit in the

  234                 Professor Silvanus P. Thompson            [Juno 13,
 immediate front of the apparatus will boar the resultant sounds
 properly.
      Upon the edge of the first of the series there has been cut a curve
 graphically compounded of 24 waves as a fundamental, together with
 a set of four perturbed harmonics of equal intensity. The first har
 monic consists of 49 waves (2 X 24 + 1) ; the second of 75 waves
 (3 X 24 + 3) ; the third of 101 (4 X 24 + 5) ; the fourth of 127
 (5 X 24 + 7). The resulting curve possesses 24 waves, no two of
 them alike in form, and some highly irregular in contour. The
 effect of blowing air through a slit against this disk is to produce a
 disagreeable sound, quite lacking in unitary character, and indeed
 suggesting intermittence.
     The second wave-disk is constructed with the same perturbed
 harmonics, but with their amplitudes diminishing in order. This
 disk produces similar effects, but with more approach to a unitary
 character.
     In the third disk there are also 24 fundamental waves, but there
are no harmonics of the lower terms, the superposed ripples being
perturbed harmonics of the fifth, sixth, and seventh orders. Their
numbers are 6 X 24 + 6 ; 7 X 24 + 7 ; and 8 x 24 + 8 ; being,
in fact, three harmonics of a fundamental 25. This disk gives a
distinctly dual sort of sound ; for the ear hears the fundamental
quite separate from the higher tones, which set themselves to blend
to a unitary effect. There is also an iutermittence corresponding to
each revolution of the disk, like a beat.
     The fourth disk resembles the preceding ; but the gap between
the fundamental and the three perturbed harmonics has been filled
by the addition of three true harmonics. This disk is the first in
this research which gives a real timbre, though it is a peculiar one :
it preserves, however, a unitary character, even when the slit is tilted
in either direction. The 24 waves in this disk all rake forward like
the teeth of a circular saw, but with multiform ripples upon them.
The quality of tone becomes more crisp when the slit is tilted so as
to slope across the teeth, and more smooth when in the reverse
direction.
     The fifth disk, which is larger, has 40 waves at its edge ; these
are cut with curves of all sorts, taken haphazard from various com
binations of pure harmonics in all sorts of proportions and varieties,
no two being alike, the maxima and minima of the separate waves
being neither isochronous nor of equal amplitude. This disk gives
an entirely unmusical effect, amid which a fundamental tone is heard,
accompanied by a sort of rattling sound made up of intermittent and
barely recognisable tones.
     The sixth disk is derived from the preceding by selecting eight
only of the waves, and repeating them five times around the periphery.
In this case each set of eight acts as a single long curve, giving beats,
with a slow rotation, and a low tone (accompanied always by the
rattling mixture of higher tones) when the speed is increased.

1890.]             on the Physical Foundation of Music.             235
    The seventh disk was constructed by taking 24 waves of perfect
sinusoidal form, and superposing upon them a series of small
ripples of miscellaneous shapes and irregular sizes, but without
essentially departing from the main outline. This disk gives
a timbre in which nothing can be separated from the fundamental
tone, either with vertical or tilted slit.
    The eighth and last disk consists of another set of 24 perfect
waves, from the sides of which irregular ripples have been carved
away by hand, with the file, leaving, however, the summits and the
deepest parts of the hollows untouched, so that the maxima and
minima are isochronous and of equal amplitude. This disk gives
also a definite timbre of its own, a little raucous in quality, but still
distinctly having a musical unity about it.
    We have every reason, therefore, to conclude that the ear will
recognise as possessing true musical quality, as a timbre, a combina
tion in which the constituents of the sound vary in their relative
intensity and phase from wave to wave.
    'What, then, is a timbre ? Dr. Koenig would be the first to recog
nise that these experiments, though of deepest interest, do not afford
a final answer to the question. We may not yet be in a position to
frame a new definition as to what constitutes a timbre, but wo may at
least conclude that, whenever that definition can be framed, it will at
least include several varieties, including the non-periodic kinds with
multiform waves, as well as those that are truly periodic with
uniform waves. We must not on that account, however, rush to the
conclusion that the theory of von Helmholtz as to the nature of
timbre has been overthrown. The corrections introduced into lunar
theory by Hausen and Newcomb have not overturned the splendid
generalisations of Newton. What we can and must confess is that
we now know that the acoustic theory of von Helmholtz is, like the
lunar theory of Newton, correct only as a first approximation. It has
been the distinctive merit of Dr. Koenig to indicate to us the magni
tude of the correcting terms, and to supply us not only with a rich
store of experimental facts but with the means of prosecuting the
research synthetically beyond the point to which he himself has
attained.
    Fascinating as is the pursuit of such questions, one cannot con
clude these researches without pausing to enquire how much nearer
they have brought us to the ultimate explanation of the power which
music exercises upon us. And it must be confessed frankly that the
discovery of the physical foundations of the science leaves us very
much where we were before. For music, though a science, is before
all an art, and can be interpreted only by the artist. Science has
nothing to say concerning the vast range of musical impressions,
which are purely associative in their character. No analysis, how
ever searching, will explain away the thrill that runs through us as
we listen to some simple phrase or motif which recalls the stately pre
lude, the inspiring theme, the passionate andante, the gay barcarolle,

236    Prof. Thompson on Physical Foundation ofMusic.        [June 13/90.
the massive triumphal march, or the wailing miserere. The horn
of Siegfried summons as to Briinhilde's rock, quite irrespective
of the upper partial tones which accompany its fundamental tone.
We may try to analyse our sensations with endless metaphysical re
finements : we may investigate their physical causes by the most careful
dissection of the waves and wavelets with which the musician's hand
and instrument flood our listening ears—and we are not a whit nearer
either to composing music ourselves or to comprehending its intrinsic
beauty and power. Wo might as well suppose that wo could become
painters by going through a course of chemical analysis of the paints
employed by a Watts or a Herkomer. True, a knowledge of the
chemistry of pigments will assist the artist by sparing him blunders
and giving him something morel than empirical rules to guide him in
the mixing of his paints. So likewise, a knowledge of the physical
basis of music may help the musician by lifting him above merely
empirical rules, which, like that forbidding consecutive fifths, are
founded on no rational basis, being deliberately violated by the
builder of every organ, and set aside by every great composer. But,
make him a musician, never. Analysis, though it is an instinctive
faculty of the mind, is not art. Of some arts indeed, it may be said
that analysis is death ; but only of those which have been based on
falsehood or superstition. Art that is true fears nothing from
analysis ; it is beyond and above its reach. And music, the most
refined, the most subtle, the most spiritual of the arts, defies analysis
more effectually than any. Our enquiry leaves its emotional and
spiritual power untouched, unchanged.
    Some things there are which lose their charm when touched by
the finger of enquiry : their spell is snapt ; their magic vanishes
into thin air. Not so is it with music :—
                " For music, which is as a voice,
                  A low voice calling fancy, as a friend,
                  To the green woods in the gay summer-time,
                  Seeing we know emotions strange by it
                  Not else to be revealed ....
                  ... is earnest of a Heaven."
                                                              [S. P. T.]

            i&ogal institution of ffireat Eritaht,
                       WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, January 23, 1891.
SIR FREDERICK BRAMWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.E.S. Honorary Secretary
                         and Vice President, in the Chair.
     THE RIGHT HON. SIR EDWARD FRY, Lord Justice of Appeal,
                           F.E.S. F.S.A. F.L.S. M.E.I.
                                   British Mosses.
                                     (Abstract.)
I CANNOT without an apology address the Royal Institution on this
subject. I can make no pretence to speak with authority ; I speak
only as a learner who has devoted to the subject some leisure from
amidst avocations of a very different kind. But the pleasure I have
derived from the study, the sense, whenever I am in the country,
that I am surrounded with a world of variety and beauty of which
I was formerly only dimly conscious, and the hope of communicating
some of this pleasure to others may, I hope, furnish some apology for
my venturing to speak on the subject.
     Classification.—Without entering into any question as to the best
classification of the mosses, or the relative systematic value of the dif
ferent groups, the following table, which is arranged in an ascending
rank, will be sufficient to show the position of the mosses in the
vegetable kingdom, and the principal groups into which they may be
divided :—
                                     TABLE A.
  Vascular                               Series.         Orders.
Cryptogams                                                          Examples.
                                      ricuroearpfE                 llypnum
                                      Acrocnrpac   / Stegocarpm    Polytrichum
                                                   \ Oloistocarpte Phascum
                     i. Masci
MuBcinete                             Anomaleao     1 Schizooarpm  Andrnia
                                                   \ Holoearpso    Archidium
                   ii. SphagnaccjB
                  iii. Hepaticorc I J»"P™niacea>
                ,                   \ Marchautiacea;
Alga>, &o.
    From this table it will bo gathered that the mosses, using that word
in its wide signification, stand at the head of the cellular cryptogams,
and that above them are the vascular cryptogams, of which the ferus
are one of the best-known groups. From these vascular cryptogams
the mosses are, however, separated by a distance which Gocbel has
described as a chasm " the widest with which we arc acquainted in
the whole vegetable kingdom."
    VOL. XIII. (No. 85.)                  ^^^^=T~,r-^ . .              «

238                         Lord Justice Fry                  [Jan. 23,
    From the table it will be further seen that the larger group of
the Muscinete divides itself into three principal smaller groups ; tin::
Hepaticte or liverworts, the Sphagnace» or turf mosses, and the Musci
or true mosses—urn-mosses, as they have been called, from the form
of their capsule. Passing over the other subdivisions, it may be
observed that the Acrocarpous mosses are those which carry their
capsules at the end of the axis of growth, whilst the Pleurocarpous
mosses bear their fructification on stalks, more or less long, proceed
ing from the sides of the axis. Amongst these Pleurocarpous mosses
occurs the old genus Hypnum (broken up by modern systomatists
into several genera), the largest of all the genera in these islands
or in Europe—a vast group which occupies amongst mosses something
like the place which the Agarics occupy amongst the Fungi.
     Number of British Species.—If we were to try and ascertain the
number of the British Muscineae from the systematists of some few
years ago, like Hooker and Wilson, the species would number be
tween 500 and 600 ; but according to the views of more recent
writers, the number would probably rise to something between 800
and 900. The trne mosses are the most numerous, the turf-mosses
by far the fewest.
     Date of Flora.—What is the date of this moss flora of Britain ?
Two ancient collections enable us to give some reply to the question.
In an interglacial bed near Crofthead, in Renfrewshire, eleven
species of moss were discovered, and with one possible exception all
nro well-defined British species of the present day. If we take
Mr. Wallace's chronology, and hold that 80,000 years have passed
since the Glacial epoch disappeared, and 200,000 years since the
Glacial epoch was at its maximum, we may perhaps give from 100,000
to 150,000 years for the age of this little collection. Out of the
eleven mosses discovered, seven belong to the genus Hypnum, or the
family Hypnacete. This collection, then, is evidence, so far as it
goes, (1) that the existing moss flora is as old as the interglacial
 epoch ; (2) that the Hypnacere were as dominant then as now : and
 (3) that the specific forms have remained constant since that epoch.
     Another collection of fourteen mosses has been discovered in a
 drift in the Clyde valley above the Boulder drift, and tends to
 confirm the previous conclusions ; as all the species are existing, all
 now inhabit the valley of the Clyde, and the Hypnacero are still pre
 dominant, though not in so great a proportion as in the Renfrewshire
 bed.
     The fossil remains of mosses are not numerous, nor for the most
 part very ancient. Heer inferred their existence in the Liassic period,
 from the presence of remains of a group of small Coleoptera, the
 existing members of which now live amongst mosses—an inference
 which seems not very strong. But recently the remains of a moss
 have been found in the Carboniferous strata at Commentry, in
 France. It appears to be closely allied to the extant Polytrichum,
 the most highly-developed genus of mosses ; so that we have here a

 1891.]                     on liritMi Mosses.                         239
phenomenon like that which occurs in reference to the Equisetacesa
 and Lycopodiacese, viz. that the earliest fossil species known belong
 to very highly-developed forms of the group.
    Life-History.—The following table (p. 240) is intended to illustrate
 the life-history of a moss in its fullest and in its abbreviated courses,
and to bring this history into comparison with that of the ferns.
     Attention should first be drawn to the second column, which
shows the life history in its fullest form. It will be seen that it
starts with a spore and returns to a spore.
     From (1) the spore, which is a simple cell, proceeds (2) the
protonema, a line of cells, extending by transverse divisions, so that
it consists of single cells joined end to end to one another—an
organism indistinguishable from the hypha of an Alga. At points
this hypha throws off lateral branches which are always of less
diameter than the principal ones. There is thus produced a tangled
mat of fibres, running on or near the surface of the ground, and
often coloured by chlorophyll. It is the green stuff so often seen in
flower-pots which have been allowed to get too damp. At points in
the primary hypha individual cells begin to divide in a new fashion—
not by transverse septa as before, but by septa differently inclined, so
ae to produce the rudiments of leaves ; and the direction of growth
changes from horizontal to vertical. Thus is formed (3) the bud,
which by growth gives rise to (4) the moss plant ; on this plant, some
times in close proximity to one another, sometimes in different parts
of the same plant, sometimes on different plants, are formed (a) the
female cell or archegonium, and (b) the antheridia or male organs,
the antherozoids proceeding from which seek and find and fertilise
the archegonium. This completes the first part of the life of the
plant, the oophytic generation which results in a single sexual cell,
viz. the fertilised archegonium. From this cell arises the next
generation, consisting of the sporogone or stem bearing the capsule and
the capsule itself, in which without fertilisation are produced spores.
The plant has thus started with the spore, an asexual cell, reached
the point where its whole future is gathered up in a sexual cell,
which has produced an organism again producing an asexual cell : we
started with a spore, and have returned to a spore ; we have travelled
round a circle, divisible into two parts or generations, one sexual, the
other asexual ; and we have therefore a case of alternation of genera
tions. To make this statement more clear, it may be observed that a
generation is here spoken of as that part of the life of an organism
which intervenes between the two points at which its whole future is
gathered up into one cell ; that such a cell is sexual when it is tho
result of the combination of two previously existing and independent
cells ; that such a cell is asexual when it is not the result of such
combination ; that an alternation of generation exists, whenever in
the complete cycle of existence or life-history there are two points at
which the whole organism is reduced to a single cell, and when the
forms of the organism in the two intervals of its development are
                                                               R 2

.0                         Lord Justice Fry                 [Jan. 28
      r            ^S           '3        o
                   111
                   fa fa fa
                    811
                    •             BO
                   i            i         M
                   t3            1
                                 *-i '    tJ
                   111
                                 1
              1                  1         1
               §    '§           fa        a
              fa                 |        £
 pi
    1   91
        I
        §
        O
              S
               t3
               8
               2
                    '3
                    M
                                  '**
                                  S
                                   §
                                    I
                                     "
                                          1
                                          O
                                           S
                                           §
 OS           A                  S
                                                 bC     *p
H                              JL
 e
  1                            11
                                {£)     ©
 B
         e
         S     1a   -
                    ^             J
                                  OH
         '-»  .J     .. 'v          ...
        OQ      g   -              |
              fa                  a             'sa     «so       o
                                                S       S         s
             4.3                                £       »"
             |1
             1!
    1
        *"^   I                              j>                    ;
                  Sga                               £.3
                  -sfl
                                                    fill
    |                                               yi*

 1891.]                     on British Mosses.                         241
different. In the mosses, where the sporogone co-exists with and is
organically connected with what I have called the moss plant, it is
evident that the two generations are not such, according to the more
popular notion of that word ; they are not independent, nor
necessarily successive.
    A comparison of the first and second columns of the last table
reveals at once the likeness and the nnlikeness of the life-histories of
the moss and of the fern. In each case the spore produces a growth
of the form and nature entirely unlike the mother-plant—in one case
a hypha, in the other a thallus. But whilst in the moss the proto-
nema produces the moss plant, in the fern the prothallus itself is the
home of the male and female organs, and of the sexual process, so
that the fern plant belongs to the sporophytic and the moss plant to
the oophytic generation ; the fern plant is the result of the sexual
union, whilst the moss plant is produced from an asexual spore ; the
fern plant produces spores asexually, the moss plant produces the
sporogone as the result of the sexual union.
    The observations which arise in connection with this comparison are
numerous. (1) It is the belief of botanists, ever since the investigations
of Hofmeister, that not mosses and ferns only, but all the phanerogams,
go through an alternation of generations consisting of the oophytio
and sporophytic generations. (2) It appears that the mosses and
the Characete are the only groups of plants in which the conspicuous
and vegetative organism—the plant, in ordinary parlance—belongs
to the oophytic generation : (3) That, in consequence, the plant of
the moss is in no sense the ancestor of the plant of the fern, or of the
phanerogams, but belongs to a different generation from these ; and
further, that the leaves, the stem, and the epidermis of the moss have
no genetic connection with the leaves, the stem, or the epiderms of
our flowering plants, whilst the fibro-vascular bundles of the sporo
gone of the Polytrichum, and the stomata on the apophyses of some
mosses will belong to the same generation which, in the vascular
cryptogams and phanerogams, produces similar organs. (4) That the
great chasm in the systematic arrangement of the vegetable kingdom
between the mosses and the ferns is thus accounted for by their
belonging to different generations, so that the ferns are not in any
sense descendants of the mosses, but only collateral relatives, as thus—
                                                              Ferns.
                    M\wses.
                                  Alga.-.

242                            Lord Justice Fry                          [Jon. 23,
(5) That, consequently, the mosses not only represent the highest
development known of the cellular cryptogams, but the highest point
in one line of development, in which the oophytic generation took
the lead in importance ; whilst the vascular cryptogams and phane
rogams are the results of another and more successful line of develop
ment, in which the sporophytio generation took the lead as the
prominent part in the life-history.
      The appearance of similar organs in two independent lines of
development— i. e. of the leaves, stem, and epidermis—in the mosses,
and then in the ferns, without any relation of descent, is a thing well
worthy of being pondered over by those who study evolution : it may
suggest that the two lines of development, though independent, are
governed by some principle which brings about such like results : it
may be compared with the liknesses which occur in the animal
kingdom between the placental and marsupial mammals.
      The remaining columns of the table above given will best be
understood after a study of the next succeeding table.
      Modes of Reproduction.—Hitherto we have considered only the
reproduction from a spore produced in the special organ for their
production—the spore capsule. But, in fact, one of the most striking
peculiarities of the mosses is the vast variety of their modes of repro
duction.
                    TABLE C.—MODES OP REPRODUCTION.
                              A.— With Protonema.
  i. Spores,            in capsule
                                                     | Leptodontium gemmascms.
 ii. Gemma) ..          on end of leaf ..        . . < Orthotrichum phyllanihum.
                                                     | Grimmia ffartmani.
                        on midrib ..            . . Tortula papillosa.
                        in axils of leaves       .. Bryum.
                        in balk      .. ..      . . Aviacomnion.
                        in cups                  .. Tttraphit.
                        from rhizoids ..              (Phascian.
iii. Protonema                                   ' ' \Polytrichum.
                        from aerial rhizoids    . . Dicranum undulatum.
                        from terminal leaves    . . Oncophorus glaucus.
                        from biisc of leaf      . . Funaria hygrometrica.
                        from midrib              . . Orthotrichvm Lyelii.
                        from margin             .. Buxbavmia aphylla.
                        from stems               . . Dicraman undulatum.
                        from calvptra ..         . . Conomitrium julianum.
                             B.— Without Protonema.
  iv. Leaf-buds ..      onrhizoids..               . Grimmia pulvinata.
    v. Leaf-buds ..     on aerial rhizoids         . Dicranum undulatum.
  vi. Bulbs .. ..       on stem                    . Bryum annotinum.
 vii. Young Plants      at ends of branches        . Sphagnum cuspidatum.
                                                      .Conomitrium juliasum.
viii. Leafy Branches    becoming detached          ' | Cindidotia aquaticus.
                of man}                                Mnium undulatum.
      In the above table, which is probably far from exhaustive, I

1891.]                       on British Mosses.                           248
have endeavoured to exhibit many of these modes of reproduction,
dividing them into those cases in which it takes place with protonema,
and those cases in which it takes place without.
     Weismanris Theory.—The consideration of this table is not without
its interest in reference to Prof. Weismann's theory of the division
of the cells and plasma of organisms into two kinds : the germ cells
and germ plasma endowed with a natural immortality, and the
somatic cells and somatic plasma with no such endowment. That the
mosses are a difficulty in the acceptance of the theory as a universal
truth, the Professor himself admits. The evidence of the mosses
seems to amount at least to this: that in this whole group, the
highest in this line of development, where the oophytic generation
produces the principal plant, and where there are highly specialised
organs for the production of spores or germ cells—that in this whole
group either there is no effectual separation between the two kinds of
plasma, or that tho germ plasma is so widely diffused amongst the
somatic plasma that every portion of the plant is capable of repro
ducing the entire organism.
     Comparison with Zoological Embryology. —The table will further
offer us some points of comparison with animal embryology.
     In that branch of physiology, one of the most remarkable facts is
what has been called recapitulation, i. e. the summary in the life of
the individual of the life of the race, so that the development of the
individual tells the development of the race —e. g. the gills of the tad-
pole tell us of the descent of the Batrachians from gill-breathing
animals.
     So here we cannot doubt that the protonema of the moss tells us
of the descent of the whole group of mosses from the Algse.
     Another remarkable fact in animal embryology is the co-existence
in exceptional cases of the mature and the immature form ; so the
axolotl retains both gills and lungs throughout its life. In like
manner it happens with some mosses, e. g. the Phascum, retains its
algoid protonema throughout its life.
     Again, in zoological embryology, an attempt is often found, to
use the language of Prof. Milnes Marshall,* " to escape from tho
necessity of recapitulating, and to substitute for the ancestral process
a more direct method."
     In like manner the preceding tables will show to how great an
extent Nature has adopted the system of short-circuiting in the re
production of the mosses ; for in every mode of reproduction, except
that through sporogone and spore, it will be observed that a
shorter circuit is travelled, e.g. the Orthotrichum phyllanthnm pro
duces cells at the end of its leaves, which, falling to the ground,
throw out a protoneiia which produces a bud, and then a moss plant,
and then a cell at the end of the leaf, and the whole sporophytic
   * Address to Biological Section of British Association ('Nature,' vol. zlii,
p. 478).

244                           Lord Justice Fry                   [Jan. 23,
generation is evaded ; and so on in gradually shortening circles (see
Table B), till we get the case of a Sphagnum, which produces a little
Sphagnum plant at the end of its leaves without protonema—whether
without bud, I do not know. In every case Nature seems to leave out
the sexual reproduction if she can help it, and directs her whole atten
tion to the production of the vegetative organism— the moss plant in
the popular sense^which she never omits.
      Another point of comparison arises, but this time it is one of
contrast between the embryology of tho two kingdoms.
      In animals, to again quote Prof. Milncs Marshall, " Recapitulation
is not seen in all forms of development, but only in sexual develop
ment, or at least only in development from the egg. In the several
 forms of asexual development, of which budding is the most
 frequent and the most familiar, there is no repetition of ancestral
 phases, neither is there in cases of regeneration of lost parts."
      In mosses, on the contrary, tho table last given shows that in
 most of the modes of reproduction, the ancestral form, the algoid
 protonema, is retained and reproduced, whereas in the growth from a
 sexual cell, i. e. in the sporogone, the ancestral form entirely
 disappears.
       The peristome, or girdle of teeth round the orifice of the capsule,
 assumes very varying forms, often of great beauty and interest. In
 some of the mosses it is absent, in some it consists of one ring of
 teeth, in many of two rings, and in one foreign genus (Dawsonia) there
 are as many as four circles of teeth.
      The object served by this complicated structure is not, perhaps,
 very certain, but it seems to be intended to secure the retention or
 exclusion of the spores from the spore sac in such conditions of tho
 atmosphere as will best conduce to their germination. In the gym-
  nostomous mosses (i. e. those without peristome) it is observed that
  the spores sometimes germinate within the capsule, an event which is
  probably adverse to the prospects of the race.
       In some genera, as e. g. Bartramia, the teeth of the peristome are
  erect in dry weather and convergent in wet weather ; and in such
  cases it seems probable that the spores require dry weather when
  first emitted. In other genera, as e. g. Bryun, the teeth are conver
  gent in dry weather and expanded in wet weather : in those cases it
 is probable that the spores require wet weather when first emitted.
       The motion of the teeth of the peristome appears to be due to the
  action of a ring of specialised cells which surrounds the mouth of the
  capsule at the base of the teeth ; and the opposite ways in which
  these cells act in the same condition of moisture in different genera,
  is a remarkable circumstance.
       To anyone who studies the subject, the immense variety as well
  as beauty of the peristomes of mosses becomes very impressive. If
  the sole end be the protection and extrusion of the spores in the
  proper weather respectively, why is there this infinite wealth and
  variety of form and of colour ? The question can be asked, but hardly

1891.]                      on British Mosses.                     245
can be answered, and the mind of tho beholder is left, as it so often
is, when contemplating the richness of Nature, in a state of admira
tion and wonder and ignorance.
     Sphagnacese.—Vast tracts of land in this country and throughout
Northern Europe and America are covered with plants of this group,
and large tracts which are now fertile agricultural land, where they
have entirely ceased to grow, have in former times been occupied by
them. The bogs of Ireland, which are mainly constituted of turf
moss, were computed in 1819 by the Bog Commissioners to occupy
2,830,000 acres. No moss has probably ever, at least in the present
state of tho globe, played so large a part as the Sphagnum or peat
moss.
     Structure.—It is to the peculiar structure of the peat moss that
this great part on the theatre of the globe is to be attributed.
     Leaves.—In the young leaves the component cells are all alike ;
then by a differential growth we are presented with square cells
surrounded by four narrow and oblong ones ; then chlorophyll forms
in these narrow cells, but is absent from tho square cells ; from these
tho contents disappear, and water or water-like fluid occupies the
whole cell ; subsequently annular and spiral threads develop on the
walls of the square cells. The intimate structure of the leaf thus
enables it to absorb great quantities of water.
     But again, tho shape of the leaves is in many species adapted to
tho retention of water. By a retardation of the lateral as compared
with the mesial growth, the leaf assumes a boat shape. Often the
edges of the leaves are turned over ; the leaf thus affords means of
holding water. Again, the lateral branches grow in groups from the
stem, and some of these branches are generally pendent, and in close
proximity to the stem, so that an immense capillary attraction is
exerted by them.
     Again, the stem itself is surrounded or rather is more than half
occupied by largo water-holding cells, and pitchers of a very peculiar
form.
     Again, the mode of growth of tho plant, abandoning its moorings
on the soil and throwing out roots into the water, and growing
successively year after year, enables it not only to attain great
growth, but also, when the occasion demands, to keep pace with the
rise of the water in which it may be growing, " tho individual thus
becoming," it has been said, " in a manner immortal, and supplying
a perpetual fund of decomposing vegetable matter."*
     Physical Results from Structure.—Tho result of these peculiari
ties is that the entire plant of any species of Sphagnum is a perfect
sponge. When dry it is capable (as may easily be found by experi
ment) of rapidly absorbing moisture, and carrying it upwards through
the plant ; and when growing in vast beds it acts thus on a great
scale. Everyone who knows Scotland must know how on many a
                    * Macculock, ' Western Islands,' p. 130.

 246                         Lard Justice Fry                   [Jan. 23,
 stoop mountain-side, or on the bottom and sides of a gorge, these beds
 will hold up a great body of water against the force of gravity ; and
 again, the Irish bogs are described as often ascending from the edges
 towards the interior, sometimes by a gradual, and sometimes by a
sudden ascent, so that at times the bog is so high that it reaches the
height of the church steeples of the adjoining country, without any
 rising ground intervening.
     These peculiarities in the structure of Sphagnum have produced
 considerable physical effects.
     (1) Everyone knows the different effects of rain falling on a land
 of bare rock or sand, like the Sinaitic desert, and on a retentive soil ;
in the one case it produces a freshet or a flood, that leaves no trace
behind ; in the other it is held for a while in suspense, and only
 gradually passes into the streams. The glaciers and the Sphagnum
 beds of the mountains of Europe alike act as compensation reservoirs
 —receive large quantities of moisture as it falls, and retain it till the
drier season comes, when it gradually passes away in part ; but for
 these reservoirs, many of the rivers would exhibit a far greater
 shrinkage in summer and autumn than is now the case.
     But (2) the Sphagnum beds have become peat, and have gradually
filled up the ancient lakes and morasses, and turned water into dry
land. It is true that the peat appears under some circumstances to be
formed by other vegetables than Sphagnum, and in all cases it has
probably some other plants or roots growing amongst it. Mr.
Darwin tells us that in Terra del Fuego and the Chonos Archipelago,
peat is formed by two phanerogamous plants, of which one at least
seems endowed with an immortality something like that of the
Sphagnum ; and the peat of the fens of Lincolnshire is formed
mainly of Hypnum fluitans. But Sphagnum appears to be the main
constituent of peat in Ireland, Scotland, and, so far as my researches
have gone, in England ; the peculiar spiral threads of the cells of
the Sphagnum leaf being easily detected in the peat BO long as it
retains traces of its organic origin.
    Ancient Forests.—The peat mosses, and the sea-shores of our
islands, and of the adjoining mainland, reveal, as it is very well
known, traces of ancient forests. Many parts of England, nearly all
the mainland of Scotland, the Hebrides, the Orkneys, and the Shet-
lands, Ireland, and Denmark, the shores of both sides of the English
Channel, Normandy, Brittany, the Channel Islands, and Holland, and
the shores of Norway, all bear evidence to the presence of these
primjBval forests ; and what is more, to the successive existence of
forests, each in succession living above the buried remains of the
earlier ones.
    What is the cause of the disappearance of these ancient forests
one after the other ? To this question various answers have been
proposed.
    The Romans, it has been suggested, in their inroads, cut ways
through the forests and laid waste the land. But, wide as was the

1891.]                     on British Mosses.                       247
spread of the wings of the Roman eagle, the phenomenon in question
is of far wider extension. They never conquered Denmark, or
Norway, or Ireland, or the islands of Scotland: in Scotland, and
even in England, their operations could never have covered the whole
country ; and as regards some of our peat mosses, we know that they
must have existed long before the Roman invasion ; for at least on the
borders of Sedgmoor we have traces of their using peat for fuel as it
is used there at the present day.
     Still humbler agents have been invoked, in the supposition that
the beaver and other rodents were the authors of the destruction of
the forests. So far as I can judge, the cause suggested seems inade
quate to the effect.
     Again, changes in climate have been suggested. But, although
there may be some evidence from the succession of the trees of a
gradual amelioration in the climate, we know of no evidence of
changes of so sudden and violent a character as would destroy the
existing forests over large areas. Moreover, with few exceptions, the
trees of the destroyed forests are such as are now found wild, or will
grow easily in the spots where they lie buried.
     The overthrow by storms has, again, been suggested as the cause
of this wholesale destruction ; and the fact that in some of the peat
 bogs of the West of Scotland the trees that have fallen lie to the
north or north-east, and in some of those in Holland to the south-east,
 in the direction of the prevailing winds in those countries respec
tively, affords some reason to believe that wind has given the coup de
 grace to the dying trees, and determined the direction of their fall.
 But it is much more likely that this was the work of the wind, than
 that successive forests should have been swept from the face of vast
 tracts of Europe by the agency of wind alone. Moreover, in some
 cases the trunks as well as the bases and roots of the trees are found
 standing or buried in the bogs.
     Allowing that some or all of these agencies may have had their
 part in the destruction of the forests, I believe that the growth of
Sphagnum has been the greatest factor in the work of destruction.
 " To the chilling effect of the wet bog mosses in their upward growth
must be attributed," says Mr. James Geikie, " the overthrow of by far
 the greater portion of the buried timber in our peat bogs " (Trans.
 Koy. Soc. Edin., xxiv. 380).
     But, it will be said, assuming that this may be the case with one
 growth of forest, how about the successive destruction of successive
 forests ? The answer is, I believe, to be found in the curious change
 which peat undergoes, and which converts it from a substance highly
 absorbent of water into one impervious to it.
     The section exposed by a peat-cutting in, I believe, almost all
 cases exhibits two kinds of peat, the one known variously as red
 peat—or red bog, or fibrous bog, or in Somersetshire as white turf—
 which lies at the top, and the other, a black peat, which lies at the
 bottom. The red peat retains visible traces of the Sphagnum of

248                          Lord Justice Fry                   [Jan. 23,
which it is mainly composed, and is highly absorbent of moisture ;
whilst the black peat has lost all, or nearly all, traces of the minute
structure of the cells, and is not only unabsorbent of moisture, but
is impervious to it. lu fact, it constitutes an insoluble substance
which is said to be scarcely subject to decay, so that it is used in
Holland for the foundations of houses, and is found unchanged after
ages, and when the buildings have fallen into decay. It is even said
to have remained unchanged after three months' boiling in a steam-
engine boiler. The broad difference between these two kinds of peat
may easily be ascertained by anyone who will subject the two kinds
to the action of water.
      If we now take a section of a peat bog, with a succession of
forests one above another, the history of the formation will be, I
believe, much as follows : —
      We must get a water-tight bottom—sometimes this is a stiff
clay, sometimes a pan, i. e. a stratum of sand or gravel made into a
solid plate by the infiltration of insoluble iron oxides, themselves
often due to decaying vegetable matter. The necessity of this water
tight bottom is well shown by the fact that in places in the Irish
bogs where a limestone subsoil occurs the bog become shallow and
dry.
      If on this clay bottom or sandy or gravel soil a forest arises,
 it may flourish for a considerable period, until the natural drainage
 of the area is stopped, whether by the choking up of the course of
 the effluent stream, or from the aggregation of vegetable matter, or
 from the fall in the course of nature of the trunks of the trees them
 selves. Everyone who will consider how much care our rivers
 require in order to make them flow with regularity to the sea—who
 thinks for instance, of the works in the Thames valley, or in the
 upper valleys of the Rhine—will see how often and how easily, in a
 country in the condition of nature, stagnant waters will arise. In the
 morass thus formed the Sphagnum has grown, years after years, and
 if it has not destroyed the old trees it has prevented the growth of
 young ones. The stools of the trees buried in the antiseptic waters
 of the Sphagnum pools have been preserved, whilst the fallen trunks
 have, except when preserved by the like circumstance, rotted, and
 added their remains to the peat which the Sphagnum has been pro
 ducing. It has been observed in several places in Scotland, that the
 underside of fallen trees which would be protected from decay by the
  tannin of the Sphagnum is preserved, whilst the upper side has
  decayed or rotted away. Year by year the process of decay on the
  lower parts of the Sphagnum goes on until the water grows shallower
  and at last disappears, leaving the original morass choked and filled
  up by the Sphagnum and the plants which it has nourished. On the
  top of this soil have grown first the heathy and bog shrubs which
  first succeed the Sphagnum, and in time, as the soil has grown more
  solid, forest trees. This is our second forest. This first peat deposit,
  or the lower part of it at all events, having been turned into the

1891.]                     on Britith Mows.                       249
black peat impervious to water, plays the same part in the next stage
that the clay or pan did in the earlier stage. Again, the drainage of
this second level gets stopped, and the forest bottom is loaded with
stagnant water, the home of the Sphagnum ; together, the water and
the Sphagnum kill the forest trees, which share the fate of their pre
decessors. The same history is gone through again—the Sphagnum
filling up the morass and turning the water into dry land until it
supports the third forest, and so on to the end.
    N.B.—The discourse was illustrated by diagrams.
                                                            [E. F.]

260    .                  Professor John W. Judd                 [Jan. 30,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, January 30, 1891.
   EDWARD FRANKLAHD, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
               PROFESSOR JOHN W. JUDD, F.R.S. F.G.S.
                       The Rejuvenescence of Crystalt.
VERY soon after the invention of the microscope, the value of that
instrument in investigating the phenomena of crystallisation began to
be recognised. The study of crystal-morphology and crystallogonesis
was initiated in this country by the observations of Robert Boyle ;
and since his day, a host of investigators—among whom may be
especially mentioned Leeuenhoek and Vogelsang in Holland, Link
and Frankenheim in Germany, and Pasteur and Senarmont in France
—have added largely to our knowledge of the origin and development
of crystalline structures. Nor can it be said with justice that this
field of investigation, opened up as it was by English pioneers, has been
ignobly abandoned to others ; for the credit of British science has
been fully maintained by the numerous and brilliant discoveries in
this department of knowledge of Brewster and Sorby.
    There is no branch of science which is more dependent for its
progress on a knowledge of the phenomena of crystallisation than
geology. In seeking to explain the complicated phenomena exhibited
by the crystalline masses composing the earth's crust, the geologist is
constantly compelled to appeal to the physicist and chemist—from
them alone can he hope to obtain the light of experiment and the
leading of analogy whereby he may hope to solve the problems which
confront him.
    But if geology owes much to the researches of those physicists
and chemists who have devoted their studies to the phenomena of
crystallisation, the debt has been more than repaid through the new
light which has been thrown on these questions by the investigation
of naturally-formed crystals by mineralogists and geologists.
    In no class of physical operations is time such an important factor
as in crystallisation ; and Nature, in producing her inimitable examples
of crystalline bodies, has been unsparing in her expenditure of time.
Hence it is not surprising to find that some of the most wonderful
phenomena of crystallisation can best be studied—some indeed can
only be studied—in those exquisite specimens of Nature's handiwork
which have been slowly elaborated by her during periods which must
be measured in millions of years.
    I propose to-night to direct your attention to a very curious case
in which a strikingly complicated group of phenomena is presented in

1891.]               on the Rejuvenescence of Crystals.                 251
a crystalline mass ; and these phenomena, which have been revealed to
the student of natural crystals, are of such a kind that we can scarcely
hope to reproduce them in our test-tubes and crucibles.
     But if we cannot expect to imitate all the effects which have in
this case been slowly wrought out in Nature's laboratory, we can at
least investigate and analyse them ; and, in this way, it may be
possible to show that phenomena like those in question must result
from the possession by crystals of certain definite properties. Each
of these properties, we shall see, may be severally illustrated and
experimentally investigated, not only in natural products, but in the
artificially-formed crystals of our laboratories.
     In order to lead up to the explanation of the curious phenomena
exhibited by the rock mass in question, the first property of crystals
to which I have to refer may be enunciated as follows :—
     Crystals possess the power of resuming their growth after interruption ;
and there appears to be no limit to the time after which this resumption
of growth may take place.
     It is a familiar observation that if a crystal be taken from a
 solution and put aside, it will, if restored after a longer or shorter
 interval to the same or a similar solution, continue to increase as before.
But geology affords innumerable instances in which this renewal of
growth in crystals has taken place after millions of years must have
elapsed. Still more curious is the fact, of which abundant proof can
be given, that a crystal formed by one method may, after a prolonged
 interval, continue its growth under totally different conditions and
 by a very different method. Thus crystals of quartz, which have
clearly been formed in a molten magma, and contain enclosures of
 glass, may continue their growth when brought in contact with solu
 tions of silica at ordinary temperatures. In the same way, crystals
of felspar which have been formed in a mass of incandescent lava,
may increase in size when solvent agents bring to them the necessary
materials from an enveloping mass of glass, even after the whole mass
has become cold and solid.
      It is this power of resuming growth after interruption, which leads
 to the formation of zoned crystals, like the fine specimen of amethyst
 enclosed in colourless quartz, which was presented to the Royal
 Institution seventy years ago by Mr. Snodgrass.
      The growth of crystals, like that of plants and animals, is
 determined by their environment ; the chief conditions affecting their
 development being temperature, rate of growth, the supply of
 materials (which may vary in quality as well as quantity), and the
 presence of certain foreign bodies.
      It is a very curious circumstance that the form assumed by a
 crystal may be completely altered by the presence of infinitesimal
 traces of certain foreign substances— foreign substances, be it remarked,
 which do not enter in any way into the composition of the crystallising
 mass. Thus there are certain crystals which can only be formed in
 the presence of water, fluorides, or other salts. Such foreign bodies,

 252                       Professor John W. Judd                      [Jan. 30,
 which exercise an influence on a crystallising substance without
 entering into its composition, have been called by the French geolo
 gists " mineralisers." Their action seems to curiously resemble that
 of diastase, and of the bodies known to chemists as "ferments," so
 many of which are now proved to be of organic origin.
     Studied according to their mode of formation, zoned crystals fall
 naturally into several different classes.
     In the first place, we have the cases in which the successive shells
 or zones differ only in colour or some other accidental character.
 Sometimes such differently coloured shells of the crystal are sharply
 cut off from one another ; while, in other instances, they graduate
imperceptibly one into the other.
     A second class of zoned crystals includes those in which we find
 clear evidence that there have been pauses, or at all events changes in
the rate of their growth. The interruption in growth may be indi
cated in several different ways. One of the commonest of these is the
formation of cavities filled with gaseous, liquid, or vitreous material,—
according to the way the crystal has been formed, by volatilisation,
by solution, or by fusion ; the production of these cavities indicating
rapid or irregular growth. Not unfrequently, it is clear that the
crystal, after growing to a certain size, has been corroded or partially
resorbed in the mass in which it is being formed, before its increase
was resumed. In other cases, a pause in the growth of the crystal is
indicated by the formation of minute foreign crystals, or the deposi
tion of uncrystallised material along certain zonal planes in the
crystal.
     Some very interesting varieties of minerals—like the Cotterite of
Ireland, the red quartz of Cumberland, and the spotted amethyst of
Lake Superior—can be shown to owe their peculiarities to thin bands
of foreign matter zonally included in them during their growth.
     A curious class of zoned crystals arises when there is a change in
the habit of a crystal during its growth. Thus, as Lavalle showed in
1851,* if an octahedron of alum bo allowed to grow to a certain size
in a solution of that substance, and then a quantity of alkaline car
bonate be added to the liquid, the octahedral crystal, without change
in the length of its axes, will be gradually transformed into a cube.
In the same way, a scalenohedron of calcite may be found enclosed in
a prismatic crystal of the same mineral, the length of the vertical axis
being the same in both crystals.
     By far the most numerous and important class of zoned crystals
is that which includes the forms where the successive zones are of
different, though analogous, chemical composition. In the case of the
alums and garnets, we may have various iwmorphous compounds
forming the successive zones in the same crystal ; while in substances
crystallising in other systems than the cubic, we find plesiomorphous
compounds forming the different enclosing shells. Such cases are
             * Hull. Gcol. Soo. Paris, 2nd ser. vol. viii. pp. 610-13.

 1891.]               on the Rejuvenescence of Crystals.               263
illustrated by many artificial crystals, and by the tourmalines, the
epidotes, and the felspars among minerals. The separate zones,
 consisting of different materials, are sometimes separated by well-
marked planes, but in other cases they shade imperceptibly into one
another.
     In connection with this subject, it may be well to point out that
 zoned crystals may be formed of two substances which do not
crystallise in the same system. Thus crystals of the monoclinio
angite may be found surrounded by a zone of the rhombic enstatite ;
and crystals of a triclinic felspar may be found enlarged by an
outer shell of monoclinic felspar.
     Still more curious is the fact that, where there is similarity in
crystalline form, and an approximation in the dominant angles
(plesiomorphism), we may have zoning and intergrowth in the
crystals of substances which possess no chemical analogy whatever.
 Thus, as Senarmont showed in 1856, a cleavage-rhomb of the natural
 calcic carbonate (caleite), when placed in a solution of the sodic
nitrate, becomes enveloped in a zone of this latter substance ; and
 Tschermak has proved that the compound crystal thus formed behaves
like a homogeneous one, if tested by its cleavage, by its suscep
 tibility to twin lamellation, or by the figures produced by etching.
 In the same way, zircons, which are composed of the two oxides of
silicon and zirconium, are found grown in composite crystals with
xonotimo, a phosphate of the metals of the cerium and yttrium groups.
     These, and many other similar facts which might be adduced, point
to the conclusion that the beautiful theory of isomorphism, as
originally propounded by Mitscherlich, stands in need of much
revision as to many important details ; it may be indeed of complete
reconstruction in the light of modern observation and experiment.
     The second property of crystals to which I must direct your
attention is the following :—
     If a crystal be br»ken or mutilated in any way whatever, it possesses
the power of repairing its injuries during subsequent growth.
     As long ago as 1836, Frankenheim showed that if a drop of a
saturated solution be allowed to evaporate on the stage of a micro*
scope, the following interesting observations may be made upon the
growing crystals. When they are broken up by a rod, each fragment
tends to re-form as a perfect crystal ; and if the crystals be caused to
be partially redissolved by the addition of a minute drop of the
mother-liquor, further evaporation causes them to resume their
original development.*
     In 1842 Hermann Jordan showed that crystals taken from a
solution and mutilated, gradually became repaired or healed when
replaced in the solution. | Jordan's observations, which were
                      • Pogg. Ann., Bd. mvii. (1836).
                      t Miiller, Arohiv for 1842, pp. 46-56.
    VOL. Xin. (No. 85.)

254                         Professor John W. Judd                      [Jan. 30,
published in a medical journal, do not however seem to have attracted
much attention from the physicists and chemists of the day.
     Lavalle, between the years 1850 and 1853,* and Kopp in the year
ISSS,f made a number of valuable observations bearing on this
interesting property of crystals. In 1856 the subject was more
thoroughly studied by three investigators, who published their results
almost simultaneously—these were Marbach,J Pasteur,§ and Senar-
mont.|| They showed that crystals taken from a solution and muti
lated in various ways, upon being restored to the liquid, became
completely repaired during subsequent growth.
     As long ago as 1851, Lavalle had asserted that when one solid angle
of an octahedron of alum is removed, the crystal tends to reproduce
the same mutilation on the opposite angle when its growth is
resumed. The phenomena observed have, by some subsequent
writers, however, been explained in another way to that suggested by
the author of this experiment. In the same way the curious experi
ments performed at a subsequent date by Karl von Hauer—experiments
which led him to conclude that hemihedrism and other peculiarities
in crystal growth might be induced by mutilation, IT— have been
asserted by other physicists and chemists not to justify the
startling conclusions drawn from them at the time. It must be
admitted that new experiments bearing on this interesting question
are, at the present time, greatly needed.
      In 1881 Loir demonstated two very important facts with regard
to growing crystals of alum.** First, that if the injuries in such a
crystal be not too deep, it does not resume growth over its general
surface until those injuries have been repaired. Secondly, that the
injured surfaces of crystals grow more rapidly than natural faces.
This was proved by placing artificially cut octahedra and natural
crystals of the same size in a solution, and comparing their weight
after a certain time had elapsed.
      The important results of this capacity of crystals for undergoing
healing and enlargement, and their application to the explanation of in
teresting geological phenomena, has been pointed out by many authors.
Sorby has shown that, in the so-called crystalline sand-grains, we
    * Bull. Qfol. Soc. Paris, 2nd ser., vol. viii. (1851), pp. 610-13; Moigno,
 Cosmos, ii. (1853) pp. 454-6 ; Compt. Rend., xxxvi. (1853), pp. 493-5.
    t Liebig. Ann., xciv. (1855), pp. 118-25.
    J Compt. Rend., xliii. (1856), pp. 705-6, 800-2.
    § Ibid., pp. 795-800.
     |1 Ibid., p. 799.
    «| Wien. Sitznngsber., xxxix. (I860), pp. 611-22: Erdmann, Journ. Prakt.
 Chetn., Ixxxi., pp. 356-62; Wien. Geol. Verhandl., xii. pp. 212-3, &c. Compare
 Frankenheim, Fogg. Ann., cxiii. (1861); Fr. Scharff, Pogg. Ann., cix. (I860),
 pp. 529-38; Neues Jahrb. fur Min., &c., 1876, p. 24; and W. Sauber, Liebig.
 Ann., cxxiv. (1862), pp. 78-82 ; also W. Ostwald, Lehrbuch d. Allg. Chem. (1885),
 Bd. i., p. 738 ; and O. Lehmaun, Molekular Pbysik (1888), Bd. i. p. 312.
     ** Compt. Rend., Bd. xcii. p. 1166.

 1891.]              on the Rejuvenescence of Crystals.              265
have broken and worn crystals of quartz, which, after many vicissi
tudes and the lapse of millions of years, have grown again, and been
enveloped in a newly formed quartz-crystal. Bonney has shown
how the same phenomena are exhibited in the case of mica, Becke
and Whitman Cross in the case of hornblende, and Merrill in the
case of angite. In the felspars of certain rocks, it has been proved
that crystals that have been rounded, cracked, corroded, and inter
nally altered—which have, in short, suffered both mechanical and
chemical injuries—may be repaired and enlarged with material
that differs considerably in chemical composition from the original
crystal.
    It is impossible to avoid a comparison between these phenomena
of the inorganic world and those so familiar to the biologist. It is
only in the lowest forms of animal life that we find an unlimited
power of repairing injuries ; in the rhizopods and some other groups, a
small fragment may grow into a perfect organism. In plants the same
phenomenon is exhibited much more commonly, and in forms belong
ing to groups high up in the vegetable series. Thus parts of a plant,
such as buds, bulbs, slips, and grafts, may—sometimes after a long
interval—be made to grow up into new and perfect individuals. But
in the mineral kingdom we find the same principle carried to a much
farther extent. We know in fact no limit to the minuteness of fragments
which may, under favourable conditions, grow into perfect crystals ;
no bounds as to the time during which the crystalline growth may
be suspended in the case of any particular individual.
    The next property of crystals which I must illustrate, in order
to explain the particular case to which I am calling your attention
to-night, is the following :—
    Two crystals of totally different substances may be developed within
the space bounded by certain planes, becoming almost inextricably inter-
grown, though each retains its distinct individuality.
    This property is a consequence of the fact that the substance of
a crystal is not necessarily continuous within the space enclosed by
its bounding planes. Crystals often exhibit cavities filled with air
and other foreign substances. In the calcite crystals found in the
Fontainbleau sandstone, less than 40 per cent, of their mass consists
of calcic carbonate, while more than 60 per cent, is made up of grains
of quartz-sand caught np during crystallisation. In the rock called
" graphic granite " we have the minerals orthoclase and quartz inter-
grown in such a way that the more or less isolated parts of each can
be shown, by their optical characters, to be parts of great mutually
interpenetrant crystals. Similar relations are shown in the so-called
micrographic or micropegmatitic intergrowth of the same minerals
which are so beautifully exhibited in the rock under our consideration
this evening.
    There is still another property of crystals that must be kept in
                                                             s 2

   256                      Professor John W. Judd                  [Jan. 30,
  mind if we would explain the phenomena exhibited by this inte
  resting rock.
       A crystal may undergo the most profound internal changes, and these
  may lead to great modifications of the optical and other physical pro
  perties of the mineral : yet so long as a small—often a very small—
  proportion of its molecules remain intact, the crystal may retain, not only
  its outward form, but its capacity for growing and repairing injuries.
       Crystals, like ourselves, grow old. Not only do they suffer from
  external injuries, mechanical fractures, and chemical corrosion, but
  from actions which affect the whole of their internal structure. Under
  the action of the great pressures in the earth's crust the minerals of
  deep-seated rocks are completely permeated by fluids which chemically
. react upon them. In this way negative crystals are formed in their
  substance (similar to the beautiful " ice-flowers " which are formed
  when a block of ice is traversed by a beam from the sun or an electric
  lamp), and these become filled with secondary products. As the
  result of this action, crystals, once perfectly clear and translucent,
  have acquired cloudy, opalescent, iridescent, avanturine, and " schiller"
  characters, and minerals thus modified abound in the rocks that have
  at any period of their history been deep-seated. As the destruction of
  their internal structure goes on, the crystals gradually lose more and
  more of their distinctive optical and their physical properties, retain
  ing, however, their external form ; till at last—when the last of the
  original molecules has been transformed or replaced by others—they
  pass into those mineral corpses known to us as " psendomorphs."
       But while crystals resemble ourselves in " growing old," and at
  last undergoing dissolution, they exhibit the remarkable power of
  growing young again, which we, alas ! never do. This is in consequence
   of the following remarkable attribute of crystalline structures :—
       It does not matter howfar internal change and disintegration may have
  gone on in a crystal ; if only a certain small proportion of the unaltered
  molecules remain, the crystal may renew its youth and resume its growth.
       When old and much-altered crystals begin to grow again, the
   newly-formed material exhibits none of those marks of "senility" to
   which I have referred. The sand-grains that have been battered and
   worn into microscopic pebbles, and have been rendered cloudy by the
   development of millions of secondary fluid-cavities, may have clear
   and fresh quartz deposited upon them to form crystals, with ex
   quisitely perfect faces and angles. The white, clouded, and altered
   felspar-crystals may, in the same way, be enveloped by a zone of
   clear and transparent material, which has been added millions of
   years after the first formation and the subsequent alteration of the
  original crystals. In these, and many similar examples which might
   be cited, the kernel, representing the original crystal, may exhibit
   evidence of having undergone the most profound chemical and
   physical modification, while the outer shell displays all the normal
   characteristics of the mineral.

1891.]               on the Rejuvenescence of Crystals.              257
    We are now in a position to explain the particular case which I
have thought of sufficient importance to claim your attention
to-night.
    In the Island of Mull, in the Inner Hebrides, there exist masses
of granite of Tertiary age which are of very great interest to the
geologist and mineralogist. In many places this granite exhibits
beautiful illustrations of the curious intergrowths of quartz and
felspar of which I have already spoken. Such parts of the rock
often abound with cavities (druses), which I believe are not of
original, but of secondary origin. At all events, it can be shown
that these cavities have been localities in which crystal growth has
gone on—they constitute indeed veritable laboratories of synthetic
mineralogy.
    Now in such cavities, the interpenetrant crystals of quartz and
felspar in the rock have found a space where they may grow and com
plete their outward form ; and it is curious to see how sometimes tho
quartz has prevailed ovor the felspar, and a pure quartz-crystal has
been produced ; while at other times the opposite effect has resulted,
and a pure felspar individual has grown up. In these last cases,
however much the original felspar may have been altered (kaolinised
and rendered opaque), it is found to be completed by a zone of abso
lutely clear and unaltered felspar-substance. The result is that tho
cavities of the granite are lined with a series of projecting crystals of
qnartz and clear felspar, the relations of which to the similar
materials in an altered condition composing the substance of the
solid rock are worthy of the most careful observation and reflection.
These relations can be fully made out when thin sections of the
rock are examined under the microscope by the aid of polarised
light, and they speak eloquently of the possession by the crystals
in question of all those curious peculiarities of which I have reminded
you this evening.
    By problems such as those which we have endeavoured to solve
to-night, the geologist is beset at every step. The crust of our globe
is built up of crystals and crystal-fragments—of crystals in every
stage of development, of growth, and of variation—of crystals, under
going change, decay, and dissolution. Hence the study of the natural
history of crystals must always constitute one of the main founda
tions of geological science ; and the future progress of that science
must depend on how fur the experiments carried on in laboratories
can be made to illustrate and explain our observations in the field.
                                                            [J. W. J.]

258                         General Monthly Meeting.                    [Feb. 2,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, February 2, 1891.
   SIR JAMES CRIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                          Vice-President, in the Chair.
                 Lady Abel,
                 John Aird, Esq. M.P.
                 Henry Graham Harris, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
                 Sydney Turner Klein, Esq. F.L.S. F.E.H.S.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to the Com
mittee of Subscribers to the Bowman Presentation Portrait for an
Engraving of the Portrait of Sir William Bowman, Bart.
      The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
following Donation to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
 Research: —
              F. B. Wiggins, Esq                                    £5
      The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      FEOM
 Secretary of State for India—Report on Public Instruction in Bengal, 1889-90.
      fol.
 The Governor-General of India—Geological Survey of India: Records, Vol. XXIII.
       Part*. 4to. 1890.
 The Lords of the Admiralty—Nautical Almanack, 1894. 8vo. 1890.
    Greenwich Observations for 1888. 4to. 1890.
    Greenwich Spectrosoopic and Photographic Results, 1888-9. 4to. 1889-90.
 Accademia del Lineei, Reals, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarto : Rendiconti. 2° Semeg-
       tre, Vol. VI. Fasc. 6-11. 8vo. 1890.
    Atti, Anno 43, Sess. 8*. 4to. 1890.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LI. Noa. 1, 2. 8vo. 1891.
  Australian Miutum, Sydney—Report fnr 1889. fol. 1890.
  Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XI. Part 10. 8vo. 1890.
 Basel Naturforschende GeseUschaft—Vethandlnngen, Band IX. Heft 1. 8vo.
       1890.
  Sicken & Son, Memrs. (the Publishers)—Constance Naden. A Memoir. 8vo. 1890.
  Boston Society of Natural Hislory—Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. Parts 3, 4. 8vo.
       1890.
    Memoirs, Vol. IV. Noa 7, 8, 9. 4to. 1890.
  British Architectt, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1890-1, Nos. 4-7. 4to.
    Transactions, Vol. VI. 4to. 1890.

 1891.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                      269
 Canada, Geological and Natural History Survey of—Catalogue of Canadian
      Plants, Part 5. 8vo. 1890.
    List of Canadian Hepaticae. 8vo. 1890.
 Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. IX. No. 11. 8vo. 1890.
 Chemical Society—Journal for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 8vo.
 Colliery Guardian, Editor of—Map showing lines of Equal Magnetic Declination
      for January 1st, 1891.
 Craaovie, I'Academic des Sciences—Bulletin, 1890, Nos. 9, 10. 8vo.
 Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. ttc. Jf.R.L—Journal of the Royal Microscopical
      Society, 1890, Part 6. 8vo.
 Dawson, G. M. Esq. LL.D. F.G.8. (the Author)—Later Physiographical Geology
      of the Rocky Mountain region. -I to. 1890.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 8vo.
    Analyst for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 8vo.
    Athensenm for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 4to.
   Brewers' Journal for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 4 to.
   Chemical News for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 8vo.
   Electrical Kngineer for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 18U1. fol.
   Engineer for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. fol.
   Engineering for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. fol.
   Horological Journal for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 8TO.
   Industries for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. fol.
   Iron for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 4to.
   Ironmongery for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 4to.
   Monist, Vol. I. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1891.
   Murray's Mngazine for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 8vo.
   Nature for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1N91. 4to.
   Open Court for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 4to.
   Optical Magic Lantern Journal, Vol. II. No. 20. 8vo. 1891.
   Photographic News for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 8vo.
   Public Health for Deo. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 8vo.
   Revue Scientiflque for Deo. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. fol.
   Zoophilist for Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 4to.
Ekctrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, Nos. 90, 91. 8vo. 1890.
Florence Siblioteca Nazionale Cmtrale—Bolletino, Nos. 118-121. 8vo. 1889-90.
Fournet, A. Esq. (the Author)—The Philosophy of Sight. 8vo. 1889.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 780, 781. Hvo. 1800-1.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. XII. No. 12; Vol.
     XIII. No. 1. Svo. 1890-1.
   Supplementary Papers, Vol. IV. 8vo. 1890.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1890. Nos. 10-13. 8vo.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XII. No. 3. 8vo. 1890
Institute of Brewing—Transactions, Vol. IV. No. 1. 8vo. 1890.
Johns Hopkins University—University Circulars, No. 84. 4to. 1890.
Kew Observatory—Report, 1890. 8vo.
Lincoln's Inn, Hon. Society of—Catalogue of Lincoln's Inn Library. Supplemen
     tary Volume. 8vo. 1890.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 147, 192. 8vo. 1890.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXI. Part 1. 8vo. 1890-1.
Manchester Steam Users' Association—Boiler Explosions Act, 1882. Report,
     Nos. 351-429. 4to. 1890.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, 1890, No. 3. 8vo.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Transactions, Vol.LXXIII. 8vo. 1890.
Meteorological Office—Weekly Weatuer Reports, Vol. VII. Nos. 48-53; Vol. VIII.
     NOB. 1, 2. 4to. 1890.
  Meteorological Observations at Stations of Second Order, fol. 1886 and 1890.
  Report of Meteorological Council, 31st March, 1890. 8vo.

260                        General Monthly Meeting.                      [Feb. 2,
Meteorological Society, Royal—Library Catalogue. 8vo. 1891.
Ministry of Public Works, Rome—Giornale del Genio Civile, 1890, Fase. 9, 10, 11.
     And Design!, fol. 1890.
Murray, J. Esg. (the Publisher)—Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities.
     Edited by W. Smith and others. Vol. I. 8vo. 1890.
Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXIII. No. 2. New
     Series. 8vo. 1890.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Jonrnal, Dec. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 8vo.
 Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XV. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1890.
Sadcliffe Obiervatory—Observations, Vol. XLIV. 8vo. 1890.
Rathbone, E. P. Esq. (the Editor)—The Witwatersrand Mining and Metallurgical
     Review, Noa. 10, 11. 8vo. 1890.
Bio de Janeiro, Obsenatoire Imperial de—Revista, Nos. 10-12. 8vo. 1890.
Royal Society of Antiquaries of Ireland—Journal, Vol. I. (5th Series), No. 3. 8vo.
     1890.
Royal liistorical Society—Walter of Henley's Husbandry. Trans, by E. Lamond.
     8vo. 1890.
 Royal Irieh Academy—Cunningham Memoirs, No. 6. 4to. 1890.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 295. 8vo. 1890.
 Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Philologisch-historischen Claese :
   Abhandlung. Band XII. No. 1. 8vo. 1890.
   Beriohte, 1890, No. 1. 8vo. 1890.
Seismological Society of Japan—Transactions, Vol. XV. Part 2. 8vo. 1890.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes, Vol. I. No. 12 ; Vol. II. No. 18. 8vo. 1890.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. III. Nos. 2-4. 8vo. 1890.
Society of Arts—Journaf for Deo. 1890 and Jan. 1891. 8vo.
St. Pe"tersbourg Academic Imperiales des Sciences—Memoires, Tome XXXVII.
     Nos. 11-13; Tome XXVIH. No. 1. 4to. 1890.
   Bulletin, Tome XXIV. No. 1. 4to. 1890.
Surgeon-General's Office, V.S. Army—Index Catalogue of the Library, Vol. XI.
     4to. 1890.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 155. 8vo. 1891.
 United States Department of Agriculture—North American Fauna, NOs. 3, 4.
     8vo. 1890.
 Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1890 :
     Heft 9-10. 4to.
 Wild, Dr. H. (the Director)—Repertorium fiir Meteorologie, Band XIII. 4to.
     1890.

1891.]    Lord Rayleigh on some Applications of Photography.      261
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 6, 1891.
 SIR FRBDERIOK BRAMWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Honorary Secretary
                   and Vice-President, in the Chair.
  THE EIGHT HON. LORD RAYLEIGH, M.A. D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                     FBOTKSSOH or NATUKAL pHiLoeorar u i.
                   Some Applications of Photography.
ONE of the subjects to which I propose to invite your attention this
evening is the application of instantaneous photography to the
illustration of certain mechanical phenomena which pass so quickly
as to elude ordinary means of observation. The expression " instan
taneous photography " is perhaps not quite a defensible one, because
no photography can be really instantaneous—Bome time must always
be occupied. One of the simplest and most commonly used methods
of obtaining very short exposures is by the use of movable shutters,
for which purpose many ingenious mechanical devices have been
invented. About two years ago we had a lecture from Prof. Muy-
bridge, in which he showed us the application of this method—and
a remarkably interesting application it was—to the examination of
the various positions assumed by a horse in his several gaits. Other
means, however, may be employed to the same end, and one of them
depends upon the production of an instantaneous light. It will
obviously come to the same thing whether the light to which we
expose tlio plates be instantaneous, or whether by a mechanical
device we allow the plate to be submitted to a continuous light for
only a very short time. A good deal of use has been made in this way
of what is known as the magnesium flash light. A cloud of magnesium
powder is ignited, and blazes up quickly with a bright light of very
short duration. Now I want to compare that mode of illumination
with another, in order to be able to judge of the relative degree of
instantaneity, if I may use such an expression. We will illumine for
a short time a revolving disc, composed of black and white sectors ;
and the result will depend upon how quick the motion is as compared
with the duration of the light. If the light could be truly instan
taneous, it would of necessity show the disc apparently stationary.
I believe that the duration of this light is variously estimated at
from one-tenth to one-fiftieth of a second ; and as the arrangement
that I have here is one of the slowest, we may assume that the time
occupied will be about a tenth of a second. I will say the words
one, two, three, and at the word three Mr. Gordon will project tho

 262                   The Eight Hon. Lord Rayleigh              [Feb. 6,
 powder into the flame of a spirit lamp, and the flash will be produced.
 Please give your attention to the disc, for the question is whether
 the present uniform grey will be displaced by a perception of the
 individual black and white sectors. [Experiment.] You see the flash
 was not instantaneous enough to resolve the grey into its components.
     I want now to contrast with that mode of illumination one
 obtained by means of an electric spark. We have here an arrange
 ment by which we can charge Leyden jars from a Wimshurst
 machine. When the charge is sufficient, a spark will pass inside a
 lantern, and the light proceeding from it will be condensed and
 thrown upon the same revolving disc as before. The test will be
 very much more severe ; but severe as it is, I think we shall find that
 the electric flash will bear it. The teeth on the outside of the disc
 are very numerous, and we will make them revolve as fast as we can,
 but we shall find that under the electric light they will appear to be
 absolutely stationary. [Experiment.] You will agree that the
 outlines of the black and white sectors are seen perfectly sharp.
     Now, by means of this arrangement we might investigate a limit
 to the duration of the spark, because with a little care we could
 determine how fast the teeth are travelling—what space they pass
 through in a second of time. For this purpose it would not be safe
 to calculate from the multiplying gear on the assumption of no slip.
A better way would be to direct a current of air upon the teeth them
selves, and make them give rise to a musical note, as in the so-called
siren. From the appearance of the disc under the spark we might
safely say, I think, that the duration of the light is less than a tenth
of the time occupied by a single tooth in passing. But the spark is
in reality much more instantaneous than can be proved by the means
at present at our command. In order to determine its duration,
it would be necessary to have recourse to that powerful weapon
the revolving mirror ; and I do not, therefore, propose to go further
into the matter to-night.
     Experiments of this kind were made some twenty years ago by
Prof. Hood, of New York, both on the duration of the discharge of a
Leyden jar, and also on that of lightning. Prof. Rood found that the
result depended somewhat upon the circumstances of the case ; the
discharge of a small jar being generally more instantaneous than that
of a larger one. He proved that in certain cases the duration of the
principal part of the light was as low as one twenty-five-millionth
part of a second of time. That is a statement which probably con
veys very little of its real meaning. A million seconds is about
twelve days and nights. Twenty-five million seconds is nearly a
year. So that the time occupied by the spark in Prof. Hood's experi
ment is about the same fraction of one second that one second is of a
year. In many other cases the duration was somewhat greater ; but
in all his experiments it was well under the one-millionth part of a
second. In certain cases you may have multiple sparks. I do not
refer to the oscillating discharges of which Prof. Lodge gave us so

jSXVrfttSIT't
&im^0

         Plate I.
   *
Fig 1.
  Fig 3.          Fig 4
    9

1891.]            on Some Applications of Photography.               263
interesting an account last year ; Prof. Rood's multiple discharge
was not of that character. It consisted of several detached over
flows of his Leyden jar when charged by the Bhumkorff coil. One
number mentioned for the total duration was one six-thousandth
part of a second ; bat the individual discharges had the degree of
instantaneity of which I have spoken.
     It is not a difficult matter to adapt the electrical spark to
instantaneous photography. We will put the lantern into its proper
position, excite the electric sparks within it, causing them to be con
densed by the condenser of the lantern on to the photographic lens.
We will then put the object in front of the lantern-condenser, remove
the cap from the lens, expose the plate to the spark when it comes,
and thus obtain an instantaneous view of whatever may be going on.
I propose to go through the operation of taking such a photograph
presently. I will not attempt any of the more difficult things of
which I shall speak, but will take a comparatively easy subject,—a
stream of bubbles of gas passing up through a liquid. In order that
you may see what this looks like when observed in the ordinary way,
we have arranged it here for projection upon the screen. [Experi
ment.] The gas issues from the nozzle, and comes up in a stream,
bnt so fast that you cannot fairly see the bubbles. If, however, we
take an instantaneous picture, we shall find that the stream is decom
posed into its constituent parts. We arrange the trough of liquid in
front of the lantern which contains the spark-making apparatus
 —[Experiment]—and we will expose a plate, though I hardly
expect a good result in a lecture. A photographer's lamp provides
 some yellow light to enable us to see when other light is excluded.
 There goes the spark ; the plate is exposed, and the thing is done.
 We will develop the plate, and see what it is good for ; and if it
 turns out fit to show, we will have it on the screen within the hour.
      In the meantime, we will project on the screen some slides taken
 in the same way and with the same subject. [Photograph shown.]
 That is an instantaneous photograph of a stream of bubbles. Yon
 see that the bubbles form at the nozzle from the very first moment,
 contrasting in that respect with the behaviour of jets of water,
 projected into air. [Fig. 1, Plate I.]
      The latter is our next subject. This is the reservoir from which
 the water is supplied. It issues from a nozzle of drawn-out glass,
 and at the moment of issue it consists of a cylindrical body of water.
 The cylindrical form i's unstable, however, and the water rapidly
 breaks up into drops, which succeed one another so rapidly that they can
 hardly be detected by ordinary vision. But by means of instantaneous
 photography the individual drops can be made evident. I will first
 project the jet itself on the screen, in order that you may appreciate
  the subject which we shall see presently represented by photography.
  [Experiment.] Along the first part of its length the jet of water is
 continuous. After a certain point it breaks into drops, bnt you
 cannot see them because of their rapidity. If we act on the jet with

264                   The Bight Hon. Lord Bayleigh             [Feb. 6,
a vibrating body, such as a tuning fork, the breaking into drops
occurs still earlier, the drops are more regular, and assume a curious
periodic appearance, investigated by Savart. I have some photo
graphs of jets of that nature. Taken as described, they do not differ
much in appearance from those obtained by Chichester Bell, and by
Mr. Boys. We get what we may regard as simply shadows of the
jet obtained by instantaneous illumination ; so that these photo
graphs show little more than the outlines of the subject. They
show a little more, on account of the lens-like action of the cylinder
and of the drops. Here we have an instantaneous view of a jet
similar to the one we were looking at just now. [Fig. 2, Plate I.]
This is the continuous part ; it gradually ripples itself as it comes
along ; the ripples increase ; then the contraction becomes a kind of
ligament connecting consecutive drops ; the ligament next gives way,
and we have the individual drops completely formed. The small
points of light are the result of the lens-like action of the drops.
[Other instantaneous views also shown.]
    The pictures can usually be improved by diffusing somewhat the
light of the spark with which they are taken. In front of the
ordinary condensing lens of the magic lantern we slide in a piece of
 ground glass, slightly oiled, and we then get better pictures showing
more shading. [Photograph shown.] Here is one done in that way ;
you would hardly believe it to be water resolved into drops under the
action of a tremor. It looks more like mercury. You will notice the
long ligament trying to break up into drops on its own account, but
not succeeding. [Fig. 3, Plate I.]
     There is another, with the ligament extremely prolonged. In this
case it sometimes gathers itself into two drops. [Fig. 4, Plate I.]
     [A number of photographs showing slight variations were
exhibited.]
     The mechanical cause of this breaking into drops is, I need
hardly remind yon, the surface tension or capillary force of the liquid
surface. The elongated cylinder is an unstable form, and tends to
become alternately swollen and contracted. In speaking on this
subject I have often been embarrassed for want of an appropriate word
to describe the condition in question. But a few days ago, during a
biological discussion, I found that there is a recognised, if not a
very pleasant, word. The cylindrical jet may be said to become
varicose, and the varicosity goes on increasing with time, until
eventually it leads to absolute disruption.
     There is another class of unstable jets presenting many points of
analogy with the capillary ones, and yet in many respects quite
distinct from them. I refer to the phenomena of sensitive flames.
The flame, however, is not the essential part of the matter, but rather
an indicator of what has happened. Any jet of fluid playing into a
stationary environment is sensitive, and the most convenient form for
our present purpose is a jet of coloured in uncolourcd water. In this
•case we shall use a solution of permanganate of potash playing into


Plate H
   7.

1891.]            on Some Applications of Photography.                 '265
an atmosphere of other water containing acid and sulphate of iron,
which exercises a decolourising effect on the permanganate, and so
retards the general clouding up of the whole mass by accumulation of
colour. [Experiment.] Mr. Gordon will release the clip, and we shall
get a jet of permanganate playing into the liquid. If everything were
perfectly steady, we might see a line of purple liquid extending to the
bottom of the trough ; but in this theatre it is almost impossible to get
anything steady. The instability to which the jet is subject now
manifests itself, and we get a breaking away into clouds something
like smoke from chimneys. A heavy tuning fork vibrating at ten to
the second acts upon it with great advantage, and regularises the
disruption. A little more pressure will increase the instability, and
the jet goes suddenly into confusion, although at first, near the nozzle,
it is pretty regular.
     It may now be asked " What is the jet doing ? " That is just the
question which the instantaneous method enables us to answer. For
this purpose the permanganate which we have used to make the jet
visible is not of much service. It is too transparent to the photo
graphic rays, and so it was replaced by bichromate of potash. Here the
opposite difficulty arises ; for the bichromate is invisible by the yellow
light in which the adjustments have to be made. I was eventually
reduced to mixing the two materials together, the one serving to
render the jet visible to the eye and the other to the photographic
plato. Here is an instantaneous picture of such a jet as was
before you a moment ago, only under the action of a regular vibrator.
It is sinuous, turning first in one direction and then in the other.
The original cylinder, which is the natural form of the jet as it
issues from the nozzle, curves itself gently as it passes along through
the water. It thus becomes sinuous, and the amount of the sinuosity
increases, until in some cases the consecutive folds come into collision
with one another. [Several photographs of sinuous jets were shown,
two of which are reproduced in Figs. 5, 6, Plate II.]
     The comparison of the two classes of jets is of great interest.
There is an analogy as regards the instability, the vibrations caused
by disturbance gradually increasing as the distance from the
nozzle increases ; but there is a great difference as to the nature of
the deviation from the equilibrium condition, and as to the kind of
force best adapted to bring it about. The one gives way by becoming
varicose ; the other by becoming sinuous. The only forces capable
of producing varicosity are symmetrical forces, which act alike all
round. To produce sinuosity, we want exactly the reverse—a forco
which acts upon the jet transversely and unsymmetrically.
     I will now pass on to another subject for instantaneousphotography,
namely, the soap film. Everybody knows that if you blow a soap
bubble it will break—generally before you wish. The process of
breaking is exceedingly rapid, and difficult to trace by the unaided
eye. If we can get a soap film on this ring, we will project it upon the
screen and then break it before your eyes, so as to enable you to form

266                  The Bight Hon. Lord RayUigh                    [Feb. 6,
your own impressions as to the rapidity of the operation. For some
time it has been my ambition to photograph a soap bubble in the act
of breaking. I was prepared for difficulty, believing that the time
occupied was less than the twentieth of a second. But it turns out to
be a good deal less even than that. Accordingly the subject is far
more difficult to deal with than are those jets of water or coloured
liquids, which one can photograph at any moment that the spark
happens to come.
    There is the film, seen by reflected light. One of the first difficulties
we have to contend with is that it is not easy to break tho film
exactly when we wish. We will drop a shot through it. The shot
has gone through, as you see, but it has not broken the film ; and
when the film is a thick one, you may drop a shot through almost any
number of times from a moderate height without producing any
effect. Yon would suppose that the shot in going through would
necessarily make a hole, and end the life of the film. The shot goes
through, however, without making a hole. The operation can be
traced, not very well with a shot, but with a ball of cork stuck on
the end of a pin, and pushed through. A dry shot does not readily
break the film ; and as it was necessary for our purpose to effect the
rupture in a well defined manner, here was a difficulty which we hac".
to overcome. We found, after a few trials, that we could get over it by
wetting the shot with alcohol.
     We will try again with dry shot. Three shots have gone through
and nothing has happened. Now we will try one wetted with alcohol,
and I expect it will break the film at once. There 1 It has gone 1
     The apparatus for executing the photography of a breaking soap
film will of necessity be more complicated than before, because we
have to time the spark exactly with the breaking of the film. The
device I have used is to drop two balls simultaneously, so that one
should determine the spark and the other rupture the film. The
most obvious plan was to hang iron balls to two electro-magnets,
and cause them to drop by breaking the circuit, so that both were let
go at the same moment. The method was not quite a success, how
ever, because there was apt to be a little hesitation in letting go the
balls. So we adopted another plan. The balls were not held by
electro-magnetism but by springs (Fig. 8) pressing laterally, and these
were pulled off by electro-magnets. The proper moment for putting
down the key and so liberating tho balls, is indicated by the tap of
the beam of an attracted disc electrometer as it strikes against the
upper stop. One falling ball determines the spark, by filling up most
of the interval between two fixed ones submitted to the necessary
electric pressure. Another ball, or rather shot, wetted with alcohol, is
let go at the same moment, and breaks the film on its passage through it.
 By varying the distances dropped through, the occurrence of one event
 may be adjusted relatively to the other. The spark which passes to
 the falling ball is, however, not the one which illuminates the photo
 graphic plate. The latter occurs within the lantern, and forms part

1891.]              on Some Applications of Photography.                   267
of a circuit in connection with the outer coatings of the Leyden jars,*
the whole arrangement being similar to that adopted by Prof. Lodge
in his experiments upon alternative paths of discharge. Fig. 8 will
give a general idea of the disposition of the apparatus. [Several
photographs of breaking films were shown npon the screen ; one of
these is reproduced in Fig. 7, Plate II.] t
     This work proved more difficult than I had expected ; and the
evidence of our photographs supplies the explanation, namely, that
the rupture of the film is an extraordinarily rapid operation. It
was found that the whole difference between being too early and
too late was represented by a displacement of the falling ball,
though less than a diameter, viz. J inch nearly. The drop which we
gave was about a foot. The speed of the ball would thus be about
100 inches per second ; therefore the whole difference between being
too soon and too late is represented by .,,',,, second. Success is im
possible, unless the spark can be got to occur within the limits of
this short interval.
     Prof. Dewar has directed my attention to the fact that Dupro, a
good many years ago, calculated the speed of rupture of a film. We
know that the energy of the film is in proportion to its area. When
a film is partially broken, some of the area is gone, and the corre
sponding potential energy is expended in generating the velocity of the
thickened edge, which bounds the still unbroken portion. The speed,
then, at which the edge will go depends upon the thickness of the
film. Dupr6 took a rather extreme case, and calculated a velocity of
32 metres per second. Here, with a greater thickness, our velocity
was, perhaps, 16 yards a second, agreeing fairly well with Dupre's
theory.
     I now pass on to another subject with which I have lately been
engaged, namely, the connection between aperture and the definition
of optical images. It has long been known to astronomers and to
those who study optics that the definition of an optical instrument
is proportional to the aperture employed ; but I do not think that
the theory is as widely appreciated as it should be. I do not know
whether, in the presence of my colleague, I may venture to say that
I fear the spectroscopists are among the worst sinners in this respect.
They constantly speak of the dispersion of their instruments as if that
by itself could give any idea of the power employed. You may
have a spectroscope of any degree of dispersion, and yet of resolving
power insufficient to separate even the D lines. What is the reason
of this ? Why is it that we cannot got as high a definition as we
please with a limited aperture? Some people say that the reason
    * In practice there were two seta of three jars each.
    t The appearance of the breaking bubble, as seen under instantaneous
illnraination, was first described by Marangoni and Stcphanelli, Nuovo Cimento,
1873.

268 The Right Hon. Lord Eayleigh, [Feb. 6,
1891.]                on Some Applicationt of Photography.                         269
why large telescopes are necessary, is, because it is only by their
means that we can get enough light. That may be in some cases a
sufficient reason, but that it is inadequate in others will be apparent,
if we consider the case of the sun. Here we do not want more light, but
rather are anxious to get rid of a light already excessive. The prin
cipal raison d'etre of large telescopes, is, that without a large aperture
definition is bad, however perfect the lenses may be. In accordance
with the historical development of the science of opt'cs, the student
is told that the lens collects the rays from one point to a focus at
another; but when he has made further advance in the science he
finds that this is not so. The truth is that we are in the habit of
regarding this subject in a distorted manner. The difficulty is not to
 explain why optical images are imperfect, no matter how good the
 lens employed, but rather how it is that they manage to be as good
 as they are. In reality the optical image of even a mathematical
 poiut has a considerable extension ; light coming from one point
 cannot be concentrated into another point by any arrangement. There
 must be diffusion, and the reason is not hard to see in a general way.
 Consider what happens at the mathematical focus, where, if anywhere,
 the light should all be concentrated.              At that point all the rays
 coming from the original radiant point arrive in the same phase. The
 different paths of the rays are all rendered optically equal, the greater
  actual distance that some of them have to travel, being compensated
  for in the case of those which come through the centre by an optical
 retardation due to the substitution of glass for air ; so that all the
 rays arrive at the same time.* If we take a point not quite at the
  mathematical focus but near it, it is obvious that there must be a
  good deal of light there also. The only reason for any diminution at
 the second point lies in the discrepancies of phase which now occur ;
 and these can only enter by degrees. Once grant that the image of a
  mathematical point is a diffused patch of light, and it follows that
                                 DESCRIPTION OF Fio. H.
  A, B, Electrodes of Wimshurst machine.     K, Sparking balls in connection with
 C, D, Terminals of interior coatings of            eiterior coatings of jars. [These
          Leyden jars.                              exterior coatings are to be joined
 E, F, K.-i I Is on insulating supports be          by au imperfect conductor, such
          tween which the discharge is              as a table.]
          taken.                             L, Lantern condenser.
 0, Attracted disc of electrometer.          M, 8onp film.
  II, Knife edge.                            N, Photographic camera.
  1, 8cale pan.                              0, Daniell cell.              P, Key.
 J, Stops limiting movement of beam.         Q, Electromagnets.            li, Halls.
      * On this principle we may readily calculate the fwnl lengths of lenses with
 out use of the law of sines. Sec ' Phil. Mag.,' Dec. 187!).
       VOL. XIII.        (No. 85.)                                            T

270                  The Bight Hon. Lord Rayleigh                      [Feb. 6,
there must be a limit to definition. The images of the components of
a close double point will overlap ; and if the distance between
the centres do not exceed the diameter of the representative patches
of light, there can be no distinct resolution. Now their diameter
varies inversely as the aperture ; and thus the resolving power is
directly as the aperture.
     My object to-night is to show yon by actual examples that this
is so. I have prepared a series of photographs of a grating consisting
of parallel copper wires separated by intervals equal to their own
diameter, and such that the distance from centre to centre is >',,-inch.
 The grating was backed by a paraffin lamp and large condensing lens ;
and the photographs were taken in the usual way, except that the lens
employed was a telescopic object glass, and was stopped by a screen
perforated with a narrow adjustable slit, parallel to the wires.* In
each case the exposure was inversely as the aperture employed. The
first [thrown upon the screen], is a picture done by an aperture of
eight hundredths of an inch, and the definition is tolerably good.
The next, with six hundredths, is rather worse. In the third case, I
think that everyone can see that the definition is deteriorating ; that
was done by an aperture of four hundredths of an inch. The next is
one done by an aperture of three hundreths of an inch, and you can
see that the lines are getting washed out. In focussing the plate for
this photograph, I saw that the lines had entirely disappeared, and I
was surprised, on developing the plate, to find them still visible. That
was in virtue of the shorter wave-length of the light operative in
photography as compared with vision. In the last example, the
aperture was only two-and-a-half hundredths of an inch, and the effect
of the contraction has been to wash away the image altogether,
although, so far as ordinary optical imperfections are concerned, the
lens was acting more favourably with the smaller aperture than with
the larger ones.
    This experiment may be easily made with very simple apparatus ;
and I have arranged that each one of my audience may be able to
repeat it by means of the piece of gauze and perforated card which
have been distributed. The piece of gauze should be placed against
the window so as to be backed by the sky, or in front of a lamp
provided with a ground-glass or opal globe. You then look at the
gauze through the pin-holes. Using the smaller hole, and gradually
drawing back from the gauze, you will find that you lose defi
nition and ultimately all sight of the wires. That will happen at a
distance of about 1 '. feet from the gauze. If, when looking through
the smaller hole, you have just lost the wires, you shift the card so
as to bring the larger hole into operation, you will see the wires
again perfectly.
    That is one side of the question. However perfect your lens
may be, you cannot get good definition if the aperture is too much
    * The distance between the grating and the telescope lens was 12 ft. 3 in.

1891.]             on Some Applications of Photography.              271
restricted. On the other hand if the aperture is much restricted,
then the lens is of no use, and you will get as good an image without
it as with it.
    I have not time to deal with this matter as I could wish, but I
will illustrate it by projecting on the screen the image of a piece of
gauze as formed by a narrow aperture parallel to one set of wires.
There is no lens whatever between the gauze and the screen. [Ex
periment.] There is the image—if we can dignify it by such a
name—of the gauze as formed by an aperture which is somewhat
large. Now, as the aperture is gradually narrowed, we will trace the
effect upon the definition of the wires parallel to it. The definition
is improving ; and now it looks tolerably good. But I will go on,
and you will see that the definition will get bad again. Now, the
aperture has been further narrowed, and the lines are getting washed
out. Again, a little more, and they are gone. Perhaps you may
think that the explanation lies in the faintness of the light. We
cannot avoid the loss of light which accompanies the contraction of
aperture, but to prove that the result is not so to be explained, I will
now put in a lens. This will bring the other set of wires into view,
and prove that there was plenty of light to enable us to see the first
set if the definition had been good enough. Too small an aperture,
then, is as bad as one which is too large ; and if the aperture is
sufficiently small, the image is no worse without a lens than with
one.
     What, then, is the best size of the aperture ? That is the im
portant question in dealing with pin-hole photography. It was first
considered by Prof. Petzval, of Vienna, and he arrived at the result
indicated by the formula, 2 r2 = / A, where 2 r is the diameter of the
aperture, A the wave-length of light, and /' the focal length, or
rather simply the distance between the aperture and the screen
upon which the image is formed.
    His reasoning, however, though ingenious, is not sound, regarded
as an attempt at an accurate solution of the question. In fact it is
only lately that the mathematical problem of the diffraction of light
by circular holes has been sufficiently worked out to enable the ques
tion to be solved. The mathematician to whom we owe this achieve
ment is Prof. Lommel. I have adapted his results to the problem
of pin-hole photography. [A series of curves * were shown, exhibit
ing to the eye the distribution of illumination in the images obtainable
with various apertures.] The general conclusion is that the hole
may advantageously be enlarged beyond that given by Petzval's rule.
A suitable radius is r = A/ (/A).
    I will not detain you further than just to show you one applica
tion of pin-hole photography on a different scale from the usual. The
definition improves as the aperture increases ; but in the absence of a
lens the augmented aperture entails a greatly extended focal length.
                         * ' Phil. Mag.' Feb. 1891.
                                                             T 2

272    Lord Rayleigh on Some Applications of Photography.   [Feb. 6,
The limits of an ordinary portable camera are thus soon passed.
The original of the transparency now to be thrown upon the screen
was taken in an ordinary room, carefully darkened. The aperture
(in the shutter) was '07 inch, and the distance of the 12 X 10
plate from the aperture was 7 feet. The resulting picture of a group
of cedars shows nearly as rnnch detail as could be seen direct from
the place in question.
                                                               [R.]

  1891.]    Prof. A. Schuster on Recent Total Solar Eclipses.         273
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 13, 1891.
1     WILLIAM HUOOINS, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
              PROFESSOR ARTHUR SCHUSTER, Ph.D. F.E.S.
                       Recent Total Solar Eclipses.
SUCCESSFUL observations of solar eclipses began with the invention of
the spectroscope. Though valuable results had been personally
obtained, especially by De la Rue in I860, the bulk of the observa
 tions made before 1868 are of a kind which at present can be carried on
without the help of an eclipse. The steady progress of eclipse work
of late years is not, however, altogether due to the spectroscope, but
in great part to the science of photography, which of late years has
advanced with rapid strides. In order to judge of the amount of
 information actually obtained, it is well to bear in mind the short
time which has been at our disposal ; the aggregate time during which
 eclipse observations have been carried on since the construction of the
 spectroscope hardly exceeds half an hour.
     The primary object of an eclipse expedition is to investigate the
regions of space which are in the vicinity of the sun, and we may
 hope thereby ultimately to obtain important information concerning
 the constitution of interstellar space.
     The lecturer explained the peculiar difficulties of eclipse observa
tions, the preparations for which often have to be conducted under
great disadvantages, especially when, as happened in the West Indian
eclipse of 1886, the weather is of such an unsettled character that
up to the last minute of the eclipse it was uncertain whether anything
could be seen at all.
     Photographs of the solar corona as observed in different eclipses
 were thrown on the screen, and attention was drawn to the great
differences in its general outline and character. Two types of corona
may be distinguished ; one of them principally appearing at a time of
sunspot maximum, while the other is chiefly seen when there are few
spots on the luminary.
     The corona of sunspot minimum is characterised by long streamers
spreading chiefly in directions which are not much inclined to the
solar equator. In addition to those extensions, curved lines are
noticed which seem to converge to two points on the solar surface
which are not far removed from the solar poles. If a line is drawn
through the two points of convergence, the corona is roughly

274                      Professor Arthur Schuster             [Feb. 13,
symmetrical with respect to it. No such symmetry can be noticed
in the corona which appears at times of maximum sunspots. The
streamers extend irregularly all round the body of the sun, but do
not reach so far as the long extension of the first type.
    With respect to the nature of the corona, there are four alterna
tives. It consists of matter either (1), forming a regular atmosphere
round the sun ; or (2), matter projected from the sun ; (3), matter
falling into the sun ; or finally (4), matter circulating round the sun
with planetary velocity.
    The choice between these observations must be made by careful
analysis of the light received by us from the corona. We possess
well-known methods to distinguish between light which is sent out
from bodies which are self-luminous, and light which is reflected ;
and we may even detect violent motions of luminous matter.
     The lecturer then explained in detail the photographs of the
spectrum of the corona and prominences as photographed in the
West Indian eclipse. The principal results may be summarised as
follows :—
     (1) The greater part of the light sent out "by the solar corona
is due to matter which is self-luminous, and probably in a solid or
liquid condition ; the maximum of luminous intensity is displaced
 towards the red end of the spectrum as compared with sunlight,
showing that the temperature of the luminous matter is lower than
 that of the solar surface.
     (2) A comparatively small part of the light is reflected sunlight.
 The relative importance of reflected and independent light seems to
differ in different eclipses, a point which will no doubt receive careful
attention on future occasions.
     (3) Hydrogen and calcium, which are the main constituents of
 solar prominences, do not form part of the normal spectrum of the
 corona. The hydrogen lines are visible only in the parts overlying
 strong prominences. The violet calcium lines known as H and K,
 though visible everywhere, are stronger on that side of the corona
 which has many prominences at its base.
     If this result is confirmed on future occasions it would prove that
 the matter of the corona is partly formed by substances thrown out
 from the body of the sun.
     (4) The gaseous constituents of the corona, which seem rich in
 spectroscopic lines, cannot at present be identified with any terrestrial
 elements.
     (5) The matter of the corona does not revolve with planetary
 velocity round the sun.
     Photometric measurements have been made during the last eclipse
 by Professor Thorpe with instruments designed by Captain Abney,
 and one of their results allows us to compare the corona in this
 respect with the one observed by Langley in 1878. Thorpe and
 Abney find the luminous intensity between eight and nine minutes of
 arc away from the sun's limb to be about the twentieth part of the

1891.]                on Recent Total Solar Eclipses.                275
intensity of moonlight, while Langley found that at a distance of
three minutes the corona radiated with one-tenth the intrinsic
brightness of the moon.
     Considering (1), that the brightness of the corona diminishes
 with the distance from the sun's limb ; (2), that Langley observed
 at the top of Pike's Peak, at an elevation of 14,000 feet in a very dry
atmosphere, while Thorpe's observations were taken at sea-level under
 unfavourable circumstances ; also (3), that the type of corona waa
.different on the two occasions; the results agree to a remarkable
degree, and show that the eye estimates which have suggested
enormous differences in the brilliancy of the corona in different
eclipses are not to be trusted.
     Returning to the four alternatives respecting the constitution of
the corona, we may at once reject the first and fourth ; for it may be
 proved that the sun could have no regular atmosphere to the extent
 indicated by the outlines of the corona, and spectroscopic results
 exclude the hypothesis that the balk of its matter revolves with
planetary velocity ; though probably there is some meteoric material
 which doqs revolve round the sun.
     Dr. Huggins, in a lecture delivered in the Royal Institution,*
has suggested a theory of the corona, according to which its
luminosity is due to electrical discharges, the matter conveying the
discharge being projected from the sun by electrical repulsion. The
author agrees with Dr. Huggins in the idea that electrical discharges
are probably the cause of the streamers which form the most
 prominent feature of the solar corona. But before we can form any
 definite ideas as to the precise way in which these discharges are
brought about, wo must first settle the very important question
whether the planetary space contains sufficient matter to be a
conductor of electricity. Our present knowledge regarding electrical
discharges entitles us to say that a body which is at the high
 temperature of the sun, surrounded by gaseous matter, cannot keep
any appreciable charge of electricity, and we have some evidence for
 saying that once a discharge is set up in interplanetary space there
 is sufficient matter present to convey the discharge, so that the
lecturer feels bound to believe in a direct electric connection between
the sun and the planets. If then, as is probable, electric discharges
 take place near the sun, there must be some cause which keeps up
the difference in electrical potential between the sun and outside
space. The form of the corona suggests a further hypothesis, which,
extravagant as it may appear at present, may yet prove to be true.
Is the sun a magnet ? We know that a body at such a high tem
perature cannot be magnetisable, but may not a revolving body act
like a magnet, and may not the earth's magnetism be similarly due to
the earth's revolution about its axis ? It can be shown that although
a revolving body may act like a magnet sufficiently to account for
                   * 'Proceedings,' Royal Institution, 1885.

276        Prof. A Schuster on Recent Total Solar Eclipses.    [Feb. 13,
terrestrial magnetism, our instrumental appliances would yet be quite
insufficient to allow us to detect the phenomenon in bodies set into
rotation artificially on the surface of the earth, so that there is no
a priori reason against the hypothesis. Owing to the large mass of
the sun the magnetic forces at his surface would be much stronger
than those at the surface of the earth, and we should expect the outline
of the corona to show the influence of these magnetic forces if the
streamers of the corona are caused by electric discharges. The form
of the corona at a time of minimum sunspot is as a matter of fact
very similar to what we should expect if the sun was a magnet,
discharging negative electricity near its poles. The author has shown,
in his Bakerian lecture of 1884, that a magnet introduced into a
hollow negative electrode drives the discharges away from the poles
 of the magnet, concentrating at places where the field is weakest. It
 is also known that the negative discharge near a magnet tends to take
 up the shape of the lines of force, and Bigelow has recently drawn
 attention to the similarity between the polar rays of the corona and
 the lines of force due to a magnetised sphere.
     All these questions are at present in a purely speculative state,
 but it is only by keeping an ambitious programme that we may hope
 to make good use of the eclipses which are yet to come. The relation
 between matter and the luminiferous ether is the great question of
 the day, and Cosmical Physics is likely to contribute largely to its
 solution.
                                                               [A. S.]

1891.]         Dr. Edward JB. Klein on Infectiont Diseases.         277
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 20, 1891.
  SIR JAMES CRIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                       Vice-President, in the Chair.
       EDWARD E. KLEIN, M.D. F.R.8. Lecturer on Physiology
                      at St. Bartholomew's Hospital.
      Infectious Diseases, their Nature, Cause, and Mode of Spread.
WE read in Homer that " Phoebus Apollo, offended by mortals, sent
a pernicious plague into the camp of the Greeks ; the wrathful god
with his arrows hit first mules, then dogs, and then also the Greeks
themselves, and the funeral pyres burned without end." If we ex
pressed this in less poetical language, but more in conformity with
our modern realistic notions, we would say that the deity of health
and cleanliness, having been offended by mortals, sent his poisonous
but imperceptible darts or bacilli into them, and caused an epidemic
of a fatal disease, communicable to man and animals.
     In whatever form we meet with this simile—whether an epidemic
be ascribed to a wrathful Providence, or to a sorcerer or a witch that
put their spells on man or on cattle, thereby causing numbers of them
to sicken and to die ; whether this happened amongst the nations of
old, or amongst the modern Zulus, whether amongst the peasants
of Spain' or in Italy—we now know that it always means that the
offended deity of cleanliness, and the outraged laws of health, avenge
 themselves on mortals by the invasion of armies of imperceptible
 enemies, which we do not call arrows, nor sorcerers' or witches'
 spells or incantations, but microbes.
     From Homer's Trojan epidemic among the Greeks to the epidemic
 in the camp of Cambyses, from the plagues carried and spread by the
 Crusaders of old to the plagues carried and spread in modern times
 by pilgrims to and from Mecca, the plagues following the ancient
 armies and those of more recent times, the plagues attacking a country
 debilitated by famine or by superstition have been in the past, and
 will be in the future, due in a great measure to neglect and ignorance,
 on the part either of individuals or of a whole population, of the
 principles of the laws of health: and it is chiefly to this neglect,
 ignorance, and indolence, that the spread and visitations of epidemic
 infectious disorders must be ascribed. It is therefore, with justice,
 that these disorders are called preventable diseases, and one cannot
 imagine a greater contrast than that between the knowledge we possess
 at the present time of communicable diseases, as to their cause, mode
 of spread and prevention, and the views of iormer generations as to
 thuir spontaneous origin.

278                        Dr. Edward E. Klein                  [Feb. 20,
     Although the notion that all epidemic diseases are communicable,
i. e. spread from one individual to another, is not a new one, since
many writers of former generations have had clear ideas about them,
yet the actual demonstration of the fact that the different infections
or communicable diseases are due to definite species of microbes,
which, having invaded a human or animal organism, are capable
therein of multiplying and of causing a particular infectious illness ;
further, the identification of these living germs in the blood and tissues
of an invaded individual, and the recognition of their many and intricate
migrations outside the animal body ; the study of the microbes in
artificial cultures, i. e. outside the human or animal body ; further,
the best means to do battle with them, to neutralise them, to prevent
their growth and to destroy them ; then the modus operandi of the
different species, each appertaining to, and causing, a definite kind
of disorder—in short, all that is exact and precise in the knowledge of
the causation, nature, and prevention of infectious diseases, is an out
come of investigations carried on during the last twenty-five years.
Modern research has not only definitely demonstrated these microbes,
it has also shown that a number of diseases not previously suspected
as communicable have a similar cause to the above, and are therefore
now classed amongst them. It need hardly be emphasised that a
knowledge of the causes must lead, and as a matter of fact has led,
to a clearer and better understanding of the recognition, prevention,
and treatment of these disorders, an understanding obviously directed
towards, and followed by, the alleviation and diminution of disease
and death in man and animals.
     I may point to a few special examples to illustrate these proposi
tions. The disease known as splenic apoplexy or malignant anthrax
is a disease affecting man and brutes. In some countries the losses
to agriculturists and farmers owing to the fatal character of the disease
in sheep and cattle is enormous. In man it is chiefly known amongst
wool-sorters and those engaged in the handling of hides. This disease
has been definitely proved to be due to a bacillus, the Bacillus
anthracis, which, after its entry into the system of an animal or
human being, multiplies very rapidly in the blood and spleen, and,
as a rule, produces a fatal result, at any rate in sheep and cattle.
 Now, the bacillus having been proved to be always associated with
 this disease, anthrax, it was then shown that this bacillus can grow
and multiply also outside the animal body : its characters in artificial
 media have been carefully studied and noted, so that it can be easily
 recognised ; and by the pure cultures of the bacillus the disease can
 be again reproduced in a suitable animal. Such cultures have been
 subjected to a number of experiments with heat, chemicals, or anti
 septics ; the chemical function of the Bacillus anthracis has been and
 is being accurately studied in order to give us an insight into the
mode in which it is capable of producing the disease ; it hus been
further shown by Koch that the bacilli are capable of forming seeds
or spores which possess a very high degree of resistance to various

 1891.]                   on Infectious Diseases.                      279
 inimical conditions, such as heat, cold, chemicals, &c., and that it is
 precisely these spores, entering the system by the alimentary canal
 through food or water, or by the respiratory organs through the air,
 to which the disease in most instances is due. Further, it has been
 shown that a trace of the blood of an animal affected with or dead
 from the disease, when introduced into an abrasion of the skin of
 man or animal, produces at first a local effect (carbuncle) followed
 by a general and often fatal infection. But the most important result
 of the cultivation of the bacillus outside the body, in artificial media,
 was the discovery that if subjected to or grown at abnormally high
 temperatures, 42° ' 5 0., i. e. above the temperature of the animal
 body, its power to produce fatal disease—that is, its virulence—
 becomes attenuated, so much so that, while the so-altered bacilli on
 inoculation into sheep or cattle produce a mild and transitory illness,
 they nevertheless furnish these animals with immunity against a
 fatal infection.
     The recognition and identification of the Bacillus anthracis as the
 true cause of the disease, splenic fever or splenic apoplexy, the
 knowledge of its characters in the blood and spleen of man and
animals, and of its peculiarities in artificial cultures, have enabled
us to make a precise diagnosis of the disease, which previously was
not always easy or even possible. The knowledge of its forming
spores when grown under certain conditions, and of the manner in
which experimentally the disease can be reproduced in animals by
the bacillus and its spores, has led to a complete understanding of the
means and ways in which the disease spreads both in animals and
from them on to man ; and last, but not least, the methods of the
protective inoculations first indicated and practised by Pasteur have
 been solely the result of the studies in the laboratory of the cultures
of the Bacillus anthracig, and of experiments with them on living
animals. I could add here a number of other diseases—such as
glanders, fowl cholera and fowl enteritis, erysipelas, scarlet fever
and diphtheria in man, actinomycosis in man and cattle, swine fever
and swine erysipelas, grouse disease, symptomatic charbon in cattle,
and other diseases of animals—which have been brought to a fairly
advanced understanding by methods such as those indicated above ;
and hereby not only in the diagnosis and recognition, but also in
the treatment and prevention of these disorders, an immense amount
of valuable progress has been achieved.
     [1. Demonstration : lantern slides of anthrax, fowl cholera, fowl
enteritis, grouse disease, typhoid, cholera, pneumonia, diphtheria,
actinomycosis, scarlatina, and glanders.]
    As examples of the second proposition, viz. that the modern
methods of study of disease germs, of their nature and action on
living animals, have led to the recognition as communicable diseases
of some disorders which previously were not known or even suspected
to be of this character, I may mention amongst several the disease
known as tuberculosis or consumption, tetanus or lock-jaw, and acute

280                      Dr. Edward E. Klein                   [Feb. 20,
pneumonia. Not until Klencke and Villemin had shown by direct
experiment on animals that tuberculosis is inoculable was it grouped
amongst the infectious diseases. Since these experiments were first
published a large amount of work has been done, proving conclusively
that tuberculous material—that is, portions of the organs containing
the tubercular deposits (e. g. lung, lymph gland, spleen, &c.)—by
inoculation, by feeding, or by introducing it into the respiratory
tract, can set up typical tuberculosis in the experimental animals ;
the tubercular deposits in these experimental animals again are
endowed with the power to propagate the disease in other animals.
Further, it was shown that the disease in cattle called " Perlsucht"
was in all respects comparable to tuberculosis in man, and it is
accordingly now always called tuberculosis.
     A further, and perhaps the greatest, step was then made by Koch's
discovery in 1882 of the tubercle bacillus, and his furnishing the
absolute proof of its being the true cause of the disease. The
demonstration and identification of this microbe is now practised, I
might almost say, by every tyro, and it is of immense help to
diagnosis. In former years, and before 1882, the diagnosis of tuber
culosis was not by any means an easy matter in many cases of chronic
lung disease ; since that year every physician in such cases examines
the expectoration of the patient, and the demonstration of the tubercle
bacilli makes the diagnosis of tuberculosis absolutely certain. Not
only in medical, but also in many surgical cases, e. g. certain forms
of chronic disease of bones and joints, particularly in children, the
demonstration of the tubercle bacilli is of essential importance, and
by these means diseases like lupus of the skin, scrofula, and certain
diseases of bones and joints not previously known as tuberculosis,
are now proved to be so. The same applies to animals ; wherever in
 a diseased organ of man or animal the tubercle bacilli can be demon
 strated, the disease must be pronounced as tuberculosis.
     The proof that the tubercle bacillus is the actual cause of the
 tubercular disease was established by Koch beyond possibility of
 doubt. Cultures in artificial media were made from a particle of a
 tubercular tissue, either of a human being or of cattle affected with
 tuberculosis, or of an experimental animal tubercular by ingestion,
 or by injection with tuberculous matter, and in all cases crops of the
 tubercle bacilli were obtained. Such cultures were then carried on
 from subculture to subculture, through many generations, outside the
 animal body ; with a mere trace of any of these subcultures, however
 far removed from the original source, susceptible animals were
 infected, and all without fail developed tuberculosis, with the tubercle
 bacilli in the morbid deposits of their organs. The discovery of the
 tubercle bacilli and the demonstration that they are constantly pre
 sent in the tubercular deposits of the typical tuberculosis, and the
 proof by experiment on living animals that they are the actual cause
  of the disease, are not all that we have learned, for it has also been
  shown that certain diseases, like the dreaded and disfiguring disease

1891.]                     on Infectious Diseases.                    281
known as lupus—at any rate some forms of it— and further the
disease scrofula, so often present in children, are really of the nature
of tuberculosis, the former in the skin, the latter in the lymph
glands.
    Now see what an enormous step in advance this constitutes : —
    (1) We can now diagnose tuberculosis with much greater accuracy
in man and animals, even in cases in which this was formerly difficult
or impossible.
    (2) We have accepted rightly that all forms of tuberculosis are
infectious or communicable diseases, communicable by inoculation,
by ingestion, i.e. by food, or by respiration, i.e. by air.
    (3) We have learned to reoognise that, as in other infectious
disorders, there exists a risk to those susceptible to tuberculosis, of
contracting the disease from a tubercular source, and it is the recog
nition of these facts which ought to regulate all efforts to prevent its
spread.
    Tetanus or lockjaw, not previously known to be so, has likewise
been fully demonstrated to be an infectious disease : we now know
that it is due to a bacillus having its natural habitat in certain garden
earth ; that this bacillus forms spores, that these spores gaining access
to an abrasion or wound of the skiu in man or animals are capable of
germinating there and multiplying, and of producing a chemical
poison which is absorbed into the system, and sets up the acute
complex nervous disorder called lockjaw. The recognition of the
disease as an infections disease and caused by a specific microbe has
taught us at the same time the manner in which the disease is con
tracted, and thereby the way in which the disease is preventable.
    [2. Demonstration : lantern glides of tubercle and tetanus.]
    The study of disease germs by the new aud accurate methods of
bacteriology has also led to a clearer and better understanding of the
manner in which at any rate some of the infections diseases spread.
While it was understood previous to the identification of their precise
cause that some spread directly from individual to individual (e. g.
small-pox, scarlet fever, diphtheria), others were known to be capable
of being conveyed from one individual to another indirectly, i. e.
through adhering to dust, or being conveyed by water, milk, or by
food-stuffs (e. g. cholera, typhoid fever), fiut we are now in a posi
tion to define and demonstrate more accurately the mode in which
infection can and does take place in many of the infectious diseases.
By these means we have learned to recognise that the popular dis
tinction between strictly contagious and strictly infectious diseases—
the former comprising those diseases which spread as it were only by
contact with a diseased individual, while in the latter diseases no
direct contact is required in order to produce infection, the disease
being conveyed to distant points by the instrumentality of air, water,
or food—is only to a very small extent correct. Take, for instance,
a disease like diphtheria, which was formerly considered a good
example of a strictly contagious disorder ; we know now that diph

282                       Dr. Edward E. Klein                   [Fib. 20,
thcria, like typhoid fever or scarlet fever, can be, and, as a matter of
fact, is, often conveyed from an infected source to great distances by
the instrumentality of milk. In malignant anthrax, another disease
in which the contagium is conveyable by direct contact, e. g. in the
case of an abrasion or wound on the skin coming in contact with
the blood of an animal dead of anthrax, we know that the spores
of the anthrax bacilli can be, and, as a matter of fact, in many
instances, are, conveyed to an animal or a human being by the air,
water, or food. The bacilli of tubercle, finding entrance through a
superficial wound in the skin or mucous membrane, or through
ingestion of food, or through the air, can in a susceptible human
being or an animal produce tuberculosis either locally or generally.
The difference as regards mode of spread between different diseases
resolves itself merely into the question, which is, under natural con
ditions, the most common mode of entry of the disease germ into the
new host ? In one set of cases, e. g. typhoid fever, cholera, the
portal by which the disease germ generally enters is the alimentary
canal ; in another set an abrasion or wound of the skin is the portal,
as in hydrophobia, tetanus, and septicaemia ; in another set the respi
ratory organs, or perhaps the alimentary canal, or both, are the paths
of entrance of the disease germ, as in small-pox, relapsing fever,
malarial fever ; and in a still further set the portal is just as often
the respiratory tract as the alimentary canal, or a wound of the skin,
as in anthrax, tuberculosis. But this does not mean that the virus
is necessarily limited to one particular portal, or that it must be
directly conveyed from its source to the individual that it is to
invade. All this depends on the fact whether or not the microbe
has the power to retain its vitality and virulence outside the animal
or human body.
    Anthrax bacilli are killed by drying ; they gradually die off if they
do not find sufficient nutriment in the medium into which they happen
to be transferred ; they are killed by exposure to heat far below
boiling-point ; they are killed by weak carbolic acid. But if these
anthrax bacilli have been able to form spores, these latter retain their
vitality and virulence when dried, when no nutriment is offered to
them, and even when they are exposed for a few seconds to the heat
of boiling water, or when they are exposed to the action of strong
solutions of carbolic acid. Similarly, the bacillus of diphtheria is
killed by drying, also by weak solutions of carbolic acid ; it is killed
when kept for a few days in pure water, on account of not finding
sufficient nutriment ; fortunately the diphtheria bacillus is killed in a
few minutes at temperatures above 60° or 65° C., for this bacillus
does not form spores. The same is the case with the microbe of
scarlet fever.
    The tubercle bacillus forms spores ; these are not killed by
drying, they are killed by the heat of boiling water of sufficiently
long duration, two or more minutes ; they are nut killed by strong
carbolic acid.

1891.]                    on Infectious Diseases.                     283
     While, therefore, we know in these cases on what the conditions of
infection depend, we have also learned to understand the conditions
which favour or prevent the infection.
    Not all infectious diseases which have been studied are due to
Bacteria : in some the microbe has not been discovered, e. g. hydro
phobia, small-pox, yellow fever, typhus fever, measles, whooping-
cough ; in others it has been shown that the disease is due to a
microbe which belongs, not to the Bacteria, but to the group of those
simplest animal organisms known as Protozoa. Dysentery and
tropical abscess of the liver are due to Amoeba ; intermittent fever or
ague is due to a protozoon called Htemoplasmodium; a chronic infec
tious disease prevalent amongst rodents, and characterised by deposits
in the intestine, liver, and muscular tissue, is due to certain forms
known as Coccidia, or Psorospermia. A chronic infectious disease in
cattle and man known as actinomycosis is due to a fungus, the
morphology of which indicates that it probably belongs to the higher
fungi ; certain species of moulds (e. g. certain species of Aspergillus
and Mucor) are also known to be capable of producing definite infec
tions chronic disorders ; and so also is thrush of the tongue of infants ;
ringworm and certain other diseases of the hair and skin are known
to be due to microbes allied to the higher fungi.
     The microbes causing disease which have been studied best, are
those belonging to the groups of Bacteria or Schizomycetes or fission
fungi (they multiply by simple division or fission) ; most species of
these have been cultivated in pure cultures, and the new crops have
been utilized for further experiments on animals under conditions
 variable at the will of the experimenter.
     [3. Demonstration : cultures of Bacteria in plates and in tubes.]
    One of the earliest and most important discoveries was that made
by Pasteur as to the possibility of attenuating in action an otherwise
virulent microbe—that is to say, he succeeded in so growing the
microbes, that when introduced into a suitable animal they caused
only a mild and transitory illness, which attack, though mild, is
nevertheless cupable of making this animal resist a second virulent
attack. Jenner, by inoculating vaccine, inoculated a mild or attenuated
small-pox, and by so doing protected the individual against a virulent
small-pox. Pasteur succeeded in producing such an attenuated virus
for two infectious diseases—chicken cholera and splenic apoplexy or
anthrax ; later on also for a third—swine erysipelas. For the first
two he produced cultures grown under certain unfavourable con
ditions, which owing to these conditions lose their virulence, and
when inoculated fail to produce the fatal disease, which they would
produce if they were grown under normal conditions. What they
produce is a transitory mild attack of the disease, but sufficient to
protect the animal against a virulent form ; thus in anthrax he showed
that by growing the Bacillus anthracis at a temperature of 42' -5 to
43° C. for one week, the bacilli become slightly weakened in action ;
growing them for a fortnight at that temperature, they become still

284                       Dr. Edward E. Klein                 [Feb. 20,
more weakened, so much so, that if this culture (premiere vaccine) be
injected into sheep or cattle (animals very susceptible to anthrax)
the effect produced is slight ; then injecting the culture which has
been growing only eight days at 42° '5, the effeut is a little more
pronounced, but not sufficient to endanger the life of the animal.
Such an animal, however, may be regarded as having passed through
a slight attack of anthrax, and as being now protected against a
second attack, however virulent the material injected. In the case
of swine erysipelas, Pasteur found that the microbe of this disease,
transmitted through several rabbits successively, yields a material
which is capable of producing in the pig a slight attack of swine
erysipelas, sufficient to protect the animal against a second attack of
the fatal form. Passing the anthrax virus from however virulent a
source through the mouse, it becomes attenuated, and is then capable
of producing in sheep only a mild form of disease protective against
the fatal disorder. Attenuation of the microbes has been brought
about outside the body by growing them under a variety of conditions
somewhat unfavourable to the microbe.
    Attenuation of the action of the anthrax microbes has been pro
duced by adding to the cultures some slightly obnoxious material
(e.g. mercuric bichloride 1:40,000), by which the growth is some
what interfered with ; or subjecting an otherwise virulent culture for
a short time to higher degrees of temperature (anthrax to 56° C. for
five minutes ; fowl enteritis, twenty minutes, 55° C.) ; or exposing
them for short periods to some obnoxious chemical substance (e. g.
anthrax to carbolic acid, anthrax to bichloride of mercury 1 : 25,000
for twenty minutes) ; or the microbes are passed through, i. e. are
grown in the body of certain species of animals, whereby the microbes
become weakened as regards other species (swine erysipelas, anthrax,
diphtheria, and tetanus) ; finally, some microbes become attenuated
spontaneously, as it were, by growing them in successive generations
outside the animal body, e. g. the pneumonia microbe, the erysipelas
microbe, and others. However good the nutritive medium, these
microbes gradually lose their virulence as cultivation is carried on
from subculture to subculture ; in diphtheria the culture which was
virulent at first loses its virulence as the same culture becomes
several weeks old.
    All these facts are of considerable importance, inasmuch as they
enable us to understand how, in epidemics, the virulence of the
microbe gradually wears off and becomes ultimately nil, and because
they indicate the ways of attenuating microbes for the object of
protective inoculations.
    Another important step in the study of Bacteria was this : it was
shown that they have, besides their special morphological and cultural
characters, definite chemical characters. Specific chemical characters
(specific ferment actions) of Bacteria have been known for a long
 time through the earlier researches of Pasteur—e.g. the Bacteria
causing the acetic acid fermentation of alcohol, the mucoid fcrmen

1891.]                    on Infectious Diseases.                   285
tation, e. g. when beer becomes ropy, the lactic acid fermentation of
milk-sugar, when milk becomes spontaneously sour, Ac.
     Similarly it has been shown that when animal or vegetable matter
undergoes the change known as putrefaction or putrid decomposition,
substances are produced which resemble alkaloids in many ways, and
which, introduced into the circulation of man or animals, act
poisononsly, the degree of action depending, cseterit paribua, on the
dose, i. e. the amount introduced. These alkaloids—called ptomaines
of Selmi—have been carefully investigated and analyzed by Brieger ;
they are different in nature according to the organism that produces
them, and according to the material in which this organism grows :
neurin, cadaverin, cholin, &t-.., are the names given to these sub
stances.
     .Recent research has shown that pathogenic Bacteria, i. e. those
associated with, and constituting the cause of specific diseases, are
capable of elaborating poisonous substances—toxalbumins or toxins,
as they are called—not only in artificial culture media, but also
within the human or animal body affected with the particular patho
genic microbe. Thus, in anthrax or splenic apoplexy, Hankin and
Sidney Martin have shown this to be the case; in diphtheria
(Fraenkel and Brieger), in tetanus (Kitisato), similar toxins have
been demonstrated. We can already assert with certainty that a
microbe that causes a particular disease causes the whole range of
symptoms characterising the disease by means of a [particular
poisonous substance or substances it elaborates in and from the
tissues of the affected individual.
     Another important fact ascertained about some of the toxic sub
stances produced by the different pathogenic Bacteria was this : that
 if, after they are elaborated in an artificial culture fluid, and, by
certain methods of filtration, are separated from the Bacteria and in
jected into a suitable animal, they are capable of producing the same
disease as their microbes, the rapidity and intensity varying with the
amount introduced ; so that it became evident that also in the human
and animal body the intensity of the particular disease depends,
amongst other things, on the amount of poisonous substance elabo
rated by the Bacteria in the tissues. A further important step made
was this : that if the poisonous substance be introduced in such doses
that only slight disturbance would follow, and the dose be repeated
several times, the body of the animal eventually becomes refractory
to the growth and multiplication of the particular Bacteria.
     Wooldridge's researches on septicremia and on anthrax, Koux's
researches on septicaemia and diphtheria, Beumer and Peiper,
Salmon, and many others, have shown the same for a variety of
infectious diseases : in all these instances it has been proved that,
when the chemical products of a specific microbe, elaborated in an
artificial culture medium or in the animal body, are injected into a
healthy animal, this latter is rendered refractory against the specific
microbe, so that, if the specific microbe be introduced into such a
     VOL. XIH. (No. 85.)                                       o

286                       Dr. Edward E. Klein                  [Feb. 20,
prepared animal, the microbe cannot grow and multiply, and cannot
therefore produce the disease. Pasteur's brilliant researches on
protective inoculation against hydrophobia are based on this principle.
     The same explanation applies also to diseases like scarlet fever,
anthrax, fowl cholera, swine fever, certain forms of septicaemia, in
which a first even mild attack is sufficient to protect the animal
against a second attack, however large the number, and however
great the virulence of the particular Bacteria introduced.
     For it must be obvious that it is practically the same, whether
the protective amount of the toxic substance is produced by the
Bacteria in the animal body, as is the case during a mild first attack
of the disease, or whether the protective amount of toxin is elaborated
outside the body, i. e. in an artificial culture, and is then introduced
into the animal body. In both instances the effect is the same, viz.
the animal body is hereby rendered capable of withstanding the
growth and multiplication of the particular Bacteria when a new
invasion takes place.
     What is the cause of this immunity or refractory condition ?
     In order to explain this, I wish first to draw your attention to the
familiar fact that different species of animals, and even different
individuals of the same species, offer a different degree of resistance
to the different infectious diseases. Whereas splenic fever or anthrax
is communicable to man, rodents, and herbivorous animals, it is only
with difficulty communicable to carnivorous animals or birds ; cholera
 and typhoid fever are not communicable to any but man ; diphtheria
is communicable to the human species, to guinea-pigs, cats, and cows,
 it is not communicable to some other animals ; tubercle or con
 sumption is communicable to man and herbivorous animals, in a less
 degree to carnivorous animals, though these also take it but in a
 smaller intensity ; certain other diseases are common to animals, but
 are not communicable to the human species.
      If we inquire into the cause of this different susceptibility, we
 find some very striking facts. Take anthrax : cold-blooded animals,
 e. g. frogs, are unsusceptible as long as they are in their natural
 conditions of temperature; but if a frog be kept at the tempera
 ture of a warm-blooded animal, it is found susceptible to anthrax
 (Fetruschki). Birds are not susceptible to anthrax, but if its tem
 perature be lowered a few degrees it becomes susceptible to anthrax
 (Pasteur).
      Or take another instance: rats are not susceptible to anthrax,
 but if the animals be kept for some time under severe muscular
 exercise, they become susceptible to the disease. Tame mice are
 unsusceptible to glanders, but if phlorizin is administered to them
 for some days, whereby a deposit of sugar takes place in their tissues,
they become susceptible to glanders. The susceptibility and unsus-
ceptibility are expressed by saying that the living tissues in an
animal offer in the one case a favourable, in the other an unfavour
able, soil for the growth and multiplication of the microbe, and that

1891.]                   on Infections Disease*.                   287
this unfavourable condition can be altered in a variety of ways, e.g.
temperature, muscular fatigne, sugar in the tissues, &c. But also a
primary favourable condition can be rendered unfavourable: for
instance, a human being that has passed through one attack of
scarlatina offers tissues unfavourable for the growth of scarlatina
microbes ; attenuated anthrax protects against virulent anthrax ; an
animal that has been first treated with repeated small doses of the
chemical products of a peculiar microbe becomes unsusceptible to
that microbe.
    In order to explain the whole group of phenomena of refractory
state, immunity, and protection, a theory has been put forward which
is as simple as it is fascinating. There can be truly no greater
satisfaction and no greater aim in any branch of science than to
express a great number of facts and phenomena by the simplest
possible formula ; the greatest minds and the most successful philo
sophers have achieved this. Now, in regard to the numerous and
extremely complex phenomena that we have under consideration, a
simple formula has been put forward which is supposed to cover all
the facts and to explain all the phenomena ; this formula is comprised
in a single word, " phagocyte." This word is put forth whenever
and wherever a difficulty arises in explaining or understanding the
complex problems involved in the intimate pathological processes,
the refractory condition, the unsusceptibility to and immunity from
an infectious disease. To any and every question referring to infec
tious diseases the answer is simply " phagocyte." By a " phagocyte "
is understood one of those elementary microscopic corpuscles abound
ing in the animal and human body, possessed of spontaneous or
amoeboid movement, and occurring in the blood as white blood-cells
or leucocytes ; in the lymph and lymph-glands and most tissues, as
lymph corpuscles ; in all acute and chronic pathological processes, as
pus-cells or round cells. The cells, by their protoplasmic or
amoeboid movement, have the power to take up into their interior all
manner of minute particles or granules, living or non-living; it
seems as if these granules and particles were being swallowed up,
eaten, and destroyed by the cells—hence the name of eating globule,
or " phagocyte," given to them.
    These cells —white blood-cells, lymph-cells, or round cells—are
supposed to have the important function to act as the sanitary police
against the invading Bacteria, to be always on the look-out for them,
and where they meet them to at once engage in battle with them ;
that is to say, to do as the giants do—to eat their victims. If the
phagocytes are victorious—that is, if they succeed in eating up the
Bacteria—no harm is done to the animal body ; no disease is pro
duced ; but if, for one reason or another, the Bacteria succeed in
evading the grasp of the phagocyte police, then the Bacteria grow and
multiply, and cause the disease. Sometimes this latter result follows
on account of the phagocytes not being capable of moving sufficiently
briskly to the places of mischief, or, for some inherent reason, not
                                                            u 2

288                       Dr. Edward E. Klein                   [Feb. 20,
being able to cope with the Bacteria, or being altogether indifferent
to tin;1 presence of the enemy ; when this is the case in an animal or
human body, the phagocytes being powerless to destroy the Bacteria,
we are supposed to be dealing with a body that is susceptible to the
disease ; but when the phagocytes do their duty, then the body is
unsusceptible to the disease. Agaiii, when an animal or human being,
by a mild first attack, or by protective inoculation of one kind or
another, becomes unsusceptible to a second attack, this is explained
by saying that, though the phagocytes have not done, or have not
been able to do, their duty during that first attack, they have now
been rendered capable of doing it.
     Now, if you ask what is the evidence on which this theory of
phagocytosis is based, you will find that it is of the most slender kind,
and you will further find that there is an overwhelming number of
observations which directly negatives this theory of universal phago
cytosis, and, moreover, proves conclusively that if phagocytosis has
any share in producing a refractory condition on the part of animals
towards a particular infectious disease—be that a primary unsuscepti-
bility or an acquired immunity against a second attack—this share is
of a remarkably small degree. The whole theory was started by
Hctschnikoff by the interesting and fundamental observation that, if
anthrax bacilli are introduced into the dorsal lymph-sac of the frog—
an animal unsusceptible to anthrax while living under normal con
ditions—the bacilli become inclosed in the lymph-cells, and are
gradually broken up ; they do not multiply, and do not therefore set
up the disease anthrax. This observation, which is easily verified,
was the starting-point for the theory. Metschnikoff and others have
described similar appearances in other conditions of refractory states.
     Now the above observation is explained by Metschnikoff in this
way : the lymph-cells are acting the part of guardians, swallowing up
the bacilli and preventing them from entering the circulation, and
thereby preventing the outhreak of the disease. It must seem very
extraordinary that this should be really a true explanation of the
refractory state of the frog towards anthrax, considering that the
bacilli, like other minute particles, when injected into the lymph-sac,
would be absorbed and brought into the circulation in a few minutes,
nay, seconds—at any rate some hours before the phagocytes have got
into the lymph-sac in sufficient numbers to do battle with the bacilli.
 That the bacilli really enter the circulation in this and other cases,
 but are destroyed by the blood, not by the leucocytes, but by
 the fluid part of the blood—the plasma—has been abundantly proved ;
 and it has liken ise been proved that the fluid part of the blood and
 of the lymph in general has a remarkable germicidal action, inde
 pendent of any cellular element, leucocytes, or other cells. The
 observation of Metschnikoff admits of an explanation different from
that given by him ; it may mean, and probably does mean, that the
 bacilli cannot exist in the fluid of the lymph and of the blood ; they
re destroyed here, but they take refuge in the leucocytes or lymph-cells

  1891.]                     o»t Infectious Diseases.                 289
                              x
  in iclticlt they can live and exist—for a time, at any rate—these cells
  offering to them more favourable conditions of existence.
       In the case of the normal frog, this is also only of a temporary
  nature, since the substance of the lymph-cells suspended in the lymph
  or in the blood-plasma becomes likewise permeated with the germicidal
  influence of the fluid lymph and the fluid plasma, and hence the
  bacilli soon die, even in the substance of the cells. This explanation
  is in perfect harmony with the large number of carefully conducted
  experiments of a host of workers (Fodor, Nutall, Buchner, Petruschki,
  Lubarsch, and others), according to whom the refractory condition of
  an animal to a particular infectious disease is due to a chemical
  germicidal action of the tissue-juices, the lymph, or blood plasma, and
  independent of any cellular elements. The more pronounced this
  germicidal action of the juices is, the more refractory the animal.
       Hence we find that, for instance, when in an animal even a very
  small number of bacteria introduced are sufficient to produce disease,
 the germicidal action of the living blood fluid is very small indeed ;
 but when a considerable number of bacilli are required to produce
 infection, as in animals possessing only a slight refractory power,
 this germicidal action of the blood and tissue fluid is greater, and it
 is greatest of all in those bodies in which not even a large number
 of bacilli can produce infection, as is the case in animals possessed of
 immunity. As stated just now, this part of the subject, as to the
 germicidal action of the fluid of the tissues and the blood, has been
 worked out very carefully, and it has been shown that, as regards the
 destruction of bacteria, the leucocytes of the lymph and blood, or
 other similar cells, might just as well be absent altogether. Quite
 recently the whole argument has been clenched by showing* that if
 an animal susceptible to a particular disease be first infected with the
 bacilli causing this disease, and then into such an infected animal the
 cell-free serum or plasma of the blood of an animal refractory to that
disease be injected, the development of the disease in the former
animal is stopped or prevented. Thus mice are very susceptible to
anthrax ; if they are infected with anthrax bacilli they die of virulent
anthrax within thirty-six to forty-eight hours ; but if simultaneously
 with, or soon after, the introduction of the virulent anthrax bacilli,
blood of frog or blood of dog (both animals very refractory to
anthrax) be injected into these mice, no fatal anthrax follows.
Guinea-pigs, very susceptible to diphtheria, when infected with
virulent culture of the diphtheria bacilli, die in the course of a day
or two, but rats are little or not at all susceptible to the diphtheria
bacilli ; and therefore if the guinea-pigs, after infection with the
diphtheria bacilli, are injected with rat's blood they recover, this
blood being a powerful destroyer of the diphtheria bacilli. Tetanus
is easily communicable to mice, in which it produces fatal tetanus in
     * Ogata and Taeuhura, 'Mitth. der Mod. Facultat d. Kais. Japan Uni-
versitiit,' Tokio.

290                        Dr. Edward E. Klein                       [Feb. 20,
one to three days, but it is not communicable to rabbits ; mice infected
with the tetanus bacilli and then injected with rabbit's blood do not
become affected with tetanus and remain alive.*
     While on the one hand, then, the tissue juices and the blood,
 independent of the cellular elements, possess this germicidal action
 —small or nil in susceptible, larger in animals less susceptible, and
largest in unsusceptible animals—there is, on the other hand, a con
 siderable body of evidence to show that the least germicidal action
seems to be possessed by those very cells themselves which figure in
 the theory as the destroyers of Bacteria, as phagocytes; that is to
 say, that of all the tissues the so-called phagocytes are the materials
offering to the Bacteria the best means of existence. Even in cases
in which the lymph and blood fluid have against particular Bacteria
the greatest germicidal power, the so-called phagocytes are for a time
the last refuges for the Bacteria. I will illustrate this by a number of
examples both of acute and chronic infectious diseases, as gonorrhoea,
Egyptian ophthalmia, Koch's mouse septicaemia, leprosy, and tuber
culosis ; this latter is particularly instructive, as it demonstrates the
absurdity of the alleged phagocytosis of the cells of the spleen in
tuberculosis, for it is the latter cells in which the tubercle bacilli
thrive well, and which they choose pre-eminently.
     [4. Demonstration : tubercle cells and leprosy cells.]
     Nay, more than this : non-pathogenic Bacteria cannot exist in the
normal blood and in the tissues, in the wall of the alimentary canal,
in the tonsils, in the tongue ; they are destroyed and are therefore
absent in the living tissue. But they can, for a time at any rate,
exist in the cells of those parts, and in these, and these only, they
are met with ; these cells are therefore just the reverse of phagocytes,
being the last refuges of the Bacteria.
     These facts seem to show that cells containing in their substance
living Bacteria is no evidence whatever of a battle going on between
the cells and the Bacteria, but rather the reverse. The assumption
of the presence in the so-called phagocytes and similar cells of a
"defensive proteid" seems therefore opposed by these facts. The
cells seem to possess a particular chemical attraction for the Bacteria,
just as is possessed by certain chemical substances; such attraction
is spoken of as positive chemotaxis in contradistinction to negative
chemotaxis—that is, the opposite or repulsive interaction between
Bacteria and certain substances. This line of inquiry is of quite
recent date, and promises to produce important and interesting results.
     From all this we conclude, then, that in some cases the blood and
tissues are, or include, a natural antidote ; in others the antidote is
not present naturally, and is only furnished by the Bacteria them
selves, and still in others the tissues, though possessed of this antidote,
may lose it owing to altered conditions.
    Another point worth considering is the peculiar inimical action
           Behring and Kitisato, ' Deutsche Med. Woch.,' 1890, No. 49.

 1891.]                   on Infectious Diseases.                      291
 exerted by one microbe on the other : this practically means that the
 products of one microbe either prevent the growth of another microbe
 or neutralise its toxic action. It is perfectly well established that
 while the products of one microbe exert an inimical action, when
 present in sufficient amount, on the growth and life of the same
microbe (the protective inoculation by chemical products of the Bac
teria cited above), the accumulation of the products of the particular
microbe interferes with, and eventually altogether stops the further
growth of its microbe. Outside the body this is easily proved in
artificial cultivations. Inside the body it is proved by those cases
in which recovery takes place.
     It has been shown that while some pathogenic microbes can well
thrive side by side in the same culture, inside or outside the body,
there are others where the growth of one is antagonistic to the action
of the other : erysipelas and anthrax (v. Emmerich), swine erysipelas
and swine fever, anthrax and Bacillus pyocyaneus (Charrin), anthrax
and Staphylococcu* aureus ; this is due to the fact that the chemical
products of one species inhibit or neutralise the other species. That
this antagonism is really of a chemical nature is shown in the case of
anthrax and Bacillus pyocyaneus ; if the chemical products of this
latter microbe be injected into the animal simultaneously or soon
after inoculation with the anthrax bacilli, no anthrax disease ensues,
the anthrax bacilli do not multiply and do not produce the disease.
Apart from specific antiseptics, there exist, then, in the battle against
the action of pathogenic microbes which have already entered the
system of an animal, the following means : (1) the chemical antago
nism offered by the healthy tissues themselves—in some cases this
is nought, in others very great and powerful, alterable by various
conditions; (2) the germicidal action of the blood and tissue juices of
unsusceptible animals on the multiplication of pathogenic Bacteria
within a susceptible animal; (3) the antagonism existing between
the Bacteria and their own chemical products ; (4) the antagonism
of one species and its chemical products against another species.
These principles have, then, to be borne in mind as indicating the
ways in which the microbes can be prevented from producing
eventually the disease in a body into which they have found access.
Pasteur's hydrophobia inoculations, and many of the recently pub
lished results of curative inoculations against tetanus, against anthrax,
and against diphtheria, are illustrations of these principles.
    The principle on which Koch's antituberculous lymph acts is
apparently of a different nature. Koch has found by experiment on
guinea-pigs that if the chemical products or an extract of the sub
stance of the tubercle bacilli be injected into a body affected with
tuberculosis, the tubercular tissue becomes necrotic, while the
tubercle bacilli themselves remain unaffected ; at the same time a
remarkable reactive inflammation sets in, by which the necrotic
tissue becomes eliminated, either spontaneously, e. g. where the
tubercular process is superficial, as in lupus of the skin, or it may be

292          Dr. Edward E. Klein on Infectious Diseases.       [Feb. 20,
removed by surgical aid, as in tuberculosis of the bones and joints.
All who have followed the numerous cases treated in this manner
must agree that it is an immense advance on all previous methods of
treatment of some forms of lupus and of bone tuberculosis.
    After having shown you what an ernormous amount of accurate
knowledge about the nature and causation, about the prevention and
treatment of infectious diseases has been gained by the experimental
method and by this alone, it will hardly be credited that a number
of persons, as well-meaning as they are ill-instructed, are still main
taining the contrary ; it is they who have succeeded in inducing
Parliament to pass a law restricting, if not in some cases altogether
prohibiting, the use of that method. This law is interfering with
research in this country to a large extent, and has even put a stigma
on those who are engaged in elucidating truths that are for the
benefit of mankind, and of the animals themselves. What can be of
greater benefit in the battle against diseases than the knowledge of
their causes and the devising of means for their prevention and
treatment ?
     Fortunately for progress in general, this country is the only one
in which such restrictions disfigure the statute-book ; other countries,
more enlightened and able to recognise the value of researches of this
kind, have wisely resisted the clamour for restrictions.
     In connection with all this knowledge, of which I have only been
able to give you an outline, I have heard it stated that " ignorance "
(meaning the ignorance of former times) " is bliss " as compared
with the present knowledge of the dangers surrounding us ; but I
 have also heard it stated that the wise man, knowing and recognising
the nature of these dangers, has the possibility given him of avoiding
 and preventing them, and no truer words have been spoken than
 these, that " he who cures a disease may be the skilfullest, but he that
 prevents it is the safest, physician."
     My best thanks are due to my friend Mr. Andrew Pringle for the
admirable photographs prepared by him of the microscopic slides
illustrating the different pathogenic microbes exhibited, and to my
friend and pupil Mr. Bousfield for the fine lantern slides of tube
cultivations.

1891.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                     293
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 27, 1891.
      SIR FREDERIOK AREL, K.C.fi. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                   PERCY FITZGERALD, Esq. M.A. F.S.A.
                               The Art of Acting.
                                  [No Abstract.]
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, March 2, 1891.
      WILLIAM CROOKES, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                  Miss Emily Aston, B.Sc.
                  Henry Daw Ellis, Esq. M.A.
                  Francis Fowke, Esq.
                  Augustus William Gadesden, Esq. J.P.
                  Miss Emily Dora Locock,
                  Signer Alberto Randegger,
                  The Hon. Frederick Hamilton Eussell,
                  John Wilson Walter, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The following Arrangements for the Lectures after Easter were
announced :—
    J. SCOTT KELTIE, Esq. F.R.G.S.—Three Lectures on THE GEOGRAPHY OF
AFRICA, with special reference to the Exploration, Commercial Development,
and Political Partition of the Continent; on Tuesdays, April 7, 14, 21.
    EDWARD E. KLEIN, M.D. F.R.S.—Three Lectures on BACTERIA: THEIR
NATURE AND FUNCTIONS (The Tyndall Lectures) ; on Tuesdays, April 28,
May 5, 12.
    WILLIAM ARCHER, Esq.—Four Lectures on FOUR STAGES OF STAGE HISTORY :
1. The Betterton Period; 2. The Gibber Period; 3. The Garrick Period; 4. The
Kemble Period ; on Tuesdays, May 19, 26, June 2, 9.
    PROFESSOR DEWAR, M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Six Lectures on RECENT SPEOTRO-
BOOFIO INVESTIGATIONS ; on Thursdays, April 9, 16, 23, 30, May 7, 14.
    A. C. MACKENZIE, Esq. Mus. Doc.—Four Lectures on THE ORCHESTRA
CONSIDERED IN CONNECTION WITH THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE OVEKTDRE; on
Thursdays, May 21, 28, June 4, 11.
     PROFESSOR SILVANUS P. THOMPSON, D.So. B.A. M.R.I.—Four Lectures on
THE DYNAMO ; on Saturdays, April 11, 18, 25, May 2.
     H. GRAHAH HARRIS, Esq. M. INST. C.E. M.R.I.—Three Lectures on THE
ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTION OF COLD ; on Saturdays, May 9, 16, 23.
     PROFESSOR A. H. CHUROH, M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Three Lectures on THE
 SCIENTIFIC STUDY OF DECORATIVE COLOUR ; on Saturdays, May 30, June 6, 13.

294                         General Monthly Meeting.                 [March 2,
    The PREBENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The New Zealand Government—Statistics of the Colony of New Zealand for the
    year 1889. fol. 1890.
Accademia dei IAncei, llml, . Roma—A tti, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. 2° Semes-
     tre, Vol. VI. Fasc. 12. 8vo. 1890.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Third Series, Vol. I. Part 4.
     8vo. 1890.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LI. No. 3. 8vo. 1891.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XII. Parts 1, 2. 8vo. 1891.
Bavarian Academy of Sct'enses—Sitzungsberichte, 1890, Heft 4. 8vo. 1891.
British Architect, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1890-1, Nos. 8, 9. 4to.
Buckton, G. B. Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I. (the Author)—Monograph of the British Cioa-
     dae, Part 5. 8vo. 1891.
Chemical Industry, Society o/—Journal, Vol. X. No. 1. 8vo. 1891.
Chemical Society—Journal for February, 1891. 8vo.
Clark, Latimer, Esq. F.Ii.S. lf.R.1. (the Author)—Dictionary of Metric and other
     useful Measures. 8vo. 1891.
Cracovie, VAcademie des Sciences—Bulletin, 1891, No. 1. 8vo.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. &c. M.R.I.—Journal of the Royal Microscopical
     Society, 1891, Part 1. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for February, 1891. 8vo.
  Analvst for February, 1891. 8vo.
  Athenteum for February, 1891. 4to.
  Brewers' Journal for February, 1891. 4to.
  Chemical News for February, 1891. 4to.
  Chemist and Druggist for February, 1891. 8vo.
  Electrical Engineer for February, 1891. fol.
  Engineer for February, 1891. fol.
  Engineering for February, 1891. fol.
  Horological Journal for February, 1891. 8vo.
  Industries for February, 1891. fol.
  Iron for February, 1891. 4to.
  Ironmongery for February, 1891. 4to.
  Murray's Magazine for February, 1891. 8vo.
  Nature for February, 1891. 4to.
  Open Court for February, 1891. 4to.
  Photographic News for February, 1891. 8vo.
  Public Health for February, 1891. 8vo.
  Revue Scientifique for February, 1891. 4to.
  Telegraphic Journal for February, 1891. fol.
  Zoophilist for February, 1891. 4to.
Florence Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale—Bolletino, Nos. 122, 123. 8vo. 1891.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 782. 8vo. 1891.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. XIII. No. 2. 8vo.
     1891.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1890, Nos. 14-18 ; 1891,
     No. 1. 8vo.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 185. 8vo. 1891.
Harlem, SocieU Hollandaise des Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Tome XXIV.
     Livraisons 4 and 5. 8vo. 1891.
Johns Hopkins University—University Circulars, No. 85. 4to. 1891.
Junior Engineering Society—Address, No. 9. 8vo. 1890.
M'Kendrick, J. G. M.D. LL.D. F.Ji.8. (the Author)—Chronological Tables of
     ScientiBc Men. 8vo. 1890.
         Government—Madras Meridian Circle Observations for 1868-1870. 4to.
    1890.

1891.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                        295
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs and Proceedings, Vol.;IV.
     Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1890-91.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, 1890, No. 4. 8vo.
Meteorological Office—Weekly Weather Reports, Vol. VIII. No. 3. 4to. 1891.
     Meteorological Observations at Stations of Second Order, fol. 1890.
Jfeteorological Society, Royal—Meteorological Record, Vol. X. No. 38. 8vo. 1890.
     Quarterly Journal, No. 77. 8vo. 1891.
Middlesex Hospital—Reports for 1889. 8vo. 1891.
Jlinistry of Public Works, Rome—Oiornale del Genio Civile, 1890, Fase. 12.
     And Designi. fol. 1890.
Xivart, J. St. George, M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Gutter)—Introduction generate a
     1'e'tnde de la Nature. 8v0. 1891.
Norwegian North Atlantic Expedition, Editorial Committee—Bars, G. O. Pycno-
     gonidea. fol. Ohrigtiania, 1891.
Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, Part IV. 8vo. 1890.
Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXIII. No. 3. New
     Series. 8vo. 1891.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, February, 1891. 8vo.
   Calendar, 1891. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, Vol. XV. No. 4. 8vo. 1891.
Rathbone, E. P. Esq. (the Editor)—The Witwatersrand Mining and Metallurgical
     Review, No. 12. 8vo. 1890.
Rio de Janeiro, Obserealoire Imperial de—Revista, No. 1. 8vo. 1891.
Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh—Reports from the Laboratory, Vol. III.
     8vo. 1891.
Royal Irish Academy—Proceedings, Third Series, Vol. I. No. 4. 8vo. 1891.
   Transactions, Vol. XXIX. Part 14. 4to. 1891.
Royal Observatory, Edinburgh—Catalogue of Crawford Library. 4to. 1890.
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CLXXXI. 4to. 1891.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Philologisch-hUtorischen Classe :
   Abhandlung. Band XII. No. 2. 8vo. 1891.
Selborne -Society—Nature Notes, Vol. II. No. 14. 8vo. 1891.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. III. NOs. 5, 6. 8vo. 1891.
Society of Arts—Journal for February, 1891. 8vo.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital^-Reports, Vol. XXVI. 8vo. 1890.
Statistical Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. LIU. Part 4. 8vo. 1890.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 156. 8vo. 1891.
 United States Geological Surrey—Ninth Annual Report, 1887-88. 4to. 1889.
   Mineral Resources of the United States. 8vo. 1890.
   Monographs, Vol. I. 4to. 1890.
   Bulletins, NOs. 58-61, 63, 64, 66. 8vo. 1890.
 Vereins zur BefOrderung des Gewerbfleises in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1891 :
     Heft 1. 4to.

296                        Professor J. A. Fleming                      [March 6,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, March 6, 1891.
      WILLIAM CBOOKES, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
               PBOFESSOB J. A. FLEMING, M.A. D.Sc. M.RJL.
                          Electro-magnetic Repulsion.
§ 1. ON the 2nd day of October, 1820, AmpAre presented to the
Royal Academy of Sciences in Paris an important memoir, in which
he summed up the results of his own and Arago's previous investiga
tions in the new science of electro-magnetism, and crowned that labour
by the announcement of his great discovery of the dynamical action
between conductors conveying electric currents.* Respecting that
achievement, when developed in its experimental and mathematical
completeness, no less a writer than Clerk Maxwell calls it " one of
the most brilliant in the history of physical science." Our wonder
at what was then accomplished is increased when we remember that
hardly more than two months before that date John Christian Oersted
had startled the scientific world by the announcement of the discovery
of the magnetic qualities of the space near a current-traversed con
ductor. Oersted called the actions going on around the conductor
the " electric conflict," and in his first paper,f in describing the newly-
observed facts, he says :—" It is sufficiently evident that the electric
conflict is not confined to the conductor, but is dispersed pretty widely
in the circumjacent space." " We may likewise collect," he adds,
" that this conflict performs circles round the wire, for without this
condition it seems impossible that one part of the wire when placed
below the magnetic needle should drive its pole to the east, and when
placed above it to the west." These few words are taken from the
original paper which stimulated the philosophic thought of Ampere
and his contemporaries, and started into existence a wave of dis
covery, placing us in possession of the facts which form our starting-
point to-night.
     § 2. It will be unnecessary to spend more than a moment or two
    " 'Me"moire present^ a 1'Academic Royale des Sciences le 2 ootobre 1820, oil
se trouve compris le resume de ce qui avait etc lu a la meme Acade'mie lea 18m"
et 25me septembre 182U, sur les eflets des courants e'leotriques," par M. Ampere.
See vol. xv. ' Annales de Chimie," 1820.
    t In the ' Annals of Philosophy ' for October 1820, vol. xvi. p. 274, is to be
found an English translation of Oersted's original Latin essay, dated July 21,
1820, describing his immortal discovery. This paper is entitled " Experiments
on the Effect of a Current of Electricity on the Magnetic Needle,'" by John
Christian Oersted, Knight of the Order of Danneborg, Professor of Natural
Philosophy in Copenhagen.

1891.]                  on Electro-magnetic Repulsion.                       297
in illustrating the now familiar interactions of two circuits traversed
by currents in the same or opposite directions. Holding a circular
coil traversed by a continuous electric current near to a similar cir
cuit free to move, we are well aware that when the circuits are
parallel to each other there is an attractive force between them if
the currents in adjacent parts of the circuits flow in the same
direction, and a repulsive effect if they flow in the opposite. This
is the electro-dynamic action discovered by Ampere and utilised in
the construction of instruments for the measurement of electric
currents in practical work. If one such conducting coil, such as that
of the electro-magnet now before me, is traversed by an alternating
current, and the other is simply a closed circuit or coil placed a little
distance off, but in its field, I feel sure I am free to assume that all
here are aware of the effect which will be produced. The closed
circuit becomes the seat of an alternating induced current, which,
if our inducing current is sufficiently powerful, can be made to render
itself evident by illuminating a small incandescent lamp placed in
the secondary circuit.* Notice, however, that in performing the
experiment the secondary circuit must be so placed that the magnetic
lines of force of the primary coil perforate through the secondary
circuit. If the secondary circuit is held in such a position that the
reversal of direction of the primary current causes no reversal of
direction of the magnetic field traversing the secondary circuit,
because it is not linked with any of the lines of force of the primary,
the secondary circuit is no longer the seat of any induced current.
     Note also that this electro-magnetic induction, whilst taking
place across space, is not interfered with by the interposition of a
non-conducting screen.           The magnetic induction passes freely
through an inch board or a plate of glass, but if we interpose a
thick copper sheet (Fig. 1), we cut off the secondary current or screen
the secondary circuit from the inductive action of the primary. The
secondary coil is, in fact, an electro-magnetic eye which can see lliroutjlt
an inch of wood, but to which a sheet of zinc is semi-transparent,
and a thick sheet of copper quite opaque, as far as the electro
magnetic radiation of the wave-length employed is concerned. The
rapid heating of this copper screen makes us aware that the secondary
currents are now being induced in the copper sheet in the form of
    * The experiments here referred to were mostly performed with an alter
nating-current magnet, having a core of divided iron about 3 inches in diameter
and 12 inches long, excited by a Siemens alternating-current dynamo, kindly
lent for the occasion by Messrs. Siemens Bros., giving a current at an electro
motive force of rather less than 200 volts. A small shelf around the core a little
above the middle serves as a support for rings, &c., to be projected. The
performance of these experiments on a scale suitable for large audiences requires
trom 10 to 15 horse-power at least, and can hardly be shown well unless the
alternator can provide a curreut of 100 amperes at 100 volts, available at the
moment of maximum demand. The magnet of course takes very little actual
current until the metal plate or ring la held near it, when the impedance is
immediately reduced.

298                      Professor J. A. Fleming                  [March 6,
eddy currents, and it screens the secondary circuit because the
inductive action of these eddy currents on the side remote from the
magnet is exactly equal and opposite to that of the primary circuit
on the secondary coil.
     § 3. Connecting together these elementary facts, we are easily ahle
to explain another well-known fact. If a continuous current is sent
                                  through the coils of a large electro
             FIG. 1.              magnet, and we magnetise its iron core
                                  very powerfully, it is found to be im
                                  possible to strike the pole of the magnet
                                  a sharp blow by means of a sheet of
                                  copper. Holding a sheet of copper over
                                  such a magnetic pole, and energising
                                  the magnet, the hand holding the
                                  copper sheet feels a repulsive action at
                                  the moment when the current is put
                                  on and an attractive action when it is
                                  cut off. If we try to slap the magnet
                                  sharply with the copper sheet, it is
                                  found that this repulsive force prevents
                                  anything like such a sharp blow being
                                  given to the pole when the current is
                                  on, as can be given when the current is
                                  off. Moreover, when a very powerful
                                  electro-magnet is employed, it is found
                                  that a disc of copper let fall over the
                                  pole does not fall down sharply and
                                  quickly on to it when the current is
                                  flowing through the coils of the mag-
 Copper plate interposed between ne^ fout settles down softly and slowly,
   a primary and a secondary coil     if falling through some sticky fluid,
   and shielding the secondary ™ ,             °, , ,-, e     ,     i i,- „
   from induction.                We know that the correct explanation
                                  of these facts is to be found in the
 statement that the motion of the conductor towards the magnetic
 pole causes eddy electric currents to be generated in it by electro
 magnetic induction, and that these being in the opposite direction
 to the energising current of the magnet, cause a repulsive force to
 exist between the inducing and secondary circuits, which creates the
 apparent resistance we feel.
      In order to exhibit the stress brought into existence between an
 electro-magnet and a metal sheet held near it when induced currents
 are set up in the disc, we have arranged the following experiment :—
 Over the pole of a powerful electro-magnet we have balanced a small
 disc of copper, the size of a penny, carried on one end of a deli
 cately balanced bar. A mirror attached to that bar serves to reflect
 on to the screen a ray of light indicating the smallest motion of the
 copper piece. On magnetising the magnet the copper is suddenly
 repelled, but comes to rest again immediately in its initial position.

1891.]                on Electro-magnetic Repulsion.                    299
When the magnet is demagnetised the copper experiences a momentary
attraction. These attractions and repulsions are obviously due to
the Amperian stress set up between the magnet and the metal by
reason of the induced currents set up in the latter. Impulsive
effects of this nature have been particularly studied by Mr. Boys.*
     § 4. Let me, in the next place, ask you to contemplate a circuit,
say a closed conducting ring, suspended in front of the pole of an
electro-magnet, and that the coils of the electro-magnet are traversed
by an alternating current of electricity (Fig. 2). The magnetic field of
the magnet is then an alternating field. We shall suppose it to vary
in strength, according to a simple periodic law. The closed circuit
is therefore subjected to an inductive action, and we know that tho
induced electromotive force in that circuit is at any instant propor-
                                   Fio. 2.
Copper ring hang in the field of an electro-magnet, and repelled or attracted
                     when the current is put on or cut off.
tional to the rate of change of the magnetic field in which it is
immersed. If, therefore, the variation in strength of that field is
represented geometrically by the ordinates of a periodic curve, the
varying electromotive force acting in the ring circuit is represented
by the ordinates of another such curve of equal wave length, shifted
a quarter of a wave length behind the first. In the diagram before
you the variation of the induced magnetic field, and the induced
electromotive force in the circuit, are represented, as usual, by two
harmonic curves. This induced electromotive force creates an induced
current flowing backwards and forwards in the ring, and we shall, in
the first instance, suppose that this current flows in exact synchronism
with its electromotive force. The induced current and the inducing
magnetic field may therefore be represented as to relative phase and
strength by the curves in the diagram (Fig. 3). The dynamical action,
    * See Proc. Phys. Soc. of London, vol. vi. p. 218, " A Magneto-electric
Phenomenon."

300                        Professor J. A. Fleming                    [March 6,
or the force which the ring experiences, is at any instant proportional
to the product of the strength of the magnetic field in which the
ring is immersed, and to the strength of the induced current created
in it. If we multiply together the numerical values of the ordinates
of these two curves at any and every point on the horizontal line,
and set up a new onlinate at that point representing this product, the
extremities of these last ordinates define a curve, which is a curve
representing the force acting on the secondary circuit, and it is, as
you see from the diagram, Fig. 3, a wavy curve having a wave length
equal to half that of the first two curves. Moreover, the whole area
inclosed between the outline of this force curve and the horizontal
line represents to a certain scale the time integral of that force, or
                                     FIG. 3.
   Diagram showing the equality of the attractive and repulsive impulses iu a
        non-inductive circuit when held in (in alternating magnetic field.
the impulse acting on the secondary circuit, and the theory shows us
that, under the assumptions made, the secondary circuit so acted upon
experiences in each period of the current four impulses, two positive
or repulsive, and two negative or attractive. Hence, it comes to this,
that such an ideal conducting circuit held in front of an alter
nating electro-magnet should experience a rapid alternate series of
equal pushes and pulls, or of little impulses to and from the magnet.
These equal and opposite impulses in quick succession would
neutralise one another, and our supposed circuit would not, on the
whole, be subject to any resultant force.
    § 5. Quite otherwise is it, however, when we present a real
conducting circuit to the pole of an electro-magnet traversed by a
powerful alternating current. We find that under the actual circum
stances there is a powerful repulsive action between the pole and the

1891.]                on Electro-magnetic Repulsion.                    301
circuit. The exact nature of the electro-magnetic repulsion it is onr
business now to explore.
    Taking in my hands a copper ring, I hold it over the pole of this
powerful vertical alternating electro-magnet, and find at once that
there is a perceptible and strong repulsion. Letting the ring go, it
jumps up into the air, impelled so to do by the electro-magnetic
repulsion acting upon it (Fig. 4). All good conducting rings will
execute this gymnastic feat, and rings of copper ami aluminium are
found to be most nimble of all. Rings of zinc and brass are sluggish,
and a ring of lead will not jump at all. We
owe the discovery of this striking effect to               Fio. 4.
Prof. Elihu Thomson, and he has explored
in all directions the consequences and nature
of this interesting effect. Why is it that onr
real copper and metal rings behave so dif
ferently, when immersed in an alternating
field, to ideal rings of conducting matter?
The explanation is not very difficult to find.
The real ring possesses a quality, called its
inductance, of which we took no account in
our examination of the case a moment ago.
     § 6. Before me lies a very large bobbin
of wire (Fig. 5), and the ends of this coil are
connected to an incandescent lamp. We send
a current of electricity through the bobbin
and the lamp, and have arranged matters as
in the diagram before you, so that the cur
rent divides through the two circuits of lamp
and bobbin. Under these circumstances, the
divided current is just sufficient to illuminate
faintly the lamp. I break the circuit of the
battery, and you see that the lamp flashes up
for a moment, and we are well aware that
this effect is due to the electro-magnetic
momentum of the coil, or to its inductance, Aluminium          ring project
                                                   ing from the pole of an
in virtue of which the current continues to        alternating electro-mag
flow on in the bobbin for a short period after     net, and floating over
the impressed electromotive force is with          the pole when restrained
drawn. Also, we know that there is a small         by three strings.
but definite time required before the current
practically reaches its full strength in the bobbin when the electro
motive force is again applied. These effects are the self-inductive
effects of a coil first noticed by Prof. Joseph Henry in 1832, and
subsequently fully examined in the ninth series of Faraday's ' Experi
mental Researches in Electricity.' Every circuit of any kind—disc,
ring, or coil of wire—possesses a certain degree of this quality of
self-induction, and, as a natural consequence it follows therefrom
that if that circuit is subjected to a periodically varying electro-
    Voi.. XIII. (No. 85. )                                        x

802                       Professor J. A. Fleming                     [March 6,
motive force acting upon it, the current produced in it will always
bo in arrear of the electromotive force in phase. The current
                                    FIG. 5.
   Incandeeoent lamp and coil arranged to exhibit the effect of the inductance
                                  of the coil.
                                    Fio. 6.'
                                            o
 Mechanical model illustrating the " lag " of the current in an inductive circuit.
induced lags in phase behind the inducing electromotive force.
This " lag " of the current behind the impressed harmonically
varying electromotive force in consequence of self-induction

1891.1                  on Electro-magnetic Repukion.                         303
may be illustrated mechanically thus:—Three light wooden laths
are connected together by a flat steel band, arid the system
hnng up by a string like a pair of astatic magnetic needles
(Fig. 6). If we take hold of the upper rod and move it backwards
and forwards on a horizontal plane, compelling it. to execute harmonic
oscillations, the upper and lower rods move together synchronously.
Let the upper rod symbolise impressed electromotive force, and the
lower rod resulting current. Under present circumstances, these two
move always in step with one another. Next load down the middle
rod or connecting mechanism by means of two lead weights, and give
it inertia. On again taking hold of the upper rod and causing it to
                                     Fro. 7.
Diagram showing the inequality of the attractive and repulsive impulses in the
     case of an inductive circuit when held in an alternating magnetic field.
execute forced harmonic oscillations, the lower rod no longer vibrates
in tune with it. It lags in phase behind the top one, and we thus
illustrate, though not perhaps by a perfect mechanical analogy, tho
effect of electric inertia in tho intermediate mechanism in causing a
lag of current behind impressed electromotive force.
     § 7. Returning for an instant to the diagram we considered just
now, we must correct it to make it fit in with the facts of nature, and
 we must represent the periodic curve which stands for the fluctuations
 of the induced current in the ring as shifted backwards or lagging
 behind the curve which represents the electromotive force in tho
 circuit brought into existence by the fluctuating 'magnetic field.
 Making this change in our diagram (Fig. 7), and forming as before a
 force curve to represent the impulses on the ring, we now find that
 owing to the " lag " of the secondary current, one set of the impulses,
                                                                     x 2

304                       Professor J. A. Fleming                 [March 6,
namely, the positive or repulsive impulses, have been enlarged at the
expense of the negative or attractive impulses. Theory, therefore,
points out that as a consequence of the self-induction of the ring the
balance between the attractive impulses and repulsive impulses is up
set, and that the latter predominate. Our real ring behaves, therefore,
very differently to our ideal ring. The real ring is strongly repelled,
because the resultant action of all the impulses is to produce on the
whole an electro-magnetic repulsion. This repulsion is evidence of the
self-induction of the circuit exposed to the magnetic field, and it forms
a new way of detecting it. But although this is part of the truth, it is
not the whole truth. The lag of the induced current in the ring, and
hence the predominance of the repulsive impulses, depends on the
conductivity of the material of which the ring or circuit is made ; and
the better this conductivity the greater is that repulsion, because both
the induced current and the " lag " are thereby increased. Hence it
comes to pass that there are two factors involved in making this
repulsive effect, the conductance of the ring or disc and its inductance.
For equal conductivities, the greater the self-induction, the greater
the repulsion. For equal self-inductions, the greater the conductivity
of the circuit so much the more repulsive effect will be produced.
Time does not permit me to enlarge on the strict analysis of the effect.
Its broad outlines are indicated, perhaps, sufficiently, by what has
been said.
     § 8. We can show the effect of the relative conductivity of discs
of equal size, and therefore of equal self-induction, by weighing
similar discs of various metals over an alternating pole. Here, for
instance, are discs of copper, zinc, and brass of equal form and size.
Placing these discs on the scale pan of a balance, and suspending them
over the alternating pole, I am able to prove that the repulsion on
the copper disc is greater than that on the zinc, and that on the zinc
greater than that on the brass.*
     The same result can be illustrated by placing over the pole of our
 alternating magnet a paper tube. Taking one of the copper rings in
 my hand, and first exciting the magnet, I let the ring drop down the
tube. It falls as if on an invisible cushion that buoys it up, and it
remains floating in the air. If rings of different metals and equal
size are placed on the tube, they float at different levels like various
specific-gravity beads in a liquid. The greater the conductivity of
the ring, the greater is the repulsion on it, in any given part of the
alternating field, and hence the highly conducting rings will be
sustained on a weaker field than the feebler conducting rings,
assuming the rings to have about equal weights. Moreover, we are
able to show by another experiment the fact that these rings are
traversed, when so held, by powerful electric currents. If we press
    * Experiments of this kind have been made by M. Borgman. See ' Comptee
 Rendus,' No. 16, April 21, 1890, p. 840 ; and also February 3, 1890, vol. ex.
p. 238.

1891.]                  on Electro-magnetic Repulsion.                        805
down the copper ring upon the zinc or brass ring floating beneath it,
the rings are attracted together and the copper ring holds up the zinc.
This is obviously because the rings are all traversed by induced
currents circulating in the same direction.
    § 9. It is, of course, an immediately obvious corollary, from all
that has just been said, that any cutting of a ring or disc which
hinders the flow of the induced currents causes the whole of the repul
sion effects to vanish. We illustrate this by causing a ring of copper
wire to jump off the pole, and then cntting it with pliers, find it has
ceased to be capable of giving signs of life. When the metallic
masses or circuits which are presented to the alternating magnetic
pole are of very low resistance, the electro-magnetic repulsion may
become very powerful, many pounds of thrust or push being produced
                                      Fio. 8.
      Copper ring " floating " in air over the pole of an alternating-current
                  electro-magnet, when restrained by strings.
by apparatus of quite moderate size. It is, in fact, quite startling to
hold over the pole of such an alternating magnet as I have before me
a very thick plate of high conductivity copper. It would greatly
surprise any one not aquainted with these principles to be told that a
massive copper ring weighing eight or ten pounds could be made to
float in the air, but you have ocular demonstration before you that
this feat can be performed. The ring needs to be tethered by light
strings, to prevent it from being thrown off laterally, although these
strings in no way support its weight (Fig. 8).
    One of the most beautiful of Prof. Elihu Thomson's experiments
exhibits this effect of electro-magnetic repulsion on a closed coil,
which is buoyed up in water by a small incandescent lamp in circuit
therewith. In the glass vase before you floats a little glow-lamp like
a balloon (Fig. 9). The car consists of a coil of insulated wire, and
the ends of this coil are connected with the lamp. The whole arrange
ment is accurately adjusted to just, or only just, float in water.

 306                       Professor J. A. Fleming                 [March 6,
 Placing the vase over an alternating magnetic pole, yon see that the
 magnetic induction creates a current in the coil which lights the
 lamp, and, moreover, that the electro-magnetic repulsion on the coil
 causes the lamp and coil to rise upward in the water.
     § 10. We must now pass on to study shortly another class of
 actions, namely, deflections and rotations produced by electro-magnetic
                           repulsion on highly conducting discs or rings.
         FIG. 9.           If the conducting ring or disc which is pre
                           sented to the alternating pole is constrained
                           by being fixed to an axis around which it can
                          rotate, the action may reduce to a deflective
                           force. Here, for instance, is a flat disc fixed
                           on a transverse axis. On presenting this disc
                           to the pole, the disc is prevented by its con
                          straint from being repelled bodily ; so it does
                          the next best thing it can, it sets its plane
                          parallel to the lines of magnetic force, and
                          gets into such a position that the induced cur
                          rents in it are reduced to a minimum. On this
                          principle, before becoming acquainted with
                          Prof. Elihu Thomson's original work, I de
                          vised a little copper disc galvanometer for
                          detecting small alternating currents.
                               § 11. More interesting than the deflective
                          actions are those which result in the produc
                          tion of continuous rotation in highly conducting
                          bodies placed in an alternating field. This
                          electro-magnet in front of me, and which has
                          come from Prof. Elihu Thomson for the pur
                          poses of this lecture, consists, as you see, of a
lucandesceut lamp and nearly closed circuit divided iron core wound
  secondary coil floating over with a coil (Fig. 10). The ends of the
  in water and repelled
  by an alternating-cur iron circuit are provided with copper bars,
  rent electro-magnet, which embrace and cover portions of the polar
  placed beneath.         terminations of the magnet. When the magnet
                          is excited by a periodic current, these secondary
circuits become the seat of powerful induced secondary currents.
Taking in hand a large copper disc pivoted at the centre and held in
a fork, we hold this wheel so that part of the disc is inserted between
the jaws of the electro-magnet. Immediately, rapid rotation is pro
duced. The reason is not far to seek. The alternating field induces,
both in the closed coils and in the neighbouring portions of the disc,
induced currents ; these tend to cause the parts of the conductors
in which they flow to bo pulled into parallelism, and if the polar
coils are so placed as to partly shield the poles these attractive
actions act unsymmetrically on the disc and pull it continuously
round. The action is, perhaps, better illustrated by a simpler
experiment. If we hold a pivoted copper disc (Fig. 11) symme

 1891.]                on Electro-magnetic Repulsion.                      307
 trically over an alternating pole, the action of the pole is one of pare
 repulsion on the disc, which, however, causes no rotation in it.
                                    Fw. 10.
     Electro-magnet with shaded poles causing a copper disc placed between
                              the jaws to revolve.
When a copper sheet is so placed as to shield or " shade," as
Prof. Thomson calls it, part of the magnetic pole, currents are
induced both in the fixed plate
and in the movable one. The                          Fio. 11.
fixed disc shields part of the
other from the induction of the
polo, and hence causes the in
duced currents in that plate and
disc to bo so located that they
are in positions to cause con
tinual attraction between one
another and continuously pull
round the movable disc into
fresh positions, so creating re
gular rotation. This principle
of " shading " a pole is em
ployed in constructing the polar
coils of the magnet used in our
experiment a moment ago, aud Revolution of a shaded copper plato held
the experiments present us with over an alternate-current magnetic pole.
a form of self-starting alter
nating-current motor, although not perhaps a very efficient one in
the technical sense. This principle of " shading " a portion of a
conductor from the inductive action of the pole, and so causing the
eddy currents in it to bo located in a portion of its surface and to

308                        Professor J. A. Fleming                 [March 6,
cause attraction between that conductor and the shading conductor is
capable of being exhibited in various ways. We place on this copper
plate a light hollow copper ball, and support it in a little depression
in a copper plate. Holding the arrangement over the alternating
magnet, the bull begins to spin round rapidly when the magret is
excited. This rotation is caused by the continual attraction of the
eddy currents induced in the fixed plate and in that part of the ball
which is not shielded from the pole by the plate. We may vary the
experiment, and exhibit many more or less curious and amusing
illustrations of it. If we float these copper balls in water (Fig. 12),
              Fio. 12.                                    FIG. 13.
Hollow copper ball floating in water            Electro - magnetic gyroscope
  over an alternate current electro-              revolving over the pole of
  magnet, and caused to revolve by                analteruatc-currentelectro-
  the interposition of a " shading "              mugnet.
  plate.
and place the glass bowl containing them over the alternating pole,
the interposition of a copper sheet between the pole and the balls
causes the latter to begin to spin in a highly energetic manner.
    § 12. Prot. El ih u Thomson has invented a novel form of electro
magnetic gyroscope (Fig. 13). We have now suspended over the
alternating magnet a gyroscope of the usual form. The wheel of
the gyroscope is made of iron, and the tyre of the wheel is a thick
copper band. Immediately the magnet is energised, the gyroscope
beg>ns to rotate with great rapidity over the pole. In this case the
unsymiuetrical disposition of the eddy currents in the copper band
around the wheel is sufficient by itself to cause the rotation to occur.
The phenomenon which, however, lies at the bottom of all these
effects is that the self-induction of the secondary circuit causes the

1891.]                on Electro-magnetic Repulsion.                        809
eddy currents to be delayed in phase behind the magnetising field,
and hence to persist into the period of reversal of that field, and so
produce the repulsion between the primary conducting circuit and
that part of the secondary conducting circuit in which the eddy
currents are set up.
    One more experiment in this part of the subject, before we pass
on to some other developments of it, shall be placed under your
notice. Returning to the use of the electro-magnet, in which the
iron circuit is all but complete, we find that when a highly-
conducting disc is put between the closely approximated half-
shielded jaws of this electro-magnet, and an alternating current
employed to excite it, the conducting disc is held up in the air-gap
                                    FIG. 14.
     c
 Alternating magnetised iron bar causing revolution of two iron discs held neur
                                its extremities.
by reason of the electro-magnetic attraction set np between the disc
and the shielding polar plates. If, however, the disc has a relatively
poor conductivity, the attraction is not nearly so marked. A good or
bad silver coin can be discriminated thereby, because the good silver
coin has conductivity enough to be the seat of powerful induced
currents, but the bad coin has not.
    § 13. Closely akin to the foregoing, but rather less easy to
explain, are the rotations in copper and iron discs which can be
caused by the approximation to them of a laminated iron bar alter
nately magnetised. These actions have been carefully studied by
Prof. Elihu Thomson, and applied by him and others in many
practical devices. Across the top of this electro-magnet we place a
long bar of laminated iron with the plane of the lamination vertical
(Fig. 14). This bar is throttled at intervals by coj>j>or bands, which

 310                         Professor J. A. Fleming                  [March 6,
form small closed secondary circuits upon it. We excite the magnet,
and hold near the bar an iron disc capable of free rotation ; it begins
 to rotate rapidly, as you now see. Not only can this be done with a
 laminated bar throttled by conducting circuits, but even a solid bar
 of hard stoel will serve the same purpose, and a couple of steel files
 placed across the poles can cause rapid rotation in pivoted discs of
 copper or of iron held with their edges close to the bars so alternately
 magnetised. To elucidate this remarkable action, we must revert for
 a moment to some fundamental facts. Here are two paper rings
 interlinked, one of red, the other of blue paper (Fig. 15). Let the red
                                     FIG. 15
                    Electnc Circuit.           Magnetic Circuit.
                    Copper                       Iron
Diagrams illustrating the symmetry in relation between electromotive force and
        electric currout, and magnetomotive force and magnetic induction.
ring stand as a symbol for a copper or conductive circuit. Let
the blue ring stand for an iron or magnetic circuit. If we
introduce into the conductive circuit an impulsive or alternating
electromotive force, we are well aware that the interlinked iron circuit,
by increasing the self-induction of the conductive circuit, hinders
the change of current strength in it by introducing a back electromotive
force of self-induction. Consider now the iron circuit. If we intro
duce into that magnetic circuit an impulsive or alternating magneto
motive force by interlinking it with some turns of a magnetising

1891.]               on Electro-magnetic Repulsion.               811
current, the effect of the copper or conductive circuit, which is
linked with the iron or magnetic current, is similarly to introduce a
back magnetomotive force into the magnetic circuit by reason of the
magnetic field set up by the secondary current generated in that
copper or conducting circuit. In other words, the secondary current
induced in the copper circuit by any change in the magnetomotive
in the iron circuit is in such a direction that it operates to oppose
that primary magnetomotive force, chiefly, however, at the spot
where the copper circuit passes round the iron. The general result
may be stated to bo that the action of the interlinked copper circuit
is to cause the magnetic induction in the iron circuit to leak across
through the air and partly to escape, passing through the secondary
circuit. This escape of induction is called magnetic leakage, and
the induced current set up in the closed secondary circuit is the
cause of this magnetic leakage. There is a symmetry in the relations
of magnetomotive force and the magnetic induction and electromotive
force and electric current, and we can, as Faraday pointed out long
ago, make the symmetry complete, if wo suppose the two interlinked
magnetic and electric circuits immersed in an imperfectly conducting
medium. If, then, we throttle a magnetic circuit, such as a laminated
iron bar with copper coils closed upon themselves, and place a
magnetising coil at one end, the closed conducting circuits hinder
the rise of magnetic induction in the bar ; in other words, they give
it what may bo called magnetic self-induction. If the source of
magnetism is a rapidly-reversed polo, the consequences of this delay
or " lag " in the induction is that a series of alternating magnetic
poles are always travelling with retarded speed up the bar, and these
may be considered to bo represented by tufts of lines of magnetic
force which spring out from and move laterally up the bar. If the
bar is not laminated and not throttled, the eddy currents set up in
the mass of the bar itself act in the same way, and operate to resist
the rise of induction in the bar and to delay the propagation of
magnetism along it. Hence we must think of such a throttled bar,
when embraced by a magnetising coil at one end, as surrounded by
laterally moving bunches of lines of magnetic force, which move up
(In: bar. Each reversal of current in the magnetising coil calls into
existence a fresh magnetic pole at the one end of the bar, which is,
as it were, pushed along the bar to make room for the polo of
opposite name, which appears the next instant behind it. When an
iron disc is held near such a laminated und throttled bar, these
laterally moving lines of force induce poles in the disc which travel
after the inducing poles, and hence the disc is continually pulled
round. If the disc is a copper disc, the laterally moving lines of
magnetic force induce eddy currents in the disc, and these, by the
principle already explained, create a repulsion between the pole and
the part of the disc in which the eddy currents are set up.
    § 14. The progression of alternate poles along a bar can be
investigated by means of an experiment due to Mr. A. Wright.

312                       Professor J. A. Fleming                   [March 6,
Two laminated straight iron bars (Fig. 16 j are throttled at intervals
with secondary circuits, and have wound on one extremity a mag
netising coil. The two bars are placed near each other and parallel.
The coils are so connected that the poles at any instant in the ends
of the two bars are of similar name. An alternate current is sent
through the coils joined in series. Under these circumstances a
series of alternate poles of similar names run up the bar parallel
with one another. A small, soft iron needle hung at any place
between the bars sets itself parallel to the bars, because at any instant
poles of similar names are abreast of one another at any spot in the
length of the bars. If, however, we shift one bar lengthways back
wards or forwards through a certain distance, so as to bring opposite
                                   Fig. 16.
                              S      N       S      M      S
                     igTr'//III      1       I      1       I      IN
                                                            S
                     Nl (///I
                              S      N       S      N
                                      II     1      I       1      IN
                                                       N      3
                                                       8
                                               J        L
                                 V - Nl
    Mr. Wright's experiments with throttled and alternately magnetised bars.
poles abreast of each other throughout their journey up the bars, we
shall find a position such that the soft iron ueedlo will set at right
angles to the bars when hung at any point in the space between
them. The distance by which we have to shift the one bar backwards
of the other to effect the change is evidently half a magnetic wave
length, and knowing the frequency of the alternations we can readily
arrive at a measure of the velocity of propagation of these alternate
poles in the bar. This velocity is evidently numerically equal to
the product of the frequency and wave length so obtained.
    § 15. A very pretty application of the above principle has been
made in the electric meter of Messrs. Wright and Ferranti for
measuring alternating currents. Before me stands one of these
meters. It consists of a pair of vertical electro-magnets, with
laminated iron cores, and each magnet bears at the top a curved
horn of laminated iron which is throttled by copper rings. These
curved horns, springing from the magnets, embrace and nearly touch

1891.]  on Electro-magnetic Repulsion.                         313
                      Fro. 17.
       Plan anil general view of Wright-Ferranti self-starting
                  alternating motor working a fan.

814                       Professor J. A. Fleming                [March 6,
a light iron-rimmed wheel, free to turn in the centre. The actions
just explained drive the wheel round, when the magnet coils are
traversed by an alternating current. The iron wheel carries on its
shaft a set of mica vanes, which retard the wheel by air friction.
Under the opposing influences of this retardation and the electro
magnetic rotation forces, the wheel takes a certain speed corres
ponding to different current strengths in the magnetic coils, and
hence the total number of revolutions of the wheel in a given time,
as recorded by a counter, serves to determine the total quantity of
alternating current which has passed through the meter. A motor
(Fig. 17) working a fan is also here exhibited, the operation of which
depends on the same facts. In the case of the motor the iron-rimmed
wheel has its tyre closed with copper sheet to aid the action.
     § 16. The rotation of iron discs can be shown also by means of a
badly-designed transformer.* If a closed laminated iron ring (Fig. 18),
                            like the one before me, is wound with a
           FIG. 18.         couple of conducting circuits, such an ar
                            rangement constitutes a transformer. If
                            these two circuits are wound on opposite
                            sides of the iron ring, the previous explana
                            tions will enable you to perceive that the
                            arrangement will bo productive of great
                            magnetic leakage across the iron circuit.
                            In designing transformers for practical work,
                            one condition amongst others which must bo
                            held in view is to so arrange the conductive
                            and magnetic circuits that a great magnetic
                            leakage of lines of force across the air does
                            not take place. If, however, this leakage
                            exists, it indicates that the secondary circuit
Magnetic leakage across a is t getting the full benefit of the induc-
  Sff-T^KTS tion -53 by the primary. To detect it
  placed near tho secondary we have merely to hold near the iron circuit
  coil.                     a little balanced or pivoted iron disc, and
                            if it is set in rapid rotation, as you observe
in this case, it indicates that there are laterally-moving lines of
magnetic force outside the iron, which have escaped from the iron in
consequence of the back magneto-force of the secondary circuit.
     § 17. Time would fail me if I were to attompt to enlarge on tho
practical applications of tho scientific principles which those experi
ments disclose to us. They are a fertile field both for the investigator
seeking to add to the sum total of existing knowledge, or to the
inventor in search of applications in electrical technology for such
acquired facts. Ingenious minds, and that of Prof. Elihu Thomson
foremost amongst them, are busy in seeking to turn these facts to
account in the construction of alternating current motors.
     Ono of the simplest of these is shown in principle in tho diagram
now on the screen (Fig. 19). Tho coils C arc traversed by an alter

1891.]                on Electro-magnetic Repulsion.                      315
nating current, and are placed on either side of a drum armature
wound over with three Bets of insulated wire coils, the terminals of
the coils coming to insulated sections of a commutator. The func
tions of this commutator are to keep one coil, B, on short circuit
during the time when it is in such positions relatively to the field
coils C that the induced current in the closed coil causes it to be
repelled by the field coils, and as each successive coil on the armature
becomes in turn the active coil, rotation is kept up. A motor, made
by Prof. Thomson, based on these principles, but with some additions,
is on the table, and on turning the current into it it speedily starts
and gets up considerable speed. The details of the actual construc
tion are a little loss simple than in the diagram shown, because the
                                   FIG. 19.
       Diagram illustrating elementary form of alternating-current motor.
motor is made to start by sending the external current into the
armature by means of a commutator and brushes. When, however,
the proper speed is attained, the armature coils are automatically
short-circuited, and the motor continues to run in virtue of the
current induced by the field-magnet in the armature coils. This is
by no means, however, the last word said on this portion of the
applications, and I think wo may shortly look to Prof. Thomson to
give us further and more perfect methods of utilising these facts in
the construction of self-starting alternating motors.
    § 18. For the opportunity of exhibiting to you this evening these
remarkable experiments, I am personally indebted to Prof. Elihu
Thomson, both for constructing and sending the apparatus wo have
used. Part of these appliances have now an historical value, and
have been presented by him to the Royal Institution. For the use

316          Prof. Fleming on Electro-magnetic Repulsion.              [March 6,
of the rest I desire to record my obligations and thanks. Illus
trative as these experiments lire of important facts in connection
with the use of alternating currents, they have a special value at
the present time. In the opening year of next century, when we
celebrate the centenary of the first practical production by Volta,
in 1801, of the electric current, we shall find ourselves in the presence
of the fact that almost every large city is ramified by a subterranean
network of copper conductors for the distribution of electric energy
as a necessary of modern life ; and although it may be dangerous
to express too confident a view on the direction which the progress
of electrical invention may take, yet it does not seem improbable that
the alternating current will be doing a considerable share of that
work. It is, therefore, not only as a contribution to a comprehension
of the vagaries of these alternating currents that the phenomena we
have shortly studied are worthy of attention, but also as being,
perhaps, the avenue of approach to a further possession of valuable
knowledge, enlarging our views, and capable, without doubt, of being
minted into the current coin of useful and ingenious applications.*
                                                                  [J. A. F.]
   * For the loan of the blocks, illustrating the foregoing reprint, the author is
indebted to the Editor of the Electrician.

  1891.]     Dr. Felix Semon on the Culture of the Singing Voice.       317
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, March 13, 1891.
    SIR JAMES CRICBION BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                         Vice-President, in the Chair.
                        FELIX SBMON, M.D. F.R.C.P.
                       The Culture of the Singing Voice.
 THE subject selected for to-night's discourse is so large that within
 the limited time at my disposal it will be obviously impossible to do
justice to it in all its branches. Under these circumstances two ways
 are open : either to cast a hurried glance over the whole subject, or
 rather to select a fow points of special interest from amongst the
 multitude of questions with which it is beset, and to dwell on these
 at somewhat greater length. The latter course appears to me the
 preferable one, and I shall follow it, but before entering upon the
subject itself I am anxious to touch upon the reasons which have
 induced me to select this particular subject, and to define my own
position with regard to it.
      If it be true, as no doubt generally speaking it is, that occupation
with science and art is an ennobling thing, an imperfect study of the
 physiology of the singing voice constitutes a sorry exception to that
rule. N\ hilst in previous times the culture of the singing voice was
conducted upon purely empirical but good rules, such as had gra
dually and logically developed themselves from the accumulated
experience of many schools of singing, ever since the discoveries of
modern physiology have been popularised, and especially since the
laryngoscope has been introduced and believed to elucidate all ques
tions connected with the production and cultivation of the singing
voice, a very bitter war has been raging, in which practically every
body's hand has been against his neighbour. Dogmatic rules, irre
spective of actual facts, have been laid down as to the hygiene of the
vocal organs, the question of registers has been and is at the present
time as hotly discussed as ever, and untenable theories have been
raised with regard to the capability of the laryngoscope to decide the
most intricate and difficult questions concerned in the production of
the singing voice.
     Now, I have always taken, since I have occupied myself with
these questions, the one view that nothing could be more detrimental
to the true interests of the noble art of singing than to be led astray
by well-meaning but over-enthusiastic adapters of incomplete physio
logical facts into a wrong groove under the impression that the rules
     VOL. XIII. (No. 85.)                                        Y

318                         Dr. Felix Seman                   [March 13,
which were preached were so firmly baseil upon facts of unimpeach
able scientific accuracy that nothing remained to the professors of
the art itself but to bow before the superior wisdom of the theorist ;
and I make bold to say that such a superior wisdom does not exist
with regard to this question. Probably I of all persons shall least
be suspected of underrating the value and the importance of the
laryngoscope, and I firmly hope and believe that with further long
continued and careful studies this valuable little instrument will help
us in the future to further elucidate a great many questions concerning
the production and culture of the singing voice, about which at the
present we are still completely in the dark. At the same time it
cannot be strongly enough insisted upon that the millenium has not
yet come, and that at the present time the claims of the laryngoscope
to ttach and lay down the rules for really reasonable and scientific
training of the singing voice are by no means completely established.
    This may be very disappointing to a good many of my hearers,
who possibly have expected that I would join the ranks of those who
know everything about the culture of the singing voice from physio
logical principles, but if it be true, as no doubt it is, that the very
foundation of every knowledge consists in the fact that one knows
the limitation of one's knowledge, I think that some good may be
done by simply strictly defending those claims which are justified
and refuting those which are based upon insufficient and solitary
experience of one or of a few cases. This will be the point of view
from which I shall to-night approach my subject. As to my legiti
mation I only have to add that for a good many years I have had
unusual opportunities of seeing the results of faulty training of the
singing voice ; that I have always taken a special interest in the
study of the nervous mechanism by which the production of song is
governed, and that I have for many years made experimental re
searches in that particular line ; and finally, that I have had the good
luck for many years of having been associated by ties of friendship
with a great many of the leading singers and teachers of singing of
our age.
    Upon such basis I will venture to-night to give a few of the results
of my own experiences coupled with results of literary study and of
the scientific and important work of an American friend of mine,
Dr. French, of Brooklyn, through whose kindness I am in the .position
to-night of showing you some of the most interesting and remarkable
facts concerning the production of the singing voice graphically, and
which have been recently elucidated by means of instantaneous
photography.
    The organ in which the singing voice is produced being the
larynx, it will be indispensable to give a short description of the
anatomical configuration of that part, which I shall strive to keep as
free from technicalities as possible. The larynx consists of a frame
work of cartilages which are joined to one another by means of
ligaments and joints, and which allow to all the parts very free

 1891.]            on the Culture of the Singing Voice.              319
movements towards one another by means of muscles attached to
them. Additionally the larynx as a whole can bo very freely moved
in various directions through the instrumentality of other muscles
connecting it with the parts both above and below it. The larynx
forms the top of the windpipe, which again is the beginning of the
bronchial tubes, which branch off from its lower part aud gradually
spread into more and more twigs around which are arranged tho con
 stituent parts of the lungs, which form the bellows for the blast of
air necessary for the performance of vocal functions. Above, the
larynx opens into the throat and the cavities of the mouth, nose, and
its accessory cavities, and the naso-pharyngeal space, which serve as
 a resonator for the vocal vibrations which are produced in the larynx
itself. The larynx is lined with a mucous membrane contiguous with
that of the neighbouring parts. This mucous membrane in the
larynx itself forms two folds, situated one above the other ; the upper
of these two reduplications, which is not itself at all concerned in the
formation of sound, retains all the characteristics of common mucous
membrane. Formerly these upper folds—as there is one on each side
of the larynx—were called the false vocal cords, but this misleading
name has latterly almost entirely been given up in favour of the more
 significant expression, ventricular bands. The lower reduplications
are much more important, and are inserted in front into the receding
angle of the biggest laryngeal cartilage (the thyroid), which in the
male sex forms outwardly the so-called Adam's apple. Posteriorly
they arc inserted into two small cartilages called the arytenoid
cartilages, which, by means of an articulation or joint, can move
very freely and in various directions on the surface of the second
large laryngeal cartilage, the cricoid. Theso lower folds of mucous
membrane form the so-called true vocal cords and have lost to
a great extent the common characteristics of mucous membrane,
which are principally replaced by numberless elastic fibres in part
running parallel to one another, but in pnrt interwoven in the most
various directions with one another. These fibres are of unequal
length, some of them being inserted in the most projecting part of
the arytenoid cartilages, which lias been called the vocal process,
whilst other ones extend very considerably further backwards and are
inserted along the body of the arytenoid cartilage itself. This clastic
tissue being the sounding element, by the vibrations of which pri
marily sound is engendered, it is very likely, as Sigiior Manuel
Garcia first pointed out, that it is through the unequal length of
these fibres that the enormous raugc of the human voic^ is rendered
possible.
     The muscles through which the vocal cords are set in motion,
and which indeed regulate the mechanism of the sound produced in
the larynx, are subdivided into three groups : the abductors, the
adductors, and the tensors of the vocal cords. Of these the two last
groups, i. e. the adductors and tensors, are always in unison, whilst
their action is antagonistic to that of the abductors. The function
                                                             Y 2

320                          Dr. Felix Semon                  [March 13,
of the latter muscles consists in keeping the vocal cords during
 respiration so far asunder from one another that the narrowing of tho
tube, which is actually produced by the interpolation of the larynx
into tho respiratory apparatus, is neutralised to the necessary extent,
 whilst the adductors and tensors as a rule serve only the voluntary
 and purposive function of phonation, as in speaking and in singing,
 and are employed only in a secondary fashion for some of the reflex
 acts of respiration, such as laughing and coughing.
     All these muscles, i. e. the respiratory as well as the phonatory
 muscles, receive their nerve supply from two small nerves, the
 superior laryngeal and the recurrent laryngeal nerves. The superior
 laryngeal only supplies the tensors of the vocal cords, the cricothyroid
 muscles, with motor fibres, whilst the recurrent is distributed to the
 adductor as well as to the abductor muscles. It is still an open
 question whether the recurrent is ultimately derived from the spinnl
accessory or the vagus nerve, both being craniul nerves, the centres
of which are situated in the medulla oblongata. The researches of
 Ferrier, Duret, Munk, Krause, Horsley, and myself have shown that
the medulla is not the ultimate seat from which impulses are dis
 tributed along the motor paths just sketched to the laryngeal muscles,
 but that there is for the purposive function which the larynx serves,
viz. for phonation, a distinct centre in the surface or cortex of the
 brain, situated in the foot of the ascending frontal gyrus, just behind
 the lower end of the precentral sulcus. It is a very interesting and
 noteworthy phenomenon, that Professor Horsley and I have only
been able to find (except in the cat) a definite area of representation
of the action of the vocal cords in the cortex of the brain for the
intentional purposive movements of the vocal cords, such as are used
in speaking and singing. On stimulation of this area on one side,
both vocal cords directly come together (i. e. are adducted), and
remain, so long as the stimulation lasts, in the position which they
 assume when used for either of the last-named purposes. It is never
 possible, according to our researches, to produce an action of one cord
 alone, they always act bi-laterally and symmetrically. Equally
 impossible is it when one looks at the larynx of a human being, of a
monkey, or of a dog during the act of phonation, i. e. when the cords
are being brought together and put into the proper degree of tension,
to make out any difference in time between these two actions. Tension
and adduction apparently occur absolutely simultaneously, or at least
our retina is not able to distinguish any point of time between the
order of execution of these two movements. Only in the cat can it
be seen that the mewing is produced by the vocal cords first being
brought together, i.e. by the act of adduction being performed, and
then, after a measurable interval tension, i. e. elongation of the vocal
cords, occurring.
     All this may seem rather much of a scientific refinement, and only
in remote, if any, connection with the subject of to-night's discourse.
In reality, however, it is easy to show that this connection is a very

1891.]             on the Culture of the Singing Voice.              321
intimate and a very necessary one. Nothing could be more fallacious
than the often heard comparison between the teaching of the voice
and that of the hand, as in violin or in piano playing. The mechanism
which governs the muscles of our fingers, though by no means capable
of producing finer variations and differentiations than that of the
larynx, yet is infinitely more under the influence of the will than that
of the last-named part. We can, by a process of perfectly conscious
cerebration, teach not only the muscles of one hand, whilst those of
the other remain absolutely quiet, to perform certain movements
according to will, but this differentiation goes to such refinement that
we can actually educate individual muscles of individual fingers to a
degree of independence which does not exist at all in the child or in
the uneducated adult. All this is done, I repeat, by a process of
conscious cerebration.
    Very different, however, from this is the action of the vocal
cords in speaking and in singing. Not only is it impossible to the
greatest singer to move one vocal cord without the other at the same
time executing the same movements (in this respect, »lso, the vocal
cords differ from even the movements of the eyes), but nobody can by
a process of conscious cerebration move one laryngeal muscle without
the other. This is rendered an absolute fact both by observation of
the human being with the laryngoscope and by experiments upon
animals.
    All the comparisons, therefore, of the development of the laryngeal
muscles with those of the hand fall to the ground, and all the elaborate
anatomico-physiological directions met with in more than one book of
instruction for the student of singing must be referred to the realm of
bewildering phantasmagoria. The rational training of the singing
voice can only as yet proceed upon the basis of empirical experience,
not upon that of theoretical deductions as to the action of the
individual adductor muscles and upon equally theoretical directions
as to their individual use.
    The means by which the movements of the vocal cords and indeed
the larynx can be observed during the act of singing is the laryngo
scope, first introduced for physiological purposes by Signer Manuel
Garcia, and afterwards brought into use for the study of laryngeal
disease by Czermak and Tiirck. This instrument consists of a little
round mirror, which, after having been properly warmed, is introduced
into the throat of the person under observation in such a manner that
it forms an angle of 45° with the horizon, its upper margin resting
against the base of the uvula. If now from a powerful source of
light horizontal rays are thrown on to the mirror, which is held in
the open mouth of the person in the position just described, according
to the principles of physiological optics these rays are directed in a
vertical direction downwards, and illuminate the larynx, which is just
below the point where the mirror is held. The rays are in turn
reflected upwards into the mirror and thence into the eye of the
observer, which is situated at an equal height and close to the source

322                          Dr. Felix Semon                  [March 13,
of illumination. The picture thus resulting during quiet respiration
you see here on the screen.
                            (Demonstration.)
    Now, what I am particularly anxious to say as the result of long
observation is that whilst you can, as just shown, see in this way the
larynx in its entirety, and whilst yon can judge with certainty us to
any pathological change that may exist therein, not even the most
experienced laryngologist can say from mere laryngoscopic examina
tion whether the larynx he sees is in any way that of a singer or not.
Of course he will be able to pronounce that, if there arc any organic
congenital or acquired defects in the anatomical configuration of the
part, the owner of this organ will be incapable of producing musical
sound, but if he sees merely a normally constituted larynx, it is
absolutely impossible for him to say whether this belongs to the
greatest singer living or to a person absolutely unendowed with the
faculty of producing melodious sounds. I can assure my hearers
that the larynges of some of the greatest living singers look so
common-place that nobody seeing one of these organs without knowing
who its owner is would ever venture for a moment to believe that this
could be the organ to which he has been indebted for many a time
of the highest artistic pleasure, whilst, on the other hand, magnificent
looking larynges are frequently found in the possession of individuals
who not only are utterly unmusical, but at the same time incapable
of producing anything like an average singing voice.
    Nor is it possible, from the mere aspect (if a larynx, to say with
absolute certainty even so much as what the general character of tho
singing voice produced by it may be. It is perfectly true that in tho
majority of cases soprani and tenors have comparatively speaking
short and narrow vocal cords, whiln those of contralti and bassi are
broad and long. But to this rule so many exceptions occur that
anybody who trusts blindly to this sign will be exposed to very
frequent mistakes. To give but one example, I have never seen any
larger and longer vocal cords than those of a well-known tenor who
has often enchanted London audiences, whilst I am perfectly certain
that every laryngologist who was asked without knowing anything
about the owner to pronounce merely from the larynx, would pro
nounce this vocal organ, if at all exercised for singing, to be that of
a basso profundo. I mention this point more particularly because it
has more than once occurred in my practice that students have been
brought to me in order that I should decide from laryngoscopic
examination what the true character of their voice was, a demand
which, as i think 1 have just shown, it is absolutely impossible to
comply with. But the general gist of the foregoing remarks is to
show that an instrument which unfortunately fails to give us any
clue as to tho very elementary points just mentioned with regard to
the character of the voice of the person examined, can certainly not
claim to have laid down on its authority the rules for singing

1891.1                   on the Culture of the Singing Voice.            323
in the dogmatic fashion in which this has repeatedly been done of
late.
      Having so far given a very cursory anatomical outline of the
conditions in which we are here interested, I now come to the
physiological aspect of the question. The long mooted question
whether the human voice was to be compared to a wood, a string, or
a reed instrument has at last been definitely decided in favour of the
last-named view ; though even at present timid attempts are made
from time to time to revive the flute or the violin theory. In reality,
however, the larynx is best to be compared to an organ pipe, the reed
being represented by the two vocal cords, which being anatomically
absolutely identical with one another, and being simultaneously put
into vibrations by the blast of air coming from the lungs, entirely
correspond to the reed of the organ pipe ; sound being produced, of
course, by the vibrations of the cords, which are communicated to the
column of air above and below the vibrating reed. According to the
quantity of air coming from (he lungs, more or less amplitude is
given to the vibrations, as the result of which the tone gets more or
less strength. The character of the sound thus emitted is no doubt
influenced to a very considerable degree by the configuration of the
larynx and the composition of the vibrating reeds, but the exact
manner in which this influence is exercised is at the present time still
an absolutely unknown entity. What is quite certain, however, is
that the character of the voice is very greatly varied by the anatomical
configuration of and the changes possible in the throat and mouth.*
      According to the laws of acoustics, three fundamental laws come
here into question :
         1. The number of vibrations of the cords determines the pitch of
                the note.
        2. The amplitude of the vibrations determines, as already
                mentioned, the strength of the note.
        3. The form of the vibrations determines the timbre or quality
                of the voice.
      These laws briefly indicate the most important qualities of the
sound, viz. purity, strength, and timbre.
      The intra-laryngeal movements, i. e. the proper degree of tension
of the vocal cords determining, as has just been said, the pitch of the
note, the purely technical training of the voice and the purity of the
notes naturally depend upon the movements of the larynx proper, and
more particularly -upon the intralaryngeal changes during the
emission of the sound.
      The dynamics of the voice, on the other hand, the crescendo and
decresceudo, &c., depend upon the intensity of the movements of the
thorax, of the diaphragm, and of the lungs.
      Finally, the colour or timbre of the voice is rendered variable by
     * The brief summary here pivon I hnve borrowed muiuly from Julius StocJt-
li. up I'M';. 'Gcsaugstrclmik uml StimmbilUuug.'

324                           Dr. Felix Semon                   [March 13,
the different positions of the parts forming the resonator, i.e. the
tongue, the lips, the palate, and the epiglottis. What we cull
" expression " in singing is, therefore, the result of a combination of
the action of the bellows on the one, nnd of the resonator on the
other, hand.                 (Demonstration)
     There are, of course, almost numberless particular qualities of the
voice upon which I should like to enter here at greater length, as the
definition and discussion of each of them possess a particular fas
cination of their own, such as the compass, the volume, the sustained
power, the tellingness, the certainty, the freshness, the intonation,
facility, &c., of the voice, but time will not allow me to do so. I can
only refer my hearers to a most charming little book of Dr. Wa'sh's,
called ' Dramatic Singing,' in which, although I do not agree with
everything that the distinguished author states, and especially not
with his curious manner of estimating the individual qualities of the
voice, they will find a most fascinating description of all thoso
individual qualities, and ample food for thought concerning the almost
incredible multitude of points which enter into the composition of
dramatic singing, couched in the most elegant and most picturesque
language.
     Coming now to the question of the culture of the singing voice
itself, two elements are absolutely necessary for proficiency, viz. first,
a certain amount of natural material, and, second, a good ear. With
regard to the first, this ought to be, as it were, a truism, but, indeed, it
is not. Often enough people mistake the inclination for the gift, nnd
confound their love of singing with the decision of devoting themselves
to it. I see numbers of students deficient in the very elements of vocal
material, who nevertheless have formed so grave and momentous a
decision as the devotion of their lives to the practice of singing.
 There is a general tendency, under such circumstances, to attribute
the failure to some " disease " of the vocal organs, or, if the word
"disease" be not pronounced, at any rate to "weakness." The
physician, seeing many of these ailments, cannot help asking himself
what want of judgment can have induced such people to fight against
impossibilities. As a rule there is no disease at all, but simple
deficiency of the indispensable elementary material. I think it an
act of kindness to warn such people against aa uphill fight, in
which, with the rarest exceptions, they cannot be successful. Cer
tainly it is not my desire to discourage ardent lovers of music from
training their voices, however small, so long as they merely intend to
 use them for their own or their immediate friends' pleasure, but
matters are widely different when one sees young persons, who in
 other walks of life might earn a decent livelihood, struggling under
 the greatest difficulties against unfavourable circumstances of every
conceivable sort, and nll this in order to cultivate a practically non
 existent singing voice. Valuable years are often thus lost, and it is
 filially with a feeling of despair and bitterness that such people, after

1891.]             on the Culture of the Singing Voice.              325
lost years of labour, gain the conviction that they would have
done much better to devote themselves from the very commencement
to a different career. Would that every student of music, or those
responsible for the selection of a career, might keep before their
minds that in singing there are but few, very few indeed, who ever
reach the top of the ladder, and that those who lag behind often
enough carry the conviction of the futility of their endeavours
throughout their lives !
    I trust that the foregoing thoughts will not be interpreted in tho
sense as if I wished to encourage only those who are endowed with
very large and beautiful material to devote themselves to the noblo
art of singing. In many cases even in originally weak vocal organs
by rational training really astounding improvement can be produced ;
others even with small material may, if husbanding their resources,
and if intelligent enough not to aspire to impossibilities, achieve very
fair success with limited means. Thus, it is a curious thing to find
that often viry small voices, i. e. small both in compass and in
strength, yet are endowed with that all-important quality of the
singing voice, viz. a sympathetic timbre, which is utterly denied to
much larger or more flexible voices. Indeed this sympathetic timbre
of the voice often goes hand in hand with conditions of an otherwise
disqualifying character, such as a certain veil over the notes, a very
small compass, a very deficient strength of tone : yet if such people
understand the great secret, that it is better, as was said of Henrietta
Sonntag, to have a small genre, but to be great in that genre, than to
attempt impossibilities, they may on the concert platform be very
successful.
     Thus I know myself of sevoral singers, both ladies and gentlemen,
whose voices are very small indeed, but who, being endowed with the
sympathetic quality of timbre, having cultivated their voices in the
most rational manner, and limiting their work to the interpretation
of a high class of musical lyrics, to such a degree enchant their
public that the smallness of the means by which their successes aro
achieved is completely forgotten in the intellectual delight which
they give to their hearers. But the warning note I tried to sound
be-fore was merely directid against the loss of valuable time in cases
of utter absence of any of those qualities of the voice which could
endear its owner to a musical public.
     The next indispensable factor for cultivating the singing voice is
the possession of a good musical ear. Now, with regard to the
musical ear there are almost as many different senses in which that
expression may be taken, as there are with regard to the expression
'' musical" in general. Thus it is perfectly well known that, whilst
in some persons the musical ear is by a generous gift of nature, even
if entirely untutored, yet endowed with the keenest qualities of
perception and of action based upon that perception, other people
equally intelligent are entirely deprived of any natural endowment
in this particular direction, and have, as the eayiug goes, absolutely

326                          Dr. Felix Semon                  [March 13,
" no ear for music." Now this may mean a great many different
things. Some people have no ear for pitch, others not for melody.
The former will not hear even the most abominable flat or sharp
singing, the latter will never recognise even the most catching
melodies however often they may have heard them. Upon the
tympana of other ones music makes a directly painful impression.
A third class has absolutely no sense of rhythm and cannot distin
guish a march from a waltz ; again, others, and here we come to the
subject now under consideration, though having a keen enough
perception of music, and being ready enough to detect faults in others,
are utterly unaware either of the quality or of the pitch of their own
voices. No doubt many of those present to-night will remember
instances within their own experience in. which some professional
singer or amateur has judged very harshly certain defects in another
singer's voice, being apparently utterly unaware that he himself had
the faults against which he vociferated, in a much higher degree ihan
the object of his attack. In other cases singers who will most acutely
hear any flat singing in another are utterly incapable of apprehending
that they themselves sing flat, and finally, there is one class, who,
though they themselves are aware of their own singing flat, arc
quite incapable of correcting the fault and of singing in pitch and
in unison with other voices or with accompanying instruments.
Instances of these points will bo familiar to my hearers.
    The causes of all these deficiencies, which are of the most serious
importance for the career of any professional singer, are no doubt to
be found in the highest cerebral centres; the imperfection of per
ception being due either to those afferent fibres which carry the
impression of sound to the auditory centre or to congenital defect of
the centre itself, whilst the impossibility of singing in pitch, though
the singer himself is painfully conscious of his not doing so, must be
due to some mischief within the paths which lead from the auditory
to the phonatory centre. Defects of this sort are in part to some
extent remediable through the aid of long continued training. In
such cases it must be assumed that certain nerve cells originallv not
intended or only intended in a minor degree for the conveyance of
the impressions now uader discussion, have been educated up to
higher functions, in the same way in which we see that after tho
destruction of the speech centre in the left hemisphere, the corre
sponding part in the right hemisphere may be, though almost always
in an imperfect way, educated up to take the original duties of its
fellow in the left hemisphere. In the great majority of cases, however,
either all training remains without effect, or the results are so small
iu proportion to the labour spent that the game is hardly worth the
candle. This is a point of the very highest importance.
    I have already previously mentioned that the training of the
voice cannot be compared to the training of the hand for the purposes
of piano or violin playing, inasmuch as the training of tho latter is
mostly performed in the shape of conscious voluntary acts ; whilst

1891.]              on the Culture of the SingingVoice.              327
the training of the voice is of an infinitely more instinctive character
and guided mainly by auditory impressions. But few persons have
got such an absolute sense of tonality that they are at any moment
ready to produce a note in the correct pitch without having first
7-eceived a hint from some musical instrument. If the guide be taken
away, i. e. if the auditory mechanism and the fibres connecting the
auditory and phonatory apparatus be acting imperfectly, the whole
training will needs be of an infinitely more difficult, very frequently
of a finally imperfect character. Proofs of this may practically bo
seen any day both ou the operatic stage and on tho cnncort platform.
A good musical ear, therefore, I should ^ay, is an indispensable
adjunct for the professional career of a singer.
    Supposing now that both the indispensable amount of vocal
material and the good ear be present, one question foremost naturally
presents itself : when to begin proper training ?
    With regard to this question, I um decidedly of opinion that
serious vocal training should not be begun in either sex as a rule
before the sixteenth year of age, though it must be understood that
there may be exceptions to this rule, both in favour of an earlier and
of a later commencement of vocal studies. The nason of this decided
opinion consists in a consideration of the physiological conditions of
the larynx during its development. In the period of adolescence the
larynx undergoes very considerable changes. In boys especially a
very sudden and very considerable enlargement of all the cartila
ginous framework occurs, accompanied by more or less acute con
gestion of the mucous membrane. The considerable elongation of
the vocal c >rds which takes place at the same time, in a number of
cases undoubtedly goes on so gradually that the muscles governing
their movements adapt themselves insensibly to the altered condition
of matters, and the transition both of the speaking and of the singing
voice may be equally insensible and gradual. In by far the larger
number of cases, however, the co-operation between all the factors
necessary to produce the voice, especially in singing, often enough
even in simple speaking, is not so imperceptibly established. The
whole apparatus, as it were, temporarily gets out of gear and only
atter a considerable period the different elements constituting it learn
instinctively to adapt themselves to the suddenly altered anatomical
conditions. The practical illustration of what I mean is given by
that hated period in the life of many a boy called the breaking of the
voice.
    Supposing now that a boy had had a sweet child's voice and that
this voice had been utilised in choir singing, on the stage, in oratorio,
or elsewhere, too often the exigencies ot life make it very desirable
that such a boy, who has to some extent contributed towards the
support of his family by the gift of Nature bestowed upon him, should
continue his singing over the period allotted to the child's voice by
Nature ; whilst in other cases masters who do not know enough of
the physiological changes taking place in the larynx might bo inclined

328                          Dr. Felix Semon                   [March 13,
to continue the training of a favourite pupil's voice into this period
of disturbance, during which physiological rest is absolutely wanted.
The result in most cases will be lasting loss of voice ; inasmuch as
all the organs here concerned are of such a delicate nature that once
hopelessly overstrained they are not likely ever to return to normal
conditions.
     I am perfectly well aware that different opinions exist on this
question ; that sorno singers as well as some laryngologists have
expressed themselves in favour of a continued training through the
period of adolescence, and that so and so many cases are quoted in
which such a training has been continued throughout this trying
period without any lasting harm resulting, the pupil on the contrary
finally attaining eminence in the vocal profession. To all this I
simply reply that I do not doubt the occurrence of exceptions, but
that such exceptions the more confirm the rule, and that if a census
were taken with regard to the number of those voices which have buen
irretrievably ruined by premature vocal training during the period of
adolescence in proportion to those in which no harm has resulted,
undoubtedly a large excess on the side of harm having resulted would
be shown. Indeed a census of this nature has been taken by Messrs.
Behnke and Browne in their little work, 'The Child's Voice,' and
the result bused upon collective investigation, in which a very large
number of competent physiological authorities, teachers of singing
and singers took part, iucontrovertibly points in the same direction
in which my observations are going. All I can say is that if I had a
 child, boy or girl, gifted with an exceptionally fine voice, I should
 not allow it even to make the experiment.
     If a voice is really worth training, be it for professional use or
 for private amusement only, it is certainly worth—provided that
 external circumstances permit—having from the very beginning a
 very good teacher. No greater mistake, I think, could be made than
 to confide so complex an apparatus us the vocal one is, at first for so-
 called elementary tuition to the tender mercies of a teacher, who has
 not the faintest idea either of the physiology of the vocal organs or
 of the recognised aud valuable modes of educating this apparatus,
 and who, by wrong tuition, either hopelessly spoils all the material
 that has been confided to him, or at any rate engenders bad habits,
 wrong muscular combinations, wrong habitudes of the sounding board
 of the voice, which afterwards only with the greatest possible difficul
 ties can be eradicated even by the most competent successor he
 may have.
      The necessity of selecting from the very beginning of the pupil's
 vocal carter a really good teacher, is too obvious to be insisted upon
 at length. A really good master of singing will first of all take
 infinite pains to ascertain the true character of the pupil's voice. He
 will not make the mistake, but too often committed, of educating a
 contralto as a soprano or a baritone as a tenor, simply because there
 are a few fine high notes in the pupil's voice; nor will ho at all

1891.]             on the Culture of the Singing Voice.              329
purposely develop one part of the range of the pupil's voice at the
expense of the others. He will build upon the material that he finds,
not impose hypothetical or self-made laws upon it, and he will sub
ordinate his own likings to the natural exigencies of the whole
character and nature of the pupil's voice. No more pernicious thing
could be imagined than to look upon flexibility as the highest triumph
to be achieved in a pupil whose voice is the prototype of a heroic
tenor, or, on the other hand, to force a pupil to sing Brahms' or
Schubert's most dramatic songs whilst the nature of her voice would
show to any perfectly unbiassed ear that her true vocation was that of
a coloratura singer.
    This brings me to the final part of my discourse, to the vexed
question of the registers. I need not say that this question alone
could be made the subject, not of one, but of a whole course of lectures,
and that it will bo impossible in the short space of time still left me
to do anything like adequate justice to it, or merely to mention all
the points which here demand consideration. At the same time the
question is of such transcendental importance for the rational cultiva
tion of the, singing voice that it cannot in a discourse on this subject
be altogether passed over in silence ; and I avail myself of the oppor
tunity of alluding to it the more readily because, as stated in the
beginning of my discourse, through the kindness of Dr. French, I am
in a position to illustrate the question by the ald of the unassailable
testimony of the photographic camera.
    It is well known that if any singer, but especially an untutored
one, sings the ascending scale, the ear of the musical listener per
ceives after a series of tones which are different from one another
only so far as the pitch is concerned, suddenly at one point or another
of the gamut a notable difference in timbre, strength, and character.
The point, at which this change occurs is called the " break in the
voice," and this change is much more noticeable in some classes of
voices than in others. It is most developed in the tenor voice, in
which the transition from the chest to the so-called falsetto voice is
obvious even to less musical ears. A break of this character, accord
ing to the opinion of many authorities, occurs only once in the range
of the voice, and these authorities broadly divide the entire compass
into the "chest" and "head" registers. In the opinion of others,
however, there are not one but several breaks in the voice, and
accordingly not two but three or more registers, the term " register "
by common consent being applied to that series of consecutive tones
which is produced by one and the same relative position of the laryn-
geal apparatus, whilst only in the tension and approximation of the
vocal cords do minute variations occur.
    What each of these registers exactly is, how it is produced, how
one is changed into the other, what exactly is the manner in which
our will influences the change, &c., we are not yet, I make bold to
say, in a position to know precisely, though I am perfectly aware
that some authorities think that they know all about it, and that it

330                          Dr. Felix Semon                  [March 13,
has been definitely stated which of the adductor muscles is, as it has
been called, the " leading " muscle for each register. A theory of
this character has been developed in a very attractive little book by
Dr. Michael, of Hamburg, entitled ' The Formation of the Registers
in Singing.' The author, whilst claiming that each register is
distinguished by one of the adductor muscles specially presiding over
its functions, positively states that for the production of each sound
the co-operation of all laryngeal muscles up to a certain degree is
necessary, and that ou complete disablement of a single muscle only,
complete loss of voice must necessarily ensue.
    Statements of this character show how dangerous it is to make too
bold and absolute assertions in this whole question. According to
the nature of things it is quite imaginable that certain of the adductor
muscles may be concerned more in the formation of one, others in the
formation of another register, but to make, as Dr. Michael has done,
absolute and general conclusions from a few cases of paralysis of one
laryngeal muscle or another in singers, as to the exact function of
each of them in the production of the register, is quite inadmissible,
as I am in a position to show at once.
    A distinguished tenor, whose case is known to several British
laryngologists, had the misfortune a few years ago of entirely losing
his voice from a tumour in his neck, pressing upon the left recurrent
laryngeal nerve and completely paralysing the left vocal cord. Not
only the singing but even the speaking voice was entirely lost in the
beginning of the illness. Under appropriate treatment the tumour
almost disappeared, and certain fibres of the recurrent laryngeal nerve
recovered, whilst other ones had already been irretrievably damaged.
The result of all this was that his left vocal cord was finally immov
ably fixed in the position of phonation. In this position it remains
up to the present day, i. e. it is not the least abducted when the
patient inspires, and there cannot be the least doubt that the left
abductor muscle is as completely paralysed and unable to fulfil its
natural functions as it possibly could be. Yet this gentleman at the
present time is able not merely to sing an'l to sing high chest as well
as falsetto notes, but the voice, according to the statements of many
who have heard him before and after his severe illness, has entirely
regained its former character, power, and compass.
    This case at once disposes of two theories which have been brought
forward as if they were unassailable facts, 7iamely, first of the state
ment just mentioned, and secondly of the frequently heard assertion
that in paralysis of the abductors the possibility of producing high
notes is lost.
    Another point also associated with the question of registers and
of the greatest possible importance for the rational cultivation of the
singing voice, is that, whether in voices of identical character, say
for instance contralto voices, the break always occurs in one and the
same note of the s-ale, or whether the exact note on which it takes
place varies in different individuals. I hope that the number of the

 1891.]            on the Culture of the Singing Voice.              331
 theorists among teachers of singing, who on preconceived ideas believe
 that it always occurs on one and the same point and who, in accord
ance with this belief, force the whole natural mechanism of their
 pupils' voices into their theoretical formula), is only a small one.
 But no doubt such teachers exist, and more thau once I have heard
statements from pupils who come to consult me, to the effect that
ever since they studied with Mr. So-and-so, and since they were told
that they had been wrongly taught with regard to the break in their
voice, and that they must begin to use the head voice or the falsetto
voice, either higher or lower than so far they had been accustomed to
take it, they felt a great sense of fatigue after practising, and that
they distinctly thought they had suffered with regard to the character
of their voice.
     There can be nothing more dangerous, I venture to say, than any
mistake with regard to this point, i. e. any interference with the laws
of nature, which in this question, I have not the least doubt, vary in
every individual case. There is no such thing as an absolute point
on which the voice breaks, in any class of singers. No doubt the
break occurs in one and the same class of voice more or less in the
neighbourhood of a certain note, for instance, in contralto voices the
lower break as a rule occurs about the neighbourhood of E or F on
the line, but no doubt there are many voices in which it occurs either
at E flat or on the other hand at F sharp, and that tho voice in which
it occurs at the higher part should now be forced into a lower break
because that corresponds with the theoretical ideas of the master,
would be a simply unpardonable mistake.
     The whole question of the registers is at the present time being
so ably treated by my friend, Dr. French, of Brooklyn, who earned
general and well deserved applause by a paper he rend on that subject
on tho occasion of last year's International Medical Congress at
Berlin, that I only wish I could in conclusion of this discourse read
to you verbatim the whole of it and show you all those splendid
photographs by means of which he illustrated it. But unfortunately
the time still left to me is so short that I must limit myself to giving
you a part only of his lecture in his own words, and to more briefly
deal with the remainder.
     Dr. French at the onset of his enquiries started from the very
just idea that the movements of the glottis are often so rapid tbut the
eye cannot appreciate them, or rather so numerous that the mind will
not retain them in the order of their occurrence. It is estimated
that the human eye can open and shut in the tenth pnrt of a second,
but an impression formed upon the retina in thnt time lacks detail,
while an image of the interior of the larynx in all its detail may be
fully and clearly impressed upon the sensitive plate in the hundredth
part of a second. Those movements which the eye fails to appreciate
may easily be denned by taking a series of photographs at different
stages, which being viewed consecutively clearly shows such move
 ments in their entirety.      ,

332                         Dr. Felix Semon                   [March 13,
    For fully six years Dr. French with unremitting perseverance
has perfected the art of taking instantaneous photographs of the larynx
in singing. Only those who saw his initial results and those obtained
about 1883 and 1884 by contemporaneous workers, such its Messrs.
Behnke and Browne, can appreciate the enormous progress he has
made within that time and the value of the results thus obtained.
In spite of this he has, according to his own statements, net yet
permitted himself to formulate a theory of the action of the larynx in
singing, for even now, after large numbers of studies have been made
by him, he says that the camera is constantly revealing new processes
in the action of the vocal cords in every part of the scale, and that
the movements of the larynx in a much larger number of subjects
must be revealed, grouped, and recorded before definite conclusions
can be drawn. The fact that there are relatively but few subjects
in whose larynges the anterior insertions of the vocal cords can be
seen throughout the range, adds greatly to the difficulties of this
investigation. In order to find one satisfactory subject a large number
have to be examined, which necessarily takes much time, and renders
the progress of the study very slow.
    At Berlin Dr. French exhibited a series of photographs taken of
the larynges of four female singers, which showed how the changes
are made in the action of the glottis from one register to the other
in the variations and the pitch of the voice. These series were taken
consecutively, and therefore fairly represent the marked variations in
tho movements of the various structures which occur in different
larynges.
    The description of the first series I give in Dr. French's own
words as follows :—
    " The first pair of photographs is the first of a series which will
be shown of the larynx of a well-known professional contralto singer.
                                  Fio. 1.

 1891.1             on the Culture of the Singimj Voice.            333
 The voice is of excellent quality. The first pair was taken while
 F sharp, treble clef, third line below staff, was being sung ; and the
second while she was singing E above. These are ono of the lowest
and highest notes of her lower register. In the photograph repre
senting the lowest note it can be seen that the vocal cords are quite
short and wide, and that with the exception of the anterior fourth the
ligimientous part of the cartilaginous glottis is open, and the slit
between the vocal bands is linear in shape. As the voice ascends the
scale the vocal cords increase in length and decrease in width, until
at the highest note of the register they may be seen to have become
considerably longer. It can also be observed that the ligamontous
portion of the glottis is still open to the same relative extent, and
that the cartilaginous portion has opened to its full extent. In the
photograph representing the lower note the anterior faces of the
arytenoid cartilages can be seen. The epiglottis, though not well
illuminated, seems to have risen as the voice ascended the scale ; the
vocal cords have increased in length at least |th of an inch in seven
notes. The compass of the voice of this singer is about two octaves
and a half, therefore at that rate of lengthening the vocal cords
would incrense nearly half an inch if their length was progressively
increased while singing up the scale from the lowest to the highest
note. This progressive increase in length does not, however, occur,
find the reason will be apparent in the next pair of photographs,
\vhich show the changes which take place in the larynx at the lower
break in the voice, which in this subject occurs at F sharp, treble
clef, first space."
                                   FIG. 2.
     " The changes which occur at this point arc extremely interesting
and instructive in the transition from the lower to the middle register,
from E to F sharp. In the voico of this subject the vibratory portions
of the vocal cords are shortened about the ,',-itb of an inch. The
    VOL. XIII. (No. H5.;                                        z

334                         Dr. Felix Semon                  [March 13,
anterior insertions of the cords can be seen in both photographs,
therefore the actual difference in the length of the bands can be
appreciated. The vocal cords have not only become shorter, but they
appear to be subject to a much higher degree of tension. The
cartilaginous glottis is closed, and the aperture in the ligamentous
portion has been much reduced in size. The laws which govern the
pitch in both string and reed instruments will aid us in explaining
this change. Though the tone is higher, and the degree of stretching
less than in the note below, the tension is increased, and the aperture
through which the air passes is much narrower."
    " The anterior, posterior, and lateral dimensions of the larynx arc
shown to have been considerably decreased when the voice broke into
the register above. The voice acquired a very different quility,
which continued in gradual elevation of pitch throughout the register."
As marked a change as this in the mechanism of the vocal cords in
females is, Dr. French believes, only found in the larynges of con
tralto singers.
    " As the singer ascends the scale above the break at F sharp the
vocal cords are increased in length, and the chink gradually enlarges,
as shown in the next pair. The first photograph is of tho larynx
                                 FIG. 3.
 while singing F sharp, treble clef, first space, the note on which tho
 lower break occurred, and the second while singing U, treble clef,
fourth line, which is the highest note in the middle register of the
 voice of this singer. The difference in the length of the vocal cords
 and width of the chink of tho glottis as the voice mounts from the
 lowest to the highest note of the middle register is clearly shown.
 Again, as the vocal bands increase in length in this register, their
 tension is apparently decreased."
     " Now the voice mounts one note higher—that is, to'E, treble clef,
 fourth space —and as it does so a distinct change in the quality of

 1891.]              on the Culture of the Sinrjing Voice.           335
 the voice is heard, and the second chaiige in the mechanism of the
 vocal cords occurs. The changes which take place in the larynx at
 the upper break in the voice of this singer are shown in the next
 pair. The first photo represents the larynx while singing D, treble
 clef, fourth line, the note immediately preceding the break, and the
                                    FIG 4.
second shows the change which occurred while singing E, the next
note above. A very decided change in the mechanism of the vocal
cords is apparent. These ligaments have grown higher and narrower,
and the chink which in the note before the break can be seen to be
linear in shape and quite wide, after the break becomes considerably
reduced in both length and width. Not only is the cartilaginous
portion of the glottis closed in the note after the break, but also a
small portion of the ligamentous glottis immediately adjoining it.
The chink appears to be closed to the same extent in front as it wag
while producing the note immediately preceding it. There is, there
fore, stop-closure in front and behind, which leaves a slit in the
middle of the glottis measuring a little more than half the length of
the vocal cords. In addition to these changes, it may bo observed
that the epiglottis is depressed and the arytenoid cartilages have
again receded. As this is the highest note which this subject is
capable of singing with ease, we cannot study the action of the vocal
cords in the production of tones in the upper register."
     " It may be remembered that in this larynx the vocal cords increase
in length from the low F sharp to the E above. At the next note
higher they began to increase in length again until D above was
reached, and at E, the note next above, they were again suddenly
shortened. It will be instructive to determine the degree to which
the vocal cords were lengthened, and at what point in the scale they
were longest. We saw that in the lower register the vocal cords
were longest in the production of the highest note, and in the middle

336                          Dr. Felix Semon                  [March 13,
register they were also longest while the highest note was being
sung. By comparing the photographs representing these notes it can
be seen that the vocal cords were as long, if not the longest, while
the highest note of the lower register was being Bung. In this
subject the vocal cords increase in length in each register, but they
had as great a length in the lower as in either register above, if not
greater. It is generally thought that the pitch is raised by the vocal
cords increasing progressively in tension and length. In regard to
length this is true in some cases, while in others it is only true as
applied to a register, not to the whole voice."
    In the second case, photographs of which wore shown by Dr.
French at Berlin, but of which he unfortunately could not send me
copies, because the photographs of the larynx of this subject, though
clear and strong enough for satisfactory exhibition upon the screen,
were too weak for a direct reproduction by the photo-engraving
process, the action of the larynx was in many respects the reverse of
that just examined. In it the cartilaginous glottis did not appear to
begin to open until the highest notes were renched. In the lower
register the chink of the glottis decreased instead of increasing in
size as the voice ascended. At the lower break the vocal cords were
increased instead of decreased in length, and the chink of the glottis
increased instead of decreasing. Again, the vocal cords attained
their greatest length at the highest note in the voice of this subject,
which corresponded to about the highest note of the middle register,
whilst in the larynx before examined the chink of the glottis increased
in size, and the vocal cords increased in length, as the voice ascended
in each register. I should the more have liked to show the photo
graphs illustrating this condition, inasmuch as the subject was also a
contralto singer, and as the demonstration would have materially
aided in strengthening the position that the action of the glottis in
singing, even in voices belonging to the same class, varies very
considerably.
    The next series of photographs, I am selecting from Dr. French's
collection, illustrates the action of the glottis in singing, of a well-
trained soprano singer, who possesses the extraordinary range of four
octaves, the voice being of excellent quality. The first pair of
photographs represent one of the lowest and the highest notes of the
lower register of this singer's voice. As the voice mounts the scale
the vocal cords increase in length and the cartilaginous portion of
the glottis increases in size ; the arytenoid cartilages recede from tho
anterior wall of the larynx. In the neighbourhood of C sharp a
change in the quality of the voice was heard. Dr. French lays
particular stress upon the fact that the change could be heard in the
neighbourhood of C sharp, for the note at which the break occurred
varied considerably in this subject. In some of the runs it occurred
at C sharp; in others at D or E. Not knowing exactly where it
would occur, it was difficult to get a satisfactory idea of the nature
of tho change in the laryngoscoliic mirror. He therefore took

1891.]            on the Culture of the Singing Voice.            337
photographs while the subject sang each note from A below to the A
above. An examination of the negatives revealed the break at D, a
                                 FIG. 5.
photograph of the larynx while singing which is shown iu the next
pair, together with one while singing the note immediately pre
ceding it.
                                 FIG. 6.
             Cffi
    From this point the vocal cords are gradually increased in length
and decreased in width as the voice mounts the scale in the middle
register, as is seen in the following pair. This pair represents the
lowest and highest notes of the middle register of this subject.

338                          Dr. Felix Semon                 [March 13,
                                  Fio. 7.
    At the next note higher, F sharp, treble clef, top line, another
change in the quality of the voice occurred, and with it a change in
the laryngeal mechanism, which is displayed in the next pair of
photographs. The voice has broken into the upper or head register
                                  Fio. 8.
             E
and the change in the mechanism is decided. The vocal cords are
reduced in length and appear to be narrower. The edges of the
cords are closer together, only a narrow linear slit being left between
them ; the capitula Sautorini are tilted backward and the cartilaginous
portion of the glottis is nearly or quite closed. The position of the
epiglottis is about the same as when producing the note before the
break.
    The opinion prevails that in the production of tones in the upper
register some portion of the edges of the vocal cords are in contact or
pressed tightly together; in other words, that stop-closure occurs.

1891.]             on the Culture of the Sinying Voice.            339
Here the anterior fourth of the glottic chink is closed, but the same
amount of closure in the same position may be seen in the larynx
singing the note before the break.
     Now the voice mounts to high C sharp. The next pair shows the
                                  Fro. !).
larynx while singing that note, and also the note on which the voice
broke into the head register. In that representing C sharp it can
be seen that the whole of the cavity of the larynx is smaller, and that
the vocal cords and the chink of the glottis are narrower. Tho
vocal cords appear to be much shorter, but as the anterior ends are
covered by the cushion of the epiglottis, it is impossible to say how
much shortened they really are. The arytenoid curtilages are closer
together and are inclined further forward in the high than in the low
notes of this register. The mucous membrane covering the lateral
walls of the larynx is wrinkled, showing that during the production
of this high note it is not capable of contracting to a sufficient
extent to present a smooth surface. In the high noto even the
contact between the vocal cords, which can bo scon in the lowest head
note, and which we saw occur in the production of notes in the
middle register, has disappeared, and there is a clear linear space
betwcen the vocal cords the entire length of the glottis.
     The next pair represents high C sharp and a still higher noto in
 the subject of this voice, F sharp. In that representing F sharp we
 may observe that the cavity of the larynx is greatly contracted, the
 epiglottis is not so high as when C sharp was sung, in fact the four
 walls of the larynx are crowded towards the centre and the epiglottis
 is curled inward, the arytenoid cartilages arc almost if not quite in
contact, the vocal cords are very short and look like threads. The
 most surprising revelation made in this picture is that there is no

340                          Dr. Felix Semon                 [March 13,
stop-closure. It is possible that there was slight contact between the
edges of the vocal cords at the posterior portion of the glottis, but in
                                  Fio. 10.
                                           m
Dr. French's opinion air was passing between the edges of the cords
the entire length of the gl.ittis when this photograph was taken.
    From the revelations made in the photographs of the glottis of
different persons while head tones were being sung. Dr. French
comes to the conclusion that contact of the vocal cords in the first
6 or 6 tones of the head register does not occur in half the number of
cases.
    Reluctantly I refrain from further following Dr. French in his
interesting lecture. His argument of course gets the more convincing
the more examples of the variety of ways in which the larynx acts in
the cases of different singers are brought forward ami illustrated by
means of the camera. Time, however, will not allow me to do so,
and I can only give the most important conclusions regarding the
action of the glottis in female singers at which he finally arrives.
They are as follows :—
    " 1. The larynx may act in a variety of ways in the production of
the same tones or registers in different individuals."
    "2. The rule, which, however, has many exceptions,, is that the
vocal cords are short and wide, and the ligumcutous and cartilaginous
portions of the glottis are open in the production of the lower tones ;
that as the voice ascends the scale the vocal cords increase in length
and decrease in width. The aperture between the posterior portions
of the vocal cords increases in size, the caliitula Santorini are tilted
more and more forward, and the epiglottis rises until a note in the
neighbourhood of E, treble clef, first line, is reached. The cartila
ginous glottis is then closed, the glottic chink becomes much narrower
and linear in shape, the capitula Santorini are tilted backward and
the epiglottis is depressed."

1891.]             on the Culture of the Singing Voice.               341
    " When the vocal bands are shortened in the change at the lower
break in the voice, it is mainly due to closure of the cartilaginous
portion of the glottis, the ligamentous portion not usually being
affected. If, therefore, the cartilaginous glottis is not closed there is
usually no material change in the length of the vocal cords."
    " As the voice ascends from the lower break the vocal cords increase
in length and diminish in width, the posterior portion of the glottic
chink opens more and more, the capitula Santorini are tilted forward
and the epiglottis rises until, in the neighbourhood of E, treble clef,
fourth space, another change occurs. The glottic chink is then
reduced to a very narrow slit ; in some subjects extending the whole
length of the glottis ; in others closing in front or behind in both.
Not only is the cartilaginous glottis always closed, but the ligamen
tous glottis is, I believe, invariably shortened. The arytenoid
cartilages are tilted backward, and the epiglottis is depressed. As
the voice ascends in the head register the cavity of the larynx is
reduced in size, the arytenoid cartilages are tilted forward and
brought closer together, the epiglottis is depressed and the vocal
cords decreased in length and breadth. If the posterior part of the
ligamentous portion of the glottis is not closed in the lower, it is
likely to be in the upper notes of the voice."
    The series of photographs which were shown by Dr. French were
not selected to prove any preconceived ideas ; they simply represent
the variations which will be met with in any four consecutive studies.
It is, however, scarcely to be wondered at that the theories regarding
the action of the glottis in singing differ so widely, especially those
based upon the study of one subject or of a few.
    Dr. French personally is of opinion that the female voice has
three registers, and considers it quite probable that in voices with
exceptional ranges there are four registers. At the same time, he
says that sufficient evidence has not yet been obtained to make this
demonstrable.
    I am glad to have been able to show that this, the latest achieve
ment of abstract science, so fully corroborates the views held by
competent teachers of singing as to the enormous variety in producing
the singing voice, and I can only, in conclusion of my discourse,
express, together with my warmest thanks to Dr. French for having
allowed me to illustrate my opinions by aid of the results of his
perseverance and industry, the conviction that that teacher will be
the most successful one who individualises in every single case
confided to his care, remembering how delicate the mechanism is
which is entrusted to him and how easily mischief may be wrought
by wrong training, whilst that pupil will the most probably reap the
best fruits of his studies who aims only at perfecting that which has
been given to him by Nature, not at achieving what is impossible
according to physiological laws.
                                                                [F. S.]
    VOL. XIII.      (No. 85.)     *                           2 A

342                    General Monthly Meeting.              [April 6,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, March 20, 1891.
 BASIL WOODD SMITH, Esq. F.R.A.S. F.S.A. Vice-President, in the
                                Chair.
     PROFESSOR VICTOR HORSLEY, F.E.S. B.S. F.R.C.8. M.R.I.
               Fullerian Professor of Physiology, E.I.
                             Hydrophobia.
                             (No Abstract.)
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                       Monday, April 6, 1891.
  SIR JAMES CRIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                     Vice-President, in the Chair.
          William Boylo Barbour, Esq. M.P.
          The Right Hon. Lord Randolph Churchill, M.P.
          C. E. H. Chadwyck-Healey, Esq. Q.C.
          Mrs. C. E. H. Chadwyck-Healey,
          William Frederick Hamilton, Esq. LL.D.
          William Robert Lake, Esq.
          The Rev. Edward G. C. Parr, M.A.
          Thomas Slingsby Tanner, Esq.
          Charles Humphrey Wingfield, Esq.
          Latham Augustus Withall, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the following
Donations to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental Research :—
                                                           £    s.
     Ludwig Mond, Esq                                    100 0
     Lachlan M. Rate, Esq                                 50 0
     Charles Hawksley, Esq. (for now Optical Lantern) 50 0
     Alfred Bray Kempe, Esq.              (do.)             5 5
     David Edward Hughes, Esq.                              2 2
     George Berkley, Esq.                                   5 5
     Basil Woodd Smith, Esq.                                5 5
     Edward Pollock, Esq.                                   2 H
     Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart.         (do.)          10 10
     Sir Frederick Abel                                     5 0
     Professor Dewnr                                      10 10
     Sir James Crichton Browne                              5 5
     Warren W. de la Rue, Esq.                            10 10
     Wm. Chandler Roberts-Austen, Esq.                      5 5

  1891.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                       343
       The FBESENTB received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members retnrned for the same, viz. :—
 Aceademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendioonti. 1° Semes-
       tre, Vol. VII. Fane. 1-6. STO. 1891.
    Atti, Anno 43, Seas. 4", 5", 6». 4to. 1891.
    Atti, Serie Quarto, Anno CCLXXXIIL-CCLXXXV. 4to. 1886-8.
 Academy of Natural Sciencet, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1890, Part 2. 8vo.
 Aniiquaries, Society of—Archteologia, 2nd Series, Vol. II. Part 1. 4to. 1890.
    Proceeding, Vol. XIII. No. 2. 8vo. 1890.
 Aristotelian Society—Proceedings, Vol. I. No. 4, Part 1. 8vo. 1891.
 Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Vol. LVIII. Part 1, No. 3; Part 2, No. S;
       Vol. LIX. Part 2, Noa. 2, 3. 8vo. 1889-90.
    Proceedings, Nos. 4-10. 8vo. 1890.
 Astronomical Society, Royal— Monthly Notices, Vol. LI. No. 4. 8vo. 1891.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1891, Nos. 10, 11. 4to.
 Brymner, Douglas, Esq. (the Archivist)—Report on Canadian Archives, 1890. 8ro.
 Cambridge Philosophical Society—Transactions, VoL XV. Part 1. 4to. 1891.
    Proceedings, Vol. VII. Part 3. 8vo. 1891.
 Canadian Institute—Transactions, Vol. I. Part 1, No. 1. 8vo. 1890.
 Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. X. No. 2. 8vo. 1891.
 Chemical Society—Journal for March, 1891. 8vo.
 Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. CIII. 8vo. 1891.
 Cracovie, FAmdemie des Sciences—Bulletin, 1891, No. 2. 8vo.
 Dawson, G. M. Esq. LL.D. F.G.S. (the Author)—Note on the Geological Structure
       of the Selkirk Bange. 8vo. 1891.
 Dax, Social de Borda—Bulletin, Quinzieme Annee. Sme et 4me Trimestre 8vo.
       1890.
Editors—American Journal of Science for March, 1891. 8vo.
    Analyst for March, 1891. 8vo.
    Athenenm for March, 1891. 4to.
    Brewers' Journal for March, 1891. 1 to.
   Chemical News for March, 1891. It...
   Chemist and Druggist for March, 1891. STO.
   Electrical Engineer for March, 1891. fol.
   Engineer for March, 1891. fol.
   Engineering for March, 1891. fol.
   Horological Journal for March, 1891. 8vo.
   Industries for March, 1891. fol.
   Iron for March, 1891. 4to.
   Ironmongery for March, 1891. 4to.
   Murray's Magazine for March, 1891. 8vo.
   Nature for March, 1891. 4to.
   Open Court for March, 1891. 4to.
   Photographic News for March, 1891. 8vo.
   Public Health for March, 1891. 8vo.
   Revue Scientifique for March, 1891. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for March, 1891. fol.
   ZoophiliBt for March, 1891. 4to.
Florence Biblioteca Nazionals Centrale—Bolletino, Nos. 124-126. 8vo. 1891.
   Indice Cataloghi, Codici Palatini IV. VoL II. Fasc. 3. STO. 1891.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 783. 8vo. 1891.
Ccofjraphical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. XIII. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo.
      1891.
Oeorgofili, Beale Aceademia—Atti, Quarta Serie, Vol. XIII. Disp. 3». 8vo. 1890.
Harlem, Soeiete Hollandaise des Sciences—GSuvres Completes de Christian
      Huygens, Tome 3. Correspondance, 1660-1661. 4to. 1890.
                                                                  2 A 2

3-14                         General Monthly Meeting.                  [April 6,
Harris, John, Esq. (the Author)—The Laws of Force and Motion. 4to. 1890.
Jolme Hopkins University—University Circulars, No. 86. 4to. 1891.
Liverpool Polytechnic Society— Proceedings for 53rd Session. 8vo. 1890.
McClean, Frank, Esq. M.A. M.R.I, (the Author)— Comparative Photographs of
      the High Sun and Low Sun Visible Spectra, with notes on the method of
      Photographing the Red End of the Spectrum, to!. 1890.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXI Parts 2-5. 8vo. 1890-1.
Ministry of Public Works, Bome—Giornale del Genio Civile, 18U1, Fasc. 1°. And
      Design!, fi.l. 1891.
Morris, David K. Esq. (the Author)—Notes of a Thousand Men. 8vo. 1891.
New York Academy of Sciences—Transactions, Vol. IX. No*. 3-8. 8vo. 1889-90.
    Annals, Vol. IV. (Index); Vol. V. Nos. 4-8. 8vo. 1890.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Report of the
      French Commission on the Use of Explosives in the presence of Fire-damp
      in Mines. Part 3. 8vo. 1891.
 Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXIII. Nos. 4, 5.
      New Series. 8vo. 1891.
Pennsylvania Geological Survey—Dictionary of Fossils, Vols. II. III. 8vo. 1889.
    Atlases to Report, 1889. 8vo.
    Report on Oil and Gas Fields. 8vo. 1890.
 Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, March, 1891. 8vo.
 Prince, C. Leenon, Esq. F.R.A.S. F.R.Met.Soc.—Summary of a Meteorological
      Journal for 1890.
 Bathbone, E. P. Etq. (the Editor)—The Witwatersrand Mining and Metallurgical
      Review, Nos. 13, 14. 8vo. 1891.
 Richards, Admiral Sir 0. H. K.C.B. F.R.S. (the Conservator)—Report on the
      Navigation of the River Mersey, 1890. 8vo. 1S91.
 Rochester Academy of Science— Proceedings, Vol. I. Part 1. 8vo. 1890.
 IMhecliild, F. C. von, Esq.—Die Einriehtung uud Verwaltung der F. C. von
      Rothschild'scben offentlichen Bibliotek (1887-90), von Dr. Christ Wilh.
      Berghreffer. 8vo. 1891.
 Royal Institution of Cornwall—Journal, Vol. X. Part 2. 8vo. 1891.
 Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 297. 8vo. 1891.
 Royal Society of New South Walet—Journal and Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. Part 1.
      8vo. 1890.
 Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Mathomatisch-physischen Classe : Abhandlun-
      gen. Band XVI. No. 3 ; Band XVII. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1891.
    Boriuhte, 1890, NOs. 2-4. 8vo. 1891.
 Scottish Society of Arts, Royal—Transactions, Vol. XII. Part 4. 8vo. 1891.
 Selborne Society—Nature Notes, Vol. II. No. 15. 8vo. 1891.
 Smithsonian Institution—Annual Report, 1888. 8vo. 1890.
    National Museum Report, 18K8. 8vo. 1890.
 Socifle Archxsologique du Midi de la France—Bulletin, No. 5. 8vo. 1890.
 Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. III. Nos. 7, 8, 9. 8vo. 1891.
 Society of Arts— Journal for March, 1891. 8vo.
 United Service, Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 157. 8vo. 1891.
  Vereins zur llefb'riierung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1891 •
       Huft 2, 3. 4to.
  Wells, Sir T. Spencer, Bart. F.R.C.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Modern Abdominal
       Surgery. (The Bradshaw Lecture.) 8vo. 1891.
 Wild, Dr. H. (the Director)—Annalen des Physikalischen Central-Observatoriums,
       Theil II. January, 1889. 4to.
  Wright & Co. Messrs. J. (the Publishers)—Lectures on Diabetes. By Robert
       Saundby, M.D. 8vo. 1891.
    Medical Annual, 1891. 8vo.

 1891.]   Sir W. Thomson on Electric and Magnetic Screening.          345
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, April 10, 1891.
     WILLIAM CROOKES, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
        Sm WILLIAM THOMSON, D.C.L. LL.D. Pres.R.S. N.E.I.
                     Electric and Magnetic Screening.
THERE are five kinds of screening against electric and magnetic
influences, which are quite distinct in our primary knowledge of
them, but which must all be seen in connected relation with one
another when we know more of electricity than we know at present :
—I. Electrostatic screening ; II. Magnetostatic screening ; III. Varia-
tional screening against electromotive force; IV. Variational screening
against magnetomotive force ; V. Fire-screens and window-blinds or
shutters.
                                       I.
    Electrostatic screening is of fundamental significance throughout
electric theory. It has also an important place in the history of
Natural Philosophy, inasmuch as consideration of it led Faraday
from Snow Harris's crudely approximate but most interestingly sug
gestive doctrine of non-influence of unopposed parts and action in
parallel straight lines between the mutually -visible parts of mutually
attracting conductors, to his own splendid theory of inductive attrac
tion transmitted along curved lines of force by specific action in and
of the medium intervening between the conductors.
    A continuous metallic surface completely separating enclosed air
from the air surrounding it acts as a perfect screen against all electro
static influence between electrified bodies in the portions of air so
separated. This proposition, which had been established as a theorem
of the mathematical theory of electricity by Green, in the ninth
article of his now celebrated essay,* was admirably illustrated by
Faraday, by the observations which he made inside the wooden
cube covered all around with wire netting and bands of tinfoil, which
he insulated within this lecture-room :j " I went into the cube and
lived in it ; and, using lighted candles, electrometers, and all other
tests of electrical states, I could not find the least influence upon
them, or indication of anything particular given by them, though all
the time the outside of the cube was powerfully charged, and large
sparks and brushes were darting off from every point of its outer
surface."
             * Seo pp. 14 and 48 of the repriut edited by Ferrers,
             t 'Experimental Rt-BcarcheB,' 1173-1174.

346                       Sir William Thornson                [April 10,
    The doctrine of electric images is slightly alluded to, and an
illustrative experiment performed, showing the fixing of an electric
image. The electroscope used for the experiments is an electrified
pith ball, suspended by a varnished double-silk fibre of about 9 or
10 feet long. Figs. 1-4 represent experimental illustrations, in
which the pith ball, positively electrified, experiences a force due to
electrified bodies, optically screened from it by a thin sheet of tin-
plate. In Figs. 1 and 2 the pith ball is attracted round a corner by
a stick of rubbed sealing-wax, and in Figs. 3 and 4 repelled round a
corner by a stick of rubbed glass. In Fig. 2 the sealing-wax seems
to repel the pith ball, and in Fig. 4 rubbed glass seems to attract it.
                                  FIG. 1.
                                  FIG. 2.
                                  FIG. 3.
                                  FIG. 4.
This experiment constituted a very palpable illustration of Faraday's
induction in curved lines of force.
     In the present lecture some experimental illustrations were given
of electrostatic screening by incomplete plane sheets and curved
 surfaces of continuous metal, and of imperfectly conducting material,
 such as paper, slate, wood, and a sheet of vulcanite, moist or dry,
 •window glass at ordinary temperatures in air of ordinary moisture,
 and by perforated metal screens and screens of network, or gratings
 of parallel bars.

1891.]             on Electric and Magnetic Screening.                 347
    The fixing of an electric image is shown in two experiments :
(1) the image of a stick of sealing-wax in a thin plane sheet of
vulcanite, moistened, warmed, and dried under the electric influence
by the application and removal of a spirit-lamp flame ; (2) the glass
jar of a quadrant electrometer with a rubbed stick of sealing-wax held
projecting into it, while the outer surface is moistened, warmed, and
dried by the application and removal of a ring of flame produced by
cotton wick wrapped on an iron ring and moistened in alcohoL
    Fig. 5 is copied from a diagram of Clerk Maxwell's to illustrate
 screening by a plane grating of parallel bars of approximately circular
                                   FIG. 5.
cross section, with distance from centre to centre twelve times the
diameter of each bar.* It represents the lines of force due to equal
quantities of opposite electricities on the grating itself, and a parallel
plane of continuous metal (not shown in the diagram) at a distance
from the grating of not less than one and a half times the distance
from bar to bar. The shading shows the lines of force for the same
circumstances, but with oval bars instead of the small circular bars of
Maxwell's grating. It is interesting to see how every line of force
ends in a bar of the grating, none straying to an infinite distance
beyond it, which is necessarily the case when the quantities of elec
tricity on the grating and on the continuous plane are equal and
opposite. If an insulated electrified body, with electricity of the same
name as that of the grating, for example, is brought up from below,
it experiences no electric force differing sensibly from that which
would be produced by its own inductive effect on the grating, till it is
within a less distance from the grating than the distance from bar to
bar, when it experiences repulsion or attraction, according as it is
under a bar of the grating or under the middle of a space between
two bars. If there be a parallel metal plane below the grating, kept
           • 'Electricity and Magnetism," vol. i. art. 203, fig. xiii.

348                      Sir William Thomson                  [April 10,
at the same potential as the grating, it takes no sensible proportion
of the electricity from the grating, and experiences no sensible force
when its distance from the grating exceeds a limit depending on the
ratio of the diameter of each bar to the distance from bar to bar.
The mathematical theory of this action was partially given by
Maxwell,* and yesterday I communicated an extension of it to the
Royal Society.
                                    II.
     Magnetostatic screening by soft iron would follow the same law
as electrostatic screening, if the magnetic susceptibility of the iron
were infinitely great. It is not great enough to even approximately
                                  FIG. 6.
fulfil this condition in any practical case. The nearest approach to
fulfilment is presented when we have a thick iron shell completely
enclosing a hollow space, but the thickness must be a considerable
proportion of the smallest diameter, not less than ,',,, perhaps, for
iron of ordinary magnetic susceptibility to produce so much of screen
ing effect that the magnetic force in the interior should be anything
less than 5 per cent, of the force at a distance outside, when the shell
is placed in a uniform magnetic field. The accompanying diagram,
Fig. 6, representing tho conning-tower of H.M.S. ' Orlando,' and
the position of the compass within it, has been kindly sent to me by
Captain Creak, R.N., for this lecture, by permission of the Controller
                         * Arts. 203-205.

1891.]              on Electric and Magnetic Screening.                      349
of the Navy. It gives an interesting illustration of magnetic screen
ing effect by the case of a belt of iron, 1 foot thick, 5 feet high, and
10 feet in internal diameter, with roof and floor of comparatively thin
iron. Captain Creak informs me that the average horizontal com
ponent of the magnetic directing force on the compass in the centre
of this conning-tower is only about one-fifth of that of the undisturbed
terrestrial magnetism.
    An evil practice, against which careful theoretical and practical
warnings were published two or three years ago,* and which is now
nearly, though, I believe, not at this moment quite thoroughly,
stopped, of what is called single wiring in the electric lighting of
ships, has been fallaciously defended by various bad reasons, among
them an erroneous argument that the ship's iron produced a sufficient
screening effect against disturbance of the ship's compasses, by the
electric light currents, when that plan of wiring is adopted. The
argument would be good for a ship 60 feet broad and 30 feet deep, if
the deck and hull were of iron 3 feet thick. As it is, mathematical
calculation shows that the screening effect is quite small in comparison
with what the disturbance of the compass would be if the ship and
her decks were all of wood. Actual observation, on ships electrically
lighted on the single wire system by some of the best electrical
engineers in the world, has shown, in many cases, disturbance of the
compass of from 3 degrees to 7 degrees, produced by throwing off and on
the groups of lights in various parts of the ship, which are thrown on
and off habitually in the evenings and nights, in ordinary and neces
sary practice of sea-going passenger ships. When the facts become
known to shipowners, single wiring will never again be admitted at
sea unless the alternating current system of electric lighting is again
adopted. But, although this system was largely used when electric
lighting was first introduced into ships, the economy and other advan
tages of the direct-current system are so great that no one would
think of using the alternate system for the trivial economy, if any
economy there is, in the single wire, as compared with the double
insulated wire system.
    An interesting illustration of a case in which iron, of any thick
ness, however great, produces no screening effect on an electric current,
steady or alternating, is shown by the accompanying diagram. Fig. 7,
which represents in section an electric current along the axis of a
circular iron tube, completely surrounding it. Whether the tube be
long or short, it exercises no screening effect whatever. A single
circular iron ring, supported in the air, with its plane perpendicular
to the length of a straight conductor conveying an electric current,
produces absolutely no disturbance of the circular endless lines of
magnetic force which surround the wire ; neither does any piece of
   * See ' The Electrician,' vol. xxiii. p. 87. Paper read before the Institution
of Electrical Engineers, by Sir William Thomson, "On the Security aguiust
Disturbance of Ships' Compasses by Electric Lighting Appliances."

350                      Sir William Thomson                  [April 10,
iron, wholly bounded by a surface of revolution, with a straight
conductor conveying electricity along its axis.
    A screen of imperfectly conducting material is as thorough in its
action, when time enough is allowed it, as is a similar screen of
metal. But if it be tried against rapidly varying electrostatic force,
its action lags. On account of this lagging, it is easily seen that the
screening effect against periodic variations of electrostatic force will
be less and less, the greater the frequency of the variation. This is
readily illustrated by means of various forms of idiostatic electro
meters. Thus, for example, a piece of paper supported on metal in
metallic communication with the movable disc of an attracted disc
electrometer annuls the attraction (or renders it quite insensible) a
few seconds of time after a difference of potential is established and
kept constant between the attracted disc and the opposed metal plate,
if the paper and the air surrounding it are in the ordinary hygro-
metric conditions of our climate. But if the instrument is applied
to measure a rapidly alternating difference of potential, with equal
differences on the two sides of zero, it gives very little less than
the same average force as that found when the paper is removed and
all other circumstances kept the same. Probably, with ordinary clean
white paper in ordinary hygrometrie conditions, a frequency of
alternation of from 50 to 100 per second will more than suffice to
render the screening influence of the paper insensible. And a much

1891.]             on Electric and Magnetic Screening.                351
less frequency will suffice if the atmosphere surrounding the paper is
artificially dried. Up to a frequency of millions per second, we may
safely say that, the greater the frequency, the more perfect is the
annulment of screening by the paper ; and this statement holds also
if the paper be thoroughly blackened on both sides with ink, although
possibly in this condition a greater frequency than 50 to 100 per
second might be required for practical annulment of the screening.
     Now, suppose, instead of attractive force between the two bodies
separated by the screen, as our test of electrification, that we have
as test a faint spark, after the manner of Hertz. Let two well
insulated metal balls, A, B, be placed very nearly in contact, and two
much larger balls, E, F, placed beside them, with the shortest
distance between E, F sufficient to prevent sparking, and with the
lines joining the centres of the two pairs parallel. Let a rapidly
alternating difference of potential be produced between E and F,
varying, not abruptly, but according, we may suppose, to the simple
harmonic law. Two sparks in every period will be observed between
A and B. The interposition of a large paper screen between E, F,
on one side, and A, B, on the other, in ordinary hygrometric con
ditions, will absolutely stop these sparks, if the frequency be less
than, perhaps, 4 or 5 per second. With a frequency of 50 or more,
a clean white paper screen will make no perceptible difference. If
the paper be thoroughly blackened with ink on both sides, a frequency
 of something more than 50 per second may be necessary ; but some
moderate frequency of a few hundreds per second will, no doubt,
 suffice to practically annul the effect of the interposition of the
 screen. With frequencies up to 1000 million per second, as in some
 of Hertz's experiments, screens such as our blackened paper are still
 perfectly transparent, but if we raise the frequency to 600 million
 million, the influence to be transmitted is light, and the blackened
 paper becomes an almost perfect screen.
     Screening against a varying magnetic force follows an opposite
 law to screening against varying electrostatic force. For the present
 I pass over the case of iron and other bodies possessing magnetic
 susceptibility, and consider only materials devoid of magnetic sus
 ceptibility, but possessing more or less of electric conductivity.
 However perfect the electric conductivity of the screen may be, it
has no screening efficiency against a steady magnetic force. But if
 the magnetic force varies, currents are induced in the material of the '
 screen which tend to diminish the magnetic force in the air on the
 remote side from the varying magnet. For simplicity, we shall
suppose the variations to follow the simple harmonic law. The
greater the electric conductivity of the material, the greater is the
screening effect for the same frequency of alternation ; and, the
 greater the frequency, the greater is the screening effect for the same
 material. If the screen be of copper, of specific resistance 1640
 sq. cm. per second (or electric diffusivity 130 sq. cm. per second), and
 with frequency 80 per second, what I have called the " mhoic effective

352                         &> William Thomson                    [April 10,
thickness"* is 0-71 of a cm.; and the range of current intensity at
depth n x 0 ' 71 cm. from the surface of the screen next the exciting
magnet is «— " of its value at the surface.
     Thus (us f3 = 20 '09) the range of current intensity at depth
2 ' 13 cm. is ^ of its surface value. Hence we may expect that a
sufficiently large plate of copper of 2J cm. thick will be a little less
thau perfect in its screening action against an alternating magnetic
force of frequency 80 per second.
     Lord Rayleigh, in his " Acoustical Observations,"! after referring
to Maxwell's statement, that a perfectly conducting sheet acts as a
barrier to magnetic force, J describes an experiment in which the
interposition of a largo and stout plate of copper between two coils
renders inaudible a sound which, without the copper screen, is heard
by a telephone in circuit with one of the coils excited by electro
magnetic induction from the other coil, in which an intermittent
current, with sudden, sharp variations of strength, is produced by
a " microphone clock " and a voltaic battery. Larmor, in his paper
on " Electromagnetic Induction in Conducting Sheets and Solid
Bodies "§ makes the following very interesting statement:—"If we
have a sheet of conducting matter in the neighbourhood of a
magnetic system, the eft'ect of a disturbance of that system will be
to induce currents in the sheet of such kind as will tend to prevent
any change iu the conformation of the tubes [lines] of force cutting
through the sheet. This follows from Lonz's law, which itself has
been shown by Helmholtz and Thomson to bo a direct consequence
of the conservation of energy. But if the arrangement of the tubes
[lines of force] in the conductor is unaltered, the field on the other
side of the conductor into which they pass (supposed isolated from
the outside spaces by the conductor) will be unaltered. Hence, if the
disturbance is of an alternating character, with a period small enough
to make it go through a cycle of changes before the currents decay
sensibly, we shall have the conductor acting as a screen.
     " Further, we shall also find, on the same principle, that a rapidly
rotating conducting sheet screens the space inside it from all magnetic
action which is not symmetrical round the axis of rotation."
     Mr. Willoughby Smith's experiments on " Volta-electric induc
tion," which he described in his inaugural address to the Society of
Telegraph Engineers of November 1883, afforded good illustration
of this kind of action with copper, zinc, tin, and lead, screens, and
with different degrees of frequency of alternation. His results with
iron are also very interesting : they showed, as might be expected,
comparatively little augmentation of screening effect with augmenta
tion of frequency. This is just what is to be expected from the fact
                   * ' Collected Papers,' vol. 3, art. cii. § 35.
                   t Phil. Slag. 1882, first half-year.
                   t ' Electricity and Magnetism,' § 665.
                   §  Thil. Slug. 1884, first half-year.

1891.]              on Electric and Magnetic Screening.            353
that a broad enough and long enough iron plate exercises a large
magneto-static screening influence ; which with a thick enough plate,
will be so nearly complete that comparatively little is left for aug
mentation of the screening influence by alternations of greater and
greater frequency.
    A copper shell closed around an alternating magnet produces a
screening effect which on the principle stated above we may reckon
to be little short of perfection if the thickness be ~ j cm. or more,
and the frequency of alternation 80 per second.
    Suppose now the alternation of the magnetic force to be produced
by the rotation of a magnet M about any axis. First, to find the
effect of the rotation, imagine the magnet to be represented by ideal
magnetic matter. Let (after the manner of Gauss in his treatment
of the secular perturbations of the solar system) the ideal magnetic
matter be uniformly distributed over the circles described by its
different points. For brevity call I the ideal magnet symmetrical
round the axis, which is thus constituted. The magnetic force
throughout the space around the rotating magnet will be the same
as that duo to I, compounded with an alternating force of which the
component at any point in the directicn of any fixed line varies from
zero in the two opposite directions in each period of the rotation.
If the copper shell is thick enough, and the angular velocity of the
rotation great enough, the alternating component is almost annulled
for external space, and only the steady force due to I is allowed to
act in the space outside the copper shell.
    Consider now, in the space outside the copper shell, a point P
rotating with the magnet M. It will experience a force simply equal
to that due to M when there is no rotation, and, when M and P
rotate together, P will experience a force gradually altering as the
speed of rotation increases, until, when the speed becomes sufficiently
great, it becomes sensibly the same as the force due to the symme
trical magnet I. Now superimpose upon the whole system of the
magnet, and the point P, and the copper shell, a rotation equal and
opposite to that of M and P. The statement just made with reference
to the magnetic force at P remains unaltered, and we have now a fixed
magnet M and a point P at rest, with reference to it, while the copper
shell- rotates round the axis around which we first supposed M to
rotate.
    A little piece of apparatus, constructed to illustrate the result
experimentally, was submitted to the Royal Institution and shown in
action. The copper shell is a cylindric drum, 1-25 cm. thick, closed
at its two ends with circular discs 1 cm. thick. The magnet is sup
ported on the inner end of a stiff wire passing through the centre of
a perforated fixed shaft which passes through a hole in one end of
the drum, and serves as one of the bearings ; the other bearing is a
rotating pivot fixed to the outside of the other end of the drum. The
accompanying sections, drawn to a scale of three-fourths full size,
explain the arrangement sufficiently. A magnetic needle outside,

354                      Sir William Thomson               [April 10,
deflected by the fixed magnet when the drum is at rest, shows a great
diminution of the deflection when the drum is set to rotate. If the

1891.]             on Electric and Magnetic Screening.                355
(triple compound) magnet inside is reversed, by means of the central
wire and cross bar outside, shown in the diagram, the magnetometer
outside is greatly affected while the copper shell is at rest ; but
scarcely affected perceptibly while the copper shell is rotating
rapidly.
    When the copper shell is a figure of revolution, the magnetic
force at any point of the space outside or inside is steady, whatever
be the speed of rotation; but if the shell be not a figure of revolution,
the steady force in the external space observable when the shell is at
rest becomes the resultant of the force due to a fixed magnet inter
mediate between M and I compounded with an alternating force with
amplitude of alternation increasing to a maximum, and ultimately
diminishing to zero, as the angular velocity is increased without
limit.
    If M be symmetrical, with reference to its northern and southern
polarity, on the two sides of a plane through the axis of rotation, I
becomes a null magnet, the ideal magnetic matter in every circle of
which it is constituted being annulled by equal quantities of positive
and negative magnetic matter being laid on it. Thus, when the rota
tion is sufficiently rapid, the magnetic force is annulled throughout
the space external to the shell. The transition from the steady force
of M to the final annulment of force, when the copper shell is sym
metrical round its axis of rotation, is, through a steadily diminishing
force, without alternations. When the shell is not symmetrical round
its axis of rotation, the transition to zero is accompanied with alter
nations as described above.
    When M is not symmetrical on the two sides of a plane through
the axis of rotation, I is not null ; and the condition approximated to
through external space with increasing speed of rotation is the force
due to I, which is an ideal magnet symmetrical round the axis of
rotation.
    A very interesting simple experimental illustration of screening
against magnetic force may be shown by a rotating disc with a fixed
magnet held close to it on one side. A bar magnet held with its
magnetic axis bisected perpendicularly by a plane through the axis of
rotation would, by sufficiently rapid rotation, have its magnetic force
almost perfectly annulled at points in the air as near as may be to it,
on the other side of the disc, if the diameter of the disc exceeds con
siderably the length of the magnet. The magnetic force in the air
close to the disc, on the side next to the magnet, will be everywhere
parallel to the surface of the disc.
                                                              [W. T.]

        356                             Annual Meeting.                         [May 1,
                              ANNUAL           MEETING,
                                     Friday, May 1, 1891.
          SIR JAMES CRIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                               Vice-President, in the Chair.
            The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
       1890, testifying to the continued prosperity and efficient management
       of the Institution, was read and adopted. The Eeal and Funded
       Property now amounts to above 83,000?. entirely derived from the
       Contributions and Donations of the Members.
            Fifty-six new Members were elected in 1890.
            Sixty-three Lectures and Nineteen Evening Discourses were
       delivered in 1890.
            The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1890 amounted to about
       28Ji volumes, making, with 561 volumes (including Periodicals bound)
       purchased by the Managers, a total of 846 volumes added to the
       Library in the year.
           Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and the Honorary
       Secretary, to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the
       Professors, for their valuable services to the Institution during the
       past year.
           The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
       for the ensuing year :
           PRESIDBNT—The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. D.C.L. LL.D.
           TREASURER—Sir James Crichton Browne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
           SECRETARY — Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart. D.C.L. F.E.S.
                             M. Inst. C.E.
                 MANAGERS.                                        VISITORS.
8ir Frederick Abel, K.C.B. D.C.I-. F.R.8.        Alfred Carpmael, Esq.
George Berkley. Esq. M.Inst. G.E.                Michael Carteighe, Esq. F.C.8.
Colonel 8ir Archibald C. Campbell, Bart. M.P.   Andrew Ainslie Common, Esq. F.R.S. F.R.A.S.
Sir James N. Douglass, F.R.8. SI. Inst. C.E.    James Farmer, Esq. J.P.
8ir Dyce Duckworth, M.D. LL.D. F.R.C.P.         George Herbert, Esq.
8ir Douglas Galton, K.C.B. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.  Frederick John Horuiman, Esq. F.L.8.
William Huggins, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.8.       Thomas John Maclagan, M.D.
David Edward Hughes, Esq. F.R.8.                James Mansergh, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
Ludwig Mond, Esq. F.C.S.                        John W. Miers, Esq.
Edward Pollock, Esq.                            Lachlan Mackintosh Rate, Esq. M.A.
John Rae, M.D. LL.D. F.R.8.                     Benjamin Ward Richardson, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
William Chandler Roberts-Austen, Esq. C.B.      George John Romanes, Esq. M.A. LL.D. F.R.8.
   F.R.8.                                       Arthur William Ruckcr, Esq. M.A. F.R.8.
Hon. Rollo Russell, F.1I.S.                     Joseph Wilson 8wan, Esq.
Basil Woodd 8mith, Esq. F.R.8. F.8.A.           Thomas Edward Thorpe, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.8.
C. Meymott Tidy, Esq. M.B. A.C.8.

1891.] Mr. James Eilmund Hurting on Hauiks and Hawking.              357
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 1, 1891.
SIR JAMES CRIOHTON BROWNB, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
             JAMES EDMUND HARTING, Esq. F.L.S. F.Z.S.
                          Hawks and Hawking.
THS result of many years' experience has been to convince me that
the art of Falconry (us all the old writers term it), that is, the art of
taming and training birds of prey for the chase, and teaching them
to exercise their natural instinct for our amusement and benefit is
really a noble art; and that the power which has been given to man
to exert '' dominion over the fowls of the air," when properly exercised
is the greatest and most wonderful form of control which can be
exerted by man over the loiver animals.
    On looking into the literature of the subject, and it is pretty ex
tensive, comprising more than 300 volumes in fourteen or fifteen
languages, two points are particularly striking:—First the great
antiquity of Falconry ; and, secondly, its wide-spread practice
    In the East, Falconry has been traced back to a period long
anterior to the Christian era, and we may form some idea of its
antiquity from Sir Henry Layard's discovery of a bas-relief amongst
the rums of Khorsabad, in which a falconer is represented carrying
a hawk upon his fist. From this it is to be inferred that hawking
was practised there some 1700 years R.C.
    In China it was known even at an earlier date than this for in an
old Japanese work, of which a French translation appeared at the
beginning of the present century, it is stated that falcons wore amongst
the presents made to princes in the time of the Hia dvnastv wliirh
commenced in the year 2205 R.C.                            " '
    It would occupy too much time on the present occasion to discuss
the origin of Falconry, on which a very great deal might be said
Suffice it to remark that from the East it was introduced into Europe
and from Europe, long afterwards, into England.                          '
    On looking into the history of Falconry in Europe, one figure of
a great falconer m the middle ages stands out prominently namelv
the Emperor Frederick II. of Germany, who died in 1250 He had
seen something of hawking in the East, and in 1239, on 'his return
from a Crusade which he had undertaken the year before when he
was crowned King of Jerusalem and Sicily, he brought with him
from Syria and Arabia, several expert falconers with their hawks and
spent much of his leisure time iu learning from them the secret of
    VOL. XIII. (No. 85.)                                       2 R

358                     Mr. James Edmund Hurting                    [May 1,
their art, which he considered the noblest and most worthy of all the
arts. The excellent treatise which he composed in Latin, ' De arte
venandi cum A vi bus,' was the first which appeared in the West, and is
still one of the best which exists.
     In the Middle Ages the Germans were great falconers ; so also
were the French, and the natives of Brabant, of whom a celebrated
Spanish falconer in 1383 wrote that they were the best falconers in
the world. To a less extent the art was practised in Spain and Italy
during many centuries, and books were written in all these countries,
by those who had become proficient in the art and were fired with
the enthusiasm of their success. The kings of Norway and Denmark
preferred hunting to hawking, but rendered good service to the sister
sport by procuring, from various parts of Scandinavia, the celebrated
gerfalcons of Northern Europe, which were held in the highest esteem
by those to whom they were sent as presents.
     Although the precise date of the introduction of hawking into
England cannot now be ascertained, we know, from several sources,
 that it was practised by our ancestors in early Saxon times. In a
letter addressed by King Ethelbert (A.D. 748-760) to Boniface, Arch
 bishop of Mayonce, who died in 755, the monarch asked him to send
 over two falcons that would do to fly at the crane, for, said he " there
are very few birds of use for that flight in this country," i. e. Kent.
 Asser, in his Life of Alfred the Great, particularly refers to the
 king's love of hawking ; and William of Malmesbury records much
 the same of Athelstac, who procured his hawks from Wales. The
 same historian says of Edward the Confessor, that his chief delight
 was to follow a pack of swift hounds and cheer them with his voice,
or to attend the flight of hawks taught to pursue and catch their
kindred birds.
     So general, indeed, was the pastime of hawking in Saxon times,
 that the monks of Abingdon found it necessary to procure a charter
 from King Kenulph to restrain the practice in harvest time, in
 order to prevent their lands from being trampled upon.
     One of the most interesting pieces of documentary evidence on
 this part of the subject is preserved in the MS. department of the
 British Museum. I refer to the " Colloquy " of Archbishop Mlfrio,
 a composition of tho 10th century. The object of this and similar
 colloquies and vocabularies compiled about the same period was to
 interpret Latin to the Anglo-Saxon student, and furnish him with the
 Latin words for the common objects of life. In this MS. we find a
 dialogue between a scholar and a falconer, in which the latter imparts
 some intertsting details on the subject of his art.*
      Hawking was pursued by most of our early English kings with
 the greatest enthusiasm, and a long account might be furnished of
    • This dialogue will be found printed in my 'Introduction' to 'A perfecte
 Itonko for kepinge of Spnrhawkcs or Goshawkes,' written about 1575. Sm. 4to,

 1891.]                 on Hawks and Hawking.                       359
 their doings in the hawking field, but a few examples only must
 suffice.
     In October 1172, Henry II. was at Pembroke en route for Ireland,
 and there amused himself with hawking. OQ one occasion (says
 Giraldus Cambrensis) he saw a wild falcon perched upon a crag, and
had a mind to try a flight at it with a large Norway hawk which he
carried. The wild falcon, however, having mounted above the king's
bird, stooped at it, and struck it down, to the king's great vexation.
 He, however, recognised the excellence of the Pembrokeshire Pere
grines, and from that time, according to the chronicler, he used to
send every year, at the proper season, for young falcons from the
cliffs of South Wales.
     Richard Cosur-de-Lion, whjle in the Holy Land, used to amnse
himself with hawking at Jaffa, in the plain of Sharon.
     King John used to send to Ireland for his hawks ; amongst other
places to Carrickfergus, co. Antrim, and was especially fond of a
flight at the crane with gerfalcons. It appears, by entries in the
Court Rolls of payments of the expenses of the journeys, that he
took cranes with his hawks in Cambridgeshire, Lincolnshire, Dorset,
and Somerset.
     In the wardrobe accounts of Edward I., preserved in the British
Museum (Add. MSS., No. 7965, Ed. I., 1297-8), is an entry of a
payment of a reward to the king's falconer, for presenting three
cranes taken with gerfalcons in Cambridgeshire.
     These entries serve not only to illustrate the history of hawking
in England, but are interesting as proving the former existence of
the crane in this country in sufficient numbers to be flown at when
required.
     Henry VIII.'s love of hawking is well known from the anecdote
related of him in Hall's Chronicle, to the effect that being one day
out hawking at Hitchin, in Hertfordshire, he was leaping a dyke
with a hawking pole, when it suddenly broke, and the king was
immersed in mud and water, and might have lost his life had not
Edmund Moody, one of the falconers, immediately come to his
assistance, and dragged him out.
     [A portrait of Robert Cheseman, Falconer to Henry VIII., from
the painting by Holbein at the Hague, hangs upon the screen.]
     During the reign of Elizabeth hawking was much in vogue, and
we have here a portrait of her Grand Falconer, Sir Ralph Sadler,
reproduced from an old panel portrait by Gerhardt, which hangs in
the Manor House at Everley, Wilts, the former residence of Henry
Sadler, the third son of Sir Ralph. This Sir Ralph Sadler was an
important personage. He was Chief Secretary of State to Henry
VIII., and afterwards to Queen Elizabeth, who made him her Grand
Falconer, and gave him the manor, park, and warren of Everley,
Wilts, on the attainder of the previous owner, the Duke of Somerset.
He had charge of Mary Queen of Scots, when imprisoned in the
Castle of Tuthury (1584-5), and got into trouble for taking her out
                                                          2 R 2

360                     Mr. James Edmund Harting                [May 1,
hawking, and allowing her to roam too far from the castle. He died
at the age of 80, in 1587, and was buried at Standon, where a noble
monument is erected to his memory. [His portrait, reproduced in
 facsimile from the original by Gerhardt in possession of Sir John
 Astley, Bart., is here exhibited.]
     James I., as is well known, was an enthusiastic sportsman, and
 especially delighted in hawking, on which amusement he spent
considerable sums annually, as may bo seen by the entries of pay
ments made during this reign, printed in Devon's " Issues of the
Exchequer." [His portrait, after Vandyke, is here exhibited.]
     It was in this reign that Sir Thomas Monson, who succeeded Sir
 Ralph Sadler as Royal Falconer, was said to have given 1000Z. for a
cast of falcons—a story which has been repeatedly told in print,
but which is altogether based upon a misapprehension of the facts,
 which are correctly stated by Sir Antony Weldon in his " Court and
Character of King James," 1650 ; the truth being that Sir Thomas
Monson spent 1000Z. before he succeeded in getting a cast
 of falcons that were perfect for flying at the kite ; and this he
 might very well have done, seeing that he would have to send to
 Norway or Iceland for gerfalcons. [Picture exhibited of kite-
 hawking with gerfalcons, from the original by Joseph Wolf in the
 possession of Lord Lilford.]
     These were the palmy days of Falconry, when the sovereigns on
both sides of the Channel were enthusiastic falconers, and when the
best books on the subject were written by English and French
masters of the craft. [Turbervile, Latham, and Bert; Jean de
Franchieres and Charles d'Arcussia.]
     All the Stuarts were fond of hawking, but after the Restoration
 the sport ceased to be popular. The causes which led to its decline
 were many and various. The disastrous state of the country during
 the period of the civil wars naturally put an end for the time being
 to the general indulgence in field sports. The inclosure of waste
 lands, the drainage and cultivation of marshes, the great improve
 ment in fire-arms, and particularly the introduction of shot, all
 contributed to lessen the interest once so universally taken in
 this sport. Fashion also, no doubt, had a good deal to do with the
 decline of hawking, for so soon as the reigning sovereign ceased
 to take an interest in the sport, the courtiers and their friends
 followed suit. Nevertheless, it never really died out, and from
 that time to the present it has never ceased to be practised by a
 few admirers of the old sport in various parts of the country, and
 during the last few years signs have not been wanting of its increasing
 popularity.
     The birds used by falconers belong to two classes, the long-winged
 dark-eyed falcons, such as the Peregrine, Jerfalcon, Hobby, and Merlin,
 and the short-winged yellow-eyed hawks, such as the Goshawk and
 Sparrowhawk. [Stuffed specimens of all these, with their hoods,
jesses, leashes, bells, &c., exhibited on a perch.]

1891.]                   on Hawks and Hoicking.                     361
    The mode of flight of the birds belonging to these two classes, and
their method of taking their prey, is quite different.
    [The lecturer then described the manner of capturing, taming,
and training the different kinds of hawks, and flying them at the
different kinds of quarry suited to their strength and capacity, and
compared the methods of the English and Dutch schools. He con
cluded by expressing the hope that Falconry would not be regarded
as an obsolete field sport, but one which might still be pursued with
pleasure and profit by any one minded to take it up at the present
day.]
                                                          [J. E. H.]

362                    General Monthly Meeting.              [May 4,
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING
                        Monday, May 4, 1891.
  SIR JAMES CRICHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                     Vice-President, in the Chair.
    The following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year were
announced :—'
     Sir Frederick Abel, K.C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S.
     Sir Dyce Duckworth, M.D. LL.D.
     William Huggins, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.K.S.
     David Edward Hughes, Esq. F.B.S.
     Hon. Rollo Kussell, F.M.S.
     Basil Woodd Smith, Esq. F.R.A.S. F.S.A.
     Sir James Crichton Browne, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer.
     Sir Frederick Bramwcll, Bart. D.C.L. F.E.S. Hon. Secretary.
     Professor Edmond Becquerel, F.R.S. (of Paris),
     Professor Marcellin Berthelot, F.H.S. (of Paris),
     Professor Alfred Cornu, F.R.S. (of Paris),
     Professor E. Mascart (of Paris),
     Professor Louis Pasteur, F.E.S. (of Paris),
     Professor Robert Wilhelm Bunsen, F.E.S. (of Heidelberg),
     Professor H. L. F. von Helmholtz, F.E.S. (of Berlin),
     Professor Rudolph Virchow, F.E.S. (of Berlin),
     Professor August Wilhelm von Hofmann, Ph.D. F.E.S (of
          Berlin),
     Professor Josiah Parsons Cooke (of Cambridge, U.S.),
     Professor James Dwight Dana, LL.D. F.R.S. (of Newhaven, U.S.),
     Professor J. Willard Gibbs (of Newhaven, U.S.),
     Professor Simon Newcomb, F.R.S. (of Washington, U.S.),
     Professor S. Cannizzaro, F.R.S. (of Rome),
     Professor P. Tacchini (of Rome),
     Professor Julius Thomson, Ph.D. (of Copenhagen),
     Professor Tobias Robert Thalen (of Upsal),
     Professor Demetri Mendeleef, Ph.D. (of St. Petersburg),
     Professor Jean C. G. de Marignac, F.E.S. (of Geneva),
     Professor J. D. Van der Waals (of Amsterdam),
     Professor Jean Servais Stas, F.E.S. (of Brussels),
were unanimously elected Honorary Members of the Eoyal Institution,
in commemoration of the Centenary of the birth of Michael Faraday
(born 22nd September, 1791).

 1891.]                     General MonlMy Meeting.                        363
                        Charles Davis, Esq.
                       John Douglas Fletcher, Esq.
                        Felix Semon, M.U. F.E.C.P.
                       Frederick Anthony White, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
The Secretary of State for India—Great Trigonometrical Survey of India, Vols.
     XI. XII. XIII. 4to. 1890.
Accademia del Llncei, Rrale, Roma —Atti, Serio Qutirta: Rendiconti. 1" Seines-
     tre, Vol. VII. Fasc. 7. 8vo. 1891.
Agricultural Society of England, floral—Journal, Third Series, Vol, II. Part 1.
     8vo. 1891.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Proceedings, No. 1. 8vo. 1801.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LI. No. 5. 8vo. 1891.
Bankers, Institute o/—Journal, Vol. XII Parts 3, 4. 8vo. 1891.
Balavia Observatory—Rainfall in East Indian Archipelago, 1889. 8vo. 1890.
   Magnetical and Meteorological Observations, Vol. XII. fot. 1890.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Annalen der Miinchener Sternwarte, Band 1.
     4to. 1890.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1890-1, No. 12. -Ho.
British Museum (Natural History)—Catalogue of Fossil Fiahes, Part 2. 8vo. 1891.
   Catalogue of Fossil Cephalopoda, Part 2, 8vo. 1891.
airmichatl, C. H. E. Esq. (Foreign Secretary R.S.L.)—Report of Royal Society
     of Literature, 1889-1890. 8vo.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. X. No. 3. 8vo. 1891.
Chemical Society—Journal for April, 1891. 8vo.
Cracovie, I'Academie des Sciences—Bulletin, 1891, No. 3. 8vo.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. ttc. M.R I.—Journal of the Royal Microscopical
     Society, 1891, Part 2. 8vo.
East India Association—Journal, Vol. XXIII. No. 1. 8vo. 1891.
Editors—American Journal of Science for April, 1891. 8vo.
  Analyst for April, 1891. 8vo.
  Athensenm fur April, 1891. 4to.
   Brewers' Journal for April, 1891. . 4to.
  Chemical News for April, 1891. 4to.
  Chemist and Druggist for April. 1891. 8vo.
  Electrical Engineer for April, 1891. fol.
  Engineer for April, 1891. fol.
  Engineering for April, 1891. fol.
  Horological Journal for April, 1891. 8vo.
  Industries for April, 1891. fol.
  Iron for April, 1891. 4to.
  Ironmongery for April, 1891. 4to.
  Monist for April, 1891. 8vo.
  Murray's Magazine for April, 1891. 8vo.
  Nature for April, 1891. 4to.
  Open Court for April, 1891. 4to.
  Photographic News for April, 1891. 8vo.
  Public Health for April, 1891. 8vo.
  Revue Scientifique for April, 1891. 4to.
  Telegraphic Journal for April, 1891. fol.
  Zoopldlist for April, 1891. 4to.

364                          General Monthly Meeting.                     [May 4,
Electrical Engineers' Institution—Journal, No. 92. 8vo. 1891.
Florence Bibiioteca Nazionale Csntrale— Bolletino, Nos. 127, 128. 8ro. 1891.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 784. 8vo. 1891.
General Steam Navigation Company—Handbook of Information.           8vo.   1891.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, Band XL. Htft 1, 2.            8vo.
      1890.
    Abhandlungen, Band XIV. 4to. 1890.
    Verhandlungen, 1891, Nos. 2-4. 8vo.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 186. 8vo. 1891.
 Georgofili, Reale Arcademie—Aii\, Qu.irta Serie, Vol. XIV. Disp. 1". 8to. 1891.
 Hortifttltural Society, Royal—Journal. Vol. XIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1891.
 Institute of Brewing—Transactions, Vol. IV. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6. 8vo. Ih91.
Irim and Steel Institute—Journal for 1K90, Part 2. 8vo.
 Kovalecsky, M. Edouard de (the Author)—L'Enseijrnement de TAgriculture dans
       les ecolcs normales et primaires en France. 4to. 1891.
 Linnean Society—Journal, Nns 187, 188. 8vo. 1891.
 Manchester Geulogical Society—Transactions, Vol. XXI. Part G. 8vo. 1891.
 Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs and Proceedings, Vol. IV.
       No. 3. 8m 1890-91.
 Massnroli, Guiseppe, Esq. (the Author)—Grande Inscription de Nabui-hodonosor.
       8vo. 1S90.
 Odonto}agicnl Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXIII. No. 6. New
       Series. 8vo. 1891.
 Percival, Messrs, and Co. (the Publishers)—The Economic Review, Vol. I. No. 1.
       8vo. 1891.
 Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain— Journal, April, 1891. 8vo.
 Rathbonc, E. P. Esq. (the Editor)—The Witwatenrand Mining and Metallurgical
       Review, Nos. 15, 16. 8vo. 1891.
 Rio de Janeiro, Museu National—Archives do Museu Nacional, Vol. VII. 4to.
        1887. .
     Le Museu Nacional de Rio de Janeiro pur Lndislau Netto. 8vo. 1889.
 Jiio de Janeiro, Observatoire Imperiule de—Rovista, No. 2. 8vo. 1891.
 Royal Irish Academy—Transactions, Vol. XXIX. Part 15. 4to. 1891.
 Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 298. 8vo. 1891.
 Selborne Society—Nature Notes, Vol. II. No. 16. 8vo. 1891.
  Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. III. No. 10. 8vo. 1891.
  Society of Arts— Journal for April, 1891. 8vo.
  St. Petersburg Aratlemie Imperiale des Sciences—Bulletin (Nouvelle Svrie), Tome
        II. No. 1. 4to- 1891.
  StatisticallSociety, Royal—Journal, Vol. LIV. Part 1. 8vo. 1891.
  Teyler Museum—Archives, Seria II. Vol. HL 5" Panic. 8vo. 1890.
   United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 158. 8vo. 1891.
   Vereins zur BeJSrderwtg des Gewerbfleistee in Preussen— Verhandlungen, 1891 :
        Heft 4. 4to.
   Victoria Institute— Transactions, No. 95. 8vo. 1891.
   Willing and Co. Messrs, (tlte Publisher')—Willing's BritUh and Irish Press Guide
        8vo. 1891.
   Yorkshire Archxological and Topographical Association—Journal, Parts 43, 44.
        8vo. 1891.
  Zoological Society of London— Proceedings, 1890, Part 4.    8vo.  1891.

1891.]        Professor W. Ramsay on Liquids and Gases.            365
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 8, 1891.
SIR FREDERICK BRAMWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.E.S. Honorary Secretary
                    and Vice-President, in the Chair.
              PROFESSOR W. EAMSAY, Ph.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                            Liquids and Gases.
ALMOST exactly twenty years ago, on June 2nd, 1871, Dr. Andrews,
of Belfast, delivered a lecture to the Members of the Royal Institution
in this Hall, on '' The Continuity of the Gaseous and the Liquid
states of Matter." He showed in that lecture an experiment which
I had best describe in his own words :—
    " Take, for example, A given volume of carbonic acid at 50'
Centigrade, or at a higher temperature, and expose it to increasing
pressure till 150 atmospheres have been reached. In the process its
volume will steadily diminish as the pressure augments ; and no
sudden diminution of volume, without the application of external
pressure, will occur at any stage of it. When the full pressure has
been applied, let the temperature be allowed to fall until the carbonic
acid has reached the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere.
During the whole of this operation no break of continuity has
occurred. It begins with a gas, and by a series of gradual changes,
presenting nowhere any abrupt alteration of volume or sudden
evolution of heat, it ends with a liquid.
     " For convenience, the process has been divided into two stages,
the compression of the carbonic acid and its subsequent cooling.
But these operations might have been performed simultaneously if
care were taken so to arrange the application of the pressure and t'uu
rate of cooling that the pressure should not be less than seventy-six
atmospheres when the carbonic acid has cooled to 31°."
    I am able, through the kindness of Dr. Letts, Dr. Andrews'
successor at Belfast, to show you this experiment, with the identical
piece of apparatus used on the occasion of the lecture twenty years
ago.
     I must ask you to spend some time to-night in considering this
remarkable behaviour ; and in order to obtain a correct idea of what
occurs, it is well to begin with a study of gases, not, as in the case
you have just seen, exposed to high pressures, but under pressures
not differing greatly from that of the atmosphere, and at temperatures
which can be exactly regulated and measured. To many here to-night
such n study is unnecessary, owing to its familiarity, but I will ask
such of my audience to excuse mo, in order that I may tell my story
from the beginning.

366                       Professor W. Ramsay                     [May 8,
     Generally speaking, a gas, when compressed, decreases in volume
to an amount equal to that by which its pressure is raised, provided
its temperature be kept constant. This was discovered by Robert
Boyle in 1660. (In 1661 he presented to the Royal Society a Latin
translation of his book 'Touching the Spring of the Air and its
 Effects.') His words are :—
     " 'Tis evident that as common air, when reduced to half its natural
extent . obtained a spring about twice as forcible as it had before ; BO
the air, being thus compressed, being further crowded into half this
narrow room, obtained a spring as strong again as that it last had,
and consequently four times as strong again as that of common air."
     To illustrate this, and to show how such relations may be
expressed by a curve, I will ask your attention to this model. We
have a piston, fitting a long glass tube. It confines air under the
pressure of the atmosphere, that is, some 15 lb. on each square inch
of area of the piston. The pressure is supposed to be registered by
the height of the liquid in the vertical tube. On increasing the
volume of the air, so as to double it, the pressure is decreased to half
its original amount. On decreasing the Volume tu half its original
amount the pressure is doubled. On again halving, the pressure is
again doubled. Thus, yon see, a curve may be traced, in which the
relation of volume to pressure is exhibited. Such a curve, it may be
remarked incidentally, is termed a hyperbola.
     We can repeat Boyle's experiment by pouring mercury into the
open limb of this tube containing a measured amount of air. On
causing the level of the mercury in the open limb to stand 30 inches
(that is the height of the barometer) higher in the open limb than
the closed limb, the pressure of the atmosphere is doubled, and the
volume is halved. And on trebling the pressure of the atmosphere
the volume is reduced to one-third of its original amount, and on
adding other 30 inches of mercury the volume of the air is now one
quarter of that which it originally occupied.
     It must be remembered that here the temperature is kept constant ;
that it is the temperature of the surrounding atmosphere.
     Let us next examine the behaviour of a gas when its temperature
is altered ; when it becomes hotter. This tube contains a gas, air,
confined by mercury, in a tube surrounded by a jacket or mantle of
glass, and the vapour of boiling water can be blown into the space
between the mantle and the tube containing the air, so as to heat the
tube to 100°, the temperature of the steam. The temperature of tho
room is 17° C., and the gas occupies 290 divisions of the scale. On
blowing in steam the gas expands, and on again equalising pressure
it stands at 373 divisions of the scale. The gas has thus expanded
from 'J'.Mi to 373 divisions, i. e. its volume has increased by 83
divisions, and the temperature has risen from 17° to 100°, i. e. through
83 degrees. This law of tho expansion of gases was discovered
almost simultaneously by Dalton and Gay-Lussac in 1801. It usually

1891.]                   on Liquids and Gases.                       867
goes by the name of Gay-Lussac's law. Now, if we do not allow the
volume of the gas to increase, we shall find that the pressure will
increase in the same proportion that the volume would have increased
had the gas been allowed to expand, the pressure having been kept
constant. To decrease the volume of the gas, then, according to
Boyle's law, will require a higher initial pressure, and if wo were to
represent the results by a curve we should get a hyperbola, as before,
but one lying higher as regards pressures. And so we should get a
set of hyperbolas for higher and higher temperatures.
    We have experimented up to the present with air, a mixture of
two gases, oxygen and nitrogen; and the boiling-point of both of
these elements lies at very low temperatures, — 184° and — 193-1°
respectively. The ordinary atmospheric temperature lies a long way
above the boiling-points of liquid oxygen and liquid nitrogen at the
ordinary atmospheric pressure. But it is open to us to study a gas,
which, at the ordinary atmospheric temperature exists in the liquid
state ; and for this purpose I shall choose water-gas ; in order that it
may be a gas at ordinary atmospheric pressure, however, we must
heat it to a temperature above 100° ('., its boiling-point. This tube
contains water-gas at a temperature of 105° C. ; it is under ordinary
pressure, for the mercury columns are at the same level in both the
tube and in this reservoir, which communicates with the lower end
of the tube by means of the india-rubber tubing. The temperature,
105°, is maintained by the vapour of chlorobenzene, boiling in the
bulb sealed to the jacket, at a pressure lower than that of the
atmosphere.               •
    Let us now examine the effect of increasing pressure. On raising
the reservoir, the volume of the gas is diminished, as usual, and
nearly in the ratio given by Boyle's law ; that is, the volume
decreases in the same proportion as the pressure increases. But a
change is soon observed ; the pressure soon ceases to rise ; the distance
between the mercury in the reservoir and that in the tube remains
constant, and the gas is now condensing to liquid. The pressure
continues constant during this change, and it is only when all the
water-gas has condensed to liquid water that the pressure again rises.
After all gas is condensed, an enormous increase of pressure is
necessary to cause any measurable decrease in volume, for liquid
water scarcely yields to pressure, and in such a tube as this no
measurements could be attempted with success.
    Representing this diagrammatically, the right-hand part of the
curve represents the compression of the gas, and the curve is, as
before, nearly a hyperbola. Then comes a break, and great increase
in volume occurs without rise of pressure, represented by a horizontal
line. The substance in the tube here consists of water-gas in
presence of water ; the vertical, or nearly vertical, line represents
the sudden and great rise of pressure, where liquid water is being
slightly compressed. The pressure registered by the horizontal line

368                      Professor W. Ramsay                   [May 8,
is termed the " vapour- pressure " of water. If now the temperature
were raised to 110° we should have a greater initial volume for the
water-gas. It is compressible, by rise of the mercury, as before, the
relation of pressure to volume being, as before, represented on the
diagram as an approximate hyperbola ; and, as before, condensation
occurs when volume is sufficiently reduced ; but this time at a higher
pressure. We have again a horizontal portion, representing the
pressure of water-gas at 110° in contact with liquid water; again a

 1891.]                    on Liquids and Gases.                     369
  sharp angle, where all gaseous water is condensed ; and again a very
 steep curve, almost a straight liue, representing the slight decrease of
 volume of water, produced by a great increase of pressure. And
 should we have similar lines for 12(F, 130°, 140°, 150°, and for all
 temperatures—such lines are called isothermal lines, or shortly,
 " isothermals," or lines of equal temperature, and represent the
 relations of pressure to volume for different temperatures. Dr.
 Andrews made similar measurements of the relations between the
 pressure and volumes of carbon dioxide, at pressures much higher
 than those I have shown you for water. But I prefer to speak to you
 about similar results obtained by Professor Sydney Young and myself
 with ether, because Dr. Andrews was unable to work with carbon
 dioxide free from air, and that influenced his results. For example,
 you see that the meeting-points of his hyperbolic curves with the
 straight lines of vapour-pressures are curves and not angles. That
 is caused by the presence of about 1 part of air in 500 parts of
carbon dioxide; also, the condensation of gas was not perfect, for
he obtained curves at the points of change from a mixture of liquid
and gas to liquid. We, however, were more easily able to fill a tube
with ether, free from air, and you will notice that the points I have
referred to are angles, not curves.
     Let me first direct your attention to the shapes of the curves in
 the figure, which represents such relations of volume, temperature,
 and pressure in the case of ether. As the temperature rises, the
vapour-pressure lines lie at higher and higher pressures, and the
 lines themselves become shorter and shorter. And finally, at the
 temperature 31° for carbon dioxide, and at 125° for ether, there
 ceases to be a horizontal portion at all; or, rather, the curve
touches the horizontal at one point in its course. That point
corresponds to a definite temperature, 195° for ether; to a definite
pressure, 27 metres of mercury, or 35 ' 6 atmospheres; and to a
definite volume, 4 '06 cubic centimetres per grsm of ether. At that
point the ether is not liquid, and it is not gas ; it is a homogeneous
substance. At that temperature ether has the appearance of a bine
mist. The striae mentioned by Dr. Andrews and by other observers
are the result of unequal heating, one portion of the substance being
liquid and another gas. You see the appearance of this state on the
screen.
     When a gas is compressed, it is heated. Work is done on the
gas, and its temperature rises. If I compress the air in this syringe
forcibly, its temperature rises so high that I can set a piece of tinder
on fire, and by its help explode a little gunpowder. If the ether at
its critical point be compressed, by screwing in the screw, it is some
what warmed, and the blue cloud disappears. Conversely, if it is
expanded a little by unscrewing the screw, and increasing its volume,
it is cooled, and a dense mist is seen accompanied by a shower of
ether rain. This is seen as a black fog on the screen.
     I wish also to direct your attention to what happens if the volume

370                       Professor W. Ramsay                    [May 8,
given to the ether is greater than the critical volume. On increasing
tho volume, you see that it boils away, and evaporates completely ;
and also what happens if the volume be somewhat less than the
critical volume ; it then expands as liquid, and completely fills the
tube. It is only at a critical volume and temperature that the ether
exists in the state of blue cloud, and has its critical pressure. If the
volume bo too great, the pressure is below the critical pressure ; if
too small, the pressure is higher than the critical pressure.
    Still one more point before wo dismiss this experiment. At a
temperature some degrees below the critical temperature, the menis
cus, i. e. the surface of the liquid is curved. It has a skin on its
surface; its molecules, as Lord Kayleigh has recently explained in
this room, attract one another, and it exhibits surface tension. Raise
the temperature, and the meniscus grows flatter ; raise it further, and
it is nearly flat, and almost invisible ; at the critical temperature it
disappears, having first become quite flat. Surface-tension therefore
disappears at the critical point. A liquid would no longer rise in a
narrow capillary tube ; it would stand at the same level outside and
inside.
    It was suggested by Professor James Thomson and by Professor
Clausius, about the same time, that if the ideal state of things were to
exist, the passage from the liquid to the gaseous state should be a'
continuous one, not merely at and above the critical point, but below
that temperature. And it was suggested that the curves shown in the
figure, instead of breaking into the straight line of vapour-pressure,
should continue sinuously. Let us see what this conception would
involve.
    On decreasing the volume of a gas, it should not liquefy at the
point marked B on the diagram, but should still decrease in volume
on increase of pressure. This decrease should continue until the
point E is reached. The anomalous state of matters should then
occur, that a decrease in volume should be accompanied by a decrease
of pressure. In order to lessen volume, the gas must be exposed to a
continually diminishing pressure. But such a condition of matter is
of its nature unstable, and has never been realised. After volume
has been decreased to a certain point F, decrease of volume is again
attended by increase of pressure, and the last part of the curve is
continuous with the realisable curve representing the compression of
the liquid above D.
    Dr. Sydney Young and I succeeded by a method which I shall
briefly describe in calculating the actual position of the unrealisable
portions of the curve. They have the form pictured in the figure
(shaded portion). The rise from the gaseous state is a gradual one ;
but the fall from the liquid state is abrupt.
    Consider the volume 14 cubic centimetres per gram on the figure.
The vertical equivolume line cuts the isothermal lines for the

1891.]                    on Liquids and Gases.                       371
temperatures 175°, 180°, 185°, 190°, and BO on, at certain definite
pressures, which may be read from a properly constructed diagram.
We can map the course of lines of equal volume, of which the instance
given is one, using temperatures as ordinates and pressures as abscissae.
We can thus find the relations of temperature to pressure for certain
deBnite volumes, which we may select to suit our convenience ; say,
2 c.c. per gram, 3, 4, 5, 6, and so on. Now all such lines are
straight. That is, the relation of pressure to temperature, at constant
volume, is one of the simplest ; pressure is a linear function of tem
perature measured on the absolute scale. Expressed mathematically,
                               p = 1 1 - a,
where b and a are constants, depending on the volume chosen, and
varying with each volume. But a straight line may be extrapolated
without error, and so having found values for a and li for such a
volume as 6 c.c. per gram, by help of experiments at temperatures
higher than 195°, it is possible by extrapolation to obtain the pres
sures corresponding to temperatures below the critical point 195°, in a
simple manner. But below that temperature the substance at volume 6
is in practice partly liquid and partly gas. Yet it is possible by such
means to ascertain the relations of pressure to temperature for the
unrealisable portion of the state of a liquid, that is, we can deduce the
pressure and temperature corresponding to a continuous change from
liquid to gas. And in this manner the sinuous lines on the figure
have been constructed.
    It is possible to realise experimentally certain portions of such
continuous curves. If we condense all gaseous ether, and, when the
tube is completely filled with liquid, carefully reduce pressure, the
pressure may be lowered considerably below the vapour pressure
corresponding to the temperature of ebullition without any change,
further than the slight expansion of the liquid resulting from the
reduction of pressure —an expansion too small to be seen with this
apparatus. But on still further reducing pressure sudden ebullition
occurs, and a portion of the liquid suddenly changes into gas, whilo
the pressure rises quickly to the vapour-pressure corresponding to
the temperature. If we are successful in expelling all air or gas
from the ether in filling the tube, a considerable portion of this curve
can be experimentally realised.
    The first notice of this appearance, or rather, of one owing its
existence to a precisely similar cause, is due to Mr. Hooke, the cele
brated contemporary of Boyle. It is noted in the account of the
Proceedings of the Royal Society, on November 6th, 1672, that
" Mr. Hooke read a discourse of his, containing his thoughts of the
experiment of the quicksilver's standing top-full, and far above the
29 inches ; together with some experiments made by him, in order to
determine the cause of this strange phenomenon. He was ordered to
prepare those experiments for the view of the Society." And on

372                        Professor W. Ramsay                    [May 8,
November 13th, "The experimeut for the high suspension of quick
silver being called for, it was found that it had failed. It was ordered
that thicker glasses should be provided for the next meeting."
    There can be no doubt that this behaviour is caused by the attrac
tion of the molecules of the liquid fur each other. And if the
temperature be sufficiently low, the pressure may be so reduced that
it becomes negative— that is, until the liquid is exposed to a strain or
pull, as is the mercury. ' This has been experimentally realised by
M. Berthelot, and by Mr. Worthington, the latter of whom has
succeeded in straining alcohol at the ordinary temperature with a pull
equivalent to a negative pressure of 25 atmospheres, by completely
tilling a bulb with alcohol and then cooling it. The alcohol in con
tracting strains the bulb inwards, and finally, when the tension
becomes very great, parts from the glass with a sharp " click."
    To realise a portion of the other bend of the curve, an experiment
has been devised by Mr. John Aitken. It is as follows: If air (that
is space, for the air plays a secondary part) saturated with moisture
be cooled, the moisture will not deposit unless there are dust-particles
on which condensation can take place. It is not at first evident how
this corresponds to the compressing of a gas without condensation.
But a glanco at the figure will render the matter plain. Consider
the isothermal (175') 75° for ether at the point marked B. If it
were possible to lower the temperature to 160° without condensation,
keeping volume constant, pressure would fall, and the gas would
then be in the state represented on the isothermal line 160° at G ;
that is, it would be in the same condition as if it had been compressed
without condensation.
    You saw that a gas, or a liquid, is heated by compression ; a piece
of tinder was set on fire by the heat evolved on compressing air.
You saw that condensation of ether was brought about by diminution
of pressure ; that is, it was cooled. Now if air be suddenly expanded
it will do work against atmospheric pressure, and will cool itself.
This globe contains air ; but the air has beon filtered carefully through
cottnn-wool, with the object of excluding dust-particles. It is satu
rated with moisture. On taking a stroke ot the pump, so as to
exhaust the air in the globe, no change is evident ; no condensation
has occurred, although the air has been so cooled that the moisture
should condense, were it possible. On repeating the operation with
the same globe after admitting dusty air—ordinary air from the room
—a slight fog is produced, and owing to the light behind, a circular
rainbow is seen ; a slight shower of rain has laken place. There are
comparatively few dust-particles, because only a little dusty air has
been admitted. On again repeating, the fog is denser ; there are more
particles on which moisture may condense.
    One point more and I have done. Work is measured by the
distance or height through which a weight can be raised against the
force of gravity. The British unit of work is a foot-pound, that is, a
pound raised through one foot ; that of the metric system is one gramme

 1891.]                     on Liquids and Gases.                       373
raised through one centimetre. If a pound be raised through two
feet, twice as much work is done as that of raising a pound through
one foot, and an amount equal to that of raising two pounds through
one foot. The measure of work is then the weight, multiplied by
the distance through which it is raised. When a gas expands against
pressure it does work. The gas may be supposed to be confined in
a vertical tube, and to propel a piston upwards against the pressure
of the atmosphere. If such a tube has a sectional area of one square
centimetre, the gas in expanding a centimetre up the tube lifts a
weight of nearly 1000 grams through one centimetre (for the pressure
of the atmosphere on a square centimetre of surface is nearly 1000
grams) ; that is, it does 1000 units of work, or ergs. So the work done
by a gas in expanding is measured by the change of volume multiplied
by the pressure. On the figure the change of volumes is measured
horizontally, the change of pressure vertically. Hence the work done
is equivalent to the area on the diagram A 6 C D.
     If liquid as it exists at A change to gas as it exists at B, the
substance changes its volume, and may be made to do work. This
is familiar in the steam-engine, where work is done by water expand
ing to steam, and so increasing its volume. The pressure does nor
alter during this change of volume if sufficient heat be supplied, hence
the work done during such a change is given by the rectangulat
area.
     Suppose that a man is conveying a trunk up to the first storey of a
house, he may do it in two (or perhaps a greater number of) ways.
He may put a ladder up to the drawing-room window, shoulder his
trunk, and deposit it directly on the first door. Or he may go down
the area stairs, pass through the kitchen, up the kitchen stairs, up
the first flight, up the second flight, and down again to the first storey.
The end result is the same ; and he does the same amount of work in
both cases, so far as conveying the weight to a given height is con
cerned ; because in going downstairs he has actually allowed work to
be done on him by the descent of the weight.
     Now the liquid in expanding to gas begins at a definite volume ;
it evaporates gradually to gas without altering pressure, heat being
of course communicated to it during the change, else it would cool
itself; and it finally ends as gas. It increases its volume by a
definite amount at a definite pressure, and so does a definite amount
of work ; this work might be utilised in driving an engine.
    But if it pass continuously from liquid to gas, the starting-point
and the end point are both the same as before. An equal amount of
work has been done. But it has been done by going down the area-
stair, as it were, and over the round I described before.
    It is clear that a less amount of work has been done on the left-
hand side of the figure than was done before ; and a greater amount
on the right-hand side ; and if I have made my meaning clear, you
will see that as much less has been done on the one side, as more has
been done on the other ; that is, that the area of the figure B E H
    VOL. XIH. (No. 85.)                                       2 o

374          Professor W. Ramsay on Liquids and Gases.         [May 8,
must be equal to that of the figure A F H. Dr. Young and I have
tried this experimentally, that is, by measuring the calculated areas ;
and we found them to be equal. This can be shown to you easily by
a simple device, namely, taking them out and weighing them. As
this diagram is an exact representation of the results of our experi
ments with ether, the device can be put in practice. We can detach
these areas which are cut out in tin, and place one in each of this pair
of scales, and they balance. The fact that a number of areas t lias
measured gave the theoretical results, of itself furnishes a strong
support of the justice of the conclusions we drew as regards the forms
of these curves.
    To attempt to explain the reasons of this behaviour would take
more time than can be given to-night ; moreover, to tell the truth, we
do not know them. But we have at least partial knowledge ; and we
may hope that investigations at present being carried out by Professor
Tait may give us a clear idea of the nature of the matter, and of the
forces which act on it, and with which it acts, during the continuous
 change from gas to liquid.
                                                             [W. E.]

1891.]          Professor 0. D. Liveing on Crystallisation.             375
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 15, 1891.
   3m JAMBS CRIOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F..R.S. Treasurer and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
                 PROFESSOR G. D. LrvmNG, M.A. F.R.S.
                              Crystallisation.
THERE is something very fascinating about crystals. It is not merely
the intrinsic beauty of their forms, their picturesque grouping, and
the play of light upon their faces, but there is a feeling of wonder
at the power of nature which causes substances in passing from the
fluid to the solid state to assume regular shapes bounded by plane
faces, each substance with its own set of forms, with faces arranged
in characteristic symmetry ; some, like alum, in perfect octahedra,
and others, like blue vitriol, in shapes which are regularly oblique.
    It is this power of nature which will be the subject of this discourse.
I hope to show that crystalline forms with all their regularity and
symmetry are the outcome of accepted mechanical principles. I shall
invoke no peculiar force, but only such as we are already familiar
with in other natural phenomena. In fact, I shall call in only the
same force that produces the rise of a liquid in a capillary tube, and the
surface tension at the boundary of two substances which do not mix.
     Whether this force is different from gravity I shall not stop to
inquire. Any attractive force which for small masses, such as we
suppose the molecules of matter to be, is only sensible at insensible
distances, is sufficient for my purpose.
     We know that the external form of a crystal is intimately con
nected with its internal structure, with the chemical nature, the
arrangement and the motions, of the molecules. This internal struc
ture betrays itself in the cleavages with which every one is familiar
in mica and selenite, which extend to the minutest parts, so that when
calc-spar is crushed, even the dust consists of tiny rhombs. It ia
still better seen in the optical characters. The regular crystals, like
common salt, give no double refraction, while those less regular refract
doubly, and indicate different degrees of symmetry by their action on
polarised light. These familiar facts suggest that it is the internal
structure which determines the external form.
     As a starting-point for considering that structure I assume that
crystals are made up of molecules, and that in the solid state the
molecules have little freedom ; that they are always within the range
of each other's influence, and cannot change their relative places.
Nevertheless, these molecules must be in constant and very rapid
motion. Not only will they communicate heat to colder bodies which
 touch them, but they are always radiating, which means that they are
                                                             2 o 2

876                     Professor G. D. Liveing               [May 15,
always producing waves in the ether at the rate of many billions a
second. We are sure that they have a great deal of energy, and if
they cannot move far they must have very rapid vibratory motion.
It is reasonable to suppose that the parts of each molecule swing
backwards and forwards through, or about, the centre of mass of the
molecule. The average distance to which the parts swing will give
the average dimensions of the molecule.
     Dalton fancied that he had proved that the atoms of the chemical
elements must be spherical, because there was no assignable cause
 why they should be longer in one dimension than another. I rather
invert the argument. I see no reason why the excursions of the parts
 of a molecule from the centre of mass should be equal in every direc
 tion. I assume, as the most general case, that these excursions are
 unequal in different directions, and since the movements must be
 symmetrical with reference to the centre of mass, they will in general
be included within an ellipsoid, of which the centre is the centre of
 mass.
     Here I may, perhaps, guard against a misconception. Chemists
 are familiar with the notion of complex molecules, and most of us
 figure to ourselves a molecule of common salt as consisting of an atom
 of sodium and an atom of chlorine held together by some sort of force,
 and it may be imagined that these atoms are the parts of the molecules
 which I have in mind. That, however, is not my notion. I am
 paradoxical enough to disbelieve altogether in the existence of either
 sodium or chlorine in common salt. Were my audience a less philo
 sophical one, I could imagine the retort on many a lip—" Why, you
 can get sodium and chlorine out of it, and you can make it out of
 sodium and chlorine." But, no ; you cannot get either sodium or
 chlorine out of it without first adding something which seems to me of
 the essence of the matter. You can get neither sodium nor chlorine
 from it without adding energy. Nor can you make salt out of those
 elements without subtracting energy. My point is that the energy is
 of the essence of the molecule. Each kind of molecule has its own
 kind of motion ; and in this I think most physicists will agree with
 me. The chemists will agree with me in thinking that all the mole
  cules of the same element or compound are alike in mass, and in the
  space they occupy at a given temperature and pressure. The only
  further assumption I have to make is that the form of the ellipsoid,
  the relative length of its axes, is on the average the same for all the
  molecules of the same substance. This implies that the distances
  of the excursions of the parts of the molecule depend upon its con
  stitution, and are, on the average, the same in similarly constituted
  molecules under similar circumstances.
      I have now come to the end of my postulates. I hope they are
 such as you will readily concede. I want you to conceive of each
 molecule that its parts are in extremely rapid vibration, so that it
 occupies a larger space than it would occupy if its parts were all at
 rest ; and that the excursions of the parts about the centre of mass

1891.]                      on Crystallisation.                      377
are, on the average, at a given temperature and pressure, comprised
within a certain ellipsoid : that the dimensions of this ellipsoid
are the same for all molecules of the same chemical constitution, but
different for different kinds of molecules.
    We have next to consider how these molecules will pack them
selves in passing from the fluid state, in which they can and do move
about amongst themselves, into the solid state, in which they have no
sensible freedom. If they attract one another according to any law,
and for my purpose gravity will suffice, then the laws of energy
require that for stable equilibrium the potential energy of the system
shall be a minimum. This is the same, in the case we are considering,
as saying that the molecules shall be packed in such a way that the
distance between their centres of mass shall be the least possible, or
as many of them as possible be packed into a given space.
    In order to see how this packing will take place, it will be easiest
to consider the case in which the axes of the ellipsoids are all equal
—that is, when the ellipsoids happen to be spheres. The problem
is then reduced to finding how to pack the greatest number of equal
spherical balls into a given space. It is easy to reduce this problem
to that of finding how the sphered can be arranged so that each sphere
shall be touched by as many as possible of its neighbours. In this
way the cornered spaces between the spheres, the spaces not occupied,
are reduced to a minimum. Now, yon can arrange balls BO that each
is touched by twelve others, but not by more than twelve. This,
then, will be the arrangement which the molecules will naturally
assume.
                                  FIG. 1.
    We may do this apparently in two ways. We may begin with
arranging balls on a fiat surface so that each is touched by six others,
as in Fig. 1. We may then place a ball so that it rests on three, a, b, c,

878                       Professor 0. D. Liveing               [May 15,
in the figure, and may place six others, touching it, and resting in the
six adjacent triangular spaces which are black in the figure. Above
these we can again place three more so as to touch the first, If we
complete the pile we get a triangular pyramid, as in Fig. 2. Or we
                                    FIG. 2.
may begin by arranging balls on the flat, as in Fig. 3, so that each is
touched by four others. We may then place one ball so as to rest on
four, such as a, 6, c, d, in the figure. Then place four others, touching
it, in the four adjacent square-shaped openings which are shaded in
the figure. Above these, in places corresponding to a, b, c, d, four
more may be placed so as to touch the first. If the pile be completed
it will form a four-sided pyramid, as in Fig. 4.
               Fio. 3.                               FIG. 4.
     Although this arrangement seems at first sight different from that
in Fig. 2, it is not so ; for it will be seen that in the faces of the
pyramid of Fig. 2 the arrangement is that of Fig. 3, while in the faces
of the pyramid in Fig. 4 the arrangement is that of Fig. 1. Fig. 2
is really part of Fig. 4 turned over on its side.
     Before proceeding to the packing of ellipsoids, let us consider

 1891.]                        on Crystallisation.                          379
how this packing of the spheres will affect the external form. And
here I must bring in the surface tension. We are familiar with the
effects of this force in the case of liquids, and if we adopt the usual
theory of it we must have a surface tension at the boundary of a solid
as well as at the surface of a liquid. I know of no actual measures
of the surface tension of solids. But Quincke has given us the
surface tensions of a number of substances at temperatures near their
points of solidification. The surface tension of most of the solids are
probably greater than these, since surface tension usually diminishes
with increase of temperature.
    TABLE OF SURFACE TENSIONS OF SDRSTANOES near their Temperatures of
          Solidification, in dynes per lineal centimetre, after Qnincke.
Platinum                            658 Antimony
                                  1,658                                   244
Gold                                983 Borax                            212
Zino                                860 Sodium carbonate                  206
Tin                                 587 Sodium chloride                   114
Mercury                             577 Water         .. ..                86-2
Lead                                448 Selenium ..                        70-4
Silver                              419     Sulphur   ..                   41-3
Bismuth                             382 Phosphorus                         41-1
Potassium                           364 Wax                                83-1
Sodium                              253
     We have evidently to do here with an agency which we cannot
neglect. In all these cases the measured tension is at a surface
bounded by air, and is such as tends to contract the surface. We
have then at the boundary between a crystallising solid and a fluid,
gas or liquid, out of which it is solidifying, a certian amount of
potential energy; and by the laws of energy the condition of
equilibrium is that this potential energy shall be a minimum. The
accepted theory of surface tension is that it arises from the mutual
attractions of the molecules. The energy will therefore be a mini
mum for a surface in which the molecules are as closely set as
possible.
    Now if you draw any surface through a heap of spherical balls
arranged so that each is touched by twelve others, you will find that
the surfaces which have the greatest number of centres of the balls in
unit area are all plane surfaces ; and those for which the concentration
is greatest are the faces of a regular octahedron, next those of a
cube, next those of a rhombic dodecahedron, and so on for the other
planes which follow the crystallographic law of indices. Taking the
concentration in the faces of the cube as unity, those of other forms
will be
Octahedron                      1-1547     Eikositessarahedron           '4083
Dodecahedron ..                   '7071    Triakiauctahedron .           '3333
Tetrakishexahadron                '4472
    It must not be supposed that these figures give the surface energies.
We have at present no means of determining the exact magnitudes of

380                     Profestor 0. D. Liveing                 [May 15,
the surface energies. What we can assert is that greater concentra
tion means in general less surface energy.
     Hence when the molecules are spherical the bounding surface
tends to be that of a regular octahedron.
     But we have another point to consider. Since the solid must be a
closed figure, there will be edges where the bounding planes meet
each other. At these edges the surface tensions will have a resultant
tending to compress the crystal, and there must be a corresponding
resultant pressure on the opposite side. It follows from this that if one
pair of faces are developed on one side of a crystal a parallel pair must
in general be developed on the opposite side, and if one face of a form,
be it cube, octahedron, or other form, be developed, all the faces of
that form will, as a rule, be developed.
     But there is yet another point to be taken into account. The sur
 face energy may become less in two ways ; one by reducing the tension
 per unit of surface, and the other by reducing the total surface for
 the same quantity of matter. When a liquid separates from another
 liquid, as chloroform from a solution of chloral hydrate by adding an
 alkali, or a cloud from moist air, the liquid assumes the form which
 for a given mass has the least surface, that is the drops are spherical.
 If you cut off the projecting angles, and plane away the projecting
 edges of a cube or octahedron, you bring it nearer to a sphere, and
 diminish the surface per unit volume. And if diminution of the
 total surface is not compensated by the increase of the surface
 energy on the truncations, there will be a tendency for the
 crystal to grow with such truncations. The like will be true in
 more complicated combinations. There will be a tendency for such
 combinations to form provided the surface energy of the new faces is
 not too great as compared with that of the first formed faces.
     But it does not always happen that an octahedron of alum
 developes truncated angles. This leads to another point. To pro
 duce a surface in a homogeneous mass requires a supply of energy,
 and to produce a surface in the interior of any fluid is not easy. Air
 may be supersaturated with aqueous vapour, or a solution super
 saturated with a salt, and no cloud or crystals be formed in the
 interior, unless there is some discontinuity in the mass, specks of
 dust or something of the kind.
     When solid matter separates from a solution, a certain amount of
 energy is available from the change of state, and supplies the surface
 energy of the new solid. The amount of this available energy is
 proportional to the mass of solid separated. But since the surface
 varies as the square of the diameter, while the mass varies as the cube
 of the diameter, the amount of energy available when the mass is very
 minute may be insufficient. In fact, a very small mass of solid might
 be squeezed into liquid again by its own surface energy. It will be
 easier to add to a surface already formed, even if that surface be one
 of less energy than that of the new solid, than it is to break the con
 tinuity of the fluid. Hence we find that crystals often form on the

1891.]                      on Crystallisation.                      381
side of the vessel, or at the top where the liquid meets the air. But
it is easiest of all to add to a surface of the same energy as that of
the crystal. The additional energy required will then be only for
the extension of the surface. This explains why dropping a crystal
into a supersaturated solution starts crystallisation. Large crystals
grow more readily than small ones because the extension of surface,
that is the addition of energy, for a given addition of mass is less in
the former. Also it is easier to add to the faces already formed than
to develop new faces.
     While speaking of the difficulty of creating a new surface in the
interior of a mass, the question of cleavage suggests itself. It is
plain that in dividing a crystal we create a new surface on each of the
two parts, each with its own surface energy. The division must there
fore take place most readily where that surface energy is a minimum.
Hence I infer that the principal cleavage of a crystal made up of
molecules for which the vibrations are comprised within spherical
spaces will be octahedral. As a fact, we find that the greater part of
substances which crystallise in what is called the regular system,
have an octahedral cleavage. But not all ; there are some which
have a cubical cleavage such as rock salt and galena, and a very
few like blende have the principal cleavage dodecahedral. These I
have to explain.
   I may, however, first observe that some substances, like fluor spar,
which have a very distinct octahedral cleavage, are rarely met
with in octahedral crystals, but usually in the cubic form. In regard to
this we must remember that the surface energy depends upon the nature
of both the substances which meet at the common surface, their
electrical state, their temperature, and other circumstances. It is a
well known fact that the form assumed by a salt on crystallising is
affected by the character of the solution. Thus, alum, which from a
solution in pure water takes the octahedral form, from a solution
neutralised with potash takes the cubic form. It is therefore quite
possible that, under the circumstances in which the natural crystals
of fluor spar were formed, the surface energy of the cubical faces was
less than that of the octahedral, although when we experiment upon
them in the air it is the other way. The closeness of the molecules
in the surface of the solid will determine the surface energy so far
as the solid alone is concerned; but though this may be the most
important factor of the result, the molecules of the fluid in contact
with the crystal have their effect too.
    But to return to cubic and dodecahedral cleavages. If we suppose
the excursions of the parts of the molecule to be greater in some one
direction than in the others, the figure within which the molecule
vibrates will be a prolate spheroid ; if it be less, an oblate spheroid.
Now if such spheroids be packed as close as possible, each can be
touched by twelve others, and they can be packed just as the spheres
were, provided their axes be all parallel. It matters not what the
orientation of the axes may be so far as the closeness of packing goes,

382                       Professor G. D. Liveing                [May 15,
so long as their parallelism is maintained ; but the orientation will
affect very much the symmetry of the crystal.
    If we suppose the spheroids 'to be oblate, and arrange them as in
Figure 1, with their axes perpendicular to the plane of that figure, and
place the next layer in those triangular openings which are white in the
figure, and complete the pyramid, the magnitude of the three angles at
the apex of the pyramid will depend on the relative flatness of the
spheroids. In case the length of the axis of the spheroids is half their
greatest diameter, these three angles will be right angles, and the
whole heap of molecules will have a cubic symmetry, and in the faces
of the cubes the concentration will be a maximum, and therefore the
surface energy a minimum, and the easiest cleavage will be cubic. If
the concentration in the cubic faces be 1 ' 0000, that in the octahedral
faces will be 0 ' 5774, and that in the dodecahedral 0 ' 7071. We have
here the case of crystals like rock salt and galena. Suppose, however,
we start with the arrangement of Figure 3, and keep the axes per
pendicular to the plane of that figure ; and suppose, further, that the
biggest diameter of the spheroids is greater than the length of the
axis in the ratio of the diagonal to the side of a square, we shall
again get a heap with a cubic symmetry ; but in this case the maxi
mum concentration will be in the faces of the dodecahedron, and
we have the case of blende in which the easiest cleavage is dodeca
hedral.
    In order to see what the symmetry will be in other cases, wo may
look at the problem from another point of view. Suppose a cube made
up of spherical molecules to be subject to a uniform stress perpendicular
to one face of the cube, so that all the spheres are strained, either
by extension or compression, into spheroids, we should get that
diagonal of the octahedron which was parallel to the stress either
lengthened or shortened, but the symmetry about that diagonal would
remain as before. We should get a crystal of the pyramidal system.
If the spheroids were prolate and sufficiently elongated, the easiest
cleavage would be perpendicular to the axis as in potassium ferro-
eyanide and apophyllite. If the spheroids were oblate the funda
mental octahedron would be more obtuse, and if obtuse enough the
easiest cleavage would be in faces parallel to the axis of symmetry.
    Again, if the stress, instead of being perpendicular to one face of the
cube, were parallel to a diagonal of the cube, the cube would become
a rhombohedron, and the spheres would become spheroids with their
axes parallel to the axis of the rhombohedron. If the spheroids were
prolate the rhombohedron would be acute, and the easiest cleavage
perpendicular to the axis as we find it in beryl and many other
crystals. If the original cube were formed of spheroids with their
axes half the length of their greatest diameters, and the stress parallel
to the axes were such as to alter the length of the axes only a little,
we should get crystals with a rhombohedral cleavage like calcite.
The crystals like beryl almost always exhibit hexagonal forms, six-
sided prisms and pyramids. To explain this I would observe that if

 1891.]                       on Crystallisation.
 we start with spheroids arranged as in Figure 1, with their axes
 perpendicular to the plane of that figure, and place three others
 touching that marked a ; there are two ways in which we can do
 this. We may place the three either in the white or in the black
 triangles. The two positions differ in such a way that you pass from
 one to the other hy turning the three spheroids as a whole through
 180°. The relation is that of twin crystals. If a crystal were
 growing hy addition to the face which we suppose represented in
 Figure 1, it would be as likely that one arrangement should be taken
 as the other so far as the middle part of the face is concerned. But
 a crystal built up of such alternate layers of twins would have ridged
 and furrowed faces, that is faces of extra surface-tension, except in
 the case of hexagonal forms. For hexagonal forms are no way
 altered by being turned through two right angles. There will there
 fore be a tendency for such forms to grow unless the rhombohedral
 faces have a much less surface energy. Hexagonal forms have also
less surface per unit of volume than rhombohedrons, and lend them
selves to the formation of nearly globular crystals, with a minimum
 of total surface, as is often seen in pyromorphite.
     Becurring to the cube of spheres, if it be subject to a stress in a
direction not parallel to an edge or diagonal, we shall get an arrange
ment of spheroids which will give forms of less symmetry. Also if it
be subject to two uniform stresses at right angles to one another the
spheres will become ellipsoids and may be taken to represent the
molecules in the most general case. The degrees of symmetry, and
the directions of most easy cleavage, may be worked out on the lines
already indicated, and will be found to correspond with those observed
in nature.
     Bravais long ago suggested arrangements of the molecules
corresponding to the symmetry, and Sohncke has extended his
suggestions, but neither has assigned any mechanical reason why the
molecules should so arrange themselves. They also supposed
different arrangements for different kinds of symmetry. I have
endeavoured to give a sufficient reason for the positions taken by the
molecules and to show that out of the one arrangement by which the
molecules are packed as closely as is possible all the varieties of
symmetry will arise.
     M. Curie also has, before me, pointed out that differences of
surface tension will determine the relative sizes of different faces ;
but he has not pointed out that the same principle determines that
the faces shall be planes, and that similar edges and angles shall be
similarly modified, or that the law of indices in the relations of
different forms is a direct consequence of it.                   ,
     We are able now, I think, to understand the interesting facts
brought forward by Prof. Jndd in a discourse which he delivered
at the Royal Institution in the early part of this year.
     It does not matter how long a crystal has been out of the solution
or vapour in which it was formed, the surface tension remains

384                      Professor G. D. Liveing                   [May 15,'
the same, and it must grow on its old faces if replaced in the same
medium.
    Also if it have any part broken off, the tension of the broken
surface will, if it be not a cleavage face, be greater than on a face of
the crystal, and in growing, the laws of energy necessarily cause
it to grow in such a way as to reduce the potential energy to a
minimum, i. e. to replace the broken surface by the regular planes of
less surface energy.
    The formation of what have been called " negative crystals " by
fusion in the interior of a mass, is due to the same principle. If
the mass is crystalline in structure the surfaces of least energy
will be most easily produced in the inside as well as on the outside.
     We see a very similar result in the development of crystalline
form by the action of solvents, as of acids on metals. The substance
acted on must be crystalline in its molecular arrangement internally,
though its external figure may have been derived from the shape of
the vessel or other cause. If this is the case, and if the acid is not
so strong as to dissolve the metal rapidly, there must be a tendency
for those parts of the surface for which the energy is greatest to be
most easily removed. The result is to leave a crystalline form with
surfaces of minimum energy, as we see in Widmanstatt figures, a tin
plate acted on by dilute aqua regia, and many such cases.
     In fact, the solution of solids in liquids is very closely and directly
connected with the surface tension. One of many facts connected
with crystallisation is that the same substance in one crystalline form
may be soluble in a liquid in which it is not soluble when it has
another crystalline form. It is probably the low surface energy of
one form of crystals of sulphur which makes them insoluble in carbon
disulphide, and this low surface energy may be an electric effect. It
is not difficult to understand that the same molecules may give rise to
crystals of different degrees of symmetry, according to the orientation
of the axes, and the orientation of the axes may very well depend on
the distribution of the mass within the molecule, or the molecules may
in one case contain a greater number of chemical atoms than in the
other. With different crystalline forms of the same kind of sub
stance we shall in general have different surface energies, and a
surface of great energy will be attacked by a solvent when one of
less energy will resist it.
     I pointed out that the law of symmetry, the development of all the
 faces of any form, and the similar modification of all corresponding
 edges and angles, is in general necessary in order to give equilibrium
 under the action of the surface tensions. But we often find crystals
with only half the modifications required for symmetry. In such
cases the surface tensions must produce a stress in the interior tending
to deform the crystal. When the crystal was in process of formation
there was necessarily equilibrium, and there must have been a
pressure equal and opposite to this effect of the surface tension.
There are various ways in which we may suppose that such a force

1891.]                       on Crystallisation.                        386
would arise; for instance, the electric field might produce a stress
in opposition to the aggregation of the molecules in the closest
possible way, and then the crystal would develop such faces as
would give rise to an equal and opposite stress. The presence of
molecules of some other material, different from those forming the
bulk of the crystal, might cause a similar effect, so might inequalities
of temperature.
    In the case of an electric stress, or one due to inequalities of tem
perature, when the electric stress, or the inequality of temperature
was removed, the crystal would be left with an internal strain, because
the stress due to the want of symmetry must be mot by an equal
pressure.
    Crystals of this sort generally betray the internal strain, either
by developing electricity of opposite kinds at the two ends when they
are heated, or cooled ; or they affect polarised light, rotating the
plane of polarisation. That these effects are really due to the state
of internal strain is proved because tourmalines, and other crystals,
which are pyro-electric when unsymmetrical, show no such property
when symmetrically grown ; and sodium chlorate when in solution,
quartz when fused, and so on, lose their rotatory power. On the
other hand there are many substances which in solution show a
rotatory power, and as a rule such substances produce unsymmetri-
cally developed crystals. This is well seen in the tartrates. The
constitution of the molecules must naturally be such that they will not,
without some strain, form crystals, and equilibrium in the crystal is
attained by the opposing stress arising from want of symmetry in the
surface tensions. In all such crystals the rotatory power disappears
either in whole or in part when the substance crystallises. It is impos
sible however, in biaxal crystals to tell whether there is rotation or not.
According to Des Cloizeaux the only crystal formed from a liquid
having rotatory power, which shows rotation in the solid state, is
strychnine sulphate. This substance forms crystals like prussiate of
potash, double square pyramids with the two apices truncated. Its
rotatory power in the crystalline form is much stronger than in the
liquid form. The crystals are not hemihedral, and the rotatory power
is not due to any stress arising from want of symmetry in surface
tensions. Effects more or less analogous to those due to the stress
arising from unsymmetric development may be produced in crystals by
external pressure. Thus a piece of rock salt, which in its natural
state has no action on polarised light, when compressed in a vice will
change the plane of polarisation. Also a cleavage slice of potassium
ferrooyanide which is uniaxal, may, by compression, be made to give
in convergent polarised light the two eyes and elliptic rings of a
biaxal crystal.

386                  Professor G. D. Liveing on Crystallisation.              [May 15,
                               EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE.
    Fig. 4 shows half of a regular octahedron formed of a pile of spherical balls,
and Fig. 5 shows part of a face of a dodecahedron produced by truncating one
edge of Fig. 4. In this it is seen that in the plane of the dodecahedral face each
ball is touched by only two others.
    Fig. 6 shows the triangular pyramid formed of oblate spheroids, which
becomes one corner of a cube when the ratio of the diameters of the spheroids
is 2 : 1, but DIII : corner of a rhombohedron if the ratio is greater or less.
    Figs. 7, 8, and 9 represent halves of octahedra formed of prolate spheroids.
In Fig. 7 the axes are perpendicular to the base, and the octahedron has
pyramidal symmetry. In Fig. 8 the axes are parallel to one edge of the base,
and the octahedron has right prismatic symmetry. In Fig. 9 the axes are in
planes parallel to one edge of the base, but inclined to that edge, and the
octahedron is oblique.
                                                                        [G. D. L.]

      Fig 4
            Fig 2
Fig 9


1891.] Prof. Ewing on the Molecular Process in Magnetic Induction. 387
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 22, 1891.
  DAVID EDWARD HUGHES, Esq. F.E.S. Vioe-President, in the Chair.
               PROFBSSOR J. A. EWING, M.A. B.So. F.R.S.
    PKOFEMOK OF APPLIED MECHANICs AND MECHANIsM IN TUB UNIVERsITY OF CAMERIDGE.
               The Molecular Process in Magnetic Induction.
MAGNETIC induction is the name given by Faraday to the act of
becoming magnetised, which certain substances perform when they
are placed in a magnetic field. A magnetic field is the region near
a magnet, or near a conductor conveying an electric current.
Throughout such a region there is what is called magnetic force, and
when certain substances are placed in the magnetic field the magnetic
force causes them to become magnetised by magnetic induction. An
effective way of producing a magnetic field is to wind a conducting
wire into a coil, and pass a current through the wire. Within the
coil we have a region of comparatively strong magnetic force, and
when a piece of iron is placed there it may be strongly magnetised.
Not all substances possess this property. Put a piece of wood or
stone or copper or silver into the field, and nothing noteworthy
happens ; but put a piece of iron or nickel or cobalt and at once you
find that the piece has become a magnet. These three metals, with
 some of their alloys and compounds, stand out from all other sub
 stances in this respect. Not only are they capable of magnetic
 induction—of becoming magnets while exposed to the action of the
 magnetic field—but when withdrawn from the field they are found to
 retain a part of the magnetism they acquired. They all show this
 property of retentiveness, more or less. In some of them this
 residual magnetism is feebly held, and may be shaken out or other
 wise removed without difficulty. In others, notably in some steels,
 it is very persistent, and the fact is taken advantage of in the
 manufacture of permanent magnets, which are simply bars of steel,
 of proper quality, which have been subjected to the action of a strong
 magnetic field. Of all substances, soft iron is the most susceptible to
 the action of the field. It can also, under favourable conditions,
 retain, when taken out of the field, a very large fraction of the
 magnetism that has been induced—more than nine-tenths—more,
 indeed, than is retained by steel ; but its hold of this residual mag
 netism is not firm, and for that reason it will not serve as a material
 for permanent magnets. My purpose to-night is to give some account
 of the molecular process through which we may conceive magnetic
 induction to take place, and of the structure which makes residual
 magnetism possible.

 388                      Professor J. A. Ewing                [May 22,
     When a piece of iron or nickel or cobalt is magnetised by
 induction, the magnetic state permeates the whole piece. It is not
 a superficial change of state. Break the piece into as many fragments
 as you please, and you will find that every one of these is a magnet.
 In seeking an explanation of magnetic quality we must penetrate
the innermost framework of the substance — we must go to the
molecules.
     Now, in a molecular theory of magnetism there are two possible
beginnings. We might suppose, with Foisson, that each molecule
 becomes magnetised when the field begins to act. Or we may adopt
 the theory of Weber, which says that the molecules of iron are
always magnets, and that what the field does is to turn them so that
they face more or less one way. According to this view, a virgin
 piece of iron shows no magnetic polarity, not because its molecules
 are not magnets, but because they lie so thoroughly higgledy-piggledy
 as regards direction that no greater number point one way than
another. But when the magnetic force of the field begins to act, the
 molecules turn in response to it, and so a preponderating number
come to face in the direction in which the magnetic force is applied,
 the result of which is that the piece as a whole shows magnetic
 polarity. All the facts go to confirm Weber's view. One fact in
 particular I may mention at once—it is almost conclusive in itself.
 When the molecular magnets are all turned to face one way, the
piece has clearly received as much magnetisation as it is capable of.
Accordingly, if Weber's theory be true, we must expect to find that
in a very strong magnetic field a piece of iron, or other magnetisable
metal, becomes saturated, so that it cannot take up any more mag
netism, however much the field be strengthened. This is just what
happens : experiments were published a few years ago which put the
fact of saturation beyond a doubt, and gave values of the limit to
which the intensity of magnetisation may be forced.
     When a piece of iron is put in a magnetic field, we do not find
that it becomes saturated unless the field is exceedingly strong. A
weak field induces but little magnetism ; and if the field be strength
ened, more and more magnetism is acquired. This shows that the
molecules do not turn with perfect readiness in response to the deflect
ing magnetic force of the field. Their turning is in some way resisted,
and this resistance is overcome as the field is strengthened, so that
the magnetism of the piece increases step by step. What is the
directing force which prevents the molecules from at once yielding to
the deflecting influence of the field, and to what is that force due ?
And again, how comes it that after they have been deflected they
return partially, but by no means wholly, to their original places
when the field ceases to act ?
    I think these questions receive a complete and satisfactory answer
when we take account of the forces which the molecules necessarily
exert on one another in consequence of the fact that they are
magnets. We shall study the matter by examining the behaviour of

1891],        on the Molecular Process in Magnetic Induction.      389
groups of little magnets, pivoted like compass needles, so that each
is free to turn except for the constraint which it suffers on account
of the presence of its neighbours.
     But first let us see more particularly what happens when a piece
of iron or steel or nickel or cobalt is magnetised by means of a field
the strength of which is gradually augmented from nothing. We
may make the experiment by placing a piece of iron in a coil, and
making a current flow in the coil with gradually increased strength,
noting at each stage the relation of the induced magnetism to the
strength of the field. This relation is observed to be by no means a
simple one : it may be represented by a curve (Fig. 1), and an
                                   FIG. 1.
 inspection of the curve will show that the process is divisible,
 broadly, into three tolerably distinct stages. In the first stage (a)
 the magnetism is being acquired but slowly: the molecules, if we
 accept Weber's theory, are not responding readily—they are rather
 hard to turn. In the second stage (6) their resistance to turning has
 to a great extent broken down, and the piece is gaining magnetism fast.
 In the third stage (c) the rate of increment of magnetism falls off:
 we are there approaching the condition of saturation, though the
process is still a good way from being completed.
     Further, if we stop at any point of the process, such as P, and
gradually reduce the current in the coil until there is no current,
 and therefore no magnetic field, we shall get a curve like the dotted
 line PQ, the height of Q showing the amount of the residual mag
 netism.
     If we make this experiment at a point in the first stage (a), we
 shall find, as Lord Eayleigh has shown, little or no residual mag
 netism ; if we make it at any point in the second stage (&), we shall
 find very much residual magnetism ; and if we make it at any point
      VOL. XIII. (No. 85.)                                    2 D

3'JO                       Professor J. A. Ewing               [May 22,
in the third stage (c), we shall find only a little more residual mag
netism than we should have found by making the experiment at tbe
end of stage 6. That part of the turning of the molecules which
goes on in stage a contributes nothing to the residual magnetism.
That part which goes on in stage c contributes little. But that part
of the turning which goes on in stage 6 contributes very much.
     In some specimens of magnetic metal we find a much sharper
separation of the three stages than in others. By applying strain
iu certain ways it is possible to get the stages very clearly separated.
Fig. 2, a beautiful instance of that, is taken from a paper by Mr.
                                    FIG. 2.
Nagaoka—one of an able band of Japanese workers who are bidding
fair to repay the debt that Japan owes for its learning to the West.
It shows how a piece of nickel which is under the joint action of pull
und twist becomes magnetised in a growing magnetic field. There
the first stage is exceptionally prolonged, and the second stage is
extraordinarily abrupt.
     The bearing of all this on the molecular theory will be evident
when we turn to these models, consisting of an assemblage of little
pivoted magnets, which may be taken to represent, no doubt in a very
crude way, the molecular structure of a magnetisable metal. I have
here some large models, where the pivoted magnets are pieces of sheet
steel, some cut into short flat bars, others into diamond shapes with
pointed ends, others into shapes resembling mushrooms or umbrellas,
and in these the magnetic field is produced by means of a coil of in
sulated wire wound on a large wooden frame below the magnets.
Some of these are arranged with the pivots on a gridiron or lazy-tongs
of jointed wooden bars, so that we may readily distort them, and vary
the distances of the pivots from one another, to imitate some of the
rtlcutfi of strain in the actual solid. But to display the experiments
to a large audience u lantern model will serve best. In this one the

189 l.J      on the Molecular Process in Magnetic Induction.             1391
magnets are got by taking to pieces numbers of little pocket compasses.
 The pivots are cemented to a glass plate, through which the light
 passes in such a way as to project the shadows of the magnets on the
screen. The magnetic force is applied by means of two coils, one on
either side of the assemblage of magnets and out of the way of the
light, which together produce a nearly uniform magnetic field through
 out the whole group. You see this when I make manifest the field
 in a well-known fashion, by dropping iron filings on the plate.
     We shall first put a single pivoted magnet on the plate. So long
as no field acts it is free to point anyhow—there is no direction it
prefers to any other. As soon as I apply even a very weak field it
responds, turning at once into the exact direction of the applied force,
for there was nothing (beyond a trifling friction at the pivot) to
prevent it from turning.
     Now try two magnets. I have cut off the current, so that there is
at present no field, but you see at once that the pair has, so to speak,
a will of its own. I may shake or disturb them as I please, but they
insist on taking up a position (Fig. 3) with the north end of one as
close as possible to the south end of the other. If disturbed they
return to it : this configuration is highly stable. Watch what happens
when the magnetic field acts with gradually growing strength. At
first, so long as the field is weak (Fig. 4), there is but little deflection ;
              Fin. 3.                                  FIG 4.
but as the deflection increases it is evident that the stability is being
lost, the state is getting more and more critical, until (Fig. 5) the tie
that holds them together seems to break, and they suddenly turn, with
violent swinging, into almost perfect alignment with the magnetic
force H. Now 1 gradually remove the force, and you see th'at they
are slow to return, but a stage comes when they swing back, and a
complete removal of the force brings them into thn condition with
which we began (Fig. 3).
     If we were to picture a piece of iron as formed of a vast number of
such pairs of molecular magnets, each pair fnr enough from its jieigh-
                                                              2 i> -1

392                    Professor J. A. Ewing                  [May 22,
hours to be practically out of reach of their magnetic influence, we
might deduce many of the observed magnetic properties, but not all.
In particular, we should not be able to account for so much residual
magnetism as is actually found. To get that, the molecules must
               PIG. 5.                                Fio. 6.
make new connections when the old ones are broken ; their relations
are of a kind more complex than the quasi-matrimonial one which
this experiment exhibits. Each molecule is a member of a larger
community, and has probably many neighbours close enough to afiect
its conduct.
     We get a better idea of what happens by considering four magnets
(Fig. 6). At first, in the absence of deflecting magnetic force, they
group themselves in stable pairs—in one of a number of possible
                                  FIG. 7.
combinations. Then—as in the former case—when magnetic force is
applied, they are at first slightly deflected, in a manner that exactly
tallies with what I have called the stage a of the magnetising process.
Next comes instability. The original ties break up, and the magnets

 1891.]       on the Molecular Process in Magnetic Induction.           393
 swing violently round ; but finding a new possibility of combining
 (Fig. 7), they take to that. Finally, as the field is further strengthened
                                   FIG. 8.
                                  FIG. 9.
they are drawn into perfect alignment with the applied magnetic
force (Fig. 8).
    We see the same three stages in a multiform group (Figs, 9, 10, 11).

394                      Professor J. A. Ewing                  [May 22,
At first, the group, if it has been shuffled by any casual disturbance,
arranges itself at random in lines that give no resultant polarity. A
weak force produces no more than slight quasi-elastic deflections ; a
stronger force breaks up the old lines, and forms new ones more
favourably inclined to the direction of the force (Fig. 10). A very
strong force brings about saturation (Fig. 11).
    In an actual piece of iron there are multitudes of groups lying
variously directed to begin with—perhaps also different as regards
the spacing of their members. Some enter the second stage while
                FIG. 10.                                Fio. 11.
others are still in the first, and so on. Hence, the curve of mag
netisation does not consist of perfectly sharp steps, but has the
rounded outlines of Fig. 1.
    Notice, again, how the behaviour of these assemblages of ele
mentary magnets agrees with what I have said about residual mag
netism. If we stop strengthening the field before the first stage is
passed—before any of the magnets have become unstable and have
tumbled round into new places—the small deflection simply dis
appears, and there is no residual effect on the configuration of the

1891.]        on the Molecular Process in Magnetic Induction.                395
group. But if we carry the process far enough to have unstable
deflections, the effects of these persist when the force is removed,
for the magnets then retain the new grouping into which they have
fallen (Fig. 10). And again, the quasi-elastic deflections which go
on during the third stage do not add to the residual magnetism.
    Notice, further, what happens to the group if after applying a
magnetic force in one direction and removing it, I begin to apply
force in the opposite direction. At first there is little reduction of
the residual polarity till a stage is reached when instability begins,
                                      Fir,. 12.
Cyclic reversal of magnetisation in (A A) annealed iron wire, (u R) the same piece
                               hardened by stretching.
and then reversal occurs with a rush. We thus find a close imitation
of all the features that are actually observed when iron or any of the
other magnetic metals is carried through a cyclic magnetising process
(Fig. 12). The effect of any such process is to form a loop in the
curve which expresses the relation of the magnetism to the mag
netising force. The changes of magnetism always lag behind the

396                       Professor J. A. Swing                 [May 22,
changes of magnetising force. This tendency to lag behind is called
magnetic hysteresis.
     We have a manifestation of hysteresis whenever a magnetic metal
has its magnetism changed in any manner through changes in the
magnetising force, unless, indeed, the changes are so minute as to be
confined to what I have called the first stage (a, Fig. 1). Residual
magnetism is only a particular case of hysteresis.
      Hysteresis comes in whatever be the character or cause of the
magnetic change, provided it involves such deflections on the part of
the molecules as make them become unstable. The unstable move
ments are not reversible with respect to the agent which produces
them—that is to say, they are not simply undone step by step as the
agent is removed.
     'We know, on quite independent grounds, that when the mag
netism of a piece of iron or steel is reversed, or indeed cyclically
 altered in any way, some work is spent in performing the operation—
 energy is being given to the iron at one stage, and is being recovered
 from it at another ; but when the cycle is taken as a whole, there is
 a net loss, or rather a waste of energy. It may be shown that this
 waste is proportional to the area of the loop in our diagrams. This
 energy is dissipated; that is to say, it is scattered and rendered
 useless : it takes the form of heat. The iron core of a transformer,
 for instance, which is having its magnetism reversed with every
 pulsation of the alternating current, tends to become hot for this
 very reason ; indeed, the loss of energy which happens in it, in conse
 quence of magnetic hysteresis, is a serious drawback to the efficiency
 of alternating-current systems of distributing electricity. It is the
 chief reason why they require much more coal to be burnt, for every
 unit of electricity sold, than direct-current systems require.
       The molecular theory shows how this waste of energy occurs.
  When the molecule becomes unstable and tumbles violently over, it
  oscillates and sets its neighbours oscillating, until the oscillations
  are damped out by the eddy currents of electricity which they
  generate in the surrounding conducting mass. The useful work that
  can be got from the molecule as it falls over is less than the work
  that is done in replacing it during the return portion of the cycle.
  This is a simple mechanical deduction from the fact that the move
  ment has unstable phases.
       I cannot attempt, in a single lecture, to do more than glance at
  several places where the molecular theory seems to throw a flood of
  light on obscure and complicated facts, as soon as we recognise that the
  constraint of the molecules is due to their mutual action as magnets.
       It has been known since the time of Gilbert that vibration greatly
  facilitates the process of magnetic induction. Let a piece of iron be
  briskly tapped while it lies in the magnetic field, and it is found
   to take up a large addition to its induced magnetism. Indeed, if we
  examine the successive stages of the process while the iron is kept
   vibrating by being tapped, we find that the first stage (a) has practi

1891.]        on the Molecular Process in Magnetic Induction,            397
cully disappeared, and there is a steady and rapid growth of mag
netism almost from the very first. This is intelligible enough.
Vibration sots the molecular magnets oscillating, and allows them to
break their primitive mutual ties and to respond to weak deflecting
forces. For a similar reason vibration should tend to reduce the
residue of magnetism which is left when the magnetising force is
removed, and this, too, agrees with the results of observation.
     Perhaps the most effective way to show the influence of vibration
is to apply a weak magnetising force first, before tapping. If the
force is adjusted so that it nearly but not quite reaches the limit of
stage (a), a great number of the molecular magnets are, so to speak,
hovering on the verge of instability, and when the piece is tapped
they go over like a house of cards, and
magnetism is acquired with a rush.                       Fm. 13.
Tapping always has some effect of the
same kind, even though there has been
no special adjustment of the field.
     And other things besides vibration
will act in a similar way, precipitating
the break-up of molecular groups when
the ties are already strained. Change
of temperature will sometimes do it, or
the application or change of mechanical
strain. Suppose, for instance, that we
apply pull to an iron wire while it hangs
in a weak magnetic field, by making it
carry a weight. The first time that we
put on the weight, the magnetism of the
 wire at once increases, often very greatly,
 in consequence of the action I have just
 described (Fig. 13). The molecules
 have been on the verge of turning, and
 the slight strain caused by the weight
 is enough to make them go. Remove
 the weight, and there is only a com
 paratively small change in the magnet
 ism, for the greater part of the molecular
 turning that was done when the weight
 was put on is not undone when it is
 taken off. Reapply the weight, and you Effects of loading, unloading, and
 find again but little change, though there reloading a soft iron wire in a
 are still traces of the kind of action which       weak magnetic field.
 the first application brought about. That
 is to say, there are some groups of molecules which, though they were
 not broken up in the first application of the weight, yield now, because
 they have lost the support they then obtained from neighbours that
 have now entered into new combinations. Indeed, this kind of action
 may often be traced, always diminishing in amount, during several

398                      Professor J. A. Ewing                  [May 22,
successive applications and removals of the load (see Fig. 13), and
it is only when the process of loading has been many times repeated
that the magnetic change brought about by loading is just opposite
to the magnetic change brought about by unloading.
     Whenever, indeed, we are observing the effects of an alteration of
physical condition on the magnetism of iron, we have to distinguish
between the primitive effect, which is often very great and is not
reversible, and the ultimate effect, which is seen only after tho
molecular structure has become somewhat settled through many
repetitions of the process. Experiments on the effects of temperature,
of strain, and so forth, have long ago shown this distinction to bo
exceedingly important : the molecular theory makes it perfectly
intelligible.
     Further, the theory makes plain another curious result of experi
ment. When we have loaded and unloaded the iron wire many times
over, so that the effect is no longer complicated by the primitive
action I have just described, we still find that the magnetic changes
which occur while the load is being put on are not simply undone,
step by step, while the load is being taken off. Let the whole load
be divided into several parts, and you will see that the magnetism has
 two different values, in going up and in coming down, tor one and
the same intermediate value of the load. The changes of magnetism
lag behind the changes of load : in other words, there is hysteresis in
the relation of the magnetism to the load (Fig. 14). This is because
some of the molecular groups are every time being broken up during
the loading, and re-established during the unloading, and that, as we
 saw already, involves hysteresis. Consequently, too, each loading
and unloading requires the expenditure of a small quantity of energy,
which goes to heat tho metal.
     Moreover, a remarkably interesting conclusion follows. This
hysteresis, and consequent dissipation of energy, will also happen
 though there be no magnetisation of the piece as a whole : it depends
 on the fact that the molecules are magnets. Accordingly, we should
expect to find—and experiment confirms this*—that if the wire is
 loaded and unloaded, even when no magnetic field acts and there is
 no magnetism, its physical qualities which are changed by the load will
 change in a manner involving hysteresis. In particular, the length
 must be less for the same load during loading than during unloading
 so that work may be wasted in every cycle of loads. There can be no
 such thing as perfect elasticity in a magnetisable metal, unless, indeed
 the range of the strain is so very narrow that none of the molecules
 tumble through unstable states. This may have something to do
 with the fact, well known to engineers, that numerous repetitions of
 a straining action, so slight as to be safe enough in itself, have a
 dangerous effect on the structure of iron or steel.
                         See Phil. Trans. 1885, p. 614.

1891.]       on the Molecular Process in Magnetic Induction.                 399
    Another thing on which the theory throws light is the phenomenon
of time-lag in magnetisation. When a piece of iron is put into a
steady magnetic field, it does not take instantly all the magnetism
                                      Fro. 14.
   Hysteresis in the changes of magnetism produced by applying and removing load.
 that it will take if time be allowed. There is a gradual creeping up
 of the magnetism, which is most noticeable when the field is weak
 and when the iron is thick. If you will watch the manner in which
 a group of these little magnets breaks up when a magnetic force is
 applied to it, you will see that the process is one that takes time. The
 first molecule to yield is some outlying one which is comparatively
 unattached—as we may take the surface molecules in the piece of iron

400                          Professor J. A. Etaing                         [May 22,
to be. It falls over, and then its neighbours, weakened by the loss of
its support, follow suit, and gradually the disturbance propagates
itself from molecule to molecule throughout the group. In a very
thin piece of iron— a fine wire, for instance—there are so many
surface molecules, in comparison with the whole number, and con
sequently so many points which may become origins of disturbance,
that the breaking up of the molecular communities is too soon over
to allow much of this kind of lagging to be noticed.
      Effects of temperature, again, may be interpreted by help of the
molecular theory. When iron or steel or nickel is heated in a weak
magnetic field, its susceptibility to magnetic induction is observed to
increase, until a stage is reached, at a rather high temperature, when
the magnetic quality vanishes almost suddenly and almost completely.
Fig. 15, from one of Hopkinson's papers, shows what is observed as
the temperature of a piece of steel is gradually raised. The sudden loss
of magnetic quality occurs when the metal has become red-hot ; the
                                       FIG. 15.
            u    (600>
            C    (400 L
            j t- 1000 I—
           ~S aool
            S5 «>o! -
                                   i      i       i
                                  ZOO    3OO    40O
                                       TEMPCRATURE
 Effects of rising temperature ou the magnetic inductive capacity of steel (Hopkinson ).
 magnetic quality is recovered when it cools again sufficiently to cease
 to glow. Now, as regards the first effect—the increase of suscepti
 bility with increase of temperature —I think that is a consequence of
 two independent effects of heating. The structure is expanded, so
 that the molecular centres lie further apart. But the freedom with
 which the molecules obey the direction of any applied magnetic force
 is increased not by that only, but perhaps even more by their being
 thrown into vibration. When the magnetic field is weak heating
 consequently assists magnetisation, sometimes very greatly, by hasten
 ing the passage from stage a to stage 6 of the magnetising process. And
 it is at least a conjecture worth consideration whether the sudden loss
 of magnetic quality at a higher temperature is not due to the vibra
 tions becoming so violent as to set the molecules spinning, when, of
 course, their polarity would be of no avail to produce magnetisation.
 We know, at all events, that when the change from the magnetic to
  the non-magnetic state occurs, there is a profound molecular change,

1891.]        on the Molecular Process in Magnetic Induction.              401
and beat is absorbed which is given out again when the reverse
change takes place. In cooling from a red heat, the iron actually
extends at the moment when this change takes place (as was shown
by Gore), and so much heat is given out that (as Barrett observed) it
reglows, becoming brightly red, though just before the change it had
cooled so far as to be quite dull. [Experiment, exhibiting retraction
and reglow in cooling, shown by means of a long steel wire, heated to
redness by the electric current.] The changes which occur in iron
and steel about the temperature of redness are very complex, and I
refer to this as only one possible direction in which a key to them
may be sought.
      An interesting illustration of the use of these models has reached
me, only this morning, from New York. In a paper just published in
the Electrical World,* Mr. Arthur Hoopes supports the theory I have
laid before you by giving curves which show the connection, deter
mined experimentally, between the resultant polarity of a group of
 little pivoted magnets and the strength of the magnetic field, when
 the field is applied, removed, reversed, and so on. I shall throw these
 curves upon the screen, and, rough as they are, in consequence of the
 limited number of the magnets, yon see that they succeed remarkably
 well in reproducing the features which we know the curves for solid
 iron to possess.
      It may, perhaps, be fairly claimed that the models whose behaviour
 we have been considering have a wider application in physics than
 merely to elucidate magnetic processes. The molecules of bodies
 may have polarity which is not magnetic at all — polarity, for instance
  due to static electrification—under which they group themselves in
  stable forms, so that energy is dissipated whenever these are broken
  up and rearranged. When we strain a solid body beyond its limit of
  elasticity, we expend work irrecoverably in overcoming, us it were,
  internal friction. What is this internal friction due to but the
  breaking and making of molecular ties ? And if internal friction
  is to be ascribed to that, why not also the surface friction which causes
  work to be spent when one body rubs upon another ? In a highly
  suggestive passage of one of his writings, f Clerk Maxwell threw out
  the hint that many of the irreversible processes of physics are due to
  the breaking up and reconstruction of molecular groups. These models
  help us to realise Maxwel1's notion, and, in studying them to-night,
  1 think we may claim to have been going a step or two forward
  where that great leader pointed the way.                         [J. A. E.]
                * Rcprinted in the Electrician of May 29th, 1801.
                t ' Encyo. Brit.' Art. '• Constitution of Bodies."

 402                           Mr. David Gill                    [May 29,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, May 29, 1891.
     WILLIAM HUGGINS, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
   DAVID GILL, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S. Her Majesty's Astronomer at the
                             Cape of Good Hope.
             An Astronomer's Work in a Modern Obtervatory.
THE work of Astronomical Observatories has been divided into two
classes, viz. Astrometry and Astrophysics. The first of these relates
 to Astronomy of precision, that is to the determination of the posi
tions of celestial objects ; the second relates to the study of their
physical features and chemical constitution.
     Some years ago the aims and objects of these two classes of
observatories might have been considered perfectly distinct, and, in
fact, were so considered. But I hope to show that in more recent
years their objects and their processes have become BO interlaced
that they cannot with advantage be divided, and a fully equipped
modern observatory must be understood to include the work both of
Astrometry and Astrophysics.
     In any such observatory the principal and the fundamental instru
ment is the transit circle. It is upon the position in the heavens of
celestial objects, as determined with this instrument or with kindred
instruments, that the whole fair superstructure of exact astronomy
rests ; that is to say, all that we find of information and prediction iu
our nautical almanacs, all that we know of the past and can predict
of the future motions of the celestial bodies.
    Here is a very small and imperfect model, but it will serve to
render intelligible the photograph of the actual instrument which
will be subsequently projected on the screen. [Here the lecturer de
scribed the adjustments and mode of using a transit circle.]
    We are now in a position to understand photographs of the instru
ment itself. But first of all as to the house in which it dwells.
Here, now on the screen, is the outside of the main building of the
Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. I select it simply because
being the observatory which it is my privilege to direct, it is the one
of which I can most easily procure a series of photographs. It was
built during the years 1824-28, and like all the observatories built
about that time, aud like too many built since, it is a very fair type
of most of the things which an observatory should not be. It is, as
you see, an admirably solid and substantial structure, innocent of any
architectural charm, and so far as it affords an excellent dwelling-
place, good library accommodation, and good rooms for computers, no

 1891.]      on An Astronomer's Work in a Modern Observatory.           403
 fault can be found with it. But these very qualities render it unde
sirable as an observatory. An essential matter for a perfect observa
 tory should be the possibility to equalise the internal and the external
temperature. The site of an instrument should also be free from the
immediate surroundings of chimneys or other origin of ascending
currents of heated air. Both these conditions are incompatible with
 thick walls of masonry and the chimneys of attached dwelling houses,
 and therefore, as far as possible, I have removed the instruments to
 small detached houses of their own. But the transit circle still
 remains in the main building, for, as will be evident to you, it is no
 easy matter to transport such an instrument.
     The two first photographs show the instrument, in one case pointed
 nearly horizontally to the north, the other pointed nearly vertical.
 Neither can show all parts of the instrument, but you can see the
 massive stone piers, weighing many tons each, which, resting on the
 solid blocks 10 feet below, support the pivots. Here are the counter
 weights which remove a great part of the weight of the instrument
 from the pivots, leaving only a residual pressure sufficient to enable
 the pivots to preserve the motion of the instrument in its proper
plane. Here are the microscopes by which the circle is read. Here
 the opening through which the instrument views the meridian sky.
 The observer's chair is shown in this diagram. His work appears to
 be very simple, and so it is, but it requires special natural gifts—
patience and devotion, and a high sense of the importance of his work
—to make a first-rate meridian observer. Nothing apparently more
monotonous can bo well imagined if a man is " not to the manner born."
     Having directed this instrument by means of the setting circle to
the required altitude, he clamps it there and waits for the star which
he is about to observe to enter the field. This is what he sees.
 [Artificial transit of a star by lantern.]
     As the star enters the field it passes wire after wire, and as it
passes each wire he presses the key of his chronograph and records
 the instant automatically. As the star passes the middle wire ho
bisects it with the horizontal web, and again similarly records on his
chronograph the transit of the star over the remaining webs. Then
he reads off the microscopes by which the circle is read, and also the
barometer and thermometer, in order afterwards to be able to
calculate accurately the effect of atmospheric refraction on the
observed altitude of the star ; and then his observation is finished.
Thus the work of the meridian observer goes on, star after star, hour
after hour, and night after night ; and, as you see, it differs very widely
from the popular notion of an astronomer's occupation. It presents no
dreamy contemplation, no watching for new stars, no unexpected or
startling phenomena. On the contrary, there is beside him the carefully
prepared observing-list for the night, tho previously calculated circle
setting for each star, allowing just sufficient time for the new setting
for the next star after the readings of the circle for tho previous
observation.

404                           Mr. David Gill                   [May 29,
     After four or five hours of this work the observers have had
enough of it ; they have, perhaps, observed fifty or sixty stars, they
determine certain instrumental errors, and betake themselves to bed,
tired, but (if they are of the right stuff) happy and contented men.
At the Cape we employ two observers, one to read the circle and one
to record the transit. Four observers are employed, and they are
thus on duty each alternate night. Such is the work that an outsider
would see were he to enter a working meridian observatory at night,
but he would find out if he came next morning that the work was by
no means over. By far the largest part has yet to follow. An obser
vation that requires only two or three minutes to make at night,
requires at least half an hour for its reduction by day. Each obser
vation is affected by a number of errors, and these have to be deter
mined and allowed for. Although solidly founded on massive piers
resting on the solid rock, the constancy of the instrument's position
cannot be relied upon. It goes through small periodic changes in
Level in Collimation and in Azimuth, which have to be determined
by proper means, and the corresponding corrections have to be com
puted and applied ; and also there are other corrections for refrac
tion, &c., which involve computation and have to be applied. But
 these matters would fall more properly under the head of a special
lecture upon the transit instrument. I mention them now merely
 to explain why so great a part of an astronomer's work comes in the
daytime, and to dispel the notion that his work belongs only to the
night.
     One might very well occupy a special lecture in au account of the
peculiarities of what is called personal equation—that is to say, the
 different time which elapses for different observers between the time
 when the observer believes the star to be upon the wire and the time
 when the finger responds to the message which the eye has conveyed
 to the brain. Some observers always press the key too soon, some
 always too late. Some years ago I discovered, from observations to
 which I will subsequently refer, that all observers press the chrono
 graph key either too soon for bright stars or too late for faint ones.
     Other errors may, and I am sure do, arise both at Greenwich and
 the Cape from the impossibility of securing uniformity of outside and
 inside temperature in a building of strong masonry. The ideal
 observatory should be solid as possible as to its foundations, but
 light as possible as to its roof and walls—say, a light framework of
 iron covered with canvas. But it would be undesirable to cover a
 valuable and permanent instrument in this way.
      But here is a form of observatory which realises all that is
 required, and which is eminently suited for permanent use. The
 walls are of sheet iron, which readily acquire the temperature of the
 outer air. The iron walls are protected from direct sunshine by
 wooden louvres, and small doors in the iron walls admit a free circu
 lation of air. The revolving roof is a light framework of iron covered
 with well-painted papier mache.

1891.]      on An Astronomer's Work in a Modern Observatory.           405
    The photograph now on the screen shows the interior of the
observatory, and this brings me to the description of observations of
an entirely different class. In this observatory the roof turns round
on wheels, so that any part of the sky can be viewed from the tele
scope. This is so because the instrument in this observatory is
intended for purposes which are entirely different from those of a
transit circle. The transit circle, as we have seen, is used to
determine the absolute positions of the heavenly bodies ; the helio-
meter to determine with greater precision than is possible by the
absolute method the relative positions of celestial objects.
    To explain my meaning as to absolute and relative positions :-
It would, for example, be a matter of very little importance if the
absolute latitude of a point on the Royal Exchange or the Bank of
England were one-tenth of a second of arc (or ten feet) wrong in the
maps of the Ordnance Survey of England—that would constitute a
small absolute error common to all the buildings on the same map of
a part of the city, and common to all the adjoining maps also. Such
an error, regarded as an absolute error, would evidently be of no
importance if every point on the map had the same absolute error.
There is no one who can say at the present moment whether the
absolute latitude of the Royal Exchange—nay, even of the Koyal
Observatory, Greenwich—is known to ten feet. But it would be a very
serious thing indeed if the relative positions on the same map were ten
feet wrong here and there. For example, if of two points marking a
frontage boundary on Cornhill one were correct, the other ten feet in
error—-what a nice fuss there would be ! what food for lawyers 1 what
a bad time for the Ordnance Survey Office ! Well, it is just the same
in astronomy.
    We do not know, we probably never shall know with certainty, the
absolute places of even the principal stars to T\jth of a second of arc.
But -^th of a second of arc in the measure of some relative position
would be fatal. For example, in the measurement of the sun's
parallax an error of T'ffth of a second of arc means an error of
 1,000,000 miles, in round numbers, in the sun's distance ; and
it is only when we can be quite certain of our measures of much
smaller quantities than ,',, t.h of a second of arc, that we are in a posi
tion to begin seriously the determination of such a problem as that
of the distances of the fixed stars. For these problems wo must use
differential measures, that is measures of the relative positions of two
objects. The most perfect instrument for such purposes is the
heliometer.
    Lord McLaren has kindly sent from Edinburgh, for the purposes
of this lecture, the parts of his heliometer which are necessary to
illustrate the principles of the instrument.
    This instrument is the same which I used on Lord Crawford's
expedition to Mauritius, in 1874. It was also kindly lent to me by
Lord Crawford for an expedition to the Island of Ascension to
observe the opposition of Mars, in 1877. In 1879, when I went to
    VOL. XIII. (No, 85 )                                        2 B

406                          Mr. David Gill                     [May 29,
the Cape, I acquired the instrument from Lord Crawford, and carried
out certain researches with it on the distances of the fixed stars.
    In 1887, when the Admiralty provided the new heliometer for
the Cape Observatory, this instrument again changed hands. It
became the property of Lord McLaren. I felt rather disloyal in
parting with so old a friend. We had spent so many happy hours
together, we had shared a good many anxieties together, and we knew
each other's weaknesses so well. But my old friend has fallen into good
hands, and has found another sphere of work.
    The principle of the instrument is as follows. [The instrument
was here explained.]
    There is now ou the screen a picture of the new heliometer of
the Capo Observatory, which was mounted in 1887, and has been in
constant use over since. It is an instrument of the most refined
modern construction, and is probably the finest apparatus for refined
measurement of celestial angles in the world.
     [Here were explained the various parts of the instrument in
relation to the model, and the actual processes of observation were
illustrated by the images of artificial stars projected on a screen.]
    Here, again, there is little that conforms to the popular idea of an
astronomer's work ; there is no searching for objects, no contemplative
watching, nothing sensational of any kind. On the contrary, every
detail of his work has been previously arranged and calculated before
hand, and the prospect that lies before him in his night's work is
simply more or less of a struggle with the difficulties which are
created by the agitation of the star images, caused by irregularities
in the atmospheric refraction. It is not upon one night in a
hundred that the images of stars are perfectly tranquil. You have
the same effect in an exaggerated way when looking across a bog on
a hot day. Thus, generally, as the images are approached, they
appear to cross and recross each other, and the observer must either
seize a moment of comparative tranquillity to make his definitive
bisection, or he may anive at it by gradual approximations till he
finds that the vibrating images of the two stars seem to pass each
other as often to one side as to the other. So soon as such a bisec
tion has been made the time is recorded on the chronograph, then the
scales are pointed on and printed off, and so the work goes on, varied
only by reversals of the segments and of the position circle.
Generally, I now arrange for 32 such bisections, and these occupy
about an hour and a half. By that time one has had about enough of
it, the nerves are somewhat tired, so are the muscles of the back of
the neck, and, if the observer is wise, and wishes to do his best work,
he goes to bed early and gets up again at two or three o'clock in the
morning, and goes through a similar piece of work. In fact this
must be his regular routine night after night, whenever the weather
is clear, if he is engaged, as I have been, on a large programme of
work on the parallaxes of the fixed stars, or on observations to deter
mine the distance of the sun by observations of minor planets.

1891.]     on An Astronomer's Work in a Modern Observatory.        407
    I will not speak now of these researches, because they are still in
progress of execution or of reduction. I would rather, in the first
place, endeavour to complete the picture of a night's work in a
modern observatory.
    We pass on to celestial photography, where astrometry and astro
physics join hands. Here on the screen is the interior of one of the
new photographic observatories, that at Paris. [Brief description.]
    Here is the exterior of our new photographic observatory at the
Cape. Here is the interior of it, and the instrument. [Brief
description.]
    The observer's work during the exposure is simply to direct the
telescope to the required part of the sky, and then the clockwork
nearly does the rest—but not quite so. The observer holds in his
hand a little electrical switch with two keys ; by pressing one key he
can accelerate the velocity of the driving screw by about 1 per cent.,
and by pressing the other he can retard it 1 per cent. In this way he
keeps one of the stars in the field always perfectly bisected by the
cross wires of his guiding telescope, and thus corrects the small
errors produced partly by changes of refraction, partly by small
unavoidable errors in cutting the teeth of the arc into which the
screw of the driving shaft of the clockwork gears.
    The work is monotonous rather than fatiguing, and the com
panionship of a pipe or cigar is very helpful during long exposures.
A man can go on for a watch of four or five hours very well, taking
plate after plate, exposing each, it may be, forty minutes or an hour.
If the night is fine a second observer follows the first, and so the
work goes on the greater part of the night. Next day he develops
his plate and gets something like this. [Star cluster.]
    Working just in this way, but with the more humble apparatus
which you see imperfectly in the picture now on the screen, we have
with a rapid rectilinear lens by Dallmeyer of 6 inches aperture
photographed at the Cape during the past six years the whole of the
southern hemisphere from 20° of south declination to the south pole.
    The plates are being measured by Professor Kapteyn, of Groningen,
and I expect that in the course of a year the whole work containing
all the stars to 9£ magnitude (between 200,000 and 300,000 stars)
in that region will be ready for publication. This work is essential
as a preliminary step for the execution in the southern hemisphere of
the great work inaugurated by the Astrophotographic Congress at
Paris in 1887, the last details of which were settled at our meeting
at Paris in April last. What we shall do with the new apparatus
perhaps I may have the honour to describe to you some years hence,
after the work has been done.
    We now come to an important class of astronomical work more
purely astrophysical, for the illustration of which I can no longer
appeal to the Cape, because I regret to say that we are not yet pro-
Tided with the means for its prosecution. I refer to the use of the
spectroscope in astronomy, and especially to the latest developments
                                                          2 E 2

408                             Mr. David Gill                     [May, 29,
 of its use for the accurate measurement of the velocity of the motions
 of stars in the lino of sight.*
      It is beyond the province of this lecture to enter into history, but
 it is impossible not to refer to the fact that the chief impulse to
 astronomical work in this direction was given by Dr. Huggins, our
 chairman to-night—nay, more, except for the early contributions of
 Fraunhofer to the subject, Dr. Huggins certainly is the father of
 sidereal spectroscopy, and that not in one but in every branch of it.
 He has devised the means, pointed the way, and, whilst in many
 branches of the work he still continues to lead the way, he has of
 necessity left the development of other branches to other hands.
      From an astrometer's point of view the most important advance
 that has been made in spectroscopy of recent years is the sudden
 development of precision in the measures of star motion in the line
 of sight. The method remained for fifteen or sixteen years quite
 undeveloped from the condition in which it left the hands of
 Dr. Huggins, and certainly no progress in the accuracy attained by
 Dr. Huggins was made till the matter was taken up by Dr. Vogel at
 Potsdam. At a single step Dr. Vogel has raised the precision of the
 work from that of observations in the days of Ptolemy to that of the
 days of Bradley— from the days of the old sights and pinnules to
 the days of telescopes. Therefore I take a Potsdam observation as
 the best type of a modern spectroscopic observation for description,
 especially as I have recently visited Dr. Vogel at Potsdam, and he
 has kindly given me a photograph of his spectroscope, as well as of
 some of the work done with it.
      A photograph of the Potsdam spectroscope attached to the equa
 torial is now on the screen. [Description.]
      The method of observation consists simply in inserting a small
 photographic plate in the dark slide, directing the telescope to the
 star, and keeping tho image of the star continuously on the slit during
 an exposure of about an hour ; and this is what is obtained on develop
 ment of the picture.
      If the star remained perfectly at rest between the jaws of the slit
 the spectrum would be represented by a single thread of light, and of
 course no lines would be visible upon such a thread ; but the observer
 intentionally causes the star image to travel a little along the slit
 during the time of exposure, and so a spectrum of sensible width is
-obtained. (Fig. 1.)
      You will remark how beautifully sharp are the faint lines in this
 spectrum. Those who have tried to observe the spectrum of Sirius
 in the ordinary way know that many of these fine lines cannot be seen
 or measured with certainty. Tho reason is that on account of
 irregularities in atmospheric refraction, the image of a star in the
     * The older methods enabled us to measure motions at right nngles to the
 line of sight, but till the spectroscope came we could not measure motions in
 the line of sight.

FIG. 1.    FIG. 2.
          a Auriga.
                     Octu'xr.
        -
        I           M,tr,-h.
            Fio. 3.


1891.]      on An Astronomer's Work in a Modern Observatory.           409
telescope is rarely tranquil, sometimes it shines brightly in the centre
of the slit, sometimes barely in the slit at all, and the eye becomes
puzzled and confused. But the photographic eye is not in the least
disturbed ; when the star image is in the slit, the plate goes on record
ing what it sees, and when the star is not in the slit the plate does
nothing, and it is of no consequence whatever how rapidly these
alternate appearances and disappearances recur. The only difference
is that when the air is very steady and the star's image, therefore,
always in the slit, the exposure takes less time than when the star
is unsteady.
     That is one reason why the Potsdam results are so accurate. And
there are many other reasons besides, into which I cannot now enter.
What, however, it is very important to note is this, that we have
here a method which is to a great extent independent of the atmo
spheric disturbances which in all other departments of astronomical
observation have imposed a limit to their precision^ Accurate astro-
spectroscopy, therefore, may be pushed to a degree of perfection which
is limited only by the optical aid at our disposal and by the sensibility
of our photographic plates.
    And now I think we have sufficiently considered the ordinary pro
cesses of astronomical observation to illustrate the character of the
work of an astronomer at night ; the picture should be completed by
an account of his work by day. But to go into that matter in detail
would certainly not be within the limits of this lecture. It is
better that I should in conclusion touch upon some recent remarkable
results of these day and night labours. It is these after all that
most appeal to you, it is for these that the astronomer labours, it is the
prospect of them that lightens the long watches of the night and
gives life to the otherwise dead bones of mechanical routine.
    Let us take first some spectroscopic results. To explain their
meaning let me remind you for a moment of the familiar analogy
between light and sound.
    The pitch of a musical note depends on the rapidity of the vibra
tions communicated to the air by the reed or string of the musical
instrument that produces the note, a low note being given by slow
vibrations and a high one by quick vibrations.
    Just in the same way red light depends on relatively slow vibra
tions of ether, and blue or violet light on relatively quick vibrations.
Well, if there is a railway train rapidly approaching one, and the
engine sounds its whistle, more waves of sound from that whistle
will reach the ear in a second of time, than would reach the ear were
the train at rest. On the other hand, if the train is travelling at the
same rate away from the observer, fewer waves of sound will reach
his ears in a second of time. Therefore an observer beside the line
should observe a distinct change of pitch in the note of the engine
whistle as the train passes him, and as a matter of fact such a change
of pitch can be and has been observed.
    Just in the same way, if a source of light could be moved rapidly

410                          Mr. David Gill                      [May 29,
enough towards an observer it would become bluer, or if away from
him it would become more red in colour. Only it would require a
change of velocity in the moving light of some thousands of miles
per second in order to render the difference of colour sensible to the
eye. The experiment is, therefore, not likely to be frequently shown
at this lecture table !
    But the spectroscope enables such changes of colour to be
measured with extreme precision. Here on the screen is the most
splendid illustration of this that exists at present, viz. copies of three
negatives of the spectrum of a Aurigre, taken at Potsdam in October
and December of 1888, and in March 1889. (Fig. 2.)
    The white line (the picture being a positive) represents the bright
line Hy given by the artificial light of hydrogen, the strong black
line in the picture of the star spectrum corresponds to the black
absorption lino which is due to hydrogen in the atmosphere of the
star.
    Why is it that the artificial hydrogen line does not correspond
with the stellar line in these three pictures ? The answer is, either
the star is moving towards or from the earth in the line of sight, or
the earth is moving from or towards the star. But in December the
earth in its motion round the sun is moving at right angles to
the direction of a Aurigte, why then does not the stellar hydrogen
line agree in position with the terrestrial hydrogen line ; the simple
explanation is that a Aurigte is moving with respect to the sun.
    In what way is it moving ? Well, that also is clear : the stellar
line is displaced towards the red end of the spectrum, that is to say
the star light is redder than it should be in consequence of a motion
of recession ; this proves that the star is moving away from us, and
measures of the photograph show the rate of this motion to be 15^
miles per second. We also know that in October the earth in its
motion round the sun is moving towards a Aurigte nearly at the same
rate as we have just seen that a Aurigae is running away from the
sun. Consequently, at that time, their relative motions are nearly
insensible, because both are going at the same rate in the same
direction, and we find accordingly in October, that the positions of
the stellar and artificial hydrogen lines perfectly correspond.
Finally, in March, the earth in its motion round the sun is moving
away from a Aurigre, and as a Aurigse is also running away from
the sun the stttr-light becomes so much redder than normal that the
stellar hydrogen line is shifted completely to one side of the hydrogen
and artificial line.
     The accuracy of these results may be proved as follows :—
    If we measure all the photographs of a Aurigte which Dr. Vogel
has obtained we can derive from each a determination of the relative
velocity of the motion of the star with respect to our earth.
    Of course these velocities are made up of the velocity of motion
of a Aurigte with respect to the sun (which we may reasonably
assume to be a uniform velocity) and the velocity of the earth due to

1891.]     on An Astronomer's Work in a Modern Observatory.
                            a AURIGA—POTSDAM.
                         Observed Relative                   Concluded Motion,
          Date.              Motion of     Motion of Earth. Star Relative to the
                          Karth and Star.                           Sun.
                           Miles per fix.
          1888.
 October 22nd     .. ..      +    2-5         -   13-0            + 15-5
    „    24th    ..  ..      +    3-1         -   12-4            + 15-5
         25th     .. ..      +    3-1         -   12-4           + 15-5
    „    28th     .. ..      +    2-5         -  11-8             +  14-3
 November 9th     ..         +    6-8         - 8-7               +  15-5
 December lut     ..         +   11-8         - 3-1               +  14-9
            13th  .. ..      +   14-9         + 0-6               +  14-3
          1889.
 January 2nd                 + 20-5           + 6-8               + 13-7
 February 5th                 + 32-9          + 11-3              + 18-6
 March 6th                   + 34-2           + 16-8              + 17-4
                          a A i KIC.K—GREENWICH.
                         Observed Relative                   Concluded Motion,
                             Motion of     Motion of Earth. Smr Relative to the
           Date.          Earth and 8tar.
                           Miles per sec.                           Son.
          1887.
 January 26th                +   16-4         + 12-6              + 3-8
 February 16th ..    ..       +  34-4         + 15-9              + 18-5
 October 22nd . .             +  39-8         - 13-5              + 52-3
    ,.   25th ..     ..       +  25-4          - 13-0             + 38-4
    „    29th ..     ..       +  40-6          - 12-1             + 52-7
          1888.
 December 7th ..     ..       + 29-0          - 1-2               + 36-2
          1889.
 February 15th ..             +  23-8         +   16-0            + 7-8
 March 5th                    +  20-3         +   17-1            + 3-2
 September 17th..    ..       +  18-6         -   13-3            + 33-3
             19th..  ..       +  21-8          -  16-7            + 38-5
             25th.   ..       +  24-8          - 16-5             + 41-3
 November 25th ..     ..      +  24-5          - 4-9              + 29-4

412                          Mr. David Gill                     [May 29,
its motion round the sun. But the velocity of the earth's motion in
its orbit is known with an accuracy of about one five-hundredth part
of its amount, and therefore, within that accuracy, we can allow
precisely for its effect on the relative velocity of the earth and
 a Aurigre. When we have done so we get the annexed results for
the velocity of the motion of a Aurigte with respect to the sun. Yon
 see by the annexed table how beautifully they agree in the Potsdam
results, and how comparatively rough and unreliable are the results
 obtained by the older method at Greenwich.
     I believe that in a few years, at least in a period of time that
one may hope to see, we shall not be content merely to correct our
results for the motion of the earth in its orbit only, and so test our
observations of motion in the line of sight, but that we shall have
arrived at a certainty and precision of working which will permit the
process to be reversed, and that we shall be employing the spectroscope
to determine the velocity of the earth's motion in its orbit, or in other
words to determine the fundamental unit of astronomy, the distance
of the sun from the earth.
     I will take as another example one recent remarkable spectro-
scopic discovery.
     Miss Maury, in examining a number of photographs of steller
spectra taken at Harvard College, discovered that in the spectrum of
/3 Aurigte certain lines doubled themselves every two days, becoming
single in the intermediate days. Accurate Potsdam observations
confirmed the conclusion.
    The picture on the screen (Fig. 3) shows the spectrum of y8 Auriga
photographed on November 22 and 25 of last year. In the first the
lines are single, in the other every line is doubled. Measures and
discussion of a number of these photographs have shown that the
 doubling of the lines is perfectly accounted for by the supposition
 of two suns revolving round each other in a period of four days, each
 moving at a velocity of about 70 miles a second in its orbit.
     When one star is approaching us and the other receding, the lines
in the spectrum formed by the light of the first star will be moved
 towards the blue end of the spectrum, those in the spectrum of the
 second star towards the red end of the spectrum. Then, as the two
 stars come into the same line with us, their motions become at right
 angles to the line of sight, and their two spectra, not being affected
by motion, will perfectly coincide; but then, after the stars cross,
their spectra again separate in the opposite direction, and so they
go on.
     Thus by means of their spectra we are in a position to watch and
to measure the relative motions of two objects that we can never see
apart ; nay more, we can determine not only their period of revolution
but also the velocity of their motions in their orbits. Now, if we
know the time that a body takes to complete its revolution, and the
velocity at which it moves, clearly we know the dimensions of its
orbit, and if we know the dimensions of an orbit we know what attrac

1891.]     on An Astronomer's Work in a Modern Observatory.          413
tive force is necessary to compel the body to keep in that orbit, and
thus we arc able to weigh these bodies. The components of /? Auriga
are two Buns, which revolve about each other in four days ; they are
only between 7 and 8 millions of miles (or one-twelfth of our distance
from the sun) apart, and if they are of equal weight they each weigh
rather over double the weight of our sun.
     I have little doubt that these facts do not represent a permanent
condition, but simply a stage of evolution in the life-history of the
system, an earlier stage of which may have been a nebular one.
     Other similar double stars have been discovered both at Potsdam
and at Cambridge, U.S., stars that we shall never see separately with
the eye aided by the most powerful telescope; but time does not
permit me to enter into any account of them.
     I pass now to another recent result that is of great cosmical
interest.
     The Cape photographic star charting of the southern hemisphere
has been already referred to. In comparing the existing eye estimates
of magnitude by Dr. Gould with the photographic determinations of
these magnitudes, both Professor Kapteyn and myself have been
greatly struck with a very considerable systematic discordance
between the two. In the rich parts of the sky, that is in the Milky
Way, the stars are systematically photographically brighter by com
parison with the eye observations than they are in the poorer part of
the sky, and that not by any doubtful amount but by half or three-
fourths of a magnitude. One of two things was certain, either that
the eye observations were wrong, or that the stars of the Milky Way
are bluer or whiter than other stars. But Professor Pickering, of
Cambridge, America, has lately been making a complete photographic
review of the heavens, and by placing a prism in front of the telescope
he has made pictures of the whole sky like this. [Here two
examples of the plates of Pickering's spectroscopic Durchmusterung
were exhibited on the screen.] He has discussed the various types
of the spectra of the brighter stars, as thus revealed, according to
 their distribution in the sky. He finds thus that the stars of the
 Sirius type occur chiefly in the Milky Way, whilst stars of other types
 are fairly divided over the sky.
     Now starts of the Sirius type are very white stars, very rich rela
tive to other stars in the rays which act most strongly on a photo
graphic plate. Here then is the explanation of the results of our
photographic star-charting, and of the discordance between the photo
graphic and visual magnitudes in the Milky Way.
     The results of the Cape charting further show that it is not alone
 to the brighter stars that this discordance extends, but it extends also,
 though in a rather less degree, to the fainter stars of the Milky Way.
 Therefore we may come to the very remarkable conclusion that the
 Milky Way is a thing apart, and that it has been developed perhaps in
 a different manner, or more probably at a different and probably later
 epoch from the rest of the sidereal universe.

414                          Mr. David Gill                      [May 29,
    Here is another interesting cosmical revelation which we owe to
photography.
    You all know the beautiful constellation Orion, and many in this
theatre have before seen the photograph of the nebula which is now
on the screen, taken by Mr. Roberts.
    Here is another photograph of the same object taken with a much
longer exposure. You see how over-erposed, in fact, burnt out, the
brightest part of the picture is, and yet what a wonderful develop
ment of faint additional nebulous matter is revealed.
    But I do not think that many persons in this room have seen tliis
picture, and probably very few have any idea what it represents. It
is from the original negative taken by Professor Pickering, with a
small photographic lens of short focus, after sis hours' exposure in
the clear air of the Andes, 10,000 feet above sea-level.
    The field embraces the three well-known stars in the belt of Orion
on the one hand, and ft Orionis (Rigel) on the other. You can hardly
recognise these great white patches as stars ; their ill-defined character
is simply the result of excessive over-exposure. But mark the wonders
which this long exposure with a lens of high intrinsic brilliancy of
image has revealed. Here is the great nebula, of course terribly
over-exposed, but note its wonderful fainter ramifications. See how
the whole area is more or less nebulous, and surrounded as it were
with a ring fence of nebulous matter. This nebulosity shows a special
concentration about ft Orionis.
    Well, when Professor Pickering got this wonderful picture, know
ing that I was occupied with investigations on the distances of the
fixed stars, he wrote to ask whether I had made any observations to
determine the distance of ft Orionis, as it would be of great interest
to know from independent evidence whether this very bright star was
really near to us or not. It so happens that the observations were
made, and their definitive reduction has shown that ft Orionis is really
at the same distance from us as are the faint comparison stars.
ft Orionis is, therefore, probably part and parcel of an enormous
system in an advanced but incomplete state of stellar evolution, and
that what we have seen in this wonderful picture is all a part of that
system.
    I should explain what I mean by an elementary or by an ad
vanced state of stellar evolution. There is but one theory of
celestial evolution which has so far survived the test of time and com
parison with observed facts, viz. the nebular hypothesis of Laplace.
Laplace supposed that the sun was originally a huge gaseous or
nebulous mass of a diameter far greater than the orbit of Neptune.
I say originally, do not misunderstand me. We have finite minds ;
we can imagine a condition of things which might be supposed to
occur at any particular instant of time however remote, and at any
particular distance of space however great, and we may frame a theory
beginning at another time still more remote, and so on. But we can
never imagine a theory beginning at an infinite distance of time or at

1891.]     on An Astronomer's Work in a Modern Observatory.           415
an infinitely distant point in space. Thus, in any theory which man
with his finite mind can devise, when we talk of originally we simply
mean at or during the time considered in our theory.
    Now, Laplace's theory begins at a time, millions on millions of
years ago, when the sun had so far disentangled itself from chaos,
and its component gaseous particles had by mutual attraction so far
coalesced as to form an enormous gaseous ball, far greater in diameter
than the orbit of the remotest planet of our present system. The
central part of this ball yas certainly much more condensed than the
rest, and the whole ball revolved. There is nothing improbable in
this hypothesis. If gaseous matter came together from different parts
of space such coalition would unquestionably occur, and as in the
meeting of opposite streams of water or of opposite currents of wind,
vortices would be created and revolution about an axis set up such as
we are familiar with in the case of whirlpools or cyclones. The
resultant would be rotation of the whole globular gaseous mass about
an axis.
    Now this gaseous globe begins to cool, and as it cools it necessarily
contracts. Then follows a necessary result of contraction, viz. the
rotation becomes more rapid. This is a well-known fact in dynamics,
about which there is no doubt. Thus, the cooling and the contracting
go on, and simultaneously the velocity of rotation becomes greater
and greater. At last the time arrives when, for the outside particles,
the velocity of rotation becomes such that the centrifugal force is
greater than the attractive force, and so the outside particles break
off and form a ring. Then, as the process of cooling and contraction
proceed still further, another ring is formed, and so on, till we have
finally a succession of rings and a condensed central ball. If from
any cause the cooling of any of these rings does not go on uniformly,
or if some of the gaseous matter of the ring is more easily liquefied
than others, then probably a single nucleus of liquid matter will be
formed in that ring, and this nucleus will finally by attraction absorb
the whole of the matter of which the ring is composed—at first as a
gaseous ball with a condensed nucleus, and this will finally solidify
into a planet. Or, meanwhile, this yet unformed planet may repeat
the history of its parent sun. By contraction, and consequent accele
ration of its rotation, it may throw off one or more rings, which in
like manner condense into satellites like our moon, or those of Jupiter,
Saturn, Uranus, or Neptune. Such, very briefly outlined, is the
celebrated nebular hypothesis of Laplace. No one can positively
say that the hypothesis is true, still less can any one say that it is
untrue. Time does not permit me to enter into the very strung
proofs which Laplace urged in favour of its acceptance.
    But I beg you for one moment to cast your imaginations back to
a period of time long antecedent to that when our sun had begun to
disentangle itself from chaos, and when the fleecy clouds of cosmic
stuff had but commenced to rush together. What should we see in
such a case were there a true basis for the theory of Laplace?

416           Mr. David Gill on An Astronomer's Work.         [May 29,
Certainly, in the first place, we should have a huge whirlpool or
cyclone of cosmic gaseous stuff, the formation of rings, and the con
densation of these rings into gaseous globes.
    Eemembering this, look now on this wonderful photograph of
the nebula in Andromeda, made by Mr. Roberts. In the largest
telescopes this nebula appears simply as an oval patch of nearly
uniform light, with a few dark canals through it, but no idea of its
true form can be obtained, no trace can be found of the significant
story which this photograph tells. It is a picture that no human eye
unaided by photography has ever seen. It "is a true picture drawn
without the intervention of the hand of fallible man, and unihfluenced
by his bias or imagination. Have we not here, so at least it seems
to me, a picture of .a very early stage in the evolution of a star
cluster or sun-system—a phase in the history of another star-system
similar to that which once occurred in our own—millions and
millions of years ago—when our earth, nay, even our sun itself, " was
without form and void," and " darkness was on the face of the deep."
    During this lecture I have been able to trace but very imperfectly
the bare outlines of an astronomer's work in a modern observatory,
and to give you a very few of its latest results—results which do not
come by chance, but by hard labour, and to men who have patience
to face dull daily routine for the love of science—to men who realise
the imperfections of their methods and are constantly on the alert to
improve them.
    The niills of the astronomer grind slowly, and he must be infinitely
careful and watchful if he would have them like the mills of God, to
grind exceeding small.
    I think he may well take for his motto these beautiful lines :—
                          " Like the star
                            Which shines afar,
                            Without haste,
                            Without rest,
                            Let each man wheel
                            With steady sway,
                            Bound the task
                            Which rules the day,
                            And do his beat."
                                                             [D. G.]

1891.]        Professor A. W. Riicker on Magnetic Eocks.            417
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, April 17, 1891.
  EDWARD FRANKLA.ND, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.E.S. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
             PROFESSOR A. W. KttoKER, M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                             Magnetic Eocks.
THE cause of terrestrial magnetism is still unknown, and the
problem of attempting to discover it is not rendered more easy by
the fact that a solution may be looked for in either of two different
directions.
    On the one hand the earth is partly composed of magnetic
material, and if vast masses of this were permanently magnetised, the
principal phenomena observed upon the surface might be produced.
On the other hand, we know that different points on the earth's crust
are at different electrical potentials, and it is conceivable that the
directive forces exerted on the magnet might be due to a world-wide
system of earth currents. Both theories are beset with difficulties,
and at present we are accumulating facts, in the hope that a clue to
an explanation may hereafter be found.
    A mere dry record of observations is, however, hardly a subject
for a lecture, and I should not have mooted the question if there had
not been another problem, related to, though differing from that of
terrestrial magnetism, with regard to which it is perhaps possible to
form an opinion as to the direction in which the balance of evidence
inclines.
    If the magnetic declination be determined at a number of stations
scattered all over the surface of the globe, lines can be drawn
through those places at which the deviation from true north is the
same. If the scale of the map on which they are depicted is small,
and if the distances between the stations are measured in scores or
in hundreds of miles, these isogonal lines are smooth curves ; but if
the number of stations be multiplied, and the scale on which the
results are represented increased, the curves are found to be irregular,
and to be complicated by unexpected bentls and twists.
    These irregularities must be due to disturbing magnetic forces,
produced by local causes, which deflect the needle from its normal
direction ; and if the number of stations be sufficiently great there
is no difficulty in sifting out the disturbing from the normal forces
and determining with approximate accuracy the directions in which
they act.
    If this is done, the question may be asked whether these local
peculiarities are due to rock magnetism or to earth currents. There
is no reason why both should not in some cases coexist, but as there

418                     Professor A. W. Eiicker               [April 17,
are, as I think, weighty reasons for believing that rock magnetism is
often the principal canse, I propose to discuss them.
    Permanent magnetisation of the rocks may perhaps be discarded
as the cause of disturbances which extend over large areas. Basaltic
columns are often strongly magnetised, but then magnetisation is
irregular. At a short distance the opposite poles would neutralise
each other's effects, and widespreading effects are most likely due to
the inductive influence of the earth acting on widespread masses.
     The evidence for this may be summed up as follows :—In some
cases, as in that of the cliffs on the Hudson River and at Snake Hill
(New Jersey), the mass is apparently polarised at the upper and
lower extremities, as it would be if magnetised by the earth. Clear
indications of this fact are, however, often dii.icult to obtain, as they
are masked by local permanent magnetism.
     A more certain test can be applied in the case of less strongly
magnetic rocks if the instruments can be placed in their neighbour
hood, but on non-magnetic soil.         These conditions are satisfied
by the Malvern Hills, and they are found to attract the north
pole of a magnet, which is consistent with the view that they are
magnetised inductively. Again, over large districts, the centres
of which are marked by the outcrop of basaltic rocks, the magnetic
forces tend towards the centre, which is again what would occur if
tin; rocks which appear on the surface are the uppermost portions of
a much larger mass magnetised by the inductive influence of the
earth. This state of things is observed in the south and west of
Scotland and in Antrim.
     Lastly, Captain Creak, F.R.S., has shown that islands in the
northern and southern hemispheres attract the north and south poles
of the magnet respectively.
     The only question that remains is whether the presence of rocks
 similar to those which exist on the surface would suffice to account
 for the observed surface disturbances. To test this the magnetic
 permeabilities of a number of specimens of basalt kindly supplied by
 Professor Judd have been determined. Assuming (1) that magnetite
 becomes non-magnetic at the same temperature as iron, (2) that its
 magnetic properties are not affected by great pressures, (.'!) that the
 temperature at which iron ceases to be magnetic is reached at a depth
 of 13 miles, (4) that large sheets of magnetic rock exist between the
 surface and this depth, the areas of which are of the same dimensions
 as those of the regions of high vertical force which exist in the
 United Kingdom, (5) that the magnetic susceptibilities of these rocks
 vary between the mean of those of 13 specimens from the Island
 of Mull (0-00163), and of 34 specimens from the west of Scotland
 (0*00271), it is found that a fair agreement exists between the results
 of calculation and of observation, and that there is no doubt that the
 calculated and observed disturbances are of the same order of
 magnitude.
     All these facts then accord well with the theory that local and

1891.]                     on Magnetic Rocics.                       419
regional magnetic disturbances are due to the inductive action exerted
by the earth's magnetic field on rocks. It is, however, necessary to
discuss the arguments which can be brought forward on the other
side of the question.
    The neighbourhood of Melton Mowbray is the source of a consider
able magnetic disturbance. Mr. Preece, F.R.S., was good enough to
cause an earth-current survey to be mixde between the post offices in
that district. The earth currents appeared in all cases to run out
from Melton. This might raise a doubt as to whether the currents
were not largely due to small differences between the earth plates
causing them when connected to act as a battery. If this is so the
differences of potential to which the earth currents are due must be
less than those due to the plates.
    If, however, we assume that real earth currents were measured the
directions were not in all cases such as would produce the observed
deviations of the magnet. The potential differences were also much
less than those which at Greenwich produce or are at least connected
with similar deflections of the needle. The difference is not small.
If in both cases the earth currents are the cause, equal potential dif
ferences must produce at Greenwich magnetic effects a hundred times
less powerful than those produced at Melton Mowbray.
    Perhaps, however, the strongest argument against the earth-
current theory is based on Captain Creak's generalisation as to the
magnetic properties of islands. If opposite poles are attracted in the
two hemispheres, disturbance currents must circulate round the
island in opposite directions. No adequate physical cause has been
suggested why current eddies of contrary directions of circulation
should be produced in the two hemispheres.
    If then we accept the view that the balance of evidence at present
inclines towards the rock theory, it is evident that in a survey of
magnetic disturbances ' the lines towards which the magnet is at
tracted are in general loci of nearest approach of the magnetic rocks
to the surface, or of centres of highest magnetic susceptibility, or of
both of these combined.
    It is thus possible that from such observations we may learn
something as to the distribution of basic rocks at depths far below
those which ordinary geological methods can reach. It is therefore
interesting to note that the results obtained in the United Kingdom
have received a remarkable confirmation from France. Correspond
ing to a ridge (or locus of attraction) which runs south from
Eeading and enters the channel near Chichester, is another which
emerges from the channel almost exactly opposite to it and passes to
the south of Paris. The southern termination is not yet known, but
the magnetic disturbance increases as the latitude diminishes. There
can be little doubt that a well-marked locus of attraction for the north
pole of the needle runs from Reading to the south of Paris.
                                                          [A. W. R.]

420                        General Monthly Meeting.                        [June 1,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, April 24, 1891.
        THE EIGHT HON. EARL PBRCY, F.S.A. Vice-President, in
                                    the Chair.
                   The Kev. CANON AINGER, M.A. LL.D.
                          Euphuism—Past and Present.
                                   [No Abstract.]
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, June 1, 1891.
    SIR JAMES CRICHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                          Vice-President, in the Chair.
                         R. W. Peregrine Birch, Esq.
                         William Edmonds, Esq.
                         Nicholas Eumorfopoulos, Esq.
                         Mrs. Charles Hoare,
                         Mrs. Edward Singleton,
                         Harold Swithinhank, Esq.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
 following Donation to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
 Research :—
                         Mrs. Priestley          ..      £21
      The following Letter, recommended by the Managers to be sent to
 the Members, was read and approved :—
                                            "IlorAL IKsTIIUTIOK, ALBEHAKLK STHEXT, W,
                                                          "1st June, 1891.
 „ 5,                " Centenary of the Birth of Michael Faraday.
       * I am directed by the Managers to inform you that His Royal Highness the
 "Prince of Wales has fixed 4 o'clock, on Wednesday, the 17th June, for the
 " delivery by Lord Rayleigh of the first of the two Lectures in connection with
  " this Centenary, and that Friday evening, the 26th June, at 9 o'clock, has been
  " appointed for the second of these Lectures, which will be given by Professor
  " Dewar.

  1891.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                                421
     "With the view of insuring tlic comfort of those Members attending, the Mau-
  " agers find it will be necessary to confine the invitations to ' friends ' to one person
  " for each Member attending.
     " To facilitate the arrangements, I am directed to request that you will be good
  "enough to let me know, not later than Thursday morning, the llth Juno.
  " whether you propose to be present nt one, or at both, of these Lectures, aiid
  " whether you wish a card for a friend (to be introduced personally by you) for
  " the Lecture of the 17th inst., or for the Lecture of the 2Gth, or for both.
                                         " I am, Sir,
                                              '' Your obt dient Servant,
                                                            "FKEDERICK BRAUWKLL,
                                                                       " Honorary Secretary.
       The PKBSENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned fur the suiuc, viz. :—
 The Secretary of State for India—Catalogue of Birds in the Museum of lion.
        East Indiu Company, Vols. I. II. 8vo. 1854-58.
    Catalogue of Mammalia (ditto). 8vo. 1851.
    Catalogue of Lepidopterous Insects (ditto), Vols. I. II. 8vo. 1857-50.
 AM, 8ir Frederick, K.C.B. F.U.8. D.C.L. M.H.I, (the Author)—Presidential
       Address delivered at the Iron and Steel Institute, May (ith, 18!)1. 8vo.
 Accademia del Lincei, Reule, Roma —Atti, Serie QuarU: Kendiconti. 1° Semes-
       tre, Vol. VII. Fuse. 8. 8vo. 1891.
    Atti, Serie Quarta, Anno CGLXXV.-CCLXXVI. 4to. 18x8-89.
 Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia— Proceedings, 1800, Part 3. 8vo.
 American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 134. 8vo. 1800.
Astronomical Society, lloyal—Monthly Notice.-, Vol. LI. No. 6. 8vo. 1891.
 Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XII. Part 5. 8vo. IS0l.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Abhandlungt-n, Band XVII. Abth. 2. 4to. 1891.
    Almanach fur 1890.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1891, Nos. 14, 15. 4to.
 iliiti.-h Association for Advancement of Science—Keport of Meeting at Leeds, 1890.
       8vo.
Canada, Geological and Natural History Surcey of—Contributions to Canadian
       Paleontology, Vol. III. 4to. 1891.
 Canadian Institute—Transactions, Vol. I. Part 2, No. 2. 8vo. 1891.
   Fourth Annual Report, 1890-91. 8vo.
    Time Reckoning for the 20th Century. By S. Fleming, LL.D. C.E. 8vo. 1889.
Carey, Colonel William, C.B. R.A. (the Authors—The Crustacean Diving Dress.
       12mo. 1891.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. X. No. 4. 8vo. 1891.
Chemical Society—Journal for May, 1891. 8vo.
Cracorie, VAcademie det Sciencet—Bulletin, 1891, No. 4. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for May, 1891. 8vo.
   Analyst for May, 1891. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for May, 1891. 4to.
   Brewers' Journal for May, 1891. 4to.
   Chemical News for May, 1891. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for May, 1891. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for May, 1891. fol.
   Engineer for May, 1891. fol.
   Engineering for May, 1891. fol.
   Horologieal Journal for May, 1891. 8vo.
   Industries for May, 1891. fol.
   Iron for May, 1891. 4to.
   Ironmongery for May, 1891. 4to.
      VOL. XIII. (No. 85.)                                                  2 F

  422                         General Monthly Meeting.                    [June 1,
    Murray's Magazine for May, 1891. 8vo.
    Nature for May, 1891. 4to.
    Open Court for May, 1891. 4to.
    Photographic Newa for May, 1891. 8vo.
    Public Health for May, 1891. 8vo.
    Revue Scientifique for May, 1891. 4to.
    Telegraphic Journal for Mav, 1891. fol.
    Zoophilist for Mny, 1891. 4to.
 Electrical Enrlineers' Institution—Journal, No. 93. 8vo. 1891.
 Florence Bibli»teca Nazionale Cenirale—Bolletino, Nos. 129-130. 8vo. 1891.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 785. Svo. 1891.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. XIII. No. 5. 8vo.
       1891.
 Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1891, Nns. 5-7. 8vo.
 Harlem, Societf Hollandaise det Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Tome XXV.
       lor Livraison. 8vo. 1891.
 Harris, John, Esq. (the Author)—" The Way out of the 'Wood." 8vo. 1891.
 Institute of Brewing—Transactions, Vol. IV. No. 7. 8vo. 1891.
 Johns Hopkins Univertity—University Circulars, Nos. 87, 88. 4V>. 1891.
   Studios in Historical and Political Science, Eighth Series, Nos. 5-12. 8vo.
      1890.
   American Chemical Journal, Vol. XII. Nos. 6-8; Vol. XIII. No. 1. 8vo.
      1890-91.
   American Journal of Philology, Vol. XI. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1890.
 Kansas Academy of Sciences—Transactions, Vol. XII. Part 1. 8vo. 1890.
 Linnean Society—Journal, No. 193. 8vo. 1891.
 Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, 1891, No. 1. 8vo.
 Meriden Scientific Association—Transactions, Vol. IV. 8vo. 1889-90.
Murray, John, Esq. (the Publisher)—Dictionarv of Greek and Eomau Antiquities.
      E.lited by Dr. W. Smith and others. Vol. II. 8vo. 1891.
 National Life-boat Institution, Royal— Annual Report, 1891. 8vo.
Newberry Library (Chicago), Trustees of the—Proceedings of the Trustees for year
      ending January 5, 1891. Svo.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
      Vol. XXXIX. Parts 1, 2; Vol. XL. Part 1. Svo. 1891.
Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXIII. No. 7. New
      Series. Svo. 1891.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain— Journal, May, 1891. Svo.
Physical Society of London—Proceedings, Vol. XI. Part 1. Svo. 1891.
Kin de Janeiro, Observatoire Impsriale de—Revista, Nos. 3, 4. Svo. 1891.
Royal Botanic Society of London—Quarterly Record, 188D-1890. Svo.
Royal Society of Antiquaries of Ireland—Journal, Vol. I. Fifth Series, No. 5. Svo.
      1801.
St. Petersburg Academie Imperials det Sciences—Memoires, Tome XXXVIII.
     Nos. 2, 3. 8v.i. 1891.
Sanitary Institute—Transactions, Vul. XI. Svo. 1891.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes, Vol. II. No. 17. Svo. 1891.
Smithsonian Institution — Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. XXXIV.
     Nos. 1-3. Svo. 1890.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. III. No. 11. Svo. 1891.
Society of Arts—Journal for May, 1891. Svo.
Turp>n, 'Eugene, Esq. (the Author)—The Truth on Melinite. Svo. 1890.
United Sen-ice Institution, Rt/yal—Journal, No. 159. Svo. 1891.
University of London—Calendur, 1891-92. Svo.
Upsal University—Bulletin de 1'Observatoire Me'teorologique, Vol. XXII. 4to
     1890-91.
Vereins sur BefSrderung des Gewerbjteisses in Preussen—Verhandlungcn, 1891 :
     Huft 5. 4to.

 1891.]    Dr. C. Waldatein on Discovery of the " Tomb ofAriatolk." 423
                    EXTBA EVENING MEETING,
                          Tuesday, Juno 2, 1891.
  DAVID EDWARD HUGHBS, Esq. F K.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
            CHARLBS WALDSTBIN, Esq. Ph.D. Litt.D. L.H.D.
                 The Discovery of the " Tomb of Aristotle."
DR. CHARLES WALDSTBIN said that during the excavations carried on
at Eretria, in Euboaa, by the American Archaeological School of Athens
under his direction, the discovery of a tomb stands foremost. This
tomb is of great magnitude and splendour, and, by a process of inference,
from data which, taken singly, might appear minute or insignificant
but assume a new aspect when they are found to be interdependent
and to converge to a common centre, he is led to believe to be that of
the great philosopher Aristotle.
    Dr. Waldstein contribnted a short account of his discoveries to
the ' Nineteenth Century ' for May, which may be said to be only of
a preliminary character, and in which he confined himself mainly to
a narrative of the excavations and to the negative aspects of the
question and the objections which might fairly be urged against the
hypothesis that on this spot were interred the philosopher's remains.
In the meantime Dr. Waldstein has been engaged in literary and
epigraphical researches to enable him to arrive at a final conclusion
on the subject. These investigations are not yet completed, aud he
hopes to ransack all the principal libraries in Europe in search of
literary or other iniliciu which may go to support or destroy the
theory.
    It should be premised that Dr. Waldstein went to Eretria with no
thought of such a discovery. He knew that it was a place of great
historical importance and antiquity, and he knew also that there
were dispersed among the clandestine dealers in antiquities at Athens
many objects which could be traced to that ancient city, so familiar
to students of Herodotus and Thucydides. Even if it be found that
the explorer is mistaken, there can be no doubt of the great value and
interest of the ancient remains which have been disinterred, aud of the
light which they reflect on an interesting period of Hellenic history
and culture.
    It would be remembered, he said, that Eretria and Chalcis were
the two great commercial cities of Euboea, and every reader of
Thucydides was familar with the rivalry which so long subsisted
between Eretria and Athens. Its position was on the Euripus, with
a beautiful hilly landscape behind, and the mountains of Attica opposite
on the other side of the channel.
    Especial attention was drawn to Eretria by the discovery at
Chalcis, in 1869, of a long inscription referring to the former city,
                                                            2 F 2

424                        Dr. Charles Waldttein                  [June 2,
the date of which lay between the years 340 and 278 B.O. This
document embodied a formal contract for the execution of a work
resembling that which in our own times has been done by the
Bedford Level Commissioners. It recited that an engineer, Chaere-
phanes by name, contracted with the Eretrians to drain their marshes.
He was himself to bear the cost of the work on condition that he was
to be allowed to cultivate the reclaimed land for ten years at an
annual rental of 30 talents, or about 7000Z. The work was to be
completed in four years. In case of war the ten years' lease was to
be prolonged by a like period. There were also provisions for the
compensation of persons whose land might be taken for the making
of reservoirs or sluices, and the concession wa# to continue in the
heirs of Chaerephanes, and the latter was to find sureties for the due
execution of the works. This was one of the many indications of the
richness of Eaboea as a field for archseological research, and would be
fonnd to have an incidental bearing upon the question at issue.
     At the beginning of the present year Dr. Waldstein, having
obtained a concession from the Greek authorities, proceeded from
Athens to Eretria for the purpose of excavating the theatre and
of digging out tombs, and in particular of discovering if he could,
the temple of Artemis Amarysia. As is well known, the Greeks were
in the habit of burying their dead outside the city walls, and at Eretria
there was a continuous succession of graves running in different direc
tions from the ancient city. These graves were of different periods,
some as late as the Roman period, and many of the persons buried
were foreigners. Out of 26 inscriptions he found that no fewer than
eight referred to strangers and sojonrners in the land. In the course
of his excavations he came upon the most beautiful of all the family
tombs which has yet been discovered.
     The lecturer had described the difficulties which he encountered in
the labour of excavation in the article above referred to, and, in fact
he and his associates had three times to give np the attempt. In the
course of his narrative he gave an interesting account of Greek
writing materials—fifXav ypasfriKov, for ink, KoAu/xos ypa^tKos, a pen—
being the materials used for permanent records on papyrus ; whilst
the (rri.'A.o« or ypa<£h was the stylus used for writing notes of transient
importance on waxed tablets. Ho had already in the article referred
to described the statuettes and ornaments and other things, including
the only extant metal pen, so far as he knew, which had been found
in Greece.
     As before mentioned, Dr. Waldstein, in his contribution to the
 ' Nineteenth Century,' had dealt in a sceptical spirit with his own
 discovery. He now argued the affirmative side of the question, and
 indicated the considerations which induced him to believe that in the
family tomb which he had discovered once reposed the Stagirite's
 remains.
     According to the best authorities, Aristotle died at Chalcis in
332 B.C., of disease in the stomach, at the age of 63 years. The

1891.]            on the Discovery of the " Tomb of Aristotle"                425
stories that he committed suicide by drinking hemlock and that he
drowned himself in the Euripus, in consequence of disappointment at
not being able to discover the cause of the ebb and flow of the tide,
were both discredited by Zeller and the best authorities.
      But it would be asked, as he died at Cbalcis, how came he to be
buried at Eretria, which was some 12 miles distant from the city of
Chalcis ? One answer to this objection was that in the Macedonian
period the name Chalcis was sometimes used for the whole island of
Euboaa, so completely had it eclipsed its former rival Eretria. Strabo
described Chalcis as TO. irpurrfia. KOL /»jTpo7roXi$ of Euboca. He then
said, 8euTtpeun 8" !j 'Eperpta. Thus the statement that he died at
 Chalcis was not inconsistent with his having been buried at Eretria.
      Further, from the will of Aristotle himself, as published in
Diogenes Laertins, it was to be inferred that the philosopher's house
was not in the city, but in the country. By that will, which was a
most interesting document, he gives his second wife, Herpyllis, a
choice of residence ; iav /xev cv XoXxi'8t fiovhrfrai oixitv TOV £tva>va TOV irpos
Ttj> Kipru), lav o( iv 2ray«pois rrjv trarptaav OIKIO.V. Now, it was well ascer
tained,' first, that the term Emir, or guests' quarters, was at this date
applied not to a part of the principal residence, but to a separate
house on a gentleman's estate. Thus in this instance, if the widow
elected to live in Euboaa the sifviav would correspond to the dower house.
Next, it was not customary in Aristotle's time to have gardens in a
city, and it was Epicurus who first, in the year 308, established gardens
within the city. Thus the words irpos Tt|> /opnu indicated that the
house was in the country.
      It was noticeable, also, that the contract to which he had referred,
though it was to be performed at Eretria, was found at Chalcis, and
there were other similar inscriptions dealing with Eretriau affairs
which were discovered at Chalcis and not at Eretria. Again, it was
known that Eretria was a philosophic centre, and Menedemns, the
philosopher, lived there, and the place was also visited by Phredon.
It might, in fact, be regarded as a literary suburb of Chalcis. Then
the will contained instructions for the philosopher's burial. In effect,
he said, " Bury me where you like. But take up the bones of my
first wife and put them in the grave with me." Now, it was clear
from the excavations that the tomb was a family grave ; and from tho
will it was apparent that Aristotle would be the first occupant.
There was architectural evidence that the particular part of the
mausoleum in which the head of the family reposed was built towards
the close of the fourth century.
      Of course the name Aristotle was not unique, and the inscription
deciphered on the slab, Burn; 'ApwrroreXou, was not conclusive. But
it was by no means so common as other Greek patronymics. There
were about 20 Aristotles whose names were recorded in literature.
But nono of thcse was Euboean, save one whom ho found to be a
Chalcidian. We wore, moreover, in possession of details of Aristotle's
family history. Ho wus twice married, his first wife having been

426                    Dr. Charles Waldstein                     [June 2,
 called Pythias and his Becond Herpyllis. He had two children, a son
Nichomachus, and a daughter Pythias. Nicomachus died without
 having been married, and Pythias was married three times. By
 Nicanor, her first husband, she had no children. To Procles, her
 second husband, who was a descendant of the Lacedaemonian King
 Demaratus, she bore two sons, Procles and Demaratus. By Metrodorus,
 •who was a physician, she had a son who also bore the name of Aristotle.
 The name was also found in inscriptions in Sicily where there was a
 Chalcidian settlement, but it did not appear in Eretrian inscriptions
 earlier than the second century. In an Eretrian inscription of the
 second century there were about 1600 names, among which were
found a Nicomachus and a Procles and three Aristotles. Now, it was
 an admissible hypothesis that the family of Pythias, one of whose
 sons was Aristotle, lived at Eretria or one of the cities of Euhoea,
because we had also the name of Procles in this inscription. This
Aristotle, the son of Pythias, was mentioned in the will of Theo-
phrastus, who was the successor in the Peripatetic school of Aristotle.
     A curious point arose in connection with this inscription BIOTTJ
'ApioToreXov. The ordinary genitive of the word was 'ApwrroreAovs.
The latter form was invariably found in inscriptions before 353 B o.
But from 350 to 300 the former began to prevail, and the German
scholar Meisterhans had discoved 39 instances of ov when ous might
have been expected. After 300 the latter form was found exclusively
on inscriptions. The inscription was assigned by the best epi-
graphical authorities to the third century B.C. Now, it was clear from
an examination of the remains that the principal grave, which was
shown by the strigil to be that of a male, belonged to an earlier
period than the adjoining graves. This Biote might, from the
genitive which follows, have been either the wife or the daughter of
Aristotle, the philosopher's grandson.
     In addition to the inferences which might be drawn from the
circumstances which he had mentioned, there were others to be
derived from the study of iconography. There were a number of
terra-cotta statuettes in the grave. But one, in particular, was of a
singular and striking character. These statuettes in tombs were
known to have relation to and to be frequently descriptive of the
persons interred ; and this was immediately recognisable as a type of
the statues of the fourth century B.C., known as those of philosophers
and orators. The figure was draped and the hands folded at the
side. The grave was clearly that of a person of great distinction.
There was a gold diadem and a band of pure gold about 1 .', inch
wide, with repoussS patterns fastened round the brow, and then six
were drawn out one after the other. Then at the head, where a
portion of the skull remained, there was still another diadem with
eaves of conventional ivy attached to it, and there was also, as he
had mentioned, a metal pen. Here, therefore, he had discovered a
tomb belonging to a great family, the burying-place of an eminent
man, as was shown by the profusion of gold ornaments, and this man

1891].         on the Discovery of the " Tomb of Aristotle."     427
was a man of letters, as evidenced by tho pen and styluses, and a
philosopher, as indicated by the statuette. When to this was added
the startling inscription which was disclosed in tho adjoining space,
the chain of historical and circumstantial evidence appeared to be
almost irresistible.
    The lecturer concluded his discourse with an enunciation of the
principles by which in researches of this character, according to the
doctrine termed by the late Henry Bradshaw, " prince of librarians
and bibliographers," the doctrine of equivalents, a date might be
assigned to a book or a work of art by the concurrence of notes or
indications which were independently known to have been prevalent
at a particular period.
    The lecture was admirably illustrated from photographs taken for
Dr. Waldstuin by Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Oswald.

428                      Dr. St. George Mivart                   [Juno 5,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, June 6, 1891.
    SIR DYCE DDOKWORTH, M.D. LL.D. F.R.C.P. V ice-President,
                              in the Chair.
     ST. GBOROE J. MIVART, Esq. Ph.D. M.D. F.R.S. V.P.L S.
                             V.P.Z.8. M.R.I.
                       The Implications of Science.
AFTER a brief introduction, the lecturer said :—By " the implications
of science " I mean nothing to which any section of my hearers can
object, whatever their notions about creed or conduct may be. I desire
carefully to eliminate all question of either religion or morals, and I
shall confine myself purely and simply to the consideration of
certain propositions which appear to me to bo latent within, and
to give force to, what we regard as well-ascertained scientific truths.
They are propositions which must, I believe, be assented to by every
consistent follower of science who is convinced that science has
brought to our knowledge some truths on which we can with entire
confidence rely.
     My appeal then is to the pnre intellect of my hearers, and to
nothing else. And, indeed, I desire to take this opportunity plainly
to declare, that not only here and now, but everywhere and always,
I unhesitatingly affirm that no system can or should stand which is
unable to justify itself to reason. I possess no faculty myself, nor
do I believe that any human faculty exists, superior to the intellect,
nr which has any claim to limit or dominate the intellect's activity.
Feelings and sentiments have their undoubted charm and due place
in human life, but that place is a subordinate one, and should be
under the control of right reason.
     Yet it is by no means only, or mainly, against those who would
undervalue reason in the interest of sentiment, that I have this
evening to protest. My object is to uphold what I believe to be the
just claims of our rational nature against all who, from whatever side,
or in the name of whatsoever authority, would impugn its sovereign
claims upon our reverence or unduly restrict the area of its sway.
     As I have already intimated, I propose to fulfil this task by calling
attention to some half-dozen far-reaching truths implicitly contained
in scientific doctrines universally admitted ; so that those doctrines
cannot logically be maintained if such implied truths are really and
seriously doubted, and still less if they are really disbelieved and
denied. These truths, then, are what 1 mean by " the implications of
science." But what is science ?

 1891.]                 on the Implications of Science.                429
     The word " science " is now very commonly taken as being synony
 mous with " physical science." There is much to be said against
 giving the word so narrow a meaning; nevertheless that meaning
 will sufficiently serve my purpose this evening. Science then, thus
 understood, is merely ordinary knowledge pursued with extreme care
 —most careful observation, measuring, weighing, &c., together with
 most careful reasoning as to the results of observations and experi
 ments, and also painstaking verification of any anticipations which
 may have been hazarded. In this way our thoughts are made to
 conform as accurately as may be with what we regard as the realities
 they represent.
     The value and the progress of science are unquestioned. Many
 foolish discussions are carried on in the world about us. But certainly
 no one disputes or doubts the value of science or the fact of its
 progress. The value of carefully-ascertained scientific truths will
 not at any rate be disputed in this theatre, which has witnessed the
 triumphs of the immortal Faraday, and which may justly claim to bo
 a very temple of science. And certainly I have no disposition to
nndervalue it, who have loved it from my earliest years and devoted
such small powers as I possess to its service. I am profoundly
convinced that, since I can recollect, biological science has made
great progress, and I see grounds for absolute certainty now, about
many propositions in zoology which were doubtful or undreamed of
when I was a lad.
     We all then agree that science does advance. Nevertheless it is
obvious that such advance would be impossible if we could not by
observations, experiments, and inferences, become so certain with
respect to some facts, as to be able to make them the starting points
for fresh observations and inferences as to other facts. Thus, with
respect to the world we live in, most educated men are now certain
 as to its daily and annual revolutions, as also that its crust is largely
 composed of sedimentary rocks, containing remains, or indications,
 of animals and plants more or less different from those which now
live. No one can reasonably deny that we may repose with absolute
confidence and entire certainty upon a variety of such assertions.
     But our scientific certainties have been acquired more or less
laboriously, and a questioning attitude of mind is emphatically the
scientific attitude. We ought never to rest satisfied about any
scientific inquiry the truth of which has not been demonstrated,
unless wo find that it is one which we have no probable power to
answer—it would obviously be idle to occupy ourselves about the
shape or number of the mountains on that side of the moon which is
constantly turned away from us.
    Yet although doubt and inquiry arc necessary in science, never
theless doubt has its legitimate limits. Blind disbelief is scientifically
fatal as well as blind belief. We all know how apt men are, when
seeking to avoid one extreme, to fall into the opposite one, and it is
possible to get into an unhealthy condition of mind so as to be unable

430                       Dr. Si. George Mivart                  [June 5,
to give a vigorous assent to anything. It is necessary distinctly
to recognise there is such a thing as legitimate certainty, not to
perceive the force of which is illegitimate doubt. Such doubt would
necessarily discredit all physical science. Universal doubt, for
example, is an absurdity—it is scepticism run mad. If any one
affirms that "nothing is certain," he obviously contradicts himself,
since he thereby affirms the certainty of uncertainty. He says that
which if true absolutely contradicts what he has declared to be true.
But a man who affirms what the system he professes to adopt
forbids him to affirm, and who declares that he believes what he also
declares to be unbelievable, should hardly complain if he is called
foolish. No system can be true, and no reasoning can be valid,
which inevitably ends in absurdity. Such scepticism, then, cannot
be the mark of an exceptionally intellectural mind, but of an excep
tionally foolish one, and every position which necessarily leads to
scepticism of this sort must be an untenable position.
    A very little reflection suffices to show how self-refuting such
modes of thought are : Thus, if a man were to say—" I cannot know
anything, because I cannot be sure that my faculties are not always
fallacious," or " I cannot be sure of anything because, for all I know,
I may be the plaything of a demon who amuses himself by constantly
deceiving me "—in both these cases he contradicts himself. He con
tradicts himself because he obviously grounds his assertion upon his
perception of the truth that " wo cannot arrive at conclusions which
are certain, by means of principles which are uncertain or false." But
if he knows that truth he must know that his faculties are not always
fallacious and that his demon cannot deceive him in everything.
     My object in making these remarks is to enable us to get clear of
mere idle, irrational doubts which have no place in science, and can
 have none, so that we may recognise the fact that we all of us have
 certainty as to some facts according to our degrees of knowledge.
Obviously we can only judge of truth by our mental faculties, and if
a man denies their validity we must pass him by, contenting ourselves
with calling his attention to the fact that he refutes himself. If a
man professes to doubt his faculties, or to doubt whether language
can be trusted to convey thought, then plainly we cannot profitably
argue with him. But if, on account of his absurdity, we cannot
refute him, it is no less plain that he cannot defend his scepticism.
Were he to attempt to do so, then he would show, by that very
attempt, that he really had confidence in reason and in language,
 however he might verbally deny it. Confident, then, that there are
 some scientific statements on which we may rely with certainty, Ictus
consider a few truths implicitly contained in them.
     In the first place, science makes use not only of observations and
experiments, but also of reasoning as to the results of such experiments.
It needs that we should draw valid inferences ; but this implies that
we may, and must, place confidence in the principle of deduction—in
 that perception of the mind which we express by the word " therefore."

1891.]                on the Implications of Science.                 431
When wo nse that word, we mean to express by it thnt there is a
truth, the certainty of which is shown through the help of different
facts or principles, which themselves are known to be true.
     It is sometimes objected to deductive reasoning—to the syllogism
—that it really teaches ua nothing new, all that is contained in the
conclusion being contained already in the premises.              But this
objection is due to a want of perception of the great difference which
exists between implicit and explicit knowledge. Let us suppose a
person to be looking at some very flexible and soft kind of fish. He
may perhaps say to himself, " This creature can have no spinal column ! "
Then it may strike him that naturalists have classed fishes, together
with other animals, in a great group, one character of which is the
possession of a spinal column, and so he may explicitly recognise a
truth implied in what he knew before. So great indeed is the
difference between explicit and implicit knowledge, that the latter
may not deserve to be called real knowledge at alL No one will
affirm that a student who has merely learned the axioms and
definitions of Euclid, has thereby obtained such a real knowledge of all
the geometrical truths the work contains, that he will fully understand
all its propositions and theorems without having to study them.
Yet all the propositions, &c., of Euclid are implicitly contained in
the definitions and axioms. Nevertheless the student will have to
go through many processes of inference by which these implicit
truths may be explicitly recognised by him, before he can be said to
have any real knowledge of them.
    The validity of inference is then one of the truths implied by
physical science, and we shall presently see the intellectual penalty
which must be paid for any real doubt about it.
    In the second place, physical science is emphatically experi
mental science. But every experiment, carefully performed, implies
a most important latent truth. For when an experiment has shown
us that anything is certain—as for example, that a newt's leg may
grow again after amputation, because one has actually grown again—
we shall find that such certainty implies a prior truth. It implies
the truth that if the newt has come to have four legs once more, it
cannot at the very same time have only three legs. This may seem
too trivial a remark to some of my hearers, but there is nothing like
a concrete example for making an abstract truth plain. Anything
we are certain about because it has been proved to us by experiment,
is certain only if we know, and because we know, that a thing which
has been actually proved cannot at the same time remain uuproven.
If we reflect again on this proposition we shall see that it depends on
a still more fundamental truth which our reason recognises—the
truth, namely, that " nothing can at the same time both be and not
be "—the truth known as " the law of contradiction " ; and this I bring
forward as a second truth implied by physical science.
    If we reflect upon this law we shall see that our intellect recognises
it as an absolute and necessary truth, which carries with it its own

432                      Dr. St. George Mivarl                  [June 5,
evidence. It is but the summing up, in one general expression, of all
the concrete separate cases, such as that of the newt's leg, of the fact
that if a man possesses two eyes he cannot at the same time have
only one—and so on.
    But an objection has been made as follows : " It is very true that
I cannot imagine having two eyes and only one eye at the same
time, and so I must practically acquiesce in the statement, but I am
only compelled to do so by the impotence of my imagination." Thus
instead of the " law of contradiction " Mr. Herbert Spencer has put
forward as an ultimate truth his " universal postulate "—the assertion
that " we must accept as true propositions we cannot help thinking,
because we cannot imagine the contrary." But if any of my hearers
will reflect over what his mind tells him when it pronounces that ho
cannot at the same time have both two eyes and only one eye, he will
I think, see that his perception is (as mine is) a perception of real
incompatibility and consequent positive impossibility. He will not
find his mind a mere blank passively unable to imagine something.
He will find that his mind actively asserts its power to judge of the
matter, as well as what its judgment is, and that the truth is one
which positively applies to things and not merely to his own
'imaginings.
    Moreover, this objection ignores the difference between intellect
and imagination. Yet there are very many things we can conceive of
but cannot imagine, as for example, our " act of sight " or our own
annihilation. But it appears to me evident that Mr. Herbert Spencer's
" universal postulate " can never be itself an ultimate truth, but must
depend upon the law of contradiction. For, supposing we had tried
to imagine a thing and failed, how could we. from that, ever be sure
we might not at the same time have tried and succeeded, if we could
not rely upon the law of contradiction ? The consequences resulting
from any real doubt as to this law we will see later on.
    In the pursuit of science, observation is anterior to experiment,
but in every observation in which we place confidence, and, still more,
in every experiment, a third fundamental truth is necessarily implied :
this implied truth is the validity of our faculty of memory.
    It is plain that it would be impossible for us to be certain about
any careful observation or any experiment, if we could not feel con
fidence in our memory being able to vouch for the fact that we had
observed certain phenomena and what they were. But what is
memory ? Evidently we cannot be said to remember anything unless
we are conscious that the thing we so remember has been present to
our mind on some previous occasion. A mental image might present
itself to our imagination a hundred times ; but if at each recurrence
it seemed to us something altogether new and unconnected with the
past, we could not be said to remember it. It would rather be an
example cf extreme forgetfulness than of memory.
    By asserting the trustworthiness of our faculty of memory, I do
not, of course, mean that we may not occasionally make mistakes

1891.]               on the Implications of Science.               433
about the past. It is quite certain we may and do make such mis
takes. But nevertheless we are all of us certain as to some past
events. Probably there is no single person now in this room, who is
not certain that he was somewhere else before he entered it. Memory
informs UB—certainly it informs me—as surely concerning some
portions of the past, as consciousness does concerning some portions
of the present.
    If we could not trust our faculty of memory, the whole of
physical science would be, for us, a mere present dream. But there
can be no such thing as proof of the trustworthiness of memory,
since no argument is possible without trusting to the veracity of
memory. It is therefore a fundamental fact which must bo taken on
its own evidence and from a consideration of the results of any real
doubts about it : results I will refer to presently.
    Yet it has been strangely declared, by a leading agnostic, that wo
may trust our memory because we learn its trustworthiness by ex
perience. Surely never was fallacy more obvious 1 How could we ever
gain experience if we did not trust memory in gaining it ? Particular
acts of memory may, of course, be confirmed by experience if the
faculty of memory bo already trusted, but in every such instance it
must be confided in. The agnostic referred to has told us in effect
that we may place confidence in our present memory, because in past
instances its truth has been experimentally confirmed, while we can
only know it has been so confirmed, by trusting our present memory !
    But if we admit the trustworthiness of memory at all, a most
important consequence follows—one relating to the distinction
between what is subjective and what is objective. Every feeling or
state of consciousness present to the mind of the subject who possesses
it is subjective, and the whole of such experiences taken together con
stitute the sphere of subjectivity. Whatever is external to our present
consciousness or feeling is for us objective, and all that is thus
external is the region of objectivity. Now memory, inasmuch as it
reveals to us part of our own past, reveals to us what is objective,
and so introduces us into the realm of objectivity, shows us more or
less of objective truth, and carries us into a real world which is
beyond the range of our own present feelings. This progress, then
—this knowledge of objectivity—is, through memory, implied in
every scientific experiment the facts of which we regard as certain.
     But our scientific observations and experiments carry with them
yet another implication more important still : this is the certainty of
our knowledge of our own continuous existence. Unless we can bo
sure that we actually made those observations and experiments on
our having made which we rely for our conclusions, how can those
conclusions bo confidently relied on by us ?
    This implication is so important—in my opinion so fundamentally
important—that I must crave your permission to notice it, later on,
at some length. But before considering it, I desire to call your
attention to the fact that the propositions thus implied by physical

434                        Dr. St. George Mivart               [June 5,
science, run directly counter to a system of thought which is widely
current to-day, and which has now and again found expression in this
theatre. The popular views I refer to may be conveniently summed
up as follow :
     1. All our knowledge is merely relative.
    2. We can know nothing but phenomena.
    3. We have no supremely certain knowledge but that of our own
           feelings, and therefore we have none such of our continuous
           existence.
    4. We cannot emerge from subjectivity or attain to real know
           ledge of anything objective.
Therefore, either I am very much mistaken, or those who uphold the
views I have just summed up are much mistaken.
     It may seem presumptuous on my part to come forward here
to-night to controvert a system upheld by men of such undoubted
ability and so unquestionably competent in science, as are men who
uphold the system I oppose. I feel, therefore, that a few words of
personal apology and explanation are due from me.
     For full five and thirty years I have been greatly interested in
such questions. But when my intellectual life began, it was as a
student and disciple of that school with which the names of John
Stuart Mill, Alexander Bain, G. H. Lewes, Herbert Spencer, and
Professor Huxley have been successively associated—more or less
closely. The works of writers of that school I studied to the best
of my ability, and I had the advantage of personal acquaintance
with some of the more distinguished of them. Thus, by conversation,
I was much better enabled to learn what their system was, than I
could have learned by reading only.
     However, by degrees, I became sceptical about the validity of
the system I had, at first, ingenuously adopted ; but it took me not a
few years to clearly see my way through all the philosophical
fallacies—as I now regard them—in which I found myself entangled.
I say " see my way through," for I did not free myself from them
by drawing back, but by pushing forwards—slowly working my way
through them and out on the other side. These circumstances con
stitute my apology for appearing before you as I do. I have been a
dweller in the country which I am willing to aid any one to explore
who may wish to explore it.
     I might now at once return to further consider those implications
of science to which I have called your attention, but I think it will
be better to first briefly pass two important matters in review. The
first concerns our means of investigation as to such fundamental
questions ; the second relates to our ultimate grounds for forming
judgments about them. We have to consider how fundamental truth
can be acquired and tested. Evidently the only means of which we
can make use are our thoughts—our reason—our intellectual activity.
" Thoughts " may be, and should be, carefully examined and criticised,
but however much we may do so and whatever the results we arrive

1891.]                 on the Implications of Science.               435
at, such results can only be reached by thoughts, and must be expressed
by the aid of our thoughts. This will probably seem such a manifest
truism that I shall be thought to have committed an absurdity in enun
ciating it. To suppose that by any reasoning we can come to under
stand what we can never think, may seem an utterly incredible folly ;
yet at a meeting of a metaphysical society in London a speaker not
long ago expressly declared "thought" to be a misleading term,
the use of which should be avoided.
     Now I am far from denying that unconscious activities, of various
different orders, take place in our being ; yet whatever influence such
activities may have, they cannot affect our judgments save by and in
thoughts.
     If a man is convinced that thoughts are worthless tools, he can
only have arrived at that conclusion by using the very tools he declares
to be worthless. What, then, ought his conclusion to be worth even
in his own eyes ? It is simply impossible by reason to get behind or
beyond conscious thought, and our thoughts are and must be our only
means of investigating problems however fundamental. Even in
investigating the properties of material bodies, it is to self-conscious
reflective thought that our final appeal must be made. It is to
our thoughts and not to our senses only, that our ultimate appeal
must be made, even with respect to the most material physical science
matters. Some persons may imagine that with respect to such investi
gations about the properties of material bodies, it is to our sensations
alone that we must ultimately appeal. But it is not so. Any one would
be mad to question the extreme importance, the absolute necessity, of
our sensations in such a case ; nevertheless, after we have made all the
observations and experiments we can, how can we know we have
obtained such results as we may have obtained, save by our self-
conscious thought ? By what other means are we to judge between
what may seem to be the conflicting indications of different sense
impressions? Our senses are truly tests of certainty but not the
test. Certainty belongs to thought, and self-conscious reflective
thought is our last and absolute criterion.
     As to the ultimate grounds on which our judgments respecting
such problems must repose, as Mr. Arthur Balfour has forcibly pointed
out, that is a question altogether distinct from all questions as to the
origin of ourjudgments, or reasonings about their truth. Such matters
are very interesting, but they are not here in point, since it is plain
that no proposition capable of proof can be one the certainty of which
is fundamental. For in order to prove anything by reasoning, we
must show that it necessarily follows as a consequence from other
truths which therefore must be deemed more indisputable. But the
process must stop somewhere. We cannot prove everything. How
ever long our arguments may be, we must at last come to ultimate
statements which must be taken for granted like the validity of the
process of reasoning itself, which is one of the implications of science.
If we had to prove either the validity of that process or such ultimate

 436                       Dr. St. George Mivart                 [June 5,
 statements, then either we must argue in a circle, or our process of
 proof must go on for ever without coming to a conclusion, which
 means there could be no such thing as " proof " at all.
      Therefore the grounds of certainty which any fundamental pro
 position may possess, cannot be anything external to it—which
 would imply this impossible proof. The only ground of certainty
 which an ultimate judgment can possess is its own self-evidence —
 its own manifest certainty in and by itself. All proof, all reasoning
 must ultimately rest upon truths which carry with them their own
 evidence and do not therefore need proof.
     It is possible that some of my hearers may be startled at the
 suggestion of believing anything whatever on its own evidence,
 fancying it is equivalent to a suggestion that they should believe
 anything blindly. This, I think, is due to the following fact of
 mental association. The immensely greater part of our knowledge
 is gained by us indirectly—by inference or testimony of some kind.
 We commonly ask for a proof, with regard to any new and
 remarkable statement, and no truths are brought more forcibly homo
 to our minds than are those demonstrated by Euclid. Thus it is that
 many persons have acquired a feeling that to believe anything which
 cannot be proved, is to believe blindly. Hence arises the tendency
 to distrust what is above and beyond proof. Wo are apt to forget what
 on reflection is manifest, namely that if it is not blind credulity to
 believe what is evident to us by means of something else, it must be
 still less blind to believe that which is directly evident in and by
 itself.
     And self-conscious reflective thought tells me clearly, that the
 law of contradiction is not only implied by all science, and necessary
 to the validity of all science, but that it is, as I said, an absolutely
 necessary truth which carries with it its own evidence. It must be
a truth then applicable both to the deepest abyss of past time and
the most distant region of space. But here again I think it possible
that one or two of my hearers may be startled, and perhaps doubting
how things in this respect may be in the Dog star now or how they
were before the origin of the solar system. I fancy I hear some one
asking, " How is it possible that we, mere insects, as it were, of a day,
inhabiting an obscure corner of the universe, can know that anything
is and must be true for all ages and every possible region of space ? "
     In the first place I think the difficulty which may be thus felt is
due to the abstract form of the law of contradiction. And yet, as
I said before, it is but the summing up of all the particular instances
as to each one of which no difficulty at all is felt, but each is clearly
seen to be true. Any man who really doubted whether if his legs
were cut off they might not at the same time remain on, would have
a mind in a diseased condition. There is, hoxvever, another reason
which indisposes some persons to see the necessary force of this law.
It is due, I think, to a second fact of mental association.
     Things which are very distant or which happened a long time

1891.]                 on the Implications of Science.              437
ago, are known to us only in roundabout ways, and we often feel
more or less want of certainty about them. On the other hand we
have a practical certainty concerning the things which are about us
at any given moment. Thus we have come to associate a feeling of
uncertainty with statements about things very remote. But nothing
can well be more remote from us than the more distant regions of
space or before the origin of the solar system. It is not surprising
then that this mental association should call forth a feeling of un
certainty with respect to any statement about universal truth.
    It is no doubt wonderful that we should be able to know any
necessary and universal truths ; but it is less exceptionally wonderful,
when we come to think the matter all round, than it may at first
sight appear to be. It is wonderful, but so, deeply considered, is all
our knowledge. It is wonderful that through molecular vibrations,
or other occult powers of bodies, we have sensations—such as of
musical tones, sweetness, blueness, or what not. It is wonderful
that through sensations, actual and remembered, we have perceptions.
It is wonderful that on the occurrence of certain perceptions, we
recognise our own existence past and present. So also it is wonderful
that we recognise that what we know in, cannot at the same time not
be. The fact is so, and we perceive it to be so ; we know things and
wo know that we know them. How we know them is a mystery
indeed, but one about which it is, I think, perfectly idle to speculate.
It is precisely parallel to the mystery of sensation. We feel things
savoury or odorous, or brilliant, or melodious, as the case may be ;
and with the aid of the scalpel and the microscope we may investigate
the material conditions of such sensations. But how such conditions
can give rise to the feelings themselves, is a mystery which defies
our utmost efforts to penetrate. I make no pretension to be able to
throw any light upon the problem How is knowledge possible?
any more than on the problem How is sensation possible ? or 011 the
questions How is life possible ? or How is extension possible ? but
" Ignorantia modi non tollit certitudinem facti " ; and wo know that
we are living, that we feel, and that we do know something—if only
that we know we doubt about the certainty of our knowledge.
    And, with respect to such doubt, let me here put before you the
intellectual penalties which have to be paid for any real and serious
doubt with respect to the implications of science. I think we shall
see that nothing less than intellectual suicide or mental paralysis
must be the result. And such a result must also be logically fatal
to every branch of science.
    The first implication I put before you was the validity of infer
ence. Now no one who argues, or who listens to or reads, with any
serious intention, the arguments of others, can, without stultifying
himself, profess to think that no process of reasoning is valid. If
the truth of no mode of reasoning is certain, if we can make no
certain inferences at all, then all arguments must be useless, and to
proffer, or to consider, them must be alike vain. But not only must
    VOL. XIII. (No. 85.)                                     2 o

438                       Dr. St. George Mivart                  [June 5,
all reasoning addressed to others be thus vain, the silent reasoning of
solitary discursive thought must be vain also. Yet what does this
amount to, save an utter paralysis of the intellect. It is scepticism
run mad.
     But the implication I regard as one of the most important of all,
is the implication of our knowledge of our own continuous existence,
concerning which I said I must crave your permission to speak at
some length. It was the mention of this implication which led me
to refer to that system of thought it is my object here to controvert.
     I have heard it proclaimed in this theatre by Professor Huxley,
that we cannot have supreme certainty as to our own continuous
existence, and that such knowledge is but secondary and subordinate
to our knowledge of our present feelings or " states of consciousness."
     Of course I am not thus accusing him of originating any such
erroneous views. In that matter he is but a follower of that daring
and playful philosopher Hume. I say " playful," because I cannot
myself think that he really believed his own negations. He seems
to me too acute a man to have been himself their dupe. But, how
ever this may be, I here venture directly to contradict Hume's and
Professor Huxley's affirmation, which is also adopted by Mr. Herbert
Spencer, and to affirm that we have the highest certainty as to onr
own continuous existence.
     It is, of course, quite true that we have complete certainty about
onr present feelings, as also that we cannot know ourselves apart
from our feelings ; but it is no less true that we cannot be conscious
of feelings apart from the " self " which has those feelings. Now it is
assumed by those I oppose that we can know nothing with complete
certainty, unless we know it by itself or unmodified, or as existing
absolutely. But in fact nothing, so far as we know, exists apart
from every other entity and unmodified, or " absolutely," as it is, in my
opinion, absurdly called. No wonder then if we do not know things
in a way in which they never do, and probably never can, exist.
We really know nothing by itself, because nothing exists by
itself. It is not wonderful, then, if we only know ourselves as related
to our simultaneously known feelings, or vice versa. It is quite true
that we never know our own substantial essential being alone and
unmodified ; but then we have never for an instant so existed. Onr
knowledge of ourselves in this respect is like our knowledge of any
body and everybody else. Most persons here present doubtless know
Professor Tyndall ; yet they never knew him (no one ever know him)
except in some state—either at home or away from home, either
sitting or not sitting, either in motion or at rest, either with his head
covered or uncovered—and this for the very good and obvious reason
that he never did or could exist for a moment save in some state. But
this does not prevent your knowing him very well, and the same
consideration applies to our knowledge of ourselves. When I consider
what is my primary, direct consciousness at any moment, I find it to
be neither a consciousness of a state of feeling, nor of my continuous

1891.]                  on the Implications of Science.               439
existence, but a consciousness of doing something or having something
done to me-—action or reaction. I have always indeed some feeling
and also some sense of my self-existence, but what I perceive primarily,
directly and immediately, is neither the feeling nor the self-existence,
but some concrete actual doing, being, or suffering, then experienced.
We can, indeed, become distinctly and explicitly aware of either the
feeling or the self-existence, by turning back the mind upon itself.
But to know that one has a feeling, or is in a state, or even that a
feeling exists, is plainly an act by which no one begins to think. It
is evidently a secondary act—an act of reflection. No one begins by
perceiving his perception, any more than he begins by expressly
adverting to the fact that it is he himself who perceives it.
    Let us suppose two men to be engaged in a fencing match. IJach
man while he is parrying, lunging, &c., has his feelings or states,
and knows that it is he who is carrying on the struggle ; yet it is
neither his mental states nor the persistence of his being which
he directly regards, but his concrete activity—what he is doing
and what is being done to him. He may, of course, if he chooses,
direct his attention either to the feelings he is experiencing, or to his
underlying continuous personality. Should he do so, however, a hit
from his adversary's foil will be a probable result.
    But to become aware that one has any definite feeling, is a reflex
act at least as secondary and posterior as it is to become aware of the
self which has the feeling. I say " at least," but I believe that of
the two perceptions (1) of feelings and (2) of self, it is the
self which is the more prominently given in our primary direct
cognitions. I believe that a more laborious act of mental digging is
requisite to bring explicitly to light the implicit mental state, than to
bring forward explicitly the implicit self-existence. Men continually
and promptly advert to the fact that actions and sufferings are their
own, but do not by any means so continually and promptly advert to
the fact that the feelings they experience are existing feelings.
    Therefore I am convinced that one of the greatest and most
fundamental errors of our day is the mistake of supposing that we can
know our mental states or feelings more certainly and directly than
we can know the continuously existing self which has those feelings.
    Our perception of our continuous existence also involves the
validity of our faculty of memory which is implied in this way, as well
as in every scientific experiment we may perform. For we cannot
obviously have a reflex perception, either of our feelings or our self-
existence, without trusting our memory aa to the past ; since, how
ever rapid our mental processes may be, no mental act takes place
without occupying some period of time—and, indeed, nervous action is
not extremely rapid. In knowing therefore such facts by a reflex
act, we know by memory what is already past. Thus our certainty
as to our own continuous existence, necessarily carries with it a
certainty as to our faculty of memory. Therefore the mental idiocy
of absolute scepticism is the penalty that has to be paid for any real
                                                            2 a 2

440                      Dr. St. George Mioarl                  [June 5,
doubt about our own existence or the trustworthiness of the faculty
of memory, for all our power of reposing confidence in our observations,
experiments, or reasonings would, in that case, be logically at an end.
On the other hand the validity of our faculty of memory establishes
once for all (as wo have seen) the fact that we can transcend our
present consciousness, and know real objective truth.
    Let us now see the consequences of the denial, or real doubt, of
the second implication of science—the law of contradiction. Without
it we can be certain of nothing, and it therefore lands us in absolute
scepticism. And if we would rise from such intellectual paralysis, we
must accept that dictum as it presents itself to our minds ; and the
dictum presents itself to my mind, not as a law of thought only, but
a law of things. It affirms, for example, that no creature anywhere
or anywhen can at the same time be both bisected and entire.
    An amusing instance of the way in which very distinguished men
may be misled as to the question of our power of perceiving
necessary truth, is offered by an imaginary case which has been put
forward by Professor Clifford and Professor Helmholz. Their object
in advancing it was to show, by an example, how truths which appear
necessary to us are not objectively necessary. But the result
appears to me to show the direct contradictory of what they intended.
Their intention evidently was to support the proposition that we can
know no truths to be absolutely necessary, and the result is to show
that even according to them, some truths are absolutely necessary.
The necessary truths they propose to controvert are that a straight
line is the shortest line between .two points, and that two straight
lines cannot enclose a space.
    For this purpose curious creatures, possessing length and breadth
but no thickness, were supposed, by them, to be living on a sphere,
with the surface of which their bodies would coincide. They were
imagined to have experience of length and breadth in curves, but
none of heights and depth or of any straight lines. To such creatures,
it was said, our geometrical necessary truths would not appear truths
at all. A straight line for them could not be the shortest line,
while two parallel lines prolonged would enclose a space.
    To this imaginary objection I reply as follows : Beings so extra
ordinarily defective might, likely enough, be unable to perceive
geometrical truths which to less defective creatures—such as our
selves—are perfectly clear. Nevertheless if they could conceive of
such things at all, as those we denote by the terms " straight lines "
and " parallel lines," then there is nothing to show that they could not
also perceive those same necessary truths concerning them which
are evident to us.
    It is strange that the very men who make this fanciful objection
actually show, by the way they make it, that they themselves perceive
the necessary truth of those geometrical relations, the necessity of
which they verbally deny. For how, otherwise, could they affirm

1891.]                  on the Implications of Science.               441
what would or would not be the necessary results attending such
imaginary conditions? How could they confidently declare what
perceptions such conditions would certainly produce, unless they
were themselves convinced of the validity of the laws regulating
the experiences of such beings ? If they affirm, as they do, that they
perceive what must be the truth in their supposed case, they thereby
implicitly assert the existence of some absolutely necessary truths,
or else their own argument itself falls to the ground.
     But this same implication of science respecting the objective,
absolute validity of the law of contradiction, also refutes that popular
system of philosophy which declares that all our knowledge is merely
relative and that we can know nothing as it really exists indepen
dently of our knowledge of it—the system which proclaims the
relativity of knowledge.
     Of course anything which is known to us cannot at the same time
be unknown to us, and so far as this, our knowledge may be said to
affect the things we know. But this is trivial. Our knowing or
not knowing any object is—apart from some act of ours which results
from our knowledge—a mere accident of that body's existence which
is not otherwise affected thereby.
     Again, as I before remarked, nothing, so far as we know, exists
by itself, and unrelated to any other thing. To say, therefore, that
all our knowledge is relative, might only mean that knowledge con
cords with objective reality. But this is by no means what the
upholders of the relativity of knowledge intend to signify : they deny
the objective validity, the actual correspondence with reality, of any
of our perceptions or cognitions—even, as Mr. Herbert Spencer tells
us, our cognition of difference.
     Every system of knowledge, however, must start with the assump
tion, implied or expressed, that something is true. By the teachers
of the doctrine of the relativity of knowledge it is evidently taught
 that this doctrine of the relativity of knowledge is true. But if we
 cannot know that anything corresponds with external reality, if
nothing we can assert has more than a relative or phenomenal value,
 then this character must also appertain to the doctrine of the relativity
 of knowledge. Either this system of philosophy is merely relative or
 phenomenal, and cannot be known to be true, or else it is absolutely
 true and can be known so to be. But it must be merely relative and
 phenomenal, if everything known by man is such. Its value, then,
 can be only relative and phenomenal ; therefore it cannot be known to
 correspond with external reality, and cannot be asserted to be true ;
 and anybody who asserts that we can know it to be true, thereby
 asserts that it is false to say that our knowledge is only relative. In
 that case some of our knowledge must be absolute ; hut this upsets
 the foundation of the whole system. Any one who upholds such a
 system as this may be compared to a man seated high up on the
 branch of a tree which he is engaged in sawing across where it

442      Dr. St. George Mivart on the Implications of Science. [June 5,
springs from the tree's trunk. The position taken up by such a man
would hardly be deemed the expression of an exceptional amount of
wisdom. My time has expired, and I may say no more.
    The considerations I have put before you this evening, should
they commend themselves to your judgment, will, I think, lead you
to admit that if wo feel confidence and certainty in any part of any
branch of physical science, we thereby implicitly affirm that the
human mind can by consciousness and memory know more than
phenomena—can know some objective reality—can know its own
continuous existence, the validity of inference, and the certainty of
universal and necessary truth, as exemplified in the law of contra
diction. In other words, the system of the relativity of knowledge
is untrue. Thus, the dignity of that noble, wonderful power, the
human intellect, is fully established, and the whole of our reason,
from turret to foundation stone, stands firmly and secure. If I
have succeeded in bringing this great truth home to one or two of
my hearers who before doubted it, I am abundantly repaid for the
task I have undertaken,
                                                         [ST. G. M.]

  1891.]   Prof. H. B. Dixon on the Bale of Explosion in Gases.      443
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, June 12, 1891.
  SIB FBEDBBICK BBAMWKLL, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Honorary Secretary
                    and Vice-President, in the Chair.
   HABOLD B. DIXON, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Professor of Chemistry in tho
                      Owens College, Manchester.
                    The Rate of Explosions in Gases.
 THE rapid act of chemical change, which follows the kindling of
 an explosive mixture of gases, has of late years attracted the interest
 both of practical engineers and of theoretical chemists. To utilise
 for motive power the expansive force of ignited gases ; to minimise
 the chance of disastrous conflagrations of fire-damp in coal mines ;
 to follow the progress of chemical changes under the simplest condi
 tions, are sotne among the problems presented to us in industry or
 science, demanding for their solution a knowledge of the phenomena
 of the explosions of gases.
     To understand the nature of explosions in gases it is necessary to
 know certain fundamental properties of the explosive mixture. With
 this object in view experimenters have sought to determine for
 various mixture of gases : —the heat of chemical combination ; the
temperature of inflammation ; the pressure developed ; and lastly,
the rate at which the explosion is propagated under different con
ditions.
     It is on the last of these problems— the determination of the
velocity with which the flame travels through the gas—that I have
been asked to speak.
     Twenty-four years ago Bunsen described a method of measuring
the rapidity of the flame in gas explosions. Passing a mixture of
explosive gases through an orifice at the end of a tube and igniting
the gases as they issued into the air, he determined the rate at which
the gases must be driven through the tube to prevent the flame
passing back through the opening, and exploding inside the tube.
By this method he found that the rate of propagation of the ignition
of hydrogen and oxygen was 34 metres per second, while the rate

444                    Professor Harold B. Duron               [June 12,
of ignition of carbonic oxide and oxygen was less than 1 metre per
second. Bunsen applied these results to the rate of explosion of
gases in closed vessels, and his results were accepted without cavil
for fourteen years.
     By 1880 facts began to accumulate which seemed inconsistent
with Bunsen's conclusions. For instance, between 1876-80 I had
several times observed that the flame of carbonic oxide and oxygen
travelled in a long eudiometer too quickly to be followed by the eye.
Mr. A. V. Harcourt, in his investigation of an explosion which
happened in a largo gas main near the Tottenham Court Road in
1880, was led to the conclusion that the flame travelled at a rate
exceeding 100 yards per second. In the winter of 1880-1 I noticed
the rapid increase of velocity as a flame of carbon bisulphide with
nitric oxide travelled down a long glass vessel ; and shortly after
wards I attempted to measure the rate of explosion of carbonic oxide
and oxygen by photographing on a moving plate the flash at the
beginning and end of a long tube. The two flashes appeared to
be simultaneous to the eye, but no record of the rate was obtained,
for the apparatus was broken to pieces by the violence of the
explosion.
     In July 1881 two papers appeared in the ' Comptes Rendus,' one
 by M. Berthelot, the other by MM. Mallard and Le Chatelier.
 Both papers announced the discovery of the enormous velocity of
 explosion of gaseous mixtures. Other papers quickly followed by
 the same authors. M. Berthelot made the important discovery that
 the rate of explosion rapidly increases from its point of origin until
 it reaches a maximum which remains constant, however long the column
 of gases may be. This maximum M. Berthelot states to be indepen
 dent of the pressure of the gases, of the material of the tube, and of
 its diameter above a small limit. The rate of explosion thus forms a
 new physico-chemical constant, having important theoretical and
 practical bearings. The name " L'Onde Explosive " is given by
 Berthelot to the flame when propagated through an explosive mix
 ture of gases at the maximum velocity.
      While Berthelot, associated with Vieille, was measuring the rate
 of the " explosion-wave " for various mixtures of gases, Mallard and
 Le Chatelier continued the study of the preliminary phenomena of
 explosion which precede the formation of the " wave." They showed
 by photographing on a revolving cylinder :—(1) that when a mixture
 such as nitric oxide and carbon bisulphide is ignited at the open end
 of a tube, the flame travels a certain distance (depending on the
  diameter and length of the tube) at a uniform velocity ; (2) that at a
  certain point in the tube, vibrations are set up which alter the
  character of the flame, and that these vibrations become more intense,
  the flame swinging backwards and forwards, with oscillations of
  increasing amplitude; and (3) that the flame either goes out
  altogether, or that the rest of the gas detonates with extreme velocity.
  Again, when a mixture of gases was fired near the closed end of the

1891.]             on tlie Rate of Explosions in Gases.             445
tube, they found the velocity of the flame regularly increased, as
far as their instruments were able to record the rapidly increasing
pace.
     Mixtures of coal-gas with air, and of fire-damp with air, show
phenomena of the first and second kind. Ignited at the open end of
a tube these mixtures burn at a uniform rate for a certain distance,
and then the flame begins to vibrate.
     The vibrations acquire greater or less velocity according to the
nature of the mixture and the conditions of the experiment ; but the
third regime of uniform maximum velocity is not set up. In narrow
tubes the explosion soon dies out.
     The phenomena studied by Mallard and Le Chatelier have been
observed on a large scale in explosions in coal mines. It has been
noticed that little damage was caused at the source of an explosion,
and for a distance varying from 50 to 80 yards from the origin of
the flame, while beyond that distance fulls of roof, broken tubs, and
blown-out stoppings have testified to the violence exerted by the
explosion. Great as the destruction is which an explosion of fire
damp and air causes in a mine, it is fortunate that these mixtures do
not detonate.
     Passing on to Berthelot's researches on the rdgime of detonation,
I will briefly summarise the results he has arrived at.
     The actual velocities of explosion are compared by Berthelot with
the mean velocity of translation of the gaseous products of combus
 tion, supposing these products to contain all the heat that is
developed in the reaction.
     For instance, we know the total heat given out when hydrogen
and oxygen combine. If this heat is contained in the steam produced,
 we can calculate what its temperature must be if we know its heat
capacity. And if we know the temperature of the steam, we can
calculate the mean velocity with which the molecules must be
moving. Now Berthelot supposes that the heat is all contained in
the steam produced. He assumes that the heat capacity of steam is
the same as the sum of those of its constituents; and he supposes,
moreover, that the steam is heated at constant pressure. Making
these assumptions, he calculates out the theoretical mean velocity of
the products of combustion of various mixtures, and finds a close
accordance between these numbers and the explosion rates of the
same mixtures. He concludes that the explosive wave is propagated
by the impact of the products of combustion of one layer upon the
unburnt gases in the next layer, and so on to the end of the tube at
the rate of movement of the products of combustion themselves. If
liis theory is true, it accounts not only for the extreme rapidity of
explosion of gaseous mixtures, and gives us the means of calculating
the maximum velocity obtainable with any mixture of gases, but it
also affords us information on the specific heats of gases at very high
temperatures, and it explains the phenomena of detonation whether
of gases or of solid or liquid explosives.

 446                     Professor Harold B. Dixon                         [June 12,
     Table I. shows the explosion rates found by Berthelot, compared
 with the theoretical velocity of the products of combnstiou :—
                                      TABLE I.
                            BERTHELOT'S EXPKRIJIKTNB.
                                                Velocity in Metres per Second.
                  Uueoua Mixture.
                                               Theoretical.          Found.
                 H,      +      0           |     2830                2810
             Hydrogen and oxygen.
               H, '     +       N,0         |     2250                2284
           Hydrogen and nitrous oxide.
                 CO       +         0       |     1940                1090
           Carbonic oxide and oxygeu.
               CO       +         N,0       |     1897                1106
        Carbonic oxide and nitrous oxide.
                 CH4 +           04         |     2427                2287
             Marsh gas and oxygen.
                C,H4 +          0.          }     2517               2210
              Ethylene and oxygen.
                C,N, +          O4          |     2490               2195
             Cyanogen and oxygen.
                CJH, +          05          |     2660               2482
             Acetylene and oxygen.
            CO + H,              +     0,
      Carbonic oxide, hydrogen, and oxygon. }     2236               2008
    Two points in Table I. favoured the view that Berthelot might
have here given the true theory of explosions : first, the close coinci
dence between the rates of explosion of hydrogen both with oxygen
and nitrous oxide with the calculated mean velocities of the products
of combustion ; and secondly, the great discordance between the
found and calculated rates for carbonic oxide with both oxygen and
nitrous oxide. I had previously discovered that pure carbonic oxide
cannot be exploded either with pure oxygen or pure nitrous oxide.
The discordance found by Berthelot was what I should have expected
from my own experiments.
    A consideration of Berthelot's results, published in full in the
' Annales de Chimie,' led me to think it would be useful to repeat
and extend those experiments. My objects were chiefly: (1) to deter
mine as accurately as possible the rate of the explosion-wavo for

 1891.]             on the Rate of Explosions in Gases.              447
some well-known mixtures ; (2) to measure the rate of the explosion
wave in carbonic oxide with different quantities of steam ; and (3) to
determine the influence of inert gases on the propagation of the
wave.
     1. The results obtained with hydrogen and oxygen, with hydrogen
and nitrous oxide, and with marsh gas and oxygen in exact proportions
for complete combustion, were in close accordance with the mean
results of Berthelot ; for ethylene, acetylene, and cyanogen my
numbers differed appreciably, but in no case differed by more than
7 per cent, from the rates observed by Berthelot :—
                               TABLE IL
              VELOCITY OF EXPLOSIOK IN METRES PER SECOND.
                                                   Rerthelot. Dixon.
Hydrogen and oxygen                  H, + O          2810     2821
Hydrogen and nitrous oxide           H, + N, O       2284     2305
Marsh gas and oxygen                CH, + 0,         2287     2322
Ethyleue and oxygen               C,H4 + 0.          2210     2364
Acetylene ami oxygon              O.H. + O,          2482     2391
Cyanogen and oxygen               C, N, + 0,         2195     2321
     The general agreement between these measurements left no room
for doubt about the substantial accuracy of Berthelot's experiments.
The formula he gives does, therefore, express with a close degree of
approximation the rates of explosion of many gaseous mixtures.
     2. The formula fails for the explosion of carbonic oxide with
oxygen or nitrous oxide. This was to be expected if, in the detona
tion of carbonic oxide in a long tube, the oxidation is effected
indirectly by means of steam, as it is in the ordinary combustion of
the gas. Measurements of the rate of explosion of carbonic oxide
and oxygen in a long tube showed that the rate increased as steam
was added to the dry mixture, until a maximum velocity was attained
when between 5 and 6 per cent, of steam was present.
     8. When electrolytic gas was mixed with an excess of either
hydrogen or oxygen the rate of explosion was found to be altered ;
the addition of hydrogen increasing the velocity, the addition of
oxygen diminishing it. The addition of an inert gas nitrogen,
incapable of taking part in the chemical change, produced the same
effect as the addition of oxygen—one of the reacting substances—
only the retarding effect of nitrogen was less marked than that of an
equal volume of oxygen. The retardation of the explosion-wave

448                     Professor Harold B. Dixan               [June 12,
caused by the addition of an inert gas to electrolytic gas evidently,
therefore, depends upon the volume and the density of the gas added.
In the following table the retarding effect of oxygen and nitrogen,
on the explosion of electrolytic gas, is compared :—
                                 TABLE III.
   RATE OF EXPLOSION OF ELECTROLYTIO GAS WITH EXCESS OF OXYGBN AND
                                  NITROGEN.
    Volume of oxygen added     \    o,         o,         os       o,
          to H, + O            /
             Rate.                 2328       1927       1690     1281
   Volume of nitrogen added 1                                      N'
          to H2 + O            /    "i         **t          5        t
             Rate.                 2426       2055       1822      —
     I think it a fair inference from these facts to conclude, when the
addition of a gas to an explosive mixture retards the rate of explosion
by an amount proportional to its volume and density, that such added
gas is inert as far as the propagation of the wave is concerned, and
that any change which it may undergo takes place after the wave-
front has passed by—in other words, is a secondary change.
     This principle has been applied to determine whether, in the
combustion of gaseous carbon, the oxidation to carbonic acid is
effected in one or two stages— an important question, on which there
is little experimental evidence. If, for instance, in the combustion of
a hydrocarbon, or of cyanogen, the carbon is first burnt to carbonic
oxide, which subsequently is burnt to carbonic acid, the rate of the
explosion-wave should correspond with the carbonic oxide reaction,
in this case the primary reaction ; whereas, if the carbon of these
 gases burns to carbonic acid directly, in one stage, then the rate of
the explosion-wave should correspond with the complete reaction.
     Now, if we adopt Berthelot's formula as a working hypothesis,
we can calculate the theoretical rates of explosion of marsh gas,
ethylene, or cyanogen : (1) on the supposition that the carbon burns
directly to CO3, and (2) on the supposition that the carbon burns
first to CO, and the further oxidation is a subsequent or secondary
reaction. On the first supposition, if 100 represents the rate of
explosion of these three gases burning to carbonic oxide, the addition
of the oxygen required to burn the gases to carbonic acid should
increase the rate of explosion :—
                                           Marsh Gas. Ethylene. Cyanogen.
Calculated rate of explosion \                104        103
   when lunnt to CO,      .. )                                     107
Whereas if these gases really burn first to carbonic oxide, and the

1891.]              on the Rate of Explosions in Gases.                 449
extra oxygen is inert in propagating the explosion-wave, then the
addition of this inert oxygen would diminish the rate of explosion :—
                                           March Gas. Ethylene. Cyanogen.
Calculated rate of explosion when burnt \      g2        go         gy
     to CO with inert oxygen present . . /
The experiments show that if 100 be taken as the rate of explosion
when the oxygen is only sufficient to burn the carbon to carbonic
oxide, the following are the rates found when oxygen is added
sufficient to burn the carbon to carbonic acid: —
                                           Marsh Gas. Ethylene.  Cyanogen.
Rates found                                    94         92        84
The results are, therefore, in favour of the view that, in the explosion
of these gases, the carbon is first burnt to carbonic oxide.
    But stronger evidence on this point is obtained by comparing the
explofiion rate of these gases (1) when fired with oxygen sufficient to
burn the carbon in thom to carbonic acid, and (2) when nitrogen is
substituted for the oxygen in excess of that required to burn the
carbon to carbonic oxide. We have seen that oxygen added to
electrolytic gas hinders the explosion more than nitrogen. In pre
cisely the same way oxygon added to a mixture of equal volumes of
cyanogen and oxygen hinders the explosion more than the samo
volume of nitrogen. The conclusion we must come to is that the
oxygen added to the mixture expressed by the formula Ca N2 -)- O2 is
as inert (so far as the propagation of the explosion-wave is concerned)
as oxygen added to the mixture expressed by the formula H2 + O.
The same phenomena occur in the explosion of marsh gas, ethylene,
and acetylene. In all these cases the substitution of nitrogen for the
oxygen required to burn the carbon from carbonic oxide to carbonic
acid increases the velocity of the explosion. These facts seem only
consistent with the view that the carbon burns directly to carbonic
oxide, and the formation of carbonic acid is an after-occurrence.
     Finally, the rates of explosion of cyanogen and the hydro
 carbons, when their carbon is burnt to carbonic oxide, have been
 found greater than the velocities calculated from Borthelot's formula.
 This accords with the observation previously made that the rate of
 explosion of electrolytic gas with excess either of hydrogen or
 oxygen is far higher than the calculated rate. It would seem
 probable that the theoretical rates as calculated by Berthelot should
 be modified, in spite of the close agreement which his numbers show.
 I think the low rates found, when hydrogen, marsh gas, cyanogen,
 &c., are exploded with equivalent proportions of oxygen, depend
 partly on the carbon burning to carbonic oxide and partly on the
 dissociation of the steam at the high temperature. If the formula is
 modified in these respects, velocities can be calculated which agree
 with the experimental results where dissociation does not occur.

450 Prof. H. B.Dixon on the Rate of Explosions in Gases.       [June 12,
I suggest the following modifications : (1) the specific heats should be
taken at constant volume instead of at constant pressure ; (2) the
density of the gas should be taken as the mean of the burnt and
unburnt molecules, instead of that of the burnt molecules alone ;
and (3) a correction should be made for the alteration of volume by
the chemical reaction, which in some cases increases, in others
diminishes, the volume.
    The rates so calculated agree with the explosion rates of cyanogen
when burnt to carbonic oxide either by oxygen, nitrous oxide, or
nitric oxide ; with the explosion rates of hydrogen and oxygen with a
large excess either of hydrogen, oxygen, or nitrogen ; with the
explosion rates of ethylene and acetylene with oxygen and a large
excess of nitrogen ; and, lastly, with the explosion rates of hydrogen
and chlorine with an excess of hydrogen.
    In conclusion, I would say that these experiments have amply
confirmed the truth of Berthelot's statement that the explosion-wave
is a " specific constant " for every gaseous mixture ; that it has been
shown that the rate of explosion depends upon the primary reaction
occurring, and that the determination of the rate may throw some
light on what is now so obscure—the mode in which chemical changes
are brought about ; and, finally, that it does not seem impossible that
a connection between the rate of the molecules and the rate of the
explosion may be worked out, which will give us some definite
information on points of high interest in the theory of gases.
                                                           [H. B. D.]

1891.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                        451
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, July 6, 1891.
   SIR JAMBS CRICHTON BROWNB, M.D. LL.D. F.E.8. Treasurer and
                          Vice-President, in the Chair.
                Henry Claudius Ash, Esq.
                Henry T. C. Knox, Esq.
                John George Mair-Rumley, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Miss Jane
 Barnard, Dr. J. H. Gladstone, the Rev. A. R. Abbott, Mr. T. F.
 Deacon, Mr. A. Blaikley, and others, for the loan of the valuable and
 interesting Collection of Faraday Memorials shown in the Library
 on the occasion of the two Lectures on June 17th and 26th given in
 commemoration of the Faraday Centenary.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Sir
 Frederick Abel, K.C.B. for his valuable present of an (Ertling
 Balance, and to Mr. Ludwig Mond, for his donation of £100 towards
 expenses connected with the Faraday Centenary Commemoration.
      The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
 Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1891, Part 1. 8vo.
 Accademia dei lAncei, Jteale, Roma— Atti, Scrie Quarta : Rendiconti. 1° Semee-
      tre, Vol. VII. Fase. 9. 8vo. 1891.
  American Academy of Artt and Sciences—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. XVII.
      8vo. 1890.
 Astrorvmical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LI. No. 7. 8vo. 1891.
 Bankert, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XII. Part 6. 8vo. 1891.
 British Architects, Rnyal Institute of—Proceedings, 1890-1, Nos. 16, 17. 4to.
 Buckttm, George B. Esq. F.K.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Monograph of the British
       Cicadas or Tettigidre, Part 6. 8vo. 1891.
  California State Mining Bureau—Tenth Annual Report for 1890. 8vo. With
       Mnpa.
  Chief Signal Officer, U.S. Army—Annual Report for 1890. 8vo. 1890.
  Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. X. No. 5. 8vo. 1891.
  Chemical Society— Journal for June, 1891. 8vo.
  Civil Engineers' Institution— Proceedings, Vol. CIV. 8vo. 1891.
  Cornwall Polytechnic Society, Royal—Annual Report for 1890. 8vo.
  Cortie, the Rev. A. L. (the Author)—Note on the Spectrum of the Sun-spot of
       June, 1889. 8vo.
    Further Note, with a correction. 8vo.
  Cracovie, I'Academie des Sciences—Bulletin, 1891, No. 5. 8vo.

452                         General Monthly Meeting.                  [July 6,
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. &c. Af.fl.I.^Journal of the Royal Microscopical
      Society, 1891, Part 3. 8vo.
Cutler, Drs. E. and J. A. (the Authors)—Heartrest Sanatory. 4to. 1891.
East India Association—Journal, Vol. XXIII. No. 2. 8vo. 1891.
.Editors—American Journal of Science for June, 1891. 8vo.
   Analyst for June, 1891. 8vo
   Athenseum for June, 1891. 4to.
   Brewers' Journal for June, 1891. 4to.
   Chemical News for June, 1891. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for June, 1891. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for June, 1891. fol.
   Engineer for June, 1891. fol.
   Engineering for June, 1891. fol.
   Horological Journal.for June, 1891. 8vo.
   Industries for June, 1891. fol.
   Iron for June, 1891. 4to.
   Ironmongery for June, 1891. 4to.
   Murray's Magazine for June, 1891. 8vo.
   Nature for June, 1891. 4to.
   Open Court for June, 1891. 4to.
   Photographic News for June, 1891. 8vo.
   Public Health for June, 1891. 8vo.
   Revue Scientiflque for June, 1891. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for June, 1891. fol.
   Zoophilist for June, 1891. 4to.
Florence Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale—Bulletin^, Nos. 131, 132. 8vo. 1891.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 786. 8vo. 1891.
 Geneva, SocieU de Physique et d'Histoire NalurelU—Me'moires, Tome XXXI.
      Partie 1. 4to. 1890-1.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. III. Nos. 6, 7. 8vo. 1891.
Great Eastern Railway Company—The Rivers and Broads of Norfolk and
      Suffolk. 8vo. 1891.
   New Holidnys in Essex. 8vo. 1891.
   The Los of the Lalage, 8vo. 1889.
Johns Hopkins University—University Circulars, No. 89. 4to. 1891.
   American Chemical Journal, Vol. XIII. No. 5. 8vo. 1891.
Mensbrugglie, G. Van der, Esq. (the Autlior)—Sur un particularite curicuse des
      Coursd'Eau. 8vo. 1891.
   La surface Commune a deux Liquides. 3rd Part. 8vo. 1891.
 Meteorological Society, Royal—Quarterly Journal, No. 78. 8vo. 1891.
   Meteorological Record, No. 39. 8vo. 1890.
 Ministry of Public Works, Rome—Giornale del Genio Civile, 1891, Fasc. 2-4.
       8vo. And Dosigni. fol. 1891.
 Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXIII. No. 8. New
       Series. 8vo. 1891.
 Parker, R. W. Esq. (the Author)—Diphtheria; its nature and treatment. 8vo.
       1891.
 Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, June, 1891. 8vo.
 Rath\x>ne, E. P. Esq. (the Editor)— The Witwatersrand Mining and Metallurgical
       Review, No. 17. 8m 1891.
 Royal Irish Academy—Transactions, Vol. XXIX. Part 16. 4to. 1891.
    Proceedings, 3rd Series, Vol. I. No. 5. 8vo. 1891.
 Royal Society of London— Proceedings, No. 299. 8vo. 1891.
 Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Mathematische-Physischen Classe:
   Abhandluufjen, Band XVII. Nos. 3, 4. 4to. 1891.
    Berichte, 1891, No. 1. 8vo. 1891.
 Science and Education Library, South Kensington Museum—Catalogue of the
       Science Library. 8vo. 1891.

1891.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                      463
Sidyreaves, the Sen. W. (the Author)—Results of Meteorological and Magnetical
     Observations, 1889-90. 8vo. 1890.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. HI. No, 12. 8vo. 1891.
Society of Artt—Journal for June, 1891. 8vo.
Thompson, Sir Henry, F.R.C.S. M.R.I. &c. (the Author)—Modern Cremation.
     2nd Edition. 8vo. 1891.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 160. 8vo. 1891.
Wright & Co. Messrs. John (the Publishers)—Porthcawl as a Health Resort. By
     Bobert C. Hunter. STO. 1891.
Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1891, Part 1. STO. 1891.
  Transactions—Vol. XIII. Parts 1, 2. 4to. 1891.
    VOL. XIII. (No. 85.)                                          2 H

454                         General Monthly Meeting.                  [Nov. 2,
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, November 2, 1891.
   SIB JAMIB CMOHTON BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                          Vice-President, in the Chair.
          George Frederick Deacon, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
          Miss Henriette Hertz,
          Arthur Walter Mills, Esq.
          Robert Mond, Esq. B.A. F.R.S.E.
           Joseph Shaw, Esq.
           D. Hack Tuke, M.D. F.R.C.P.
           Lieut.-Col. H. S. S. Watkin, C.B. R.A,
          William Henry White, Esq. C.B. F.R.S. M. Inst, O.E.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FEOM
 The Secretary of State for India—Great Trigonometrical Survey of India,
     Vol. XIV. 4to. 1890.
 The Governor-General of India—Geological Survey of India: Memoirs, Vol. XXIV.
     Purt3. 8vo. 1891.
   Records, Vol. XXIV. Parts 1-3. 8vo. 1891.
   Index to first 20 vols. of the Records, 1868-1887. 8vo. 1891.
 Accademia dei Lineei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. 1° Semes-
     tre. Vol. VII. Faso. 10-12. 2" Semestre, Vol. VII. Fasc. 1-6. 8vo. 1891.
   Memorie, Vol. VIII. 4to. 1891.
 Academy of Natural Sciencet, Philadelphia—The Priority in demonstrating the
      Toxic Effect of Matter accompanying the Tubercle Bacillus and its Ni.lua.
      8vo. 1891.
 Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Vol. II. Part 3. 8vo. 1891.
 American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 135. 8vo. 1891.
 Atiatie Society of Bengal—Proceedings, Nos. II.-VI, 8va 1H91.
   Journal, Vol. LIX. Part 1, Nos. III.-IV. Part 2, No. IV. Part 2, Supplement,
      No. 2. Vol. LX. Part I. No. 1. Part II. No. 1. 8vo. 1891.
 Agronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LI. Nos. 8, 9. 8vo. 1891.
 Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XIL Part 7. 8vo. 1891.
 Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Sitzunpsberichte, 1891. Heft 1, 2. 8vo.
 Belgium, Koyal Academy of Science!—Memoirea Couronnes, Tomes I,. I.I. 4 to.
      1889, 90.
   Hlmoires Couronneg. Collectiin in 8vo. Tomes XLIII.-XLV. 8To. 1889-91.
   Bulletins, 3"" Sette. Tomes XVIII.-XXL 8vo. 1889-91.
   Annuaire, 1890-91. 8vo. 1890-91.
   Catalogue de la Bibliotheque, Partie II. Pvo. 1890.
 Boston Society of Natural History—Proceedings, Vol. XXV. Part 1. 8vo. 1891.
 Bowman, Sir William, Bart. LL.D. F.R£. U.R.I, (the Author)—Frans Cornells
      Dunders, 1819-1889. 8vo. 1891. (Proceedings of Royal Society.)
 Briti-h Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1891, 'Nos. 18-20 ; 1891-2,
      No. 1. 4to.
 British Museum Tnuieet—Ancient Greek Inscriptions, Parts 2, 3. fol. 1883-90.
   Cuneiform Inscriptions of Western Asia, Vol. IV. fol. 1891.
   Egyptian Texts from the Coffin of Amamn. fol. 1886.

 1891.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                         455
 Brilish Museum Trusttes—continued.
    Facsimiles of Epistles of Clement of Rome. fol. 1856.
    Photogrnphs nf the Papyrus of Nebseni. fol. 1886.
    Catalogue of English Coins. Vol. I. 8vo. 1887.
    Cntal <gue of Greek Coins : Peloponnesus, Attica, Corinth, Pontus, Ac. 4 roll.
      STO. 1887-9.
    Catalogne of Persian Coins. 8vo. 1887.
    Catalogue of Addition!* to M8S. 1876-87. 2 Tols. 8ro. 1882-9.
    Catalogue of Ancient MSS. Part I. (Greek), fol. 1881.
    Catalogue of Seals in MSS. Department, Vol. I. 8vo. 1887.
    Catalogue of Persian MSS. Vol. III. 4to. 1883.
    Catalogue of Printed Maps, Plans, and Charts. 2 vols. 4to. 1885.
    Catalogue of Prints and Drawings, Vol. IV. 1761-1770. 8vo. 1883.
   Catalogue of Enrly Prints (German and Flemish), Vol. II. STO. 1883.
Bril>sh Museum (Natural History)—Catalogue of Birds, Vol. XIX. 8vo. 1891.
    Catalogue of Fossil Birds. 8vo. 1891.
   Illustrations of Lepidnptera Heterooera, Part VIII. 4to. 1891.
   List of British Oligocene and Eocene Mollusca. STO 1891.
Bucktm, George B. />••/. F.R.S. M.R.1. (the Author}—Monograph of the British
      Cicada or Tettigide, Part 7. STO. 1891.
 California, University of— Publications, 1S90-91. 8vo.
 Canada, Geological and Natural History Survey of— Contributions to Canadian
      Palaeontology, Vol. I. Part 3. 8vo. 1891.
   Annual Repoit, Vol. IV. New Series. STO. 1890.
 Cassell it Co. Mean, (the PuUishen)—Howard's Art of Reckoning. STO. 1891.
Chemical Industry. Society of—Journal. Vol. X. Nos. 6, 7. 8vo. 1891.
Chemical Society—Journal for July-Oct. 1891. 8vo.
City of London College—Calendar, 1891-92. STO. 1891.
Civil Engineer^ Institution—Proceedings, Vol. CVI. 8vo. 1891.
   Subject Index, LIX.-CVI. 1879-91. 8vo. 1891.
   Engineering Education. 8vo. 1891.
Clarke, William Harmon, Esa. (the Author}—The Civil Service Law. 8vo. 1891.
Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. XXIV. 8vo. 1891.
Colonial Institute, Royal -Proceedings, Vol. XXII. 8vo. 1890-91.
Cooper Uniim, Trustees of the (New York, U.S.A.)—Annual Report. 8vo. 1891.
Craoovie, rAcademie det .Sciences—Bulletin, 1891, No. 6. 8vo.
Crisp, Frank, Etq. LL.B. F.LJ3. &c. M.R.I.—Journal of the Royal Microscopical
      Society, 1891, Part 4. 8vo.
Eaa India Association- Journal, Vol. XXIII. No. 4. 8vo. 1891.
Editors—American Journal of Science for July-Oct. 1891. 8vo.
   Analyst for July-Got. 1891. STO.
   Atbeneeum for July-Oct. 1891. 4to.
   Brewers' Journal for July-Oct. 1891. 4to.
   Chemical News for July-Oct. 1891. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for July-Oct. 1891. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for July-Oct. 1891. fol.
   Engineer for July-Oct. 1891. foL
   Engineering for July-Oct. 1891. fol.
   Horological Journal for July-Oct. 1891. STO.
   Industries for July-Oct. 1891. fol.
   Iron for July-Oct. 1891. 4to.
   Ironmongery for July-Got. 1891. 4to.
   Monist for July-Got. 1891. STO.
   Murray's Magazine for July-Oct. 1891. STO.
   Nature for July-Oct. 1891. 4to.
   Open Court for July-Oct. 1891. 4to.
   Photographic News for July-Oct. 1891. Svo.
   Reme Scientiflque for July-Oct. 1891. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for July-Oct. 1891. fol.
   Zoophilist for July-Oct. 1890. 4to.
                                                                   aHa

456                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [Nov. 2,
Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, No. 94. 8vo. 1891.
Florence Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale—Bolletiao, Nos. 133-140. 8vo. 1891.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 788-790. 8vo. 1891.
Fraser, Colonel A. T. R.E. M.R.I. (the Author)—Darkness and Light in the Land
      of Egypt. STO. 1891.
   Letters on Indian Finance and Thorough Cultivation. By Sir A. Cotton.
      8vo. 1887-91.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. III. Nos. 8-11. 8vo. 1891.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1891, Nos. 8-13. 8vo.
    Abhandlungen, Band XV. Heft 3. 4to. 1891.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, Nos. 187, 188. 8vo. 1891.
Oeorgofili, Beale Accademia—Mti, Quarta Serie, Vol. XIV. Disp. 2, 3. 8vo.
      1891.
 Harlem, SocieU Hollandaise des Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Tome XXV.
      2mo Livraison. 8vo. 1891.
 Ilcaell, Watson, & Viney (the Publishers)—Hazell's Annual for 1891. 8vo.
Hicla, E. L. Esq. (the Author)—The Collection of Ancient Marbles at Leeds.
      8vo. 1890. (Journal of Hellenic Studies, Vol. XI.)
Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XIII. Part 2. 8vo. 1891.
Huggins, William, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Presidential
      Address to British Association, Cardiff Meeting, 1891. 8vo.
Institute of Brewing—Transactions, Vol. IV. No. 8. 8vo. 1891.
Iron and Steel Institute—Journal for 1891. 8vo.
Jablonowskfsche GeselUchaft, Leipzig—Preisschriften, XVIII. 4to. 1891.
Jenkins, Rev. Canon R. C. M.A. (the Author)—Pre-Tridentine Doctrine. 8vo. 1891.
Johns Hopkins University—University Circulars, No. 91. 4to. 1891.
    American Chemical Journal, Vol. XIII. No. 6. 8vo. 1891.
 Langky, S. P. Esq. (the Author)—Recherches expe'rimentales aerodynamiques.
      4to. 1891. (Comptes Bendus.)
 Linnean Socitty—Journal, Nos. 148, 176, 194, 197. 8vo. 1891.
    Transactions: Botany, Vol. III. ParU 2, 3. 4to. 1891. Zoology, Vol. V.
      Parts 4-7. 4to. 1890-91.
   Proceedings, August, 1891. 8vo.
Madras Government Central Museum—Report, 1890-91. fol. 1891.
Major, Frederick, Esq. (the Author)—Spacial and Atomic Energy, Part III.
      'Heat.' 8vo. 1891.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXI. Parts 7-10. 8vo. 1891.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs and Proceedings,
      Vol. IV. Nos. 4, 5. 8vo. 1890-91.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, 1891, Nos. 2-3. 8vo.
Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Beport, 1880, Parts 3, 4. 8vo. 1891.
   Monthly Weather Beport, 1887, May-December. 8vo. 1891.
   Hourly Means, 1887. 8vo. 1891.
    Meteorological Observations at Stations of the Second Order, for 1887. 8vo.
      1891.
   Cyclone Tracts in the South Indian Ocean, fol. 1891.
Meteorological Society, Royal—Quarterly Journal, No. 79. 8vo. 1891.
   Meteorological Record, No. 40. 8vo. 1891.
Ministry of Public Works, Rome—Giornale del Genio Civile, 1891, Fasc. 5-8.
      8vo. And Designi. fol. 1891.
Montt, Pedro, Esq. (the Author)—Exposition of the Illegal Acts of Ei- President
      Balmaceda. 8vo. 1891.
Morize, H. Esq. (the Author)—Ebauche d'une Climatologie du Bre'sil. 8vo. 1891.
Musical Association—Proceedings, 17th Session, 1S'J0-91. 8vo. 1891.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
      Vol. XXXVIII. Part 6 ; Vol. XL. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1891.
Nova Scotian Institute of Science—Proceedings and Transactions, Vol VII.
      Part 4. 8vo. 1890.
Messrs. Partridge, S. W. & Co. (the Publishers)—Hemy M. Stanley. By Arthur
      Montefiore. 8vo. 1890.

1891.]                      General MonlUy Meeting.                          457
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, July-Oct. 1891. 8vo.
Preussisrhe Akademie der Wiesenschajten—Sitzungsberichte, Nos. I.-XL. 8vo.
     1891.
Rathbone, E. P. Esq. (the Editor)—The Witwatersrand Mining and Metallurgical
     Review, Nos. 18-21. 8vo. 1R91.
Richardson, B. W. At.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Aaclepiad, Vol. VIII.
     No. 31. 8vo. 1891.
Rio de Janeiro, Observatorire Imperiale de—Revista, Nos. 5-8. 8vo. 1891.
Robinson, Henry. Esq. Af. [nst. C-K (the Author)—Electric Lighting by Muni
     cipal Authorities. 8vo. 1891.
Royal Botanic Society of London—Quarterly Record, 1891. NOs. 46, 47. 8vo.
Royal College of Surgeons, England—Calendar, 1891. 8vo.
Royal DuHin Society—Transactions, Vol IV. (Sec. II.) Parts 6-8. 8vo. 1890-91.
   Proceedings, Vol. VI. N.S. Part 10. Vol. VII. N.S. Parts 1, 2. 8vo. 1890-91.
Royal Irish Academy—Proceedings, 3rd Series, Vol. II. No. 1. 8vo. 1891.
Royal Society of Antiquaries of Ireland—Journal, Vol. I. Fifth Series, Nos. 6, 7.
     8vo. 1891.
Soyal Society of Canada—Proceedings and Transactions, Vol. VIII. 4to. 1891.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XXXIV. Vol. XXXVI. Part 1.
     4to. 1889-90.
   Proceedings, Vol. XVII. 8To. 1889-90.
Royal Society of Literature—Annual Report, 1891. 8vo.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 300-302. 8vo. 1891.
Royal Society of New South Wales—Journal and Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. Part 2.
     8vo. 1890.
Russell, The Hon. Rollo, M.R.I, (the Xtrfftor}—The Spread of InBuenza; ito sup
     posed relations to Atmospheric Conditions. 8vo. 1891.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Mathematische-Physischen CIasso :
   Abhandlungen, Band XVII. No. 5. 4to. 1891.
   Berichte. 1891, No. 2. 8vo. 1891.
   Philologisch-Historischen Classe :
   Abhandlungen, Band XII. No. 3. 8vo. 1891.
   Berichte, 1891, No. 1. 8vo. 1891.
Selborne Society -Nature Notes, Vol. II. Nos. 19, 20. 8vo. 1891.
Smithsonian Institution—Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. XXXIV.
  ~ Nos. 4, 5. 8vo. 1891.
  Contributions to Knowledge, Vol. XXVII. fol. 1891.
   Annual Report, 1889, Part I. 8vo. 1890.
Society of Arts—Journal for July-Oct. 1891. 8vo.
St. Bartholomew's Hoepital—Statistical Tables for 1890. 8vo.
Statistical Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. LIV. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1891.
Tarfhini, Professor P. Hon. Mem. R.I. (the Author)—Memorie della Societa degli
     Spettroscopisti Italian!, Vol. XX. Disp. 7A. 4to. 1891.
Tasmania, Royal Society—Proceedings for 1890. 8To. 1891.
Teyler Museum—Archives, Serie II. Vol. HI. Part 6. 8vo. 1891.
Toronto University—Papers. 1890-91. 8vo.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, Nos. 161-164. 8vo. 1891.
United States Navy—General Information Series No. X. 8vo. 1891.
University Correspondence College—Calendar, 1891-92. 8vo.
Upsal, Royal Society of Sciences—Nova Acta, Series 3, Vol, XIV. Fasc. 2. 4to.
     1891.
Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleises in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1891 :
     Heftti-8. 4to.
Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 96. 8vo. 1891.
Wild, Dr. H. (the Director)—Annalen der Physikalischen Central-Observatoriuma,
     1890. Theil I. 8vo. 1891.
Wright & Co. Messrs. John (the Publishers)—The Practice of Hypnotic Suggestion.
     By G. C. Kingsbury, M.D. 8vo. 1891.
Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1891, Part II. 8vo. 1891.

458                        General Monthly Meeting.                   [Dec. 7,
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, December 7, 1891.
   SIR JAMES CRIOHTON BROWNB, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                         Vice-President, in the Chair.
         Lorentz Albert Groth, Esq.
         John Imray, Esq. M.A. M.Inst. C.E.
         George Stillingfleet Johnson, Esq. F.C.8.
         John List, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
         Mrs. Douglas Powell,
         James Shuud, Esq. M. Tnst. C.E.
         Mrs. Thomas Threlfall,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
following Donations to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
Research :—
        Professor Dewar (For Structural Alterations) .. £200
        Mr. Ludwig Mond (For New Pressure Pomp) .. £120
     The Honorary Secretary reported that the late Mr. J. P. Stocker,
 M.E.I, had bequeathed £100 to the Royal Institution.
     The following Lecture Arrangements were announced :—                      '
    On LIFE IN MOTION, OR THE ANIMAL MACHINE. By PROFESSOR JOHN G.
 MoKENDRiCK, M.D. LL.D. F.R.8. Professor nf Physiology in the University of
 Glasgow. Six Lectures (adapted to a Juvenile Auditory), on Dec. 29 (Tuesday),
 Dec. 3I, 1891 ; Jan. 2, 5, 7, 9, 1892.
    On THE STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. The Brain.
 By PROFESSOR VICTOR HORBLEY, F.E.S. B.8. F.R.C.8. M.R.I. Fullerian Professor
 of Physiology, R.I. Twelve Lectures on Tuesdays, Jan. 19, 26, Feb. 2, 9, 16, 23,
 March 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, April 5.
     On SOME ASPECTS OF GREEK SCULPTURE IN RELIEF. By A. S. MURRAY, Esq.
 LL.D. F.S.A. Keeper of Greek and Roman Antiquities at the British Museum.
 Three Lectures on Thursday*, Jan. 21, 28, Feb. 4.
    On SOME RECENT BIOLOGICAL DISCOVERIES. By PROFESSOR E. RAY LAK-
 KESTER, M.A. LL.D. F.R.S. Three Lectures on Thursdays, Feb. 11, 18, 25.
     On THE PUOORESS or ROMANCE IN THE MIDDLE AOES. By PROFESSOR W. P.
 KER, M.A. Professor of English Literature in University College, London.
 Three Lectures on Thursdays, March 3, 10, 17.
     On EPIDEMIC WAVES. By B. ARTHUR WHITELEGGE, M.D. B.Sc. Three
 Lectures on Thurtdays, March 24, 31, April 7.

1891.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                       459
    On THE INDUCTION COTL AND ALTERNATE CURRENT TRANSFORMER. By
PROFESSOR J. A. FLEMING, M.A. D.So. M.R.I. Three Lectures on Saturdays,
Jan. 23, 30, Feb. 6.
    On MATTER : AT REST AND IN MOTION. By THE EIGHT HON. LORD RAYLEIQH,
M.A. D.C.L. F.R.8. M.B.I. Professor of Natural Philosophy, R.I. Six Lectures
on Saturdays, Feb. 13, 20, 27, March 5, 12, 19.
    On DRAMATIC Music, FROM SHAKESPEARE TO DRYDEN. (The Play, the Masque,
and the Opera.) (With Illustrations.) By PROFESSOR 3. V. BRIDGE, Mus. Doc.
Three Lectures on Saturdays, March 26, April 2, 9.
     THE PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
'The Governor-General of India—Geological Survey of India: Palseontologica
     Indica, Series XIII. Vol. IV. Part 2. fol. 1890.
   Memoirs, Vol. XXIII. 4to. 1891.
The French Government—Documents Inedits sur 1'Histoire de France :
   Lettres du Cardinal Mazarin. Par A. CherueL Tome VI. 1653-1655. 4to.
     1890.
   OomptcH des Bailments du Roi, sous le Regne de Louis XIV. Par J. Guiffrey.
     Tome3". 4to. 1891.
Aocademia dei Lined, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta : Rendiconti. 2° Semes-
      tre, Vol. VII. Fasc. 7, 8. 8vo. 1891.
   Atti. Anno 43, Sees. 7"; Anno 44, Bess. 1. -Ho. 1890-91.
   Memorie, Vol. IX. Partie 2". 4to. 1891.
Atxiilfmii of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1891, Part 2. 8vo.
American Association for the Advancement of Science—Proceedings, 39th Meeting,
      Indianapolis, 1890. 8vo. 1891.
Antiyxarii't, Satiety of—Proceedings, Vol. XIII. No. 3. 8vo. 1890-91.
   Archseologia. Second Series. Vol. II. 4to. 1890.
Aristotelian Society—Proceedings, Vol. I. No. 4, Part 2' 8vo. 1891.
Asiatic Society of Great Britain, Royal—Journal for October, 1891. Svo.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XII. Part 8. 8m 1891.
 Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Neue Annalen, Band II. 4to. 1891.
 Boston Society of Natural Bistort/—Proceedings, Vol. XXV. Part 2. 8vo. 1891.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1891-2, NOs. 2-4. 4to.
   Calendar, 1891-2. 8vo.
 Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. VIL Part 4. 8vo. 1891.
 Canadian Institute—Transactions, Vol. II. Part 1, No. 3. Svo. 1891.
 Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. X. No. 10. 8vo. 1891.
 Chemical Society—Journal for November, 1891. 8vo.
 Cracovie, VAcademic des Sciences—Bulletin, 1891, No. 7. 8vo.
 Dax, Societi de Bordd—Bulletin, seizieme anne'e, l^-3", Trimestre. 8vo. 1891.
 Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Science, Literature, and Art—
      Report and Transactions, Vol. XXIII. 8vo. 1891.
   Devonshire Domesday, Part 8. 8vo. 1891.
Editors—American Journal of Science for November, 1891. 8vo.
   Analyst for November, 1891. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for November, 1891. 4to.
   Brewers' Journal for November, 1891. 4to.
   Chemical News for November, 1891. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for November, 1891. 8vo.
   Educational Review, New Series, Vol. I. No. 1. 8vo. 1891.
   Electrical Engineer for November, 1891. fol.
   Engineer for November, 1891. fol.
   Engineering for November, 1891. fol.

460                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [Dec. 7,
Editors—continued.
   Horologieal Journal for November, 1891. Svo.
   Industries for November, 1891. fol.
   Iron for November, 1891. 4to.
   Ironmongery for November, 1891. 4to.
   Monist for November, 1891. 8vo.
   Murray's Magazine for November, 1891. 8vo.
   Nature for November, 1891. 4to.
    Open Court for November, 1891. 4to.
    Photographic News for November, 1891. 8vo.
    Kevue Scientifique for November, 1891. 4to.
    Telegraphic Journal for November, 1891. fol.
    Zoophihst for November, 1891. 4to.
Ex-Libris Society—Journal for December, 1891. 4to.
Florence Biblioteca Nazianale Centrale—Bolletino, NOs. 141, 142. 8vo. 1891.
    Indiee e Cataloghi, Vol. I. Faso. 3 ; Vol. II. Fasc. 4. 8vo. 1891.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 791. 8vo. 1891.
Geographical Society, Royal-—Proceedings, Vol. XIII. No. 12. 8vo. 1891.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—-Verhandlnngen, 1891, No. 14. 8vo.
    Jahrbuch, Band XL. Heft 3, 4 ; Band XLI. Heft 1. 8vo. 1891.
tiro-ill,; Edward, Esq. J.P. (the Editor)—The Year Book of Australia, 1886,
       1889, and 1890. 8vo.
Historical Society, Royal—Transactions, New Series, Vol. V. 8vo. 1891.
Howard Association—Penological and Preventive Principles. By W. Tallaok.
       8vo. 1889.
 Iml Hula of Brewing—Transactions, Vol. V. No. 1. Svo. 1891.
Johns Hopkins University—University Circulars, Nos. 92, 93. 4to. 1891.
    American Chemical Journal, Vol. XIV. Nos. 2-4. 8vo. 1891.
    American Journal of Philology, Vol. XI. No. 4 ; Vol. XII. No. 1. 8vo. 1891.
    Studies in Historical and Political Science, Ninth Series, Nos. 1-8. Svo.
       1891.
Lawes, Sir John Bennet, Bart. LL.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—Field and other Ex
       periments conducted at Bothamsted, Herts, fol. 1891.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 149, 150, 195. 8vo. 1891.
Longmans & Co. Mean, (the Publishers)—The Principles of Chemistry. By D.
       Mendeleef. Translated by G. Kamensky and A. J. Greenaway. 2 Tola. Svo.
       1891.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXI. Part 11. Svo. 1891.
Meteorological OJjux—Daily Weather Charts of the Arabian Sea (June 1885).
       4to. 1891.
    Charts of the Indian Ocean adjacent to Cape Gardafui. fol. 1891.
Ministry of Public Works, Bome—Giornale del Genio Civile, 1891, Fasc. 9. Svo.
       AndDesigni. fol. 1891.
New York Academy of Sciences—Annals, Vol. V. Extra, Parts 1-3. Svo. 1891.
    Transactions, Vol. X. Parts 2-6. Svo. 1890-91.
 Odontological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXIV. No. 1. Svo. 1891.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, November, 1891. Svo.
Badclife Library—Catalogue of Books added to Library during 1890. 4to. 1891.
Ramsay, William, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S. M.B.I, (the Author)—A System of Inorganic
       Chemistry. Svo. 1891.
Rio de Janeiro, Observatoire Impfrial de—Revista, No. 9. Svo. 1891.
 Saxon Society of Sciences, Boyal—Mathematische-Physischen Classe :
    Abhandlungen, Band XVII. No. 6. 4to. 1891.
    PhilologUch-HiBtorischen Classe :
    Abhandlungen, Band XIII. No. 2. 4to. 1891.
 Socie'te' Archeologique du Midi de la France—Bulletin, Serie in Svo, Nos. 6-7.
       1890-91.
 Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. IV. Nos. 1, 2. Svo. 1891.

1891.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                      461
Society of Arts—Journal for November, 1891. STO.
St. Petersbourg Aoademie Imperials da Sciencet—Bulletin, Tome XXXIV. No. 2.
     ito. 1891.
Surgeon-General't Office, U.S. Army—Index Catalogue of the Library, Vol. XII.
     4to. 1891.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, Nos. 165, 166. STO. 1891.
 United Stotes Department of Agriculture—North American Fauna, Part 5. STO.
     1891.
   Monthly Weather ReTiew for July and August, 1891. 4to.
   Special Report of Chief of Weather Bureau. STO. 1891.
 Vereitu sur Befiirderung det Gewerbfleiset in Preuuen—Verhandlnngen, 1891 :
     Heft 9. It...
Wild, Henry, Esq. F.RjS. (the Author)—The Phenomena of Terrestrial Magnetism.
     4to. 1891.
Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1891, Part 3. STO. 1891.
   Transactions, Vol. XIII. Part 3. ito. 1891.

462                      The Faraday Centenary.                [June 17,
                 THE FARADAY CENTENARY."
                      Wednesday, June 17, 1891.
      H.B.H. THE PBINCE OF WALES, KG. F.B.S. Vice-Patron,
                              in the Chair.
THERE were also present—The Duke of Northumberland (President),
Lord Morris. Sir William Thomson (Pres. R.S.), Sir George Stokes,
M.P. Sir William Grove, Count Tornielli (the Italian Ambassador),
Sir Frederick Leighton, Sir James Crichton Browne, Sir Joseph
Lister, Sir Frederick Abel, Sir William Bowman, Sir Archibald
Geikie, Sir Henry Roscoe, M.P. Sir Somers Vine, Sir Frederick
Bramwell, Professor Dewar, and Professor Horsley.
    TH« PBLNOB OF WALES opened the proceedings with the following
address :—
    Ladies and Gentlemen,—I can well remember that two-and-twenty
years ago I had the high privilege of presiding at a meeting here. That
meeting was a very large one, and included many of the most eminent
scientific men of the day. Among those present on that occasion, I
remember, were the illustrious chemist. Professor Dumas, Sir Edward
 Sabine, Sir Roderick Murchison, Sir Henry Holland, a very old per
 sonal friend of mine, Dr. Bence Jones, Mr. Warren de la Rue, and
 many others, who I regret to say have now passed away. The object
 of our meeting on that occasion was to select a suitable memorial to
 the memory of the great Faraday, the eminent chemist and philosopher,
 who, I may say, was also the founder of modern electricity. As you
 are well aware, the fine statue by Foley, which is in the hall below,
 was, we thought, a suitable memorial to that great man. As for'
 myself personally, I feel proud to think that in the days of my boy
 hood my brother and myself used to attend his chemical lectures here
 about Christmas time, and I shall ever remember the admirable and
 lucid way in which he delivered those lectures to us who were mere
 boys, and gave us a deep interest in chemistry, which we kept up for
 many years, and which I had the opportunity of practising at the
 University of Oxford. I can only regret that I have not since had
 the time to pursue that interesting science. To-day is a memorable
 day, for this year we celebrate the centenary of the birth of that great
 man ; and we all of us have reason to feel grateful that two such
 eminent men as Lord Rayleigh and Professor Dewar should have
 consented to give lectures on the work of the great Faraday. I have
 only now to beg Lord Rayleigh to give us his address.
     LOUD R ATLEIOH said that the man whose name and work they were
                * Michael Faraday, born 22nd September, 1791.

1891.]                   The Faraday Centenary.                     463
celebrating was identified in a remarkable degree with the history of
this Institution. If they could not take credit for his birth, in other
respects they could hardly claim too much. During a connection of
fifty-four years, Faraday found there his opportunity, and for a large
part of the time his home. The simple story of his life must be
known to most who heard him. Fired by contact with the genius of
Davy, he volunteered his services in the laboratory of the Institution.
Davy, struck with the enthusiasm of the youth, gave him the desired
opportunity, and, as had been said, secured in Faraday not the least
of his discoveries. The early promise was indeed amply fulfilled,
and for a long period of years by his discoveries in chemistry and
electricity Faraday maintained the renown of the Royal Institution
and the honour of England in the eye of the civilised world. He
should not attempt in the time at his disposal to trace in any detail
the steps of that wonderful career. The task had already been per
formed by able hands. In their own ' Proceedings ' they had a vivid
sketch from the pen of one whose absence that day was a matter of
lively regret. Dr. Tyndall was a personal friend, had seen Faraday
at work, had enjoyed opportunities of watching the action of his mind
in face of a new idea. All that he could aim at was to recall, in a
fragmentary manner, some of Faraday's great achievements, and, if
 possible, to estimate the position they held in contemporary science.
      Whether they had regard to fundamental scientific import, or to
practical results, the first place must undoubtedly be assigned to the
 great discovery of the induction of electrical currents. He proposed
 first to show the experiment in something like its original form, and
 then to pass on to some variations, with illustrations from the be
 haviour of a model, whose mechanical properties were analogous.
 He was afraid that these elementary experiments would tax the
 patience of many who heard him, but it was one of the difficulties of
 his task that Faraday's discoveries were so fundamental as to have
 become familiar to all serious students of physics.
      The first experiment required them to establish in one coil of
 copper wire an electric current by completing the communication
 with a suitable battery; that was called the primary circuit, and
 Faraday's discovery was this : That at the moment of the starting or
 stopping of the primary current in a neighbouring circuit, in the
 ordinary sense of the words completely detached, there was a ten
 dency to induce a current. He had said that those two circuits were
 perfectly distinct, and they were distinct in the sense that there was
 no conducting communication between them, but, of course, the im
 portance of the experiment resided in this—that it proved that in
 some sense the circuits were not distinct; that an electric current
 circulating in one does produce an effect in the other, an effect
 which is propagated across a perfectly blank space occupied by air,
 and which might equally well have been occupied by vacuum. It
 might appear that that was a very simple and easy experiment, and
 of course it was so in a modern laboratory, but it was otherwise at

464                     The Faraday Centenary.                 [June 17,
the time when Faraday first made it. With all his skill, Faraday
did not light upon the truth without delay and difficulty. One of
Faraday's biographers thus wrote:— "In December 1824, he had
attempted to obtain an electric current by means of a magnet, and on
three occasions he had made elaborate and unsuccessful attempts to
produce a current in one wire by means of a current in another wire,
or by a magnet. He still persevered, and on August 29, 1831—that
is to say, nearly seven years after his first attempts—he obtained the
first evidence that an electric current induced another in a different
circuit." On September 23rd, he writes to a friend, B. Phillips : " I
am busy just now again with electro-magnetism, and think I have
got hold of a good thing, but cannot say ; it may be a weed instead
                     of a fish that, after all my labour, I at last haul
                     up." We now know that it was a very big fish
                     indeed. Lord Bayleigh proceeded to say that he
                     now proposed to illustrate the mechanics of the
                     question of the induced current by means of a
                     model (see figure), the first idea of which was due
                     to Maxwell. The one actually employed was a
                     combination known as Huygens's gear, invented
                     by him in connection with the winding of clocks.
                     Two similar pulleys, A B, turn upon a piece of
                     round steel fixed horizontally. Over these is hung
                     an endless cord, and the two bights carry similar
                     pendant pulleys, C, D, from which again hang
                     weights, E, F. The weight of the cord being
                     negligible, the system is devoid of potential
                     energy ; that is, it will balance, whatever may be
                     the vertical distance between C and D. Since
                     either pulley, A, B, may turn independently of
                     the other, the system is capable of two inde
                     pendent motions. If A, B turn in the same direc
                     tion and with the same velocity one of the pendant
                     pulleys, C, D rises, and the other falls. If, on the
                     other hand, the motions of A, B are equal and
                     opposite, the axes of the pendant pulleys and the
                     attached weights remain at rest. In the elec
                     trical analogue the rotatory velocity of A corre
                     sponds to a current in a primary circuit, that
of B to a current in a secondary. If, when all is at rest, the rota
tion of A be suddenly started, by force applied at the handle or
 otherwise, the inertia of the masses E, F opposes their sudden move
 ment, and the consequence is that the pulley B turns backwardt, i. e.
 in the opposite direction to the rotation imposed upon A. This is
 the current induced in a secondary circuit when an electromotive-
 force begins to act in the primary. In like manner, if A, having
 been for some time in uniform movement, suddenly stops, B enters
 into motion in the direction of the former movement of A. This ia

1891.]                    The Faraday Centenary.                    465
the secondary current on the break of the current in the primary
circuit. It might perhaps bo supposed by some that the model was
a kind of trick. Nothing could be further from the truth. The
analogy of the two things was absolutely essential. So far was this
the case that precisely the same argument and precisely the same
mathematical equations proved that the model and the electric
currents behaved in the way in which they had seen them behave in
the experiment. That might be considered to be a considerable
triumph of the modern dynamical method of including under the
same head phenomena the details of which might be so different as in
this case. If they had a current which alternately stopped and
started, and so on, for any length of time, they, as it were, produced
in a permanent manner some of the phenomena of electrical induc
tion ; and if it were done with sufficient rapidity it would be evident
that something would be going on in the primary and in the
secondary circuit. The particular apparatus by which he proposed
to illustrate those effects of the alternating current was devised by a
skilful American electrician, Prof. Elihu Thomson, and he had no
doubt it would be new to many. The alternating current was led
into the electro-magnet by a suitable lead ; if another electric
circuit, to be called the secondary circuit, was held in the neigh
bourhood of that, currents would be induced and might be made
manifest by suitable means. Such a secondary circuit he held in
his hand, and it was connected with a small electric glow-lamp. If
a current of sufficient intensity were induced in that secondary circuit
it would pass through the lamp, which would be rendered incan
descent. [Illustrating.] It was perfectly clear there was no con
juring there ; the incandescent lamp brightened up. One of the first
questions which presented itself was, what would be the effect of
putting something between? Experimenting with a glass plate, he
showed there was no effect, but when they tried a copper plate the
lamp went completely out, showing that the copper plate was an
absolute screen to the effect, whatever it might be. Experiments of
that kind, of course in a much less developed and striking form,
were made by Faraday himself, and must be reckoned amongst some
of his greatest discoveries.
    Before going further, he might remark on what strong evidence
they got in that way of the fact that the propagation of the electric
energy which, having its source in the dynamo downstairs, eventually
illuminated that little lamp, was not merely along the wires, but was
capable of bridging over and passing across a space free from all
conducting material, and which might be air, glass, or, equally well,
vacuum. Another kindred effect of a striking nature, devised by Prof.
Elihu Thomson, consisted in the repulsive action which occurred
between the primary current circulating around a magnet and the
current induced in a single hoop of aluminium wire. Illustrating
this by experiment, he showed that the repulsion was so strong as to
throw the wire up a considerable height. Those effects were com

466                      The Faraday Centenary.               [June 17,
mouly described as dependent upon the mutual induction between
two distinct circuits, one being that primarily excited by a battery or
other source of electricity, while the other occurred in a detached
circuit. Many surprising effects, however, depended on the reactions
which took place at different parts of the same circuit. One of these
he illustrated by the decomposition of water under the influence of
self-induction.
    About the time the experiments of which he had been speaking
were made, Faraday evidently felt uneasiness as to the soundness of
the views about electricity held by his contemporaries, and to some
extent shared by himself, and he made elaborate experiments to
remove all doubt from his mind. He re-proved the complete
identity of the electricity of lightning and of the electricity of the
voltaic cell. He evidently was in terror of being misled by words
which might convey a meaning beyond what facts justified. Much
use was made of the term " poles " of the galvanic battery. Faraday
was afraid of the meaning which might be attached to the word
" pole," and he introduced a term since generally substituted,
" electrode," which meant nothing more than the way or path by
which the electricity was led in. " Electric fluid " was a term
which Faraday considered dangerous, as meaning more than they
really knew about the nature of electricity, and as was remarked
by Maxwell, Faraday succeeded in banishing the term " electric
fluid " to the region of newspaper paragraphs.
    Diamagnetism- was a subject upon which Faraday worked, but it
would take him too long to go into that subject, though he must say a
word or two. Faraday found that whereas a ball of iron or nickel or
cobalt, when placed near a magnet or combination of magnets, would be
attracted to the place where the magnetic force was the greatest, the
contrary occurred if for the iron was substituted a corresponding mass
of bismuth or of many other substances. The experiments in diamag-
netism were of a microscopic character, but he would like to
illustrate one position of Faraday's, developed years afterwards by
Sir Win. Thomson, and illustrated by him in many beautiful experi
ments, only one of which he now proposed to bring before them.
Supposing they had two magnetic poles, a north pole and a south
pole, with an iron ball between them, free to move along a line
perpendicular to that joining the poles, then, according to the rule he
had stated, the iron ball would seek an intermediate position, the
place at which the magnetic force was the greatest. Consequently,
if the iron ball be given such a position, they would find it tended
with considerable force to a central position of equilibrium ; but if,
instead of using opposite poles, they used two north poles, they would
find that the iron ball did not tend to the central position, because
that was not the place in which the magnetic force was the greatest.
At that place there was no magnetic force, for the one pole com
pletely neutralised the action of the other. The greatest force
would be a little way out, and that, according to Faraday's observa

1891.]                   The Faraday Centenary.                     467
tions, systematised and expressed in the form of mathematical law
by Sir Wm. Thomson, was where the ball would go. [This was
illustrated by experiment.]
     The next discovery of Faraday to which he proposed to call
Attention was one of immense significance from a scientific point of
view, the consequences of which were not even yet fully understood or
developed. He referred to the magnetisation of a ray of light, or
what was called in more usual parlance the rotation of the plane of
polarisation under the action of magnetic force. It would be hope
less to attempt to explain all the preliminaries of the experiment to
those who had not given some attention to those subjects before, and
he could only attempt it in general terms. It would be known to
most of them that the vibrations which constituted light were
executed in a direction perpendicular to that of the ray of light. By
experiment he showed that the polarisation which was suitable to pass
the first obstacle was not suitable to pass the second, but if by
means of any mechanism they were able after the light had passed
the first obstacle, to turn round the vibration, they would then give
it an opportunity of passing the second obstacle. That was what
was involved in Faraday's discovery. [Experiment.] As he had
said, the full significance of the experiment was not yet realised. A
large step towards realising it, however, was contained in the
observation of Sir Wm. Thomson, that the rotation of the plane of
polarisation proved that something in the nature of rotation must be
going on within the medium when subjected to the magnetising
force, but the precise nature of the rotation was a matter for further
speculation, and perhaps might not be known for some time to
come.
     When first considering what to bring before them he thought,
perhaps, he might include some of Faraday's acoustical experiments,
which were of great interest, though they did not attract so much
attention as his fundamental electrical discoveries. He would only
allude to one point which, as far as he knew, had never been noticed,
but which Faraday recorded in his acoustical papers. " If during a
strong steady wind, a smooth flat sandy shore, with enough water on
it, either from the receding tide or from the shingle above, to cover
it thoroughly, but not to form waves, be observed in a place where
the wind is not broken by pits or stones, stationary undulations will
be seen over the whole of the wet surface               These are not
waves of the ordinary kind, they are (and this is the remarkable
point) accurately parallel to the course of the wind." When he first
read that statement, many years ago, he was a little doubtful as to
whether to accept the apparent meaning of Faraday's words. He
knew of no suggestion of an explanation of the possibility of waves
of that kind being generated under the action of the wind, and it was,
therefore, with some curiosity that two or three years ago, at a French
watering-place, he went out at low tide, on a suitable day when there
was a good breeze blowing, to see if he could observe anything of

468                      The Faraday Centenary.                [June 17,
the waves described by Faraday. For some time he failed absolutely
to observe the phenomenon, but after a while he was perfectly well
able to recognise it. He mentioned that as an example of Faraday's
extraordinary powers of observation, and even now he doubted
whether anybody but himself and Faraday had ever seen that pheno
menon.
    Many matters of minor theoretic interest were dealt with by
Faraday, and reprinted by him in his collected works. He was
reminded of one the other day by a lamentable accident which
occurred owing to the breaking of a paraffin lamp. Faraday called
attention to the fact, though he did not suppose he was the first to
notice it, that by a preliminary preparation of the lungs by a number
of deep inspirations and expirations, it was possible so to aerate the
blood as to allow of holding the breath for a much longer period than
without such a preparation would be possible. He remembered
some years ago trying the experiment, and running up from the
drawing-room to the nursery of a large house without drawing any
breath. That was obviously of immense importance, as Faraday
pointed out, in the case of danger from suffocation by fire, and he
thought that possibly the accident to which he alluded might have
been spared had the knowledge of the fact to which Faraday drew
attention been more generally diffused.
    The question had often been discussed as to what would have
been the effect upon Faraday's career of discovery had he been subjected
in early life to mathematical training. The first thing that occurred
to him about that, after reading Faraday's works, was that one would
not wish him to be anything different from what he waa If the
question must be discussed, he supposed they would have to admit
that he would have been saved much wasted labour, and would have
been better en rapport with his scientific contemporaries if he had
had elementary mathematical instruction. But mathematical train
ing and mathematical capacity were two different things, and it did not
at all follow that Faraday had not a mathematical mind. Indeed,
some of the highest authorities had held (and there could be no
higher authority on the subject than Maxwell) that his mind was
essentially mathematical in its qualities, although they must admit
it was not developed in a mathematical direction. With these words
of Maxwell he would conclude :—" The way in which Faraday made
use of his idea of lines of force in co-ordinating the phenomena of
electric induction shows him to have been a mathematician of high
order, and one from whom the mathematicians of the future may
derive valuable and fertile methods."
    Bra WILLIAM THOMSON, in moving a vote of thanks to Lord
Rayleigh for his lecture, said that the Koyal Institution was during
the last part of Faraday's life, and during the whole of his scientific
career, his home. The splendid results of Faraday's labours con
tributed in no small degree to the scientific glory of the 19th
century, and helped to make it one of the most prolific periods in

1891.]                   The Faraday Centenary.                      469
the world's history. Faraday was throughout animated solely by
the love of knowledge. He freely gave his discoveries to mankind,
and left it to others to turn them to practical and profitable
account.
    SIR (THOUGH: STOKES, in seconding the motion, said that he had
had the honour of a personal acquaintance with Faraday, whose
single-minded devotion to knowledge for its own sake was beyond all
praise.
    The vote of thanks was cordially passed.
    LORD RAYLEIOH, in acknowledgment, said that it had been a
great honour and a great responsibility which had been placed upon
him. He remembered with gratitude the instruction which he had
derived at Cambridge from Sir Gabriel Stokes, and felt deeply in
debted to Sir William Thomson for all that he had learnt from his
writings and his conversation.
    SIR FREDERICK BBAMWELL read the following letter from Dr.
Tyndall :—
                                         Hiud Head House, Haslemere,
                                                June 16, 1891.
DEAR SIH FREDERICK BRAMWELL,
    As Faraday recedes from me in time, he becomes to me more
and more beautiful. Anything, therefore, calculated to do honour
to his memory must command my entire sympathy.
    But the utmost liberty I can now allow myself is to be shifted
from my bed to a conch and wheeled to a position near the window,
from which I can see the bloom of the gorse and the brown of the
heather.
    Thus, considerations affecting the body only present an insuper
able barrier to my going to London on Wednesday.
                                             Yours very truly,
                                                    JOHN TYNDALL
    SIR FREDERICK BRAMWELL read a list of the names of the
honorary members elected on May 4, 1891, in commemoration of
the Centenary of Faraday ; and reported that the following letters
had been received from them.
                                                   Paris, 18 Mai 1891.
MONSIEUR,
    J'ai reQU 1'invitation quo vous voulez bien m'udresser a assister
au Centenaire de Faraday et 1'annonce de mon election comme mem-
bre honoraire de I'Iustitution Royale. Je vous prie de remercier le
Conseil de I'honneur qu'il me fait. Je serais tres houreux d'entendre
les lectures de Lord Rayleigh et da Professeur Dewar, et tres
desireux de concourir a rendre hommage a la memoire de 1'illustre
Faraday. Je 1'ai connu a Londres, lorsqu'il a bien voulu assister
a une lecture que j'y ai donnee, il y a un quart de siecle, a
" Royal Institution," et me temoigner sa sympathie. Mais je ne puia
m'engager & venir cette anuee, avant que la date exacte de la reunion
    VOL. XIII. (No. 85 )                                     2 i

470                        The Faraday Centenary.                       [June 17,
s' lit fixee, etant moi-mome assnjetti a de nombroux devoirs comma
Senateur et comme Secretaire Perpetucl de 1'Academie des Sciences.
      Veuillez, monsieur, agreer 1'assurance de ma consideration la
plus distinguee.
                                                               M. BERTHBLOT.
                                                      9, Rue de Crenelle, Paris.
                                                            le 20 Mai 1891.
MONSIEUR LE SECRETAIRE HONORAIRE,
      Je vous prie de vouloir bien presenter mes vifs remorciments aux
Membres du Conseil de 1'Institution Koyale pour 1'honneur quo m'a
fait 1'assemblee generale en m'elisant membro honoraire.
      Je ferai mon possible pour me rendre & Londres afin d'assister
aux seances ou Lord Rayleigh et le Professeur Dewar rappelleront
quelques-uns des admirables travaux de Faradaj' et d'etre personnelle-
ment " admis " a 1'Institution. Mais cela dependra naturollement de
la date de ces reunions.
      Veuillez agreer, je vous prie, Monsieur le Secretaire Honoraire,
1'expression de mes sentiments respectueux et devoues.
                                                                     A. CORSU.
                      Bureau Contral Mc'te'orologique, 176, Rue de I'Universite',
                                           Cabinet du Directeur,
                                                          Paris, lo 16 Mai 1891.
MONSIEUR LE SECRETAIRE HONORAIRE,
      Je vous prie de transmettre au Conseil de 1'Institution Royale
1'expression de ma plus vive reconnaissance pour la haute distinction
qu'il a bien voulu m'accorder par la nomination de " mcmbre hono
raire."
      J'attache d'autant plus de prix a cette faveur qu'elle a pour occa
sion la celebration du centenaire de la naissance de Faraday, 1'nn des
plus grands hommes de bien et 1'uno des plus pures illustrations du
monde scientifique.
      Jo serais tres heureux si mes obligations me permettent de
recevoir personnellement le diploma qui m'est destine et d'entendre
cclebrer la gloire do Faraday par les savants les plus autorises.
      Veuillez agreer, monsieur le Secretaire honoraire, 1'assurance de
ma haute consideration.
                                                                 E. MASCART.
                                               Institnt Pasteur, 25, Rue Dutot,
                                                    Paris, le 20 Mai 1891.
MONSIEUR LE SECRETAIRE,
      J'ai re9u, avec des sentiments de vive satisfaction, la lettre par la-
quelle vous m'informiez que, a 1'occasion du centenaire de la naissance
de Michael Faraday, 1'Institution Royale de la Grande Bretagne m'a
elu membre honoraire de cette celebre Institution.
      Je suis touche profondement do cette haute marque d'estime

1891.]                   The Faraday Centenary.                           471
donnee a mes travanx et je vons prie d'etre aupres dcs mcmbrcs do
1'Institution 1'interprete de mes sentiments de gratitude.
     Malheureusement, 1'etat de ma saute' ne me permettra pas do
pouvoir assister aux lemons qui seront faitcs a 1'Institution Royale pour
honorer la memoire de 1'illustre Faraday, sous la presidence de
S.A.E. le Prince de Galles, ni d'avoir 1'honneur d'allor en personne
recevoir le diplome qui m'est destined
     Veuillez recevoir, monsieur le Secretaire, 1'expression de ma haute
consideration.
                                                             L. PASTEUR.
                               [Translation.]
                                                  Heidelberg, May 21, 1891.
DEAR SIR,
     You have heen so kind as to inform me by a letter of May, 1891,
that the Royal Institution of Great Britain has nominated me as
honorary member at the last general meeting.
     I am exceedingly grateful for such a mark of favour so kind and
indulgent towards me. I beg you to thank the Royal Institution
heartily for their sign of friendly sympathy. I feel how much I am
esteemed by the distinction, especially as I do not conceal from
myself how far from tho object in view are my scientific efforts to
obtain the end before me.
     I am very sorry that I must renounce tho pleasure of being
present at the Faraday festivities, my age not allowing me to
undertake a long journey so far away from home.
     I beg to assure you of my highest respect, in which I remain,
dear sir, your obedient humble servant,
                                                              R. BUNSEN.
                                              Charlottenburg, Marchslrasse,
                                                     Juno 4, 1891.
I )I:AK SIR,
     I beg to excuse that I shall not be able to como to London for
the Centenary of the birth of Michael Faraday, in order to receive
there the Diploma of Membership to the Royal Institution in so
exceptionally honouring way, as you indicate, namely, by the hands of
His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales. I was obliged to accept an
election as honorary president of the Commission of Jurors at the
Electric Exhibition at Frankfurt, and the first meeting of this com
mission for the constitution and organization shall take place in the
same time, when I ought to come to London.
     Begging that you will be so kind to excuse me also before His
Royal Highness,
                              I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                                              HERMANN v. HKLJIHOLTZ.
                                                               2 i 2

472                     The Faraday Centenary.                   [June 17,
                                            Berlin, 10, Dorotheen Strasae,
                                                     Hay 24, 1891.
Mr DEAB SIB FBEDEBICK,
    When returning home from a short Whitsuntide excursion I found
your kind letter conveying the welcome news of my having been
elected an Honorary Member of the Royal Institution of Great
Britain. I hasten to express my heartfelt thanks for the rare
distinction bestowed upon me. The honour of becoming associated
with so renowned a corporation, conspicuous at all times, is doubled
by the auspicious occasion on which it is conferred.
    In Faraday, I admired the incomparable experimental thinker ;
I loved the noble-minded, kind-hearted man. During the twenty years
I have had the good fortune of living in dear old England I did not miss
a single one of his lectures. It would be difficult to say how deeply
I am indebted to these and to a great many other lectures I attended at
the Royal Institution, and often in my own courses when showing a
highly instructive experiment, I delight in telling my students where
and by whom performed I saw it for the first time.
    I am glad to hear that two lectures on Faraday's life work will
be delivered by the eminent professors of the Institution in the
theatre hallowed by his never-to-be-forgotten addresses. Unfortu
nately my duties in the University do not permit me to leave
Berlin during the months of June and July, so I must forego the
pleasure of hearing them. They will, however, most undoubtedly be
printed.
    I remain, my dear Sir Frederick, with reiterated thanks, yours
very sincerely,
                                                 A. W. VON HOFMANN.
                                          Tutzing, Bavaria, May 19, 1891.
DEAB SIB,
    I have received the announcement of my election as Honorary
Member of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Although I feel
the great honour of this election, and although I would be very proud
to accept the diploma in such a glorious assembly as will be present
at the Centenary of the birth of Michael Faraday, I must beg excuse
for me. Our University lectures shall be re-opened next week and
then be continued until the end of July, and I am bound by my
office and business to stay at Berlin during this whole time. So I
must beg you, dear sir, to express my hearty thanks to the Members
of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, and to forward to me that
diploma.
                    Yours very sincerely,
                                   RuD. VlBCHOW, M.D. LL.D., F.B.S.
                                Professor in the University of Berlin.

 1891.]                    The Faraday Centenary.                         473
                                                12, Ware Street, Cambridge,
                                                       Mass., U.S.A.
 SIR,
      I feel highly honored by my election as an Honorary Member of
 the Royal Institution of Great Britain, and gratefully accept the privi
 leges it implies. It wonld give me the greatest pleasure to be able to
 take part in the celebration of the Centenary of the Birth of Michael
 Faraday, but I am at present in such poor health that an ocean
 voyage would be impracticable. Another year I earnestly hope I may
 be able to visit the " old country " once more, and shall look forward
 with satisfaction to be received as a member where I have often been
 a guest. Indeed I have very tender associations with the Royal
 Institution ; for it was there, as a young man on my first visit to
 England, that I made the acquaintance of Faraday through the intro
 duction of a mutual friend. That acquaintance was to me an inspira
 tion, and I look back to it as one of the most important influences in
 my education. I remember distinctly that after one of his lectures
 to a juvenile audience, when I conld not restrain my enthusiasm, and
expressed my admiration at his power of commanding attention, and
my surprise at the simplicity of the means employed, the great
master replied, " That is the whole secret of interesting these young
people. I always use the simplest means, but I never leave a point
not illustrated. If I mention the force of gravitation I take up a stone
and let it drop." At this distance of time I cannot be sure that I
quote his exact language, but the illustration and the lesson I could
not forget ; and to this lesson more than to any one thing I owe whatever
success I have had as a teacher of physical science. You can then
well understand how glad I should be to pay honor to the memory
of Michael Faraday not only as the consummate investigator, but also
as the great teacher and noble man.
              I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant,
                                                       JOSIAH P. COOKB.
                                                New Haven, dim., U.S.A.,
                                                        May 28, 1891.
SIR,
     Your communication announcing the high honor conferred on me
by the Royal Institution in electing me Honorary Member on the
occasion of the Faraday Centenary was received early this week. It
is a special pleasure to have my name associated with those of the
Members of the Royal Institution in whose laboratory Faraday, one
of the greatest of philosophers, carried on a large part of his work,
and to have it thus honored in connection with the Centenary of the
birth of the illustrious Faraday.
     I regret to have to say that the state of my health will not permit
of my visiting London to attend the proposed lectures of Lord
Rayleigh and Professor Dewar.
                  I have the honour to be your obedient servant,
                                                        JAMES D. DANA.

474                       The Faraday Centenary.                   [June 17,
                                                New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.,
                                                         May 25, 1891.
MY DEAB SIB,
     Your note has been received informing me that I have been
elected ati Honorary Member of the Royal Institution of Great
Britain. Please express to the Managers of the Institution my high
appreciation of the distinguished honor which has been conferred on
me. I regret that my engagements are not likely to permit me to be
present at the interesting occasion of the centennial which is to be
 celebrated.
                I remain, Sir, with sincere respect, yours faithfully,
                                                      J. WILLABD GIBBS.
                                                  Washington, June 1, 1891.
 SIB,                                                                ,
      I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of the invitation with
 which you have honoured me, in the name of the Royal Institution
 of Great Britain, to be present at the Centenary of the birth of
 Faraday and receive the Diploma of honorary membership of the
 Institution.
      No ordinary engagements would be allowed to prevent my attend
 ance at a celebration of such interest by an Institution whose name
 and organization are so intimately associated with the greatest of
 experimental physicists. But physical disability renders it im
 prudent to undertake a journey abroad at the present time. I can
 therefore only assure you of my very high appreciation of the honour
 done me, and my extreme regret that I caunot be present in person
 to receive it.
                I am, with high respect, your most obedient servant,
                                                          SIMON NEWCOMB.
                                           University of Bome, May 22, 1891.
 SIB,
      In reply to your communication informing me of the honor just
  conferred on me at the General Meeting of the Royal Institution of
  Great Britain, I can but express my earnest thanks and assure you
  of the deep sympathy I feel in all that has been, or may be done, to
  honor the memory of Michael Faraday.
     With regard to my attending the lectures I fear it will be extremely
  difficult, as although the University courses finish about the middle
  of June, they are followed immediately by a long series of examina
  tions which carry UB into the middle of July. I must reserve, there
  fore, my acceptance, but it would give me great satisfaction to be
  present besides procuring me the pleasure of becoming personally
  acquainted with many colleagues whom I have not the advantage of
  knowing.

1891.]                   The Faraday Centenary.                           475
    Allow me, meanwhile, to thank the Managers and yourself for the
kind intention of communicating to me the date to be fixed upon for
the lectures.
                  I have the honor to be, Sir, yours truly,
                                                 STANISLAS CANNIZZARO.
                               [Translation.]
                                       R. Oseervatorio del Collegio Romano,
                                               Ronie, May 26, 1891.
DEAR SIR,
    I have received your esteemed letter of the present month in
forming me of the great honour that has been conferred upon me by
naming me an honorary member of the Royal Institution of Great
Britain, and inviting me to attend the scientific gathering to celebrate
Faraday's Centenary.
    I fully appreciate the distinction, and my wish would be to
attend the said gathering, but I cannot come to a determination until
June, and I must know the exact date of the meeting.
    I must in the meanwhile ask yon to kindly convey my best
wishes for the Institution, and pray accept the respectful regards of
your obedient servant
                                                       PIETRO TACOHINI.
                                                    University, Copenhagen,
                                                          May 22, 1891.
SIR,
      Having by your letter been informed of my being elected an
honorary member of the Royal Institution of Great Britain in
occasion of the Centenary of the birth of Michael Faraday, I beg
you, Sir, receive my sincere thanks for this acknowledgment of my
labours and the honour thereby shown not only myself, but also my
little hardly treated native country.
    Of course I would have much gratification in attending on your
meeting in London to receive the Diploma personally, but unfortunately
my health for the moment is not quite to be relied upon for making
the said long journey.
        I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant,
                                                        JULIUS THOMSEN.
                                                       Upsala, June 2, 1891.
DEAR SIR,
     I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your estimated
letter, by which you have announced to me that, in connection with
the Centenary of the birth of Michael Faraday, the Royal Institution of
 Great Britain in London has conferred on me the grand honour to be
elected an Honorary Member of the Institution.

476                      The Faraday Centenary.                   [June 17,
    Moreover, you have kindly invited me to attend to the lecture,
which is to be delivered the 17th June at the very place where the
celebrated explorer of physical truths has worked.
    Unhappily' for me I cannot see any possibility for my going to
London this summer, and therefore I allow me to beg you to be my
interpreter before the Royal Institution and express my most humble
thanks for the great honour the Boyal Institution has bestowed on
me.
    At last I permit me to express my warmest felicitations for the
prosperity of the Royal Institution, and hope that the Institution in
the future may be able to continue her noble work to support many
such heros of science as the celebrated Michael Faraday, whose epoch-
making discoveries, deep thoughts and ingenious presentiments now
fructify the scientific labours everywhere and in the greatest manner
contribute not only to the successful progress of science, but also to
the happiness and welfare of the whole humanity.
                           I am, Sir, your most obedient servant,
                                                  ROB. THALEN,
                                       Prof, at the University in Upsala.
                                          St. Petersburg, May 14/26, 1891.
MOST HONOUBED Sill,
    In answer to your information of my being elected Member of the
 Royal Institution of Great Britain in connection with the Centenary
of the birth of Faraday, I can only express my heartfelt thanks for
the honour of being admitted to the circle of the highly esteemed,
universally renowned English men of science. The engagements and
duties, which I took on me, make it impossible for me to leave Russia
and come personally amongst yon at the end of June or in July.
 These are the reasons why I must beg you, most honoured Sir, to be
 so kind to transmit my sincere and profound gratitude to the
 Members of the Royal Institution, and my welcome to the memory of
 Michael Faraday as from one who is a devoted admirer of his glorious
 name.
             I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant,
                                                        D. MENDELEEFF.
                                                      Genfeve, 16 Mai 1891.
MONSIEUB,
     J'ai I'honneur de vous accuser reception de la lettre par laquelle
vous m'annoncez quo 1'Institution Koyale de Londres a daigne me
conferer le titre de membre honoraire et je vous prie de vouloir bien
me servir d'interprete anpres de vos savants collegues pour leur
exprimer ma reconnaissance pour une aussi honorable distinction.
    Mais je regrette que mon age et ma eante ne me permettont pas

1891.]                   The Faraday Centenary.                          477
d'aller a Londres assister a I'assemblee oil doit otre cele"bre le cen-
tenaire de 1'illustre physicien Michael Faraday.
     Veuillez agreer, Monsieur, 1'assurance de ma consideration la
plus distinguee.
                                               CHARLBS MARIGNAO,
                           Professeur honoraire d I' Universite de Geneve.
                                               Amsterdam, May 16, 1891.
SIR,
     I have the honour of accusing the receipt of your missive con
taining the communication that the Royal Institution of Great Britain
has conferred upon me the honorary membership,
     Let me express the high satisfaction I feel, that the Institution,
which at all times has taken the lead in the domain of science, has
done me the honour of associating my name with herself. That this
takes place at a moment that you remember your august compatriot,
makes it particularly agreeable to me.
     It is with sentiments of profound gratitude that I accept the
honour, and I take the liberty of asking you to be so kind as to bring
my thanks into the Institution.
     If my health, which lately has somewhat suflered, permits it, I
will be present in London to be admitted to the Institution.
         I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant,
                                            J. D. VAN DER WAALS.
                                               Bruxellee, le 15 Juin 1891.
MONSIEDR LE SECRETAIRE HoNORAIRE,
     J'ai compt£ jusqu'au dernier moment de pouvoir me rendro a
Lcndres pour assister u la Stance, Juin 17, de 1'Institution Royale de
la Grande Bretagne, remercier ses membres de 1'honneur qu'ils m'ont
fait, et de recevoir des mains de S.A. Koyale le Prince de Galles le
diplome de membre honoraire de 1'Institution ; mais 1'ctnt d'affaiblisse-
ment resultant de mon grand &ge (78 ans) m'empeche absolument
d'entreprendre le voyage. Je suis done oblige' de vous prior d'excuser
mon absence, de remercier en mon nom les membres de ITnstitution
Royale de 1'insigne honneur qu'ils m'ont fait et de me faire parvenir
par la voie de 1'ambassade de Belgique a Londres et au besoin par la
poste, le diplfime de membre honoraire.
    Veuillez agre'er, Monsieur le Secretaire honoraire, avec mes plus
vifs remerciements, 1'hommage de mes sentiments de haute et res-
pectueuse consideration.
                                                            J. S. STAB.
    SIR FREDERICK BRAMWELL also reported that the following con
gratulations had been received from Eussia :—

478                     The Faraday Centenary.                  [June 17,
                               [Telegram.]'
    The Imperial University of St. Petersburg heartily congratulates
the Royal Institution of Great Britain on the memorable centenary
of the birthday of its illustrious member and president, the great
natural philosopher, Michael Faraday.
                                         Hector of University, NIKITIH.
                               [Telegram.]
    Remembering the great discoveries of Michael Faraday, the Im
perial Medical Academy of St. Petersburg begs to congratulate the
Royal Institution of Great Britain at the celebration of the hundredth
birthday of the eminent natural philosopher.
                                                  President PASHUTIN.
                               [Telegram.]
    The Imperial Technical Society of Bussia begs the Royal
Institution to receive on this memorable anniversary the most cordial
congratulations, and the expression of a sincere admiration and a
profound gratefulness to 'the genius of Faraday the creator of
electrical engineering.
                                             President, GUERCEVANOV.
                                             Secretary, SIEZNITSKY.
                                [Printed.]
    The most distinguished member of the Royal Institution of
Great Britain, Michael Faraday, by his continued labours enriched
the science of electricity with new ideas, the development of which
has justly given our century the right to call itself the age of
electricity.
    The Russian Physico-Chemical Society at the Imperial University
of St. Petersburg, begs to congratulate the Royal Institution of
Great Britain on the hundredth anniversary of the birthday of
Michael Faraday, the celebrated natural philosopher.
                                President, PROF. TH. PETRUOHEFSKY.
                                Secretary, N. KHAMONTOFF.
    The following honorary members were introduced to H.R.H. The
Prince of Wales, and received their diplomas at his hands :—
                    Professor A. Cornu (of Paris).
                               E. Mascart (of Paris).
                        „     Pietro Tacchini (of Rome).
                        „      J. D. Van der Waals (of Amsterdam).

1891.]                  The Faraday Centenary.                        479
     THE DUKE OF NORTHUMRERLAND then asked the meeting to express
its sense of the kindness of his Royal Highness in presiding, and
said he had permission to read two letters written many years ago,
proving how keen was the interest taken by him in the lessons he
had received from Faraday. The letters were as follows, the
first being addressed to Mr. Faraday, and the second to Mrs. Faraday
on the occasion of her husband's death :—
                                       Windsor Castle, 16 January, 1856.
DEAR SIR,
     I am anxious to thank you for the advantage I have derived
from attending your most interesting lectures. Their subject, I
now feel, is of great importance. I hope to follow the advice you
 gave us of pursuing it beyond the lecture room, and I can assure
 you that I shall always cherish with great pleasure the recollection
 of having been assisted in my early studies in chemistry by so dis
tinguished a man.
                         Believe me, dear sir, yours truly,
                                                    ALRERT EDWARD.
                                          Wiesbaden, 10 September, 1867.
 DEAR MRS. FARADAY,
     Although I have not the pleasure of knowing you, I cannot
 resist sending you a few lines to tell you how deeply grieved and
 distressed I am to hear of the death of your husband, Professor
 Faraday. Having had the great pleasure of knowing him for some
 years, and having heard his interesting lectures already when quite
 a boy, I can fully appreciate how great the loss must be, not only
 to you, but to the whole country at large, where his name was
 deeply venerated by all classes. His name will not only be remem
 bered as a great and distinguished scientific man, but also as a
 good man, whose excellent and amiable qualities were so universally
 known. Pardon my trespassing so soon on your great grief, and
           Believe me, dear Mrs. Faraday, yours very sincerely,
                                                    ALRERT EDWARD.
      THE DUKE OF NORTHUMRERLAND continued : He thought they would
 all agree that that was a touching letter of condolence. His Royal
  Highness had now long been a patron of the Institution, and had
 watched its progress with interest, which he hoped would be con
  tinued. He trusted that his Royal Highness would have the gratifi
 cation of seeing the country prosper long under the rule of his
  august family, and of seeing the benefits of science resulting in the
  increased happiness of the people.
      Sir W. GROVE seconded the resolution, and said he was possibly
  the only one in the room who had known Faraday in his prime.

480                     The Faraday Centenary.          [June 17, '91.
He wished they had been celebrating the centenary with Faraday
alive.
    The thanks of the meeting to his Royal Highness having been
expressed by acclamation,
    THE PBINCE OF WALES acknowledged it as follows : —Ladies and
Gentlemen, I feel that I cannot, out of courtesy to yourselves, and
of the noble duke who has so kindly proposed the usual thanks,
and to Sir William Grove who has given us an interesting speech,
pass it by without expressing to you my warmest thanks. It is a
great honour and privilege to me to preside on this most interesting
and memorable occasion. I have now known this room for thirty-six
years, and I agree with Sir William Grove in wishing that we were
celebrating the centenary of Faraday alive, and not dead—that he
was alive to spend his hundredth birthday among us. I feel every
time I come into this room as if I can see him standing there at
that table, where he gave his interesting lectures and experiments
when I was a boy. I again tender my thanks to you, as I do to
Lord Rayleigh, for the most interesting lecture he has given.
    There was an exhibition in the Library of memorials of Faraday
kindly lent to the Institution by Hiss Jane Barnard and others.

June 26, '91.]         The Faraday Centenary.                      481
                 THE FABADAY CENTENAEY.
                        Friday, June 26, 1891.
  The DUKB OF NORTHUMRERLAND, K.G. D.C.L. LL.D. President,
                             in the Chair.
THERE were also present—Lord Halsbury, Sir Lyon Playfair, Sir
Richard Webster, Sir Edward Fry, Sir William Thomson, Sir Joseph
Lister, Sir James Crichton Browne, Lord Eayleigh, Sir Joseph
Fayrer, Sir William Bowman, Sir Frederick Abel, Dr. Frankland,
Professor Odling, Mr. Ludwig Mond, and Sir Frederick Bramwell.
    The Chemical Work of Faraday in relation to Modern Science.
                 By PROFESSOR DEWAR, M.A. F.R.S.
    Prof. Dewar commenced his lecture by saying that his eminent
colleague had done such ample justice to the physical side of
Faraday's work, that his own task would be limited to dealing with
those early researches in which he developed that astounding manipu
lative power which enabled him to conduct his subsequent electrical
investigations in so remarkable a manner. He proposed to give a
brief sketch of the more important of the distinctive chemical labours
of Faraday, and then to select one of the many veins of investigation
he had opened up, and show what had resulted from its development.
    Faraday's chemical work might be divided into the following
groups or periods:—Period of Analytic Work. Organic Research.
Study of Gaseous Properties. Investigations on Steel and Glass.
Determination of Electro-chemical Equivalents. Regelation. Action
of Metals on Light. Work on Chemical Manipulation. Published
Lectures.
    Having given a short resume of Faraday's progress through these
subjects, Prof. Dewar referred to his first great work in organic
research, the production of two compounds of chlorine and carbon,
the perchloride and the protouhloride, and the determination of the
composition of " Julian's chloride of carbon." The original specimens
prepared by Faraday were exhibited, and it was pointed out that the
discoverer's analyses of these bodies were absolutely accurate, not
withstanding the difficulties attending such work at that time. His
discovery of " bicarburet of hydrogen " (now widely known and
largely manufactured as benzol), and a "new hydrocarbon" (now
known as butylene) was then described, it being pointed out that
having regard to the methods of working which Faraday had to
employ, the isolation and determination of the composition of such
bodies was marvellous, and was to be explained only by his wonderful
manipulative skill.

482                      The Faraday Centenary.                [June 26,
     Probably Faraday's most remarkable discovery in organic
chemistry was the fact that naphthalene could be dissolved by strong
sulphuric acid, and that when thus dissolved the solution did not
precipitate naphthalene on being treated with water. That enabled
him to prove combination between sulphnric acid and a hydrocarbon.
The body, which he called " sulpho-naphthalic acid," is probably the
first of the sulpho-acids now so largely employed in the colour
industry.
     Faraday's next important work was an investigation into the
properties of combinations of steel with other metals, in the course of
which he demonstrated the now well-recognised fact that an ad
mixture of such minute proportions as one-five-hundredth of such
metals as silver, nickel, palladium, &c., will entirely alter the
character of the metal. Concurrently with this, ho worked on the
improvement of optical glass ; and it was observed that although the
fruits of his labours in this direction lay dormant for some time, they
ultimately resulted in one of his most important discoveries, namely,
the rotation of the plane of polarisation in the magnetic field. The
glass produced by Faraday by the fusion of oxide of lead with
boracic acid was selected by him because of its superior fluidity
combined with great density. (Experiments were given illustrating
the peculiar physical and electrical properties of the Faraday glass.)
     The next research was that on the liquefaction of gases, which,
although carried out by Faraday, was nevertheless done at the insti
gation of Davy. Davy had discovered a substance which proved
to be a hydrate of chlorine, and which he found could be kept either
in ice or in sealed tubes. Faraday had produced a quantity of this
substance during the cold weather, and had made an analysis of it.
Davy then suggested that it should be heated in a scaled tube, and,
without saying what he really expected to take place, indicated that
one of three things would happen, namely, that it would either melt,
act on water, or produce liquid chlorine. The latter event happened,
and opened up vast possibilities, the prosecution of which Davy loft
to Faraday. (Experiment on the liquefaction of chlorine given.)
The necessity of obtaining tubes strong enough to stand tho pressure
required for the liquefaction experiments led Faraday to make investi
gations at this time into the production of bottle and other glass.
     Faraday next turned his attention to researches on the electro
chemical relations of bodies, crystallisation, and the action of metals
on light. It was in connection with the research on crystallisation
in 1856 that Faraday mado his interesting discovery of the pheno
menon of regelation, by virtue of which two portions of a piece of
ice, after being severed, freeze together again on being brought into
contact, even when tho temperature of tho surrounding medium is
higher than the freezing point of water. Although discovered by
Faraday, it was not until comparatively recent times that the explana
tion of the phenomenon was given, and its influence on glacial
motion clearly established. (Experiment on rogelation shown.)



1891.]                   The Faraday Centenary.                     483
    Specimens, arranged and tabulated by himself, of Faraday's last
research on the optical properties of gold leaf in a highly attenuated
form were exhibited and described.
    Turning then to the special subject of the evening's discourse, the
liquefaction of gases, Prof. Dewar stated that although Faraday made
his first researches in this direction as early as 1823, the matter
lay dormant for many years, until his interest in it was reawakened
by Thilorier's discovery that solid carbonic acid could be produced
in the form of a snow-like substance, boiling at — 80(1, and capable
of being handled. Faraday was the first to introduce this discovery
into England in a lecture given at the Royal Institution on the 18th
May, 1838 ; and, thereafter, by its aid, he resumed his work on the
liquefaction of the various gases which had resisted his former efforts.
All through the summer of 1844 he was busily employed at this
work, using the low temperatures, which Thilorier's new product
enabled him to obtain, combined with great pressures. (Specimens
of gases thus liquefied by Faraday shown.) This important work
was the subject of a Friday evening lecture given at the Royal
Institution early in 1845, a full abstract of which appeared in the
 Times of that date, the Institution itself not having then commenced
the publication of its proceedings. In the course of that address
Faraday produced a small quantity of ethylene ; and he expressed the
opinion that if a method could be found of producing liquid nitrous
oxide in large quantities, that would be the material which would
enable him to liquefy oxygen and the other gases which had hitherto
resisted all his efforts. (Experiments showing the comparative
boiling points of solid carbonic acid, nitrous oxide, and ethylene at
ordinary pressure and under diminished pressure given.) Faraday
hoped that the production of solid nitrous oxide would enable him to
 get temperatures as far below the boiling point of carbonic acid as
the temperature of that body was below ordinary temperatures. As
a matter of fact, it is impossible to reach such low temperatures by
the agency of solid nitrous oxide, and such great depression of
temperature was not attained until such time as liquid ethylene
became available. The lecturer here showed and described a diagram
of the machinery and apparatus now employed at the Royal Institu
tion for the liquefaction and solidification of gases, see Fig. 1. The
method of producing liquid ethyleue, and of employing it over and
over again in the apparatus was described.
    The work done in connection with this subject since the time of
Faraday, and especially the investigations of Andrews and Van der
Waals, had enabled scientists of the present day to calculate exactly
the temperature of the boiling point of hydrogen, the gaseous body
which has in the liquid state the lowest boiling point of all the
elementary substances, and which has up to the present time resisted
liquefaction. The temperature of boiling hydrogen would be — 250°
C. The lowest point attained by Faraday was 110° C., and the
lowest temperature yet reached was — 210° 0.

484                          The Faraday Centenary.                       [June 26,
     Prof. Dewar then performed the experiment of actually producing
liquid oxygen, which was seen to boil quietly when collected in an
open vessel at a temperature of — 180° C. The colour was slightly
blue, only a few particles of solid matter being -visible, which Prof.
Dewar explained were traces of solid carbonic acid, the elimination of
which had given him considerable trouble. The lecturer further
proved by actual experiment on his own hand and on a glass vessel
that the liquid oxygen was in the spheroidal condition ; and also that
alcohol when added to the liquid became instantly solidified. The
usual test for oxygen by means of a glowing taper was also made
on the vapour given oil' by the liquid. The form and arrangement
of the apparatus employed on the lecture table is shown in Fig. 2.
     Prof. Dewar stated that, the prosecution of the researches inaugu
rated by Faraday was enabling scientists to approach nearer and
nearer to the zero of absolute temperature ; and the speculations
of physicists were now directed to the probable characteristics of
hydrogen and of matter in general when that condition should be
attained. At such a temperature the properties of matter would in
all probability be entirely changed ; the old Lncretian law would be
suspended, molecular motion would probably cease, and what might
be called the death of matter would ensue— as in fact the death of
chemical affinity and chemical action was known to take place at the
low temperatures already attainable. (Experiment proving this by
the immersion of phosphorus, sodium, and potassium in liquid oxygen.)
 On the other hand, it was found that even at such low temperatures
oxygen retained its characteristic absorption spectrum.* Further
experiments were given proving the liquefaction of ozone by means
of liquid oxygen—a tube of the liquid thus produced showing the
characteristic deep blue colour of that substance.
     In conclusion, Prof. Dewar said that although great progress had
been made since Faraday's time, chemists were still working dis
tinctly on the lines of his early researches ; and it seemed to him
that no fitter method of celebrating the centenary of Faraday's birth
could be chosen than the demonstration of the realisation of some of
his own ideas.
    * The recently discovered magnetic property of the liquid adds a new
interest to this substance.
                                       " Royal Institution, 10th December, 1891.
    "DEAR SIR WILLIAM THOMSON,—The following observation, which I liave
just made, may interest the members of the Royal Society, and if you think it of
sufficient importance you may announce it at this day's meeting.
    "Ail! p.m. this afternoon I placed a quantity of liquid oxygen in the state
of rapid ebullition in air (and therefore at a temperature of — 181° C.) between the
poles of the historic Faraday magnet, in a cup-shaped piece of rock salt (which I
have found is not moistened by liquid oxygen, and therefore keeps it in the
spheroidal state), and to my surprise I have witnessed the liquid oxygen, as soon
us the magnet was stimulated, suddenly leap up to the poles and remain there
permanently attached until it evaporated. To gee liquid oxygen suddenly attracted
by the magnet is a very beautiful confirmation of our knowledge of the properties
of guseous oxygen.—Yours faithfully, JAMES DEWAR."— [Proo. Royal Society,
vol. 1. p. 24.]

UFITBE3IT7

1891.]                    The Faraday Centenary.                    485
     On the conclusion of the lecture, a vote of thanks to Prof. Dewar
was moved by the LORD CHANCELLOR, who said :—
     My Lord Duke, my Lords, Ladies and Gentlemen,—I am very
happy indeed to be made the instrument of conveying your thanks
for the most interesting lecture we have listened to. I could not help
thinking while our lecturer was giving us an account of all these
wonderful things, that he was illustrating in his own person some
thing which he had said. He pointed out how the torch of science
was passed on from hand to hand, how, for instance, Davy had handed
to Faraday some of the sources of those great discoveries which he
afterwards disclosed to the world ; and I thought that it required
some such successor to give adequate expression to the history of
Faraday's work. Faraday had many friends ; many of us have
listened to him in this theatre, as indeed I have had the privilege of
doing myself; and I think I may say that no one came within the
sphere of his kindly and gentle influence who did not become a
hearty and attached friend. But I should think that very few of
those friends would be able to give adequate expression to what he
had done, the discoveries he had made, and the ever increasing effect
which those discoveries had exercised upon the progress of modern
science. We have listened to-night to a most able exposition of
Faraday's work ; and I think that Prof. Dewar has shown that he has
in truth succeeded to that work, that he is worthy to receive that
torch and carry it on and give a brighter illumination to science than
it has ever yet received. I am sure that there is none here who will
not heartily join with your Grace in thanking Prof. Dewar for the
able, learned and lucid lecture in which he has explained to ignorant
people like myself Faraday's wonderful discoveries in science.
     Sir L VON PLAYFAIR, in seconding the motion, said : It is indeed
a great privilege to all of us to see the great progress which has been
made in the discoveries of Faraday during the last fifty years. Those
little tubes, containing the original liquefied gases which Faraday
liquefied under pressure and low temperatures were very important
and were considered at the time very remarkable productions. But
yon see how the subject has since grown ; how carbonic acid, for
 instance, first liquefied, has since been solidified so that it can be
handled like snow ; and you have seen the remarkable way in which
 oxygen has been liquefied on the present occasion. An old Professor
of chemistry like myself can appreciate the wonderful manipulative
power which Prof. Dewar has displayed this evening. Even in the
chemical laboratory, with everything quiet around you, it is difficult
to make these experiments successfully, but in a theatre of this kind
it is marvellous how everything goes wrong ; and if we had not had
a manipulator of great accuracy and knowledge, we could not have
had the gratification which we have enjoyed this evening. What
strikes me as being so excellent in my friend, and much more than
friend—for he is the greatest chemist that I ever produced, and Iam
extremely glad to think that he looks up to his old teacher with
     VOL. XIII. (No. 85.)                                    2 K

  486                      The Faraday Centenary.                 [June 26,
  affection—while I look to him with love and honour—what I wanted
  to say is that I think he has done quite rightly in giving you the
  scientific side of these wonderful discoveries, and showing you the
  way in which they are growing and giving us a better knowledge of
  the condition of matter. When Faraday first made experiments like
  these, some wiseacres said : What is the use of it ? Faraday replied ;
  " Will you tell me what is the use of a baby ? " But Faraday's baby
  has centred around it all the hopes and desires of the parents that
  produced it, and the State also has shown much interest in its up
  bringing. The bodies that appear in those tubes have become
  important factors in the progress and industry of the world. The
  carbonic acid, which I recollect first seeing as a little globule of acid,
  is now carried in cylinders filling railway trucks, and is applied to
  many purposes, some important, others more useful than important.
  For instance the liquid carbonic acid enables barmaids to get beer
 up from the cellars below without pumping it ; that nitrous oxide
 which we were so interested in as a condensed gas is now largely
 used by dentists as a means of extracting our teeth without pain ;
 sulphurous acid will, I am certain, become most important in war,
 for if you took a brittle shell filled with liquid sulphurous acid and
 threw it between the decks of a ship it would produce such a stink
 that everybody would disappear in a moment. The time is coming
 when other gases will be used in this way. Their importance does
 not altogether consist in their applications to industry, though they
 are becoming very important in that way. But their importance is
 that they are teaching us more of the constitution and properties of
 matter ; it is in that respect that they are becoming so interesting in
 the eyes of scientific men. I have been extremely interested in
 watching the production of that liquid oxygen. I looked upon it
 with great respect, and wondered to see it not covered with a cage as
 if likely to go off at any moment in a terrific explosion. But it is
 produced in such a manner that its own cold keeps it down, and so
 we saw it handled in the most marvellous way as an ordinary liquid.
 I have the utmost pleasure in seconding the vote of thanks to Prof.
 Dewar for the brilliant exposition which he has given us.
      The CHAIRMAN then put the motion, and it was carried with
 acclamation.
      Prof. DEWAR in reply said : My Lord Duke, my Lords, Ladies and
 Gentlemen,—I am exceedingly indebted to you for the very kind way
 in which you have referred to the labours of the lecturer. I can
 assure you that it has been a source of great pleasure to me, and
 that in fact I have had the least part to do. This kind of illustration
 cannot possibly be given without means of various kinds, and there
are several benefactors whom I should like to mention in connection
with this lecture. First of all, Dr. Anderson gave the pumps which
enabled me to compress and evaporate such volatile bodies ; secondly,
we require machinery to set those pumps in motion, and somebody to
look after it, and that has been supplied by the kindness of Mr. Bobert

1891.]                   The Faraday Centenary.                        487
Wilson, of the well-known firm of Messrs. Crossley, who is always ready
and willing to help us ; thirdly, as regards the cost of the material used
— which has been by no means small—I am indebted to another
member and great benefactor of the Institution, namely, Mr. Ludwig
Mond, F.R.S. And lastly, but not least, I am indebted to my assist
ants, Mr. Lennox and Mr. Heath, for the assiduous and self-sacrificing
way in which they have laboured in order to make these experiments
go successfully. As Sir Lyon Playfair has said, it is comparatively
easy to do these things in the quiet of the laboratory, but immensely
difficult to get them to go on an occasion like this ; and when we
consider the long distances over which these highly condensed gases
have to be conveyed, and the complex arrangements necessary to
avoid all fear of danger, I think yon will agree that the benefactors
who rendered these arrangements possible are deserving of more
credit than the lecturer.
    Lord Justice FRY then proposed a vote of thanks to his Grace the
Duke of Northumberland for his kindness in presiding over the
meeting. In doing so, his Lordship said : While I ask you to tender
his Grace your hearty thanks for attending to-night I cannot omit to
ask you to thank him also for even greater services. He has presided
over this Institution for many years, and has ever shown in its affairs
a warm and intelligent interest, and he has been a most liberal
benefactor of the Institution. At our ordinary meetings we have no
opportunity of expressing our feelings to our benefactors ; but on this
extraordinary occasion we have that opportunity. I feel that I, only
express the sentiments of all here when I propose to proffer your
warmest thanks to his Grace, not only for presiding this evening, but
also for the great debt of gratitude which we owe him for his past
services.
     Sir RICHARD WEBSTER said : I have the great privilege of being
permitted to second the vote of thanks to his Grace. I most heartily
endorse all that Lord Justice Fry has said with respect to the
eminent services rendered to this Institution by his Grace the Chair
man. I also heartily agree with what has been said by previous
speakers with respect to the admirable lecture that we have heard to
night, some portion of which will, I hope, remain in my mind and
memory, but the immediate effect of which has been to completely
paralyse the power of ordinary speech. I feel it a great privilege to
have been permitted to take some part in the proceedings, and have
the greatest pleasure in seconding the vote proposed by Lord Justice
Fry, which I venture to hope may be carried by acclamation.
    The vote having been put and carried by acclamation,
    The DUKE OF NORTHUMRERLAND said in response : My Lords,
Ladies and Gentlemen, I feel somewhat embarrassed on the present
occasion, because I had no expectation of, nor did I feel myself
entitled to, the vote of thanks you have been so kind as to pass. I
should have been wanting in duty if I had not been here to attend
the Centenary of the illustrious man whose memory we have met to

488                    The Faraday Centenary.          [June 26, '91.
celebrate ; and I must say I have been amply rewarded by the
lectures I have heard, both from Lord Rayleigh and Prof, Dewar.
They have almost persuaded me between them that I under
stand something of this science, which I confess but for them would
have seemed impossible. Time is getting on, and I therefore will
not detain you longer than to thank you most sincerely, and to ask
you to accept this simple expression of my gratitude.

                           : . r . v%; ; , . ;;^
                      4tn0titution of C.rrat Britain.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, January 22, 1892.
    SIB PBEDEBIOK BBAMWBLL, Bart. D.O.L. F.B.S. Hon. Secretary
                    and Vice-President, in the Chair.
     Tra EIGHT HON. LOED RAYLBIOH, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.B.S.
              M.R.I. Professor of Natural Philosophy, B.I.
                       The Composition of Water.
                              [No Abstract.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, January 29, 1892.
  SIB JAMES CBICHTON-BBOWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.B.S. Vice-President
                      and Treasurer, in the Chair.
                   SIB GBOBOE DOUGLAS, Bart. M.A.
                     Tales of the Scottish Peasantry.
IT is only within comparatively recent years that the homely stories
in the mouths of the common people have been constituted a branch
of learning, and have had applied to them, as such, the methods and
the terminology of science. A noteworthy gain to knowledge has,
beyond a doubt, resulted from this treatment ; but, side by side with
this gain to knowledge, is there not involved in the said method of
treatment a loss to the stories themselves? Classified, tabulated,
scientifically named, they are no longer the wild free product of
Nature that we knew :—no doubt they are still very interesting—the
study of them is full of instruction ; but their poetry, their brightness,
the fragrance which clung about them in their native air, their native
soil, is gone. So that,—with all due recognition of the value of the
labours of the scientific folk-lorist, the comparative mythologist,—
there yet remains room, I believe, to regard these stories from another
point of view, namely, the literary, or critical one. I hope the time
has not yet come when the old tales shall have entirely ceased to
charm ; and I believe that there are persons in existence who would
regard it as a real and personal loss could they bo made to believe
that the ideal hero of their childhood, as he falls in a bloody battle
wounded to the death, is in reality a myth, or figure, for the setting
of the sun ; and who would even feel themselves aggrieved could they
    VOL. XIII. (No. 86.)                                       2 L

490                         Sir George Douglas                   [Jan. 29,
be brought to realise that the bugbear of their baby years is common
also to the aborigines of Polynesia. So powerful is the spell of early
association.
     I suppose that most nations, whilst their life has remained primi
tive, Lave practised the art of story-telling ; and certaiuly the Scotch
were no exceptions to the rule. Campbell of Isla, who wrote about
thirty years ago, records that in his day the practice of story-telling
still lingered in the remote western islands of Barra ; where, in the
long winter nights, the people would gather in crowds to listen to
those whom they considered good story-tellers. At an earlier date,
but still at that time within living memory, the custom of story
telling survived at Pool-Ewe, in Ross-shire ; where the young people
were used to assembleat night to hear the old ones recite the tales which
they had learned from their forefathers. Here, and at earlier dates
in other parts of the country also, the demand for stories would further
be supplied by pedlars, "gaberlunzie men," or pauper wandering
musicians and entertainers, or by the itinerant shoemaker or tailor,—
both of which last were accustomed to travel through thinly-popu
lated districts, in the pursuit of their calling, and put up for the
night at farm-houses,—where, whilst plying their needles, they would
entertain the company with stories. The arrival of one of these
story-tellers in a hamlet was an important event. As soon as it
became known, there would be a rush to the house where he was
lodged, and every available seat would quickly be appropriated. And
then, for hours together, the story-teller would hold his audience
spell-bound. During his recitals, the emotions of the reciter were
occasionally very strongly excited, as were also those of his listeners,—
many of whom, no doubt, firmly believed in all the extravagances
narrated. And such rustic scenes as these have by no means been
without their marked effect upon Scottish literature.
    Perhaps the most characteristic of the Highland tales are those
which deal with heroes and giants. But these are generally very long,
and, truth to tell,—with all the repetitions of dialogues, all the repro
ductions of what is practically the same situation, which distinguish
them,—they are apt to appear to us wearisome. The shortest kind of
popular tales are those which the Folk-Lore Society calls Beast
Tales,—the stories, namely, which are concerned with the dumb
animals. The Highlands, in particular, are rich in such stories ; and
it is easy to understand how the common country-people—living so
near to nature as they do—may come to have an insight into, and an
 appreciation of, the characters of the brute animals, and a sympathy
with them in their tussle for existence, which is not attainable by
those who lead a more artificial life. Some of the fables and traits of
 animal life in which this knowledge and appreciative sympathy have
been embodied are decidedly naive and quaint. Nor are they without
a human application.
     The class of stories which we may consider next—the Fairy Tales
—display a higher degree of fancy. And it would be a mistake

  1892.]              on Tales of the Scottish Peasantry.             491
  to imagine that this quality of fancy is anything less than a cha
  racteristic attribute of the minds of many of the Scottish peasantry.
  It displays itself, for instance, in its simplest form, in their nomen
  clature—in the names which they have given either to natural
  objects, or to places which are characterised by some striking natural
  feature. For example : a waterfall in Dumfriesshire, where the water,
  after pouring dark over a declivity, dashes down in white foam
  among rocks, is known as The Grey Mare's Tail; twin hills in
  Roxburghshire, which have beautifully-rounded matched summits,
  have been christened Maiden's Paps. Then, the cirrus, or curl-cloud,
  is in rustic speech " goafs hair " ; the phenomenon of the Northern
  Lights, among the fishermen of Shetland, is the " Merry Dancers " ;
 the Pleiads are the " Twinklers " ; the constellation of Orion, with
 its star iota pendant as if from a girdle, is the " King's Ellwand," or
 yard-measure ; the noxious froth which adheres to the stalks of vege
 tation at midsummer is the " witches' spittle."
      There is a root of poetry, I think, in this aptitude for giving
 names ; and, as a matter of fact, in the Lowlands of Scotland, rustic
 poets and rhymesters are far from uncommon. Nor are the peasantry,
 in their name-giving, wanting in literary allnsiveness—allusiveness,
 that is, to the only book which has ever obtained universal currency
among them. Thus, among the fishermen of the East Coast, the
 black mark below the gills of a codfish, or haddock, is "Peter's
 Thumb ; " whilst a coarse field-plant called by botanists Polygonum
persicaria, which has its leaves strangely clouded and stained, as with
 droppings of some dark liquid, is locally known on the Borders as
 the " Flower that grew at the Foot of the Cross."
     Perhaps the deepest thinkers among a people who have their
 philosophers as well as their dreamers, are to be found among the
 hill-shepherds. And it is chiefly through the instrumentality of one
of these that we can now enter the Fairyland of the Scottish peasant.
James Hogg, the Ettrick Shepherd, was one of those common men,
plus genius, who every now and then in the history of literature give
to a whole world of floating thought, tradition, fancy, a permanent
substantial form. No man in literature is his master in the weird
tale. No man but Shakespeare, not even excepting Drayton, has
written so well of the fairies. Hogg was born in the Arcadia of
Scotland, Ettrick Forest —where, as Scott tells us, the belief in fairies
lingered longer than elsewhere—about the year 1770. As he grew
up, the spirit of emulation was stirred in his breast by the example of
the poet Burns. And so, as he wandered through the pastoral
solitudes keeping his sheep, he carried an ink-horn slung from his
neck, and taught himself to write, and so committed to paper his first
poem. And as he thus wandered and mused, he tells us that he one
day fell asleep upon a green hill-side, to dream the dream of Kilmeny,
and to bear her image in his heart for ever after.
     The story of Kilmeny is that of a girl of poetic temperament,
a lover of solitude, who, wandering alone at twilight, disappears in a
                                                            2 L 2

 492                        Sir George Douglas                  [Jan. 29,
 wild glen among the hills. She is sought for by her parents ; but no
 trace of her is found. Years pass, and the mystery remains unsolved.
  But at the close of the seventh year, in the same twilight hour in
 which she had vanished, Kilmeny returns to her home. She haa
 been rapt away by fairies, with whom the intervening years have
  been spent. But in the midst of Fairyland, her heart still yearns
  tenderly to her home ; and when seven years have expired, and the
 fairies have no longer power to detain her against her will, she
  chooses to leave the life of pleasure which she leads among them to
  return to the common world. This is an outline of the story ; but
 the story is the least part of the poem. Its charm lies in its
  exquisitely flowing and melodious verse, in its suggestion of the
 twilight world and of a world of shadows—a land " where all things
 are forgotten,"—in its wistful tenderness ; in one word, in the unique
 and perfect aptness of the style to the subject. So magical, indeed,
 are the fairy touches throughout the writings of the Ettrick Shepherd,
 that one might almost be tempted to dream that the experience with
  which tradition credits Thomas the Rhymer had been shared by this
 rhymer of a later day.
      As in England, tales of fairies caught sight of on the country
 green, at twilight or by moonlight, of services rendered by mortals
 to fairies and gratefully and gracefully repaid, find a place among the
 fables of the Scottish peasantry. But it is by no means in such airy,
 gracious, and harmless if not beneficent, creations as this that the
 genius of the Scottish nation finds its fancy's most congenial food.
 That genius is, upon the whole, essentially a sombre one,—relieved,
 indeed, by a rough humour ; but tending most to an affinity with
 gloom. The malevolence, the hostility, of Nature, its permanence as
 contrasted with the transient character of man, its victoriousness in
 the never-ending battle waged against it by man,—a battle in which he
fights for life, in which he gains a few trifling and temporary advan
 tages, but in which he must recognise from the first that he fights
against impossible odds : these are facts which a barren soil and
 a bleak and stormy climate have thrust forcibly upon the Scottish
popular imagination, and which have impressed themselves deeply
upon it. This gloomy view of Nature has tinged the superstitious
beliefs of the peasantry, and through them their stories. And
upon the back of this gloomy view of Nature, has come a sense—
stronger perhaps than is felt by any other nation—of fate and
doom, of the mystery of life and death, of the cruelty of the inevita
ble, the pain of separation, the darkness which enshrouds the whole.
In this sense the Scotch are a nation of pessimists. They have found
their religiouti vocation in Calvinism ; and the spirit which embraced
Calvinism like a bride informs their mythology and their fireside
tales. Their tendency to devil-worship, to the propitiation of evil
spirits, is illustrated by the hideous usage of the Good-man's Croft,—
a plot of ground near a village which was left untilled—set apart
for, and dedicated to, the Powers of Evil, in the hope that their
malignity might be appeased by the sacrifice, and that so they might

 1892.]               on Tales of the Scottish Peasantry.              493
 bo induced to spare the crops on the surrounding fields. Of the
 state of superstitious dread in which some Scotchmen passed their
 lives, Mrs. Grant of Laggau gives a curious illustration when she
 tells us that in the Highlands of her day, to boast, or to congratulate
 a friend, was to rashly court retribution ; to praise a child upon tho
 nurse's arm was to incur suspicion of wishing to bring down ill upon
 its head.
     Holding these beliefs, it is not to be wondered at if, in their
 stories, the Scotch are the past-masters of the weird. And, as a matter
 of fact, their very nursery-tales—many of them—would appear to have
 been conceived with a view to educating, for some strange purpose or
 other, the passions of horror and of sorrow in the child to whom they
 are told. Such rhymes, for instance, as " The Tempted Lady," and
 " The Strange Visitor," are uncanny to a degree. In the former, the
Evil One himself appears, in specious guise. The Strange Visitor is
Death. The nursery ballad of "The CroodinDoo"* is as full of
combined piteousness and sinister suggestion of underhand wickedness
as any little tragedy of its length could well be. The suggestion is
that of a man's childless lawful wife bearing a bitter grudge against
his child borne by another woman. The babe returns from a day's
outing, and is questioned by his slighted mother as to where he has
been and what he has done. But he is tired, and cries out to be put
to bed. The jealous woman, however, persists in her interrogatory,
in the course of which she asks him what he had for dinner. He
replies that he dined off " a little four-footed fish." (The eft, or newt,
is, like the toad, in the common superstition, venomous). " And
what was done with the bones of this singular fish ? " asks the woman.
They were given to the lap-dog. And what did the dog do?
After eating them, he "shot out his feet and died." There, with
admirable art, the ballad ends. Its effect is immensely heightened
by a burthen, or refrain, in which, at the close of every verse, the
child, with wearisome iteration and with child-like importunity,
cries out to his mother to " make his bed soon." This ballad of child-
life is queer fare to set before a child.
     Stoddart, the tourist, long ago remarked the contrast between the
fairies of the English popular mythology and those of the Scotch ;
and certainly the delicate, joyous, tricksy, race of moonlight revellers
whom we meet in Shakespeare are scarcely to be recognised as be
longing to the same family with the soul-less, man-stealing, creatures
of the Scottish peasant's fancy. The effect exercised upon popular
superstition by the ruling passion of Calvinistic religion is one of the
most striking things in Scottish folk-lore. The belief in fairies, for
example, did not cease to exist. It was not even universally discoun
tenanced by the Church ; for we find recorded instances of Ministers
of the Gospel combining with their parishioners to take measures for
the restitution of infants which the fairies had changed at nurse, or
for the recovery of women who had been spirited away. And certainly
                    * A term of affection applied to a child.

 494                        Hir George Douglas                   [Jan. 29,
 two of the most curious pieces of composition known to mo are, a
 pamphlet on the Second Sight written by a Minister of Tiree, and
 an article on the Fairies written by a Minister of Aberfoyle,—both in
 the Seventeenth Century. Both writers were firm believers in the
 superstitions upon which they wrote ; and in both cases the gross
 ignorance and darkness of the writer's mind is only equalled by the
 authoritative weight and pedantry of his style.
     The fairies, however, and that rough, grotesque, humoursome, but
 good-natured figure, the Brownie, occupy but a small space in the
 popular mythology in comparison with such shapes of awe, of terror,
 or of ill-omen, as the ghosts, " more real than living men," which the
 Highland Ezekiel saw borne past him on the wind in Morven, or as
the witch, the wraith, the " warning," the water-kelpie, the man or
woman who has the second-sight.
     The characteristic rough humour of the Scotch peasant, as it
 affects the creations of the fancy, embodies itself almost exclusively in
 the Brownie. The Brownie was a wild, half-human, creature, whose
 custom it was to devote himself to domestic service in a particular
family. But he worked from perfectly disinterested motives ; and
 so strained was his sense of self-respect that, on the slightest attempt
 to recompense his services, he would disappear for ever. The Brown
Man of the Moors is another of these twilight, or half-seen, creations ;
 but he is not of a domestic character. Wanderers upon lonely moors
might, on rare occasions, catch a glimpse of him lurking in a hollow,—
a short, squat, powerful figure, earth-coloured, or of the tint of the
surrounding ling. " Shellycoat " dwelt in the waters. His coat was
hung with shells, which clattered as he moved ; and his delight was
in mischief,—such as, for instance, like Will-o'-the-Wisp, in leading
travellers astray. " Nuckelavee," the Sea-Devil of the Orkney
Islanders, a more formidable phantom, seems to be shaped like a man
above and like a horse below ; and his peculiar horror lies in the fact
that, being skinless, his raw red flesh is exposed to view. Then there
 is the River Horse, a supernatural being supposed to feed, in the
shape of a horse, on the shores of Loch Lochy, and when dis
turbed to plunge into its waters. The River Bull it is who
emerges from the lake to visit the cow-pastures; and cow-herds
 pretend that they can distinguish the calves of which he is the
sire. But a more awe-inspiring water-spirit than any of these was
the Kelpie ; whose appearances were generally timed either to give
warning of death by drowning, or to lure men to a watery grave ;
and who illustrates the feeling—as I have already observed, so
insistent throughout Scottish mythology—of the inveterate hostility
of Nature. The elements are our enemies, and wage an internecine
war.
     Perhaps the most valuable element in the peasant-tales, con
sidered from the poetic standpoint, is the human element. The
juxta-position of the supernatural brings out in extraordinary strength
certain traits of the human. For instance : the strangest, the most
startling, and to us the most incomprehensible, of all the Scotch

 1892.]              on Talet of the Scottish Peasantry.              495
 superstitions is that which prescribed a belief in the periodical return
 of the dead to their former homes—not as night-walking spectres
 encountered only by those who were alone and in the dark—but as
social beings, come back to join the family circle and share in its
 festivities,—in short, in the old phrase, come back " to dine and dance
 with the living." How anything so incredible should ever have come
to be believed, we may well be at a loss to understand. Yet believed
it seems to have been. There are two of the old ballads which are
concerned with the belief, and they are two of the finest which have
come down to us. The fragment entitled "The Wife of Usher's
Well " tells how a thriving country-woman made provision for her
three sons by sending them to sea. But they have not been long away
from her, when she hears that they have perished in a storm. Then,
in the madness of her grief, she puts up a blasphemous prayer to
Heaven,—praying that the conflict of wind and wave may never cease
until her sons come home to her in their likeness as she knew them
of old. Her prayer is heard ; and answered. When the long dark
nights of Martinmas come round, the sons return to their home. In
outward seeming they are unchanged ; but the hats they wear, as we
are told, are of a birk, or birch-tree, which is not of earthly growth.
Rising to a height of simple, unconscious, tragic irony, the ballad goes
on to detail the preparations which are made by the mother to fc'te
the home-coming of her sons. In a fever of happiness, she issues her
orders to her maids. The fatted calf is slain ; and a brief hour of joy
goes by. Then, as it grows late, the young men betake themselves to
rest. The mother has prepared their bed with her own hands. But
the dawn draws near—the period of their sojonrn is almost up. The
cock crows. They recognise the signal which binds them under
penalty to return whence they came, and with a few touching words
of leave-taking they depart as they had come. In this case the
superstition of the return of the dead to their homes, to visit their
friends, is complicated with the idea of punishment for a rash utter
ance or impious prayer. But in " The Clerk's Twa Sons of Oxen-
ford "—the other ballad which deals with the same theme—in which
the home-coming of the dead is timed at Christmas, the fundamental
idea appears in its simplest form. These two tales are perhaps the
wildest in the whole range of Scottish popular story ; but, wild as they
are, they contain, I think, a distinct and deep human significance.
It will be observed that, in either case, the return of the dead to their
homes is fixed at a season of relaxation and festivity. At such seasons
the thoughts of the working-people, being set free from their daily
occupations, are at liberty to wander ; and it is a fact that the annual
recurrence of such landmarks in time, with their familiar accom
paniment of usages and ceremonies, brings bygone years before the
mind with a peculiar clearness—or, at least, brings them before the
minds of people who lead simple monotonous lives with few events
to mark them. Nothing is commoner at such seasons than to hear
the country-people refer to the friends whom they have lost since that
time last year, dwelling upon particular acts of theirs, and upon

496                          Sir George Douglas                   [Jan. 29,
their ways and characters generally. Well, from this peculiar
vividness of mental realisation, it is, for a bold and poetic imagi
nation, but a single step to conjure up the actual bodily presence of
the departed. Hence may have arisen these wild stories ; and hence,
no doubt, arose the fancy—a beautiful and touching one—of the dead
 returning to their homes at a season of festivity, " to dine and dance
 with the living."
      To sum up;—the more striking characteristics of the Scottish
 peasant-tales generally would appear to be : First, an ever lively and
 inventive fancy. Secondly, a powerful imagination. The Scottish
 peasant story-teller is, like Homer, ei^avratrtWos—" qui sibi res, voces,
 actus, secundum verum, optime fingit," as Quintilian renders it. And
 this powerful imagination is apt to be gloomily affected, and at times
 distempered, by the natural features and conditions of the country,
 and by the broodings of the national mind. Thirdly, a love of
 humanity, coupled with a keen sense of the hardness of its lot,—
 manifesting itself in a poignant pathos. Of course, in a country of
 mixed races like Scotland, the general characteristics of the stories
 differ widely in the different parts of the country. In general terms,
 it may perhaps be said that the Highland tales display a more
 inexhaustibly luxuriant fancy, whilst those of the Lowlands have the
 more clearly denned outline and enjoy a monopoly in depth of human
 significance.
       To glance now at the effect which has been exercised upon litera
  ture by these tales. The Tales of the Scottish Peasantry have enjoyed
  particular advantages in the fact that the rich mine which they afford
  has been well and admirably worked by modern Scottish writers.
  Indeed, from the date of Smollett's death onward, the Scottish prose
  belles-lettres may be said to have been largely " a growth of the
  soil." And the Scottish writers who have worked the field of popular
  tradition have not worked in the spirit of such Qeraran authors as,
  for instance, Musteus, Tieck, and Fouque,—making the popular tale a
  mere foundation upon which to rear their own structures of philosophy
  and fancy, and often transforming it almost, if not quite, beyond
  recognition. Neither have they worked upon the lines of such a
  writer as Theophile Gautier, who, though he would sometimes use
   the popular tale as material to work upon, was guided in his choice
   of subject by a purely artistic instinct. The Scottish writers are, in
  the first place, objective ; and, in the second, national.
       Foremost amongst these writers is, of course, Sir Walter Scott.
  In comparison with his other works, his " Border Minstrelsy " has been
  neglected; yet, in all probability, he produced no more highly
  characteristic book ; whilst, of that great literature of fiction of which
  he afterwards became the author, the best and most vital parts may,
   I think, truly be said to have their roots in the hearts of the people.
   And the further he departs from that source of his inspiration, the
   less valuable his work becomes. Although not born in the peasant
   class, Sir Walter knew the Scottish peasantry, in his own way, as

1892.]              on Tales of the Scottish Peasantry.               497
few men have known them ; and he lived on terms of friendly inti
macy with his valued Tom Purdies and others, and of close literary
confidence with snch men as William Laidlaw. The two writers
who rank next in the group were, however, peasants born. I have
already spoken of James Hogg. Allan Cunningham, born in 1784,
was a son of the land-steward on the estate on which Robert Burns
occupied a farm,—a fact which no doubt had its effect in stimulating
the poetic impulse that was in him. His " Traditional Tales of the
English and Scottish Peasantry" is perhaps the best of the many
books which he wrote, and is especially distinguished by the sweet
ness of his style, and by the picturesque traits of old-fashioned
country life, and the delightful touches of fresh nature-painting in
which it abounds. After Cunningham, comes Campbell of Isla,
born in 1822. He was of gentle birth, but understood and sympa
thised with the peasantry. He spoke the Gaelic language, and
travelling on foot through the West Highlands, was able to get the
people to tell him stories, which he accurately noted down. In his
collection, therefore, we get the stories as nearly as possible in the
words in which they were told. Then, among lesser writers in the
same class, there are, Dougal Graham, the chap-book writer, who
has been called the Scottish Rabelais ; Robert Chambers, whose fame
as a publisher has somewhat obscured his well-earned fame as an
author ; besides many others, some of them of merely local reputation.
     Literature takes the life of tradition, and then embalms the dead
body. To-day the old stories, which introduce the supernatural,
have ceased to be believed or told. But, in their place, there is still
to be found a body of genuine peasant-tales which do not tax credulity
quite too far. And it is a fact worthy of attention that, though these
stories may and do deal in horrors, yet they never descend to the
merely " sensational " ; being invariably raised by some touch of
fancy, of character-painting, of the picturesque, into the region of
poetic fiction.
     In conclusion, what is there in these " old wives' tales " to justify
their withdrawal, even for an hour, from the limbo of forgotten
things ? They have a place, though it be a very humble one, in the
history of the workings of the human mind. They are the mani
festation, in one of its simplest forms, of the literary or art impulse ;
 and nothing that has been thus generated, and that has stood the
 test of time as these tales have stood it, can ever, I believe, bo
unworthy of our study. These simple stories were the outcome of
faint stirrings in the human breast of two passions—the Love of Beauty,
and the Thirst for Fame. " One touch of Nature makes the whole
world kin " ; and the lapse of centuries does not prevent our entering
into the feelings of the peasant story-teller. Art is not only a thing
 of bound volumes and of exhibitions ; and perhaps the Scottish
 peasant has shown as keen a sense of it—of the story-teller's art, at
 least—as his mental development and the conditions of his existence
would admit.                                                    [G. D.]

498                         General MonlUy Meeting.                    [Feb. 1,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, February 1, 1892.
  SIR JAMES CRIOHTON-BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                          Vice-Presidont, in the Chair.
                  Leopold Field, Esq. F.C.S.
                  James Macdonald Horsburgh, Esq. M.A.
                  Sir Philip Magnus,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for tho
following Donations : —
                        Sir Benjamin Baker, £50,
                        L. M. Rate, Esq. £50,
                        J. VV. Swan, Esq. £21,
                        Wm. Anderson, Esq. £25,
for carrying on investigations on Liquid Oxygen.
     The PRBSENTB received since the last Meeting were laid on tho
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz :—
     FROM
Governor-General of India—Records, Vol. XXIV. Part 4. 8vo. 1891.
The Lords of the Admiralty—Nautical Almanac for 1895. 8vo. 1891.
T/ie Secretary of State for India—The Tribes and Castes of Bengal. By H. H.
     Risley. Vols. I. II. Anthropometrits Data. 8vo. Calcutta, 1891.
AM, Sir Frederick, K.C.B. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Mining Accidents and
     their Prevention. 8vo. New York, 1889.
Accademia dei Lincei, Rcale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quarta : Remliconti. 2° Semes-
     tre, Vol. VII. Fasc. 9-12. 8vo. 1891.
  Memorie, Vol. IX. 4to. 1891.
  Atti, Anno 44, Sess. IV'.-VI". 4to. 1831.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Vol. II. Part 4. 8vo. 1891.
American Geographical Society—Bulletin, Vol. XXIII. NOB. 1-3. 8vo. 1891.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LIT. Nos. 1-3. 8vo. 1891.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XII. Part 9; Vol. XIII. Part 1. 8vo.
     1891-92.
Basel, Naturforschenden Gesellechaft—Verhandlungen, Band IX. Heft 2. 8vo
     1891.
Birmingham and Midland Institute—Report for 1891. 8vo.'
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Transactions, New Series, Vol. VIL 4to.
     1891.
  Index to First Series of Transactions. 4to. 1891.
  Proceedings, 1891-2, Nos. 5-7. 4to.
Bttckton, George B. Esa. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Monograph of the British
     Cicadas or Tettigidse, Part 8. 8vo. 1891.

  1892.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                     499
  Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. VII. Part 5. 8vo. 1892.
     Transactions, Vol. XV. Part 2. 4to. 1891.
  Canada, Geological and Natural History Survey of—Contributions to Canadian
        Mioro-Palseontology, Part 3. 8vo. 1891.
  Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. X. Noe. 11, 12. 8vo. 1891.
  Chemical Society—Journal for Deo. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 8vo.
  Cracovie, I'Academie des Sciences—Bulletin, 1891, Nos. 8-10. 8vo.
  Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. &e. M.R.I.—Journal of the Royal Microscopical
        Society, 1891, Part 6. 8vo.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for Deo. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 8vo.
    Analyst for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 8vo.
    Athenaeum for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 4to.
    Brewers' Journal for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 4 to.
    Chemical News for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 4to.
    Chemist and Druggist for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 8vo.
    Electrical Engineer for Doc. 1891 and Jan. 1892. fol.
    Electricity for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 8vo.
    Engineer for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. fol.
    Engineering for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. fol.
    Engineering Review, Vol. I. NOs. 1-9. 8vo. 1891-92.
    Horological Journal for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 8vo.
    Industries for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. fol.
    Iron for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 4to.
    Ironmongery for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 4to.
    Monist for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 8vo.
    Murray's Magazine for Dec. 1891. 8vo.
    Nature for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 4to.
    Open Court for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 4to.
    Photographic News for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 8vo.
    Revue Scientifiquo for Deo. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 4to.
    Telegraphic Journal for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. fol.
    Zoophilist for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 4to.
 Ex Libris Society—Journal for Jan.-Feb. 1892. 4to.
 Fayrer, Sir Joseph, K. C.S.I. M.D. F.R.8. (the Author)—Presidential Address to
       Congress of Hygiene and Demography. 8vo. 1891.
 Florence Biblioteca Nazionals Centrals—Bolletino, Nos. 143-146. 8vo. 1891.
    Elenco delle Pubblicazioni Periodiche Italiane del 1891. 8vo.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 792, 793. 8vo. 1891-2.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XIV. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1891.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 189. 8vo. 1891.
 Glasgow Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XXII. 8vo. 1890-91.
Groth, Lorentz Albert, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Application of Electricity to
      Tanning, as proved by Groth's system. 8vo. 1891.
Ilarlem, Sociite' HoUandaise des Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Tome XXV.
      3mo-4mo Livraison. 8vo. 1891.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XIII. Part 3. 8vo. 1891.
Hughes, Profeuor D. E. F.R.S. M.R.I. (tiie Auihar)—Electric and Magnetic
      Researches. 8vo. 1878-86.
Institute of Brewing—Transactions, Vol. V. No. 2. 8vo. 1891.
Jablonowskfsche Geselhchaft, Leipzig—Preisschriften, Mathematisch-naturwiggen-
      schaftlichen Section, No. XI. 4to. 1891.
Juhus Hopkins University—University Circulars, No. 94. 4to. 1891.
   American Chemical Journal, Vol. XIII. No. 8. 8vo. 1891.
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 196. 8vo. 1891.
.Madrid Royal Academy of Sciences—Memories, Tome XV. 4ta 1890-91.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXI. Part 12. 8vo. 1891.
JtcClean, Frank, Esq. M.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—Comparative Photographic
      Spectra of the Bun and the Metals, fol. 1891.

500                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [Feb. 1,
McKendrick, Professor J. O. M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—A Text Book of
     Physiology. 2 vols. 8vo. 1888-89.
Meteorological Office—Hourly Means, 1888. 8vo. 1891.
   Ten Years' Sunshine in the British Isles, 1881-90. 8vo. 1891.
   Harmonic Analysis of Hourly Observations. I to. 18!)1.
Meteorological Society, Royal—Quarterly Journal, No. 80. 8vo. 1891.
Ministry of Public Works, Rome—Giornale del Genio Civile, 1891, Fasc. 10, 11,
     8vo. And DesignL fol. 1891.
New South Wales Agent-General—Annual Report of the Department of Mines
     (N.S.W.) for 1890. fol. 1891.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
     Vol XL. Part 4. 8vo. 1891.
Odontologieal Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXIV. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo.
     1891.
Payne, Wm. W. Esq. (the Publisher)—Astronomy and Astro-Physics for January
     1892. Edited by W. Payne and Geo. Hale. 8vo.
Pennsylvania Geological Survey—Report, F. 3, 1888-89. 8vo. 1891.
   Atlases, A. A. Parts 3, 4, 6. 8vo. 1889.
PharmaceuticalSociety of Great Britain—Journal for Deo. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 8vo.
Photographic Society of Great .Britain—Journal, VoL XV. Nos. 5-9; Vol. XVI.
     No. 4. 8vo. 1891-2.
Physical Society of London—Proceedings, Vol. XI. Part 2. 8vo. 1891.
Richardson, B. W. M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I. (the Autltor)—The Asclepiad, Vol. VHI.
     No. 32. 8vo. 1891.
Rio de Janeiro, Observatoire Imperiale de—Revista, Nos. 10, 11. 8vo. 1891.
Royal Irish Academy—Proceedings, 3rd Series, Vol. II. No. 1. 8vo. 1891.
   TranHactions, VoL XXIX. Part 17. 4to. 1891.
Royal Society of London—Catalogue of Scientific Papers, Vol. IX. ABA-GIS
     (1874-83). 4to. 1891.
   Proceedings, Nos. 303, 304. 8vo. 1892,
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Mathematische-Physischen Classe : Abhand-
      lungen, Band XVIII. Nos. 1. 2. 4to. 1891.
   Berichte, 1891, No. 3. 8vo. 1891.
   Philologisch-Historiachen Classe: Abhandlungen, Band XIII. No. 3. 8vo.
      1891.
Scottish Society of Arts, Royal—Transactions, Vol. XIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1891.
Selbnrne Society—Nature Notes, Vol. III. No. 26. 8vo. 1891.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. IV. Nos. 3, 4, 5. 8vo. 1891.
Society of Arts—Journal for Dec. 1891 and Jan. 1892. 8vo.
Statistical Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. LIV. Part 4. 8vo. 1891.
'V. Pelersbourg Acade'mie Imperiale des Sciences—Mlmoires, Toiue XXXVIII.
     Nos. 4-6. 4to. 1891.
Taechini, Professor P. Hon. Mem. I!. I. (the Author)—Memorie della Societa degli
     Spettroscopisti Italian!, Vol. XX. Disp. 10", 11". 4to. 1891.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, Nos. 167, 168. 8vo. 1891.
 United States Department of Agriculture—Monthly Weather Review for Septem
     ber-October 1891. 4to.
 United States Geological Survey—10th Annual Report, Parts 1, 2. 4to. 1890.
Veneto, L'Atenco—Kevieia, Serie XIV. Vol. II. Fase. 1-6; Serie XV. Vol. L
     Fasc. 1-6. 8vo. 1890-91.
 Vereins .nr BefSrderung det Gewerbfleises in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1891 :
     Heft 10. 4to. 1891-92.
 Weber, Hermann, M.D. M.R.I.—Guide du Voyageur a Ephese. Par Prof. G.
     Weber. 8vo. Smyrna, 1891.
Zurich Naturforschenden Gesellschaft—Veerteljahrechrift, Jahrang XXXVL
     Heft 1, 2. 8vo. 1891.
   Neujahrsblatt, XCIV. 4to. 1892.

1892.J                   Special General Meeting.                 501
                 SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING,
                       Monday, February 1, 1892.
  SIR JAMBS CRICHTON-BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
    The following Address to Her Majesty the Queen, Patron, and
His Royal Highuess the Prince of Wales, Vice-Patron of the Royal
Institution, in reference to the decease of His Royal Highness the
Duke of Clarence and Avondale, Honorary Member of the Institu
tion, was read and unanimously adopted :
    The Members of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, in Special
General Meeting here assembled, desire most respectfully to offer to
Her Majesty the Queen (Patron of the Royal Institution) and the
Prince of Wales (Vice-Patron of the Institution) the expression of
their unfeigned sorrow at the loss which Her Majesty, His Royal
Highness, and the Nation have sustained by the death of His Royal
Highness the Duke of Clarence and Avondale (Honorary Member of
the Institution), and they ask to be allowed to tender their heartfelt
sympathy and condolence with Her Majesty and His Royal Highness
the Prince of Wales in their bereavement.
    Letters of regret for non-attendance were read from His Grace
the President, the Earls of Derby and Ducie, Sir John Fowler, and
many others.
                  EXTRA EVENING MEETING,
                     Thursday, February 4, 1892.
   SIR FREDERICK BRAMWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Hon. Secretary
                   and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                          NIKOLA TBSLA, Esq.
           Currents of High Potential and of High Frequency.
                            [Abstract Deferred.]

602                       Professor W. C. Roberts-Austen                    [Feb. 5,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, February 5, 1892.
SIR FREDERICK AREL, K.O.B. D.C.L. F.E.S. Vice-President, in the
                                      Chair.
        PHOFESSOR W. 0. KORERTS-AUSTEN, C.B. F.E.S. M.R.I.
                           Metals at High Temperatures.
I PROPOSE this evening to consider, first, the methods of measuring
high temperatures, and, second, to describe certain effects they pro
duce on metals.
     Geber, writing in the eighth century, gives directions for obtain
ing high temperatures, but points to the difficulties that arise in
practice, " because fire is not a thing which can be measured, ' sed
quoniam non est res ignis, quse mensurari possit.' " * It is not sufficient
to attain temperatures that are not known to be high ; it is necessary,
for the purpose of modern investigation, to measure them with
accuracy ; and few of the early chemists in this country did more in
affording a basis for the study of metals at high temperatures than
Robert Boyle, the application of whose well-known law to solutions
of metals in each other has been made evident by recent work. The
30th December last was the third centenary of his death ; it is well,
therefore, that this lecture should begin with a tribute to his
memory. He suggested improvements in the ordinary mercurial
thermometer, | constructed what would appear to be the first air
thermometer with an index ; and although he did not do much for
thermometry at high temperatures, he appears to have been struck by
what must have been a quaint device for regulating high temper
atures, for he points out that " the great mechanic, Cornelius Drebel J
made an automatons musical instrument and a furnace which he
could regulate to any degree of heat by means of the same instru
ment." He indicates various degrees of intensity of heat by
reference to the colour of a glowing mass of fuel, and says that, §
" tin/ we vulgarly say in English, ' a thing is red hot,' to express a
superlative degree of heat, yet, at the forges and furnaces of artificers,
by a white heat they understand a further degree of ignition than by
a red one." It is not a little strange that for three centuries after
his death the same vague expressions have constantly been used in
describing high temperatures.
    * From the edition of his ' Summa Porfectionia Magistorii,' p. 28, published
in Venice, 1542.
    t Boyle's Works, Shaw's edition, vol. i. p. 575, 1738.
    j Cornelius van Drebel, 1572-1634, Boyle, loc. cit. vol. iii. p. 38, 1738.
    § Loc. cit. vol. ii. p. 28.

 1892.]                 on IfeidU at High Temperatures.                         503
      A great step in advance was made in 1701 by Sir Isaac Newton,*
 who applied the law of cooling to the measurement of temperatures
 beyond the range of the mercurial thermometer, and in the notes
 which accompany his " Scala graduum calorie " ho showed that he
 knew that the freezing-point of lead differs slightly from its melting-
 point.
     Eighty years later, Josiah Wedgwood (1782), I aided by one of
 my predecessors, Mr. Alohorne, Assay Master of the Mint, deter
 mined a few melting-points of metals, and, in communicating a
 description of his " thermometer for measuring the higher degrees of
 heat " to the Royal Society, we find him, one thousand years after
 Geber had said that " fire cannot be measured," still lamenting the
 want of suitable instruments, saying : " How much it is to be wished
 that the authors (to whom he refers) had been able to convey to us a
 measure of the heat made use of in their valuable processes ; . . .
 a red heat, a bright red, and a white heat are," Wedgwood adds,
 " indeterminate expressions, and even though the three stages are
 sufficiently distinct from each other, they are of too great latitude,
and pass into each other by numerous gradations which can neither
be expressed in words nor discriminated by the eye." Another
ninety years brings us to the last time that the measurements of high
 temperatures formed the subject of a Friday evening discourse in
 this Institution. On March 1st, 1872, the late Sir William Siemens
addressed yon on the measurement of " heat by electricity " ; J and,
speaking of the mercurial thermometer, said : " When we ascend the
scale of intensity wo soon approach a point at which mercury boils,
and from that point upwards we are left without a reliable guide, and
the result is that we find, in scientific books on chemical processes,
statements to the effect that such and such a reaction takes place at a
' dull red,' such another at a ' bright red,' or a ' cherry red,' or a
' white heat,'—expressions which remind one," he adds, " of the
days of alchemy rather than of chemical science at the present day."
     It is not a little singular that the same lament should have been
uttered, with so long an interval between, by two prominent technical
men, and it suggests that but little experimental work had been done
in the meantime with a view to the measurement of high temperatures.
This is, however, far from being the case. A vast amount of work
was done by physicists and metallurgists whose chief masters were
" indefatigable labour, the closest inspection, and hands that wcro
not afraid of the blackness of charcoal " ; and their more noteworthy
efforts were based on the employment of the air thermometer, in
which the expansion of air replaces the expansion of the mercury in
the ordinary thermometer, the bulb being of some fire-resisting
material.§ For this purpose, Princep (1827) used a bulb of gold,
    » ' Phil. Trana Boy. S00.' vol. xxii. p. 824.   f Ibid. vol. Ixxii. p. 305.
    t ' Boy. Inst. Proc.' voL vi. p. 438, 1872.
    § See the excellent bibliography given by C. Barns, ' Bull. Geological Survey,
U.S.A.' No. 54, 1889.

 604                  Professor W. C. Roberts-Austen                       [Feb. 5,
 Pouillet (1836) one of platinum, and, Deville and TrooBt, in a truly
 splendid series of investigations, adopted bulbs of porcelain, with
 iodine vapour as the elastic fluid. They ultimately reverted to the
 use of air.
     Yon will remember that old mercurial thermometers had much
 information, supposed to be useful, engraven on their scales, and
 such statements as " water freezes," " water boils," " blood heat,"
 " fever heat," " summer heat," were considered indispensable. It is
 by exposure to known temperatures that a thermoscope can be con
 verted into a pyrometer for measuring intense heat ; and the air or
 gas thermometer has, in the hands of Deville and Troost, rendered
 excellent service by enabling such gradations to be effected. The gas
 thermometer is not, in itself, a handy appliance, for it requires much
 subsidiary apparatus, and elaborate corrections of various kinds have
 to be introduced into the numerical data it affords ; but it has given
 many fixed temperatures—such as melting-points and boiling-points
 of elements, and of compounds—which may safely be made use of in
graduating pyrometers. For very high temperatures, 900° C. and
over, we rely on the excellent work of M. Violle * on the specific
heats of platinum, silver, gold, palladium, and indium, which have
enabled the melting-points of the respective metals to be calculated.
     The determinations of temperatures between 300° and 1000°,
 which are now generally accepted, also rest upon data accumulated
by the aid of the air thermometer, which has thus enabled the
graduation to be effected of instruments widely differing from it,
that can be trusted to give rapid and accurate indications in daily
use. I can only bring before you two of the many kinds which have
been devised ; they are, however, by far the best that are available,
and for the determination of temperatures up to the melting-point
of platinum, leave little to be desired.
     (1) A pyrometer which depends on the increase in the resistance
of a heated conductor through which a divided electrical current is
passing; and
     (2) One in which the strength of an electric current, generated
by the heating of a thermo-junction, is used as a measure of the heat
applied to the thermo-junction.
     The principle of the electrical resistance pyrometer was indicated
by Sir William Siemens (' Collected Papers,' vol. ii. ' Electricity,'
p. 84, 1889) in a letter addressed to Dr. Tyndall, dated December
1860, and the nature of the instrument may be made clear by the
accompanying diagram, Fig. 1. A divided current passes from the
battery B, to a platinum wire, C, coiled round a clay cylinder, and
to a resistance coil, B. At the ordinary temperature the resistance
of the platinum coil is balanced by the standard resistance B. If,
however, the platinum coil be heated, its resistance will be increased,
and, this increase of resistance, which can be measured in various
    * 'Comptea Bendus,' vol. Ixxxix. p. 702, 1879; vol. xcii. p. 866, 1881.

 1892.]                 on Metals at High Temperatures.                         505
 ways, indicates the temperature of the coil, C. The coil itaelf may
 be adequately protected and exposed to temperatures which have
 been determined by the air thermometer; the deflection of a suitable
 (differential) galvanometer G, will then indicate
 temperatures directly. For instance, the temperature
at which zinc boils has been accurately fixed at
 940° C., and if the coil is heated in the vapour of
boiling zinc, the angle through which the galvanometer
mirror is deflected marks the temperature of 940° C.
     The Eeport of a British Association Committee
showed, in 1874, that the instrument is liable to
changes of zero, but Mr. H. L. Gallendar has recently
(1887) restored confidence in the method which had
been shaken by the Committee. He has proved
that if sufficiently pure platinum wire be used, and
if the wire be carefully annealed and protected from
strain and contamination,* resistance pyrometers may
be made practically free from changes of zero eveu
when used at temperatures as high as 1000° 0. He
attributes the changes of zero to which the Siemens
pyrometers are liable to the action on the wire
of the clay cylinder on which it is wound, and of
the iron tube in which it is inclosed. As the result of his experi
ments he has introduced certain modifications, which render the
instrument not only trustworthy but very sensitive. He winds the
platinum wire on a thin plate of mica, and incloses it in a doubly
glazed tube of hard porcelain. He uses the zero method of measur
ing the resistance ; but for these and other details of manipulation
his own very interesting papers must be consulted. I will only add
that I have had the pleasure of working with him in the Mint
Laboratory, and I am satisfied that at temperatures about 1000°
the comparative results afforded by his method are accurate to the
tenth of a degree, a result which would certainly have been deemed
impossible a year or two ago.j
    * 'Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc.' vol. clxxviii. 1887.A, pp. 161-233, and vol. clxxxii.
1891, A, pp. 11.9-157; 'Phil. Mag.' voL xxxii. July 1891, p. 104, and vol. xxxiii.
Feb. 1892, p. 220.
    t As this statement has been received with gome surprise, it may be as well
to state briefly how this degree of accuracy and sensitiveness ie attained. The
resistance-box is compensated for changes of temperature, and changes of 'resist
ance in the wires leading to the pyrometer are automatically eliiufnated. The
resistance itself is measured by a modification of tha well-known Carey-Foster
methoil. The balancing resistance of the Wbeatstone bridge employed, is com
posed partly of resistance coils and partly of a bridge-wire along which a contact
key slides. The resistance of a centimetre of this wire is made to correspond to
the increase of resistance of the pyrometer produced by a rise of 1° 0. The
galvanometer ran easily be made sensitive to one-hundredth of a centimetre
of this bridge-wire, so that one-tenth of a centimetre, which corresponds to one-
tenth of a degree, can, ot' course, be measured with certaiuty.
     VOL. XIII. (No. 86.)                                            2 M

606                    Professor W. C. Boberts-Aueten                 [Feb. 6,
     The necessity for working with small volumes of fused metals,
into which the tube of Callendar's pyrometer could not be plunged,
has led me to prefer to adopt a method that would be classified under
 the second heading I have given. A very small thermo-junction
may, in fact, be employed in such cases. The use of thermo-junctions
 for measuring high temperatures appears to have been suggested in
 1826 by Becquerel, and adopted by Fouillet in 1836,* who advocates
 the use of iron in conjunction with platinum ; but of all the varied
 combinations of metals and alloys which have been tried from time
 to time, that proposed by II. Le Chatelier possesses many advantages,
 on which I have elsewhere dwelt.f It consists of a platinum wire
 twisted at its end with a wire of platinum alloyed with 10 per cent.
 of rhodium. Such a couple may be used for some time without
 change of zero, and if the junction becomes injured it may be cut off,
 and the severed ends of the wires may be twisted together again. I
 am satisfied that it can afford comparative results which are accurate
 to 1° at temperatures of over 1000°. The diagrams given later
 (Figs. 4, 5, and 6) show the disposition of the apparatus. The spot
 of light indicating the deflections of the galvanometer needle is
 caused, for the illustrations of this lecture, to fall on to a graduated
 scale 45 feet long on the wall of the theatre. The thermo-junction
 has been calibrated with the aid of certain known temperatures, and
 the long scale is inscribed after the manner of the old thermometer
 scales, with certain fixed points, which are, of course, far higher than
 those it was possible to indicate by the expansion of mercury in a
 glass tube. (These fixed points were :—" water boils " (100°), " lead
 melts" (326°), "zinc boils" (940°), " gold melts" (1045°), "palla
 dium melts " (15003), " platinum melts " (1775°). On heating the
 thermo-junction to bright redness in a Bunsen flame, the spot of
 light moved rapidly to the point marked " zinc boils.") For labora
 tory experiments the scale is a short transparent one, rigidly fixed
 in relation to the galvanometer.
     In leading up to the experiments which follow, in the course of
which metals will be exposed to high temperatures, I would remind
you thai if an ordinary thermometer be plunged into water which is
gradually losing its heat to a cold environment, the mercury will fall
until the water begins to freeze, but directly this happens the
mercury remains stationary until all the water is frozen ; so that if
the rate of fall be measured with a chronograph, there will be a
steady fall to the freezing point of water, then a long arrest,
followed by a renewed fall. If these readings be plotted, a well-
known time-temperature curve will be obtained. Exactly the same
effect is produced when a fluid metal " freezes," and before proceed
ing further it may be well to determine experimentally the freezing-
    • ' Comptes Rendus,' vol. iii. p. 782, 1836.
    t British Association Lecture, 'Nature,' vol. xli. 1889, pp. 11-32; Report
Inst. Mech. Eug. Oct. 1891, p. 643.

  1892.]                on Metals at High Temperatures.                      507
 point of gold. Beneath this little mass of pure gold, A (Fig. 2), a
 thermo-junction, B, is protected by a very thin layer of clay from the
 metal. The oxyhydrogen flame is made to play on the gold, there is
 a rapid movement of the spot of light over almost 25 feet of the
 scale, there is a diminution in the
 rate of rise near the point marked                           FIG. 2.
 1045°, the melting-point of gold, and                          A
 then, when the metal becomes fluid,
 the temperature rapidly rises as
 more heat is given to the little
 mass. The source of heat is now
 removed, the temperature falls, there
 is an arrest just at 1045° C., the freezing-point of gold, and
 then the spot of light resumes its course as the gold cools down
 to the temperature of the room. The melting-point and freezing-
 point of palladium, 1500° C., were then shown in the same way. It
 should be observed, however, that when a small fragment of palladium
 is fused in the naked flame of the oxyhydrogen blow-pipe, hydrogen
                                     Fio. 3.
appears to be absorbed by the metal ; and this absorption of gas
lowers the freezing-point materially, and makes it far less steady
than when a fresh piece of metal, cut from a large mass, is fused for
the first time.
     When the spot of light is allowed to fall on a sensitised plate in
a suitable camera,* the time-temperature curve, of the cooling metal,
traced on a moving plate will bo of the form shown in Fig. 3.
    It may be useful to show the method by which these autographic curves are
obtained : the following diagram. Fig. 4, is therefore added.
                   * Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. xlix. 1891, p. 347.
                                                                    '2 ll '2

508                      Professor W. C. Huberts-Austen                    [Feb. 5,
    The arrangement consists in inclosing a galvanometer of the Deprez and
d'Arsonval type in a large camera ; a fixed mirror F, being placed below the
movable mirror M, of the galvanometer, so tliat the light from the lime cylinder
L, reflected in the mirror H, passes to both mirrors, F and M, and is reflected in
the direction of a flue horizontal slit A B, behind which a sensitised photographic
plate C, is drawn vertically past the slit by means of gearing, D, driven by clock
work. The ray frum the fixed mirror is interrupted periodically by the vane K,
                                        FIG. 4.
and a beaded datum line is given, which enables any irregularity in the advance
of the plate to be detected.
    The amount of divergence from its datum line of the spot of light reflected
by the movable mirror at any given moment bears a relation (which can readily
be found by calibration) to the temperature to which the thermo-j unction X, is
heated, and the variations of temperature are recorded by a curve which is the
resultant of the upward movement of the plate and the horizontal movement of
the spot of light. A crucible c, which may be filled with molten metal, is pro
vided with a tubulnre, T, for the insertion of the thermo-junction. The crucible
is suspended by wires in a double jacket of tin plate, a b.
     It will have been evident that the thermo-junction of platinum and
platinum-rhodium could not be used for measuring temperatures
higher than the melting-point of the platinum of which it is made.
Metals with higher fusion-points than platinum are, however, avail-

1892.]                on Metals at High Temperatures.                  509
able ; thus iriclinm will only just melt in the flame produced by the
combustion of pure and dry hydrogen and oxygen. By the kindness of
Mr. Edward Matthey, a thin rod of iridium has been prepared with
much labour, and it can be used as a thermo-junction with a similar rod
of iridium alloyed with 10 per cent, of platinum. The junction may be
readily melted in the electric arc, and by this means a temperature
may be registered which careful laboratory experiments show to be
close to 2000°, and this agrees with the estimate of the melting-point
of iridium which Violin * deduced from calorimetric experiments.
[This experiment was shown, a different scale being employed for
the screen, as the thermo-electric constants of the iridium, and
iridium-platinum couple, are different from those of the platinum and
rhodium one previously used.]
    It is interesting to remember that within a year, in tin's Institu
tion, temperatures ranging from — 200 to -)- 2000° have been mapped
out, the lower temperature by Prof. Dewar in his memorable Faraday
Lecture ; the higher point is now measured in public for the first
time.
    How difficult it is for us to realise what this range of temperature
really means 1 for we have but little power of appreciating tempera
tures beyond those we can conveniently bear. We, perhaps, know
the meaning of extreme cold better than great heat, but even the
vivid imagery of Dante, who might have been expected to afford some
guidance, gives us singularly little help. I think in depicting the
terror of torture inflicted by extreme cold he succeeds better than
when he describes the suffering of those who are exposed to flames.
His words (Canto xxxiii.)—
            " Blue, pinched, and shrined in ice the spirits stood "—
mark the highest suffering drawn in the " Infeino." It is, however,
probable that my failure to appreciate the descriptive powers of
Dante may be the result of resentment, for I read with regret that
he consigns to the tenth chasm of Hell, not only the coiner who
                                                      " falsified
                The metal with the Baptist's form impressed," f
but also an honest metallurgist, Cappoccio of Sienna, who,
                                                 " by the power
        Of alchemy, . . . aped creative Nature by his subtle art" ;
and deserved a better fate.
    We are now in a position          to consider certain other effects of
high temperature on metals.           Many years ago, my colleague Mr.
Lockyer, and I, conducted an          investigation on the spectra of tho
vapours of certain metals { at         the highest temperatures we could
              * Loc. oil.         t The golden florin of Floreucc.
              I Troc. Roy. Soc. vol. xxiii. p. 344, 1875.

510                 Professor W. C. Roberto-Atuten             [Feb. 5,
produce, with the aid of the oxyhydrogen flame. We distilled
silver, zinc, cadmium, and volatilised iron and other metals, from
a lime crucible, and caused their vapours to pass into a hori
zontal tube of strongly-heated lime. By these experiments we
satisfied ourselves that the molecular structure of metals is gradu
ally simplified as higher temperatures are employed ; and we came
to the conclusion that each molecular simplification is marked by a
distinctive spectrum, and that there is also an intimate connection
between the facility with which the final stage is reached, the group
to which the element belongs, and the place which it occupies in the
polar atmosphere. At the highest temperature of the oxyhydrogen
flame, molecules of metals are simplified, but their constituent atoms
remain unchanged. Mr. Lockyer has, however, since done far more :
he has shown that the intense heat of the snn carries the process of
molecular simplification much further ; and, if we compare the com
plicated spectra of the vapours of metals produced by the highest
temperatures available here with the very simple spectra of the same
metals as they exist in the hottest part of the sun's atmosphere, it is
difficult to resist the conclusion that the atom of the chemist has
itself been changed. My own belief is that these " atoms " are
changed, and that iron, as it exists in the sun, is not the vapour of
iron as we know it upon earth. We will not dwell in this lecture on
the effects of very high temperatures on metals, but rather on the
influence of comparatively low temperatures—that is, below white
ness—in changing the number and arrangement of the atoms in
metallic molecules. A profound change must occur when the viscous
form of sulphur passes spontaneously at the ordinary temperature
into the yellow crystalline variety, but the change is accompanied by
but little thermal disturbance. In the case of metals there is also
abundant evidence that molecular change may take place at low
temperatures. Take the fusible alloy of bismuth, lead, and tin,
which bears Newton's name, and contains—
               Bismuth                              50-00
               Lead                                 31-25
               Tiu                                  18-75
                                                   100-00
     It fuses at 90° ; it may be cast round a thermo-janction, and
plunged in water and cooled thoroughly until the observer is certain
that the mass has returned to the atmospheric temperature ; take it
out of the water, dry it rapidly, and in a few moments it will become
too hot to hold. The " fracture " of the metal is totally different
before and after the molecular change which is the cause of this
evolution of heat has taken place. The change, moreover, takes
place in the solid metal, and is not due to the release of the latent
heat of fusion. The mass, solid as it appears to be, must be the
scene of an internal struggle between the molecules in the effort to

  1892.]                 on Metalt at High Temperatures.                   611
  attain a Btate of equilibrium, and this conflict is but a type of the
  action that takes place in many metals and alloys which are of vast
  industrial importance.
      Time will only permit me to deal with three cases of the action of
  high temperatures on atoms and molecules of metals. In the first
  case, the arrangement of the atoms in the molecule of a metal, iron, is
  disturbed, and the result is of great industrial importance. In the
  second case, the atoms of a metal, gold, appear to combine with those
  of another metal ; and the result, while it is mainly of interest in
  connection with the history of science, has nevertheless an important
  bearing upon art. The third case relates to the molecular bombard
  ment which takes place when a small quantity of metal is dissolved
  in a mass of metallic solvent, and is of interest in connection with
  modern views both as to osmotic pressure and solution generally.
      (1) The pyrometric couple is inserted in the centre of a little
  mass of steel, which is being slowly raised to a bright red heat ;
  when the flame is withdrawn, the spot of light will turn towards the
 zero end of the scale, falling slowly until a temperature of 655° is
 reached, and then there will be an abrupt and prolonged arrest. The
 metal has never been near its melting-point, and the evolution of heat
 must be due to a molecular change in the solid metal. In the case of
 this particular sample of steel, the evolution of heat is mainly the
 result of a change in the relation between the carbon and the iron ;
 but by laboratory experiments and careful chronographic records,
 Osmond has shown that, in the case of certain varieties of steel, it
 can be demonstrated that what here appears as a single change,
 attended by an evolution of heat, is really an exceedingly complex
 one. I have shown that it occurs in the purest iron the chemists can
 prepare by electrolysis, and I agree with Osmond in believing that
 the change which occurs in pure iron at 855° is a molecular one,
 independent of the presence of impurity. If the mass of steel
 (Fig. 5, a) be heated again and allowed to cool, you will observe that
 the point of " recalescence " appears to be that at which the iron
 regains its magnetic property;* for a magnetised needle, b, is
 attracted at the moment the arrest of the spot of light on the pyro
 meter scale marks the temperature at which the change occurs, and
 at that precise moment a second spot of light, from a mirror mounted
 on the magnetic needle, will rapidly move away from its zero. I
 have clscu hcrcf dwelt on the importance of the molecular change in
iron and steel, and can now only summarise the significant facts.
     It is unnecessary to point to the extreme industrial importance
    * The temperature at which these molecular changes take place in iron and
steel was first demonstrated to an audience in my Newcastle lecture, 1889; but
my friend Pruf. Reinold, of the Royal Naval College, first arranged an experi
ment for lecture purposes, which showed the magnetic change simultaneously
  wih the thermal one.
    t Report to the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, ' Proceedings,' 1891,
p. 543.

512                     Professor W. C. Roberts- Austen                  [Feb. 5,
of the property steel possesses, of becoming hard when it is quenched
from redness in a fluid which will abstract its heat with more or less
rapidity.
    The changes which take place at 855° and 650° have to be
arrested, as it were, by rapidly cooling the mass of steel ; and if this
is done, the steel will be more or less hard according to the rapidity
with which the progress of the molecular change has been stopped.
It is, however, useless to attempt to harden steel if the temperature
of the mass has fallen below 650°. In "oil hardening "or cooliug
a large mass of steel, like the " A " tube of a gun, which may be 30
feet long, great care should be taken to insure that the temperature
of the mass is as uniform as possible ; for, if part of the mass is
hotter than 650°, while part is colder, the oil will really be cooling
a mass of steel which is itself passing through various stages of
complex molecular change, and the operation of " hardening " arrests,
as it were, the atoms in the midst of a conflict incidental to their
attempt to group themselves into one or other of the molecular
modifications of iron. By cooling a mass of steel which is not at
uniform temperature, stresses of great complexity and intensity are
set up, stresses that may greatly reduce the effective strength of the
gun.* The result is told in failures, by which many lives have been
sacrificed ; but I need hardly say that the Director-General of Ord
nance is fully sensible of the national importance of studying the
behaviour of iron and steel at high temperatures, and, at Dr. Ander
son's suggestion, the Institution of Mechanical Engineers appointed
a Committee, and have intrusted me with a large portion of the
inquiry.
  * ' Internal Stret-aos in Cast lion and Steel,' by Nicholas Kalakoutaky, 1888. '

 1892.]               on Metals at High Temperatures.               513
     In the next experiment, Fig. 6, a bar of steel, £ inch in section
 and 18 inches long, was heated to bright redness and fixed firmly
 at one end ; a weight of about two pounds is rapidly hung to the
 free end, a light pointer is added to magnify the motion of the bar,
 and the thermo-junction is rapidly introduced into a small hole
 drilled in what is arranged to be the hottest part of the bar. The
 bar is not softest at a red heat ; it remains perfectly rigid until it
 has cooled down to dull redness, and the temperature, as measured
 by the spot of light from the galvanometer, shows that " recalesceuco "
 has occurred. At that moment of molecular weakness in the bar,
 the weight has power to bend it, and the pointer fulls. By such
experiments the exact temperature at which the metal becomes weak,
in different varieties of steel, can readily be determined.
     (2) Evidence will now be given in support of the second case it
was proposed to treat, and it will be shown that at high temperatures
the atoms of metals may truly combine with each other ; in fact, taking
gold as a basis for the experiments, compounds may be formed which
would, had they been known centuries ago, have strangely affected the
history of science. When the alchemists subjected the metals to high
temperatures, their efforts were mainly directed to the discovery of
some substance that would either change base metals to the colour of
gold, or would give them the brilliancy of silver. The medieval
chemists believed that there were two distinct substances that would
effect this, " one for the white " and another " for the red." Many of
their writings might be quoted in support of this view, but a reference
to Geber, who wrote in the eighth century, will be sufficient. He
pointed out that the transmuting agent " has a tincture of itself so
clear and splendid, white or red, clean and incombustible, stable and
fixed, that nre cannot prevail against it ; ... and a property of the
medicine is to give a splendid colour, white or intensely citrine," to
metals to which it is added.

 514                 Professor W. C. Roberts-Auslen                    [Feb. 5,
     That was the effect expected from the transmuting agent, but do
 not think that the attempt to produce gold arose entirely from the love
 of gain. The colour of gold and purple impressed men strangely,
 and the search for the transmuting agent was most eagerly pursued in
 times when people lived for art, in a dream of colour. The effort to
find the secret of the tint of gold is due to the same impulse which
made the French in the thirteenth century manifest a keen " sensitive
ness to luminous splendour and intensity of hue," so that, as Sir
Frederic Leighton tells us, " a stained glass window, by Cousin, was
 limpid with hues of amethyst, sapphire, and topaz, and fair as a May
morning." The chemists were able to stain glass ruby and purple
with gold : why should they not impart the same glories to metals ?
I could not hope to interest you in what follows, did I not call artists
to my aid ; and many will remember the glowing words Mr. Buskin
uses,* calling purple a " liquid prism and stream of opal," reminding
us of the crimson and purple of the poppy, the scarlet and orange of
fire and the dawn. No wonder he chides us with turning the lamp
of Athena into the safety-lamp of the miner, and with getting our
purple from coal instead of, as of old, from the murex of the sea ;
" and thus grotesquely," he says, " we have had forced on us the
doubt that held the old world between blackness and fire, and have
completed the shadow and the fear of it by giving to a degraded form
of modern purple a name from battle—' Magenta." "
     You will remember that Faraday showed that gold, when finely
divided, is brilliantly coloured scarlet and purple. Hero is a solution
of chloride of gold. Add a little dissolved phosphorus, and the gold
is precipitated in an extremely fine state of division, which tinges the
solution crimson, but if yon try to remove this suspended gold you
will only gain a brownish mud. However, I will give you the secret
by which any one who possesses a blowpipe, a bead of gold, and a
fragment of one of the most widely diffused metals, aluminium, may
stain gold purple through and through. But if you add aluminium
to molten gold, you obtain many things, as this coloured diagram
and series of specimens show. [This diagram cannot be reproduced
without colour.]
    The series of specimens showed that as the proportion of alumi
nium is increased, the golden colour of the precious metal is lessened,
and when an alloy is formed with about 10 per cent. of aluminium,
the fractured surface of the mass is brilliantly white : from this point
forwards, as aluminium is added, the tint deepens, until flecks of pink
appear, and when seventy-eight parts of gold are added to twenty-two
of aluminium a splendid purple is obtained, in which intensely ruby-
coloured opaque crystals may readily be recognised. Then, as the
quantity of aluminium is still further increased, the alloys lose their
colour, and pass to the dull grey hue of the aluminium itself. Per-
   * 'The Queen of the Air,' cd. 1887, p. 129; 'Times,' December 11, 1891.

  1892.]                 on Metals at High Temperaturei.                  615
 haps the most remarkable point about the purple alloy is its melting-
 point, which I have shown to be some degrees higher than that of
 gold itself.* See diagram, Fig. 7, in which curves of several con
 stants of these alloys are given. This fact affords strong evidence
 that the alloy AuAL is a true compound, having analogies to the
 sulphides, for in every other series of alloys the melting-points of all
 the members of the series are lower than that of the least feasible
 constituent. There is one other fact of much interest connected
 with this alloy. When it is treated with dilute hydrochloric acid,
 chloride of aluminium is formed, and gold is released in a singularly
 voluminous form. The heat of formation of the gold-aluminium
 alloy has not been determined, but hydrochloric acid, which will not
 attack gold, will readily split up this compound, of which more than
 three-fourths is gold : the compound, in fact, behaves like a distinct
 metal, having special heats of oxidation and chlorination of its own.
    (3) Lastly, we come to the question of solutions of metals in each
 other. One very remarkable instance of the behaviour of metals at
 high temperatures reveals the fact that the presence of a small amount
of metal in a mass of another lowers the freezing-point of the mass.
 In the industrial world this has long been known. Cellini tells us,
for instance, that when the bronze for his great figure of Perseus, at
Florence, was running out of the furnace, it suddenly showed signs of
setting, and he therefore threw pewter plates and dishes into the ducts
through which the metal had to pass—"a thing," he says, "never
before done." The fluidity of the metal was immediately increased,
and he found every part of the casting " to turn out to admiration."
     The excellent work of Heycock and Neville,! on the lowering of
the freezing-points of metals by the addition of other metals should,
I would suggest, form the subject of a lecture in this Institution at
an early day. I cannot attempt to deal with the matter here. In
leading up to these questions of solution, as applied to metals, I
would remind you that Lord Rayleigh told us a few evenings since
that it was by no means certain that a gas rushing into a vacuous
globe ever completely fills it, as there may still be tiny spaces into
which "odd molecules" fail to find room to vibrate in. If it is
difficult for a gas to entirely fill a vacuous space, yon would think it
impossible for a small quantity of a metal to rapidly permeate a fluid
mass of another metal ; nevertheless, so far as analysis can detect,
this does happen.
     It may be incidentally observed that the relations of the ordinary
gases to metals are far more intimate than they were formerly sup
posed to be, and this was proved by Graham's work on the absorption
of gases by metals, which has often been dealt with in this Institu
tion. To take only the case of iron, more than twenty years ago
    • Proc. Roy. Soo. vol. i. 1891, p. 367.
    t Chem. Soc. Journ. vol. Iv. 1889, p. 666; vol. Ivii. 1890, pp. 376, 656;
vol. 1«. 1891, p. 936 ; vol. Ixi. 1892, p. 888.

516 Professor W. C. Roberts-Austen [Feb. 5,
1892.]                 on Metals at High Temperatures.                   617
Sir Lowthian Bell showed that the relations between carbonic oxide
and iron are of singular interest. Ludwig Mond, Quincke and Langer
have since found and isolated most interesting compounds of iron and
carbonic oxide.* But to return to the solution of metals in metals.
     The method of taking autographic curves of the cooling of masses
of metal has already been indicated in Fig. 4,f and they onght to
enable much information to be gained as to what is taking place
throughout the mass. Such curves should render it possible to
ascertain which of the rival theories as to the nature of solution, as
applied to salts, is supported by the behaviour of a metal dissolved in
a metal. When, for instance, a little aluminium dissolves in gold, is
the analogue of a hydride formed, and, if so, is the curve of freezing-
points of a series of aluminium-gold alloys a continuous one ? On
the other hand, does the theory advocated by Van't Hoff, Arrhenius,
and Ostwald gain support, and do the molecules of the dissolved
metals act independently of the solvent—that is, does osmotic pressure
come into play? It will be remembered that the law which regu
 lates osmotic pressure has exactly the same form as Boyle's law—
 that is, the pressure is proportional to the density of the gas or of
 the solution. Is the view of Arrhenius correct-—that, if a solution
 be very dilute, the molecules of the dissolved substance are disso
 ciated, act independently of each other, and behave like a perfect gas ?
     It will require years of patient work before these questions can be
answered ; but it appears certain, from the admirable experiments of
Heycock and Neville,}: to which reference has already been made,
that, taking metals with low melting-points (such as tin or lead) as
solvents, the lowering of the freezing-point of the solvent is really
due to the bombardment exerted by the molecules of the dissolved
metals.
     I have extended this investigation by employing as a solvent a
mass of fluid gold, which has a high melting-point, and is not liable to
oxidation, and the results confirm those obtained by Hoycock and
Neville.
     There is yet one other question : When metals are added in small
quantities to a metallic mass, may the solvent remain inert ? Here is
a mass of 1000 grammes of lead, and to it 16 grammes of gold, or 1 ' 6
atoms for every 100 atoms of lead will now be added. It could be
shown that the gold is readily dissolved, and remains dissolved, even
if the lead be solidified. Now, to the Unid lead sufficient aluminium
will be added to form the purple alloy with the dissolved gold ; the
mass will be well stirred, but the aluminium will not unite with the
lead ; it will nevertheless find out the gold, and, after uniting with it,
will carry it to the surface of the bath. Thence it can be removed,
and the purple colour of the alloy identified, or the gold it contains
    * Chem. Soc. Journ. vol. lix. 1891, pp. G01, 1090.
    t 1'roc. Roy. Soc. vol. xlix. p. 347, 1SU1.                Loc. cit.

518             Pro/. W. C. Roberts-Austen on Metals, <tc.          [Feb. 5,
can be revealed by the method Prof. Hartley * has given us for detecting
 the presence of gold in an alloy by volatilising the alloy in a torrent
of sparks from an induction coil, and condensing the vapour on mica.
     The union of the aluminium and the gold must, however, be
peculiar. Crookesf has shown that when this alloy is used as an
electrode in a vacuum tube, the gold is volatilised from the alloy and
deposited as a film on the glass, leaving the aluminium behind.
     The purple alloy presents us with the most interesting case yet
known of a molecule built up of purely metallic atoms, but we are
certain that the atoms are still those of gold and aluminium—that is,
the atoms of the united metals remain unchanged. The interest in
this substance is deepened if it be remembered that our aim at the
present day is the same as that of the alchemists, for we are striving,
as they did, to attack and change the chemist's atoms themselves.
We seek, as truly as they, to effect the transmutations, which, as
Boyle said, would "be none the less real for not being gainful,"
and employ high temperatures in the hope of simplifying the
molecular structure of metals. We no longer consider gold to be
the " sum of perfection," but still retain the belief expressed by
Geber, eleven hundred years ago, that, " if we would change metals,
we must needs use excess of heat." A poet also appears to have
folt this, for George Herbert writes in the seventeenth century—
                   " I know . . . what the stare conspire,
               What willing Nature speaks, what forced by fire " ;
thus comparing the ordinary response of nature to the investigator,
with the evidence he elicits from her by heat.
    By fusing gold, and staining it " the purple of the dawn," a new
interest has been given to the metal which the alchemists always
connected with the sun ; and for further proof that metallic atoms
may be changed, we must turn to the sun itself, as to the great
metallurgical centre, where "all the elements shall melt with
fervent heat."
                   * Proo. Roy. Soo. vol. xlvi. 1889, p. i
                   t Ibid. vol. 1. 1891, p. 88.
                                                            [W. C. R.-A.]
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 12, 1892.
     BABH. WOODD SMITH, Esq. F.R.A.S. F.S.A. Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                 G. J. SYMONS, Esq. F.B.S. Sec. B.M.S.
                          .Rain, Snow, and Hail.
                                 [No Abstract.]

1892.]       Prof. P. F. FranMand on Micro-organisms, dec.              51 9
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, February 19, 1892.
SIR DICE DUCKWORTH, M.D. LL.D. F.E.C.P. Vice-Presidont, in the
                                   Chair.
         PROFESSOR PERCY F. FRANKLAND, Ph.D. B.Sc. F.R.S.
          Micro-organisms in their Relation to Chemical Change.
ALMOST exactly on this day twenty-two years ago the subject of micro
organisms was introduced to the audience of the Royal Institution in
one of those charming discourses, which so many of ua well know
were always to be heard from Dr. Tyndall. The title of his discourse
on that occasion was " Dust and Disease," and its contents should be
studied by all interested in this departure of science, forming, as it
does, a part of the classical literature of the subject in which it marks
 the commencement of a new epoch.
     It has probably rarely, if ever happened before, that in so short a
period as twenty-two years any science has undergone such a marvel
lous advance, such a many-sided development, as that which has
 taken place in the case of bacteriology, the science which is devoted
 to the study of those low forms of life which we group together
 under the name of micro-organisms. This advance has been made
 through the ungrudging expenditure of self-denying labour by a great
 body of earnest workers of nearly every nationality. The subject is
 indeed one calculated to draw forth interest and enthusiasm, for the
 problems involved are not only of high scientific importance, but are
 also of incalculable moment to mankind and indeed to the entire
 living creation.
      The great impetus which this new science received at its outset
 was imparted by Pasteur, who has not only laid the foundations, but
 has also added, and is still adding, so much to the superstructure of
 its many mansions.
      The side of bacteriology with which the general public is most
 commonly brought in contact is that which relates to disease, but of
 this I propose saying absolutely nothing to-night. It has been dealt
 with by others in this place, and notably by my friend Dr. Klein.
      There is a second side of bacteriology which has also a special
 interest for at least a portion of the public in consequence of the
 invaluable assistance which it has afforded to some sections of the
 industrial world. Indeed, chronologically, this industrial department
  of bacteriology was the first which claimed attention, for the growers
  of wine, the brewers of beer, and the manufacturers of fermented
 liquors of all kinds from the highest antiquity have been practical
  bacteriologists, of the same spontaneous order, it is true, as M. Jourdain

520                  Professor Percy F. Frankland              [Feb. 19,
was an unconscious author of prose. It was Pasteur also who first
infused science into the operations of the wine-vat and the ferment-
ing-tun, by his classical . Etudes sur la Biere et sur le Vin.' It was
he who first showed that the normal work of the brewery was accom
plished by particular forms of micro-organisms, known as yeast, and
that the frequent failures to produce beer or wine of the desired
quality were occasioned by the presence of foreign forms of micro
organisms giving rise to acidity and other undesirable changes in
these beverages.
     In these researches of Pastonr's on beer and wine, we are almost
for the first time brought face to face with the precise nature of some
of the chemical changes which micro-organisms bring about. The
time-honoured vinous fermentation of sugar, the products of which
had been valued and indulged in by man even from the days of Noah,
is for the first time so accurately studied as to be definable almost
with the precision of a chemical equation.
     Similar attention was also given by Pasteur to some of the other
micro-organisms which deteriorate the quality of the beer, thus more
especially to the bacterium which causes the acetic or vinegar fer
mentation, which is a process of oxidation, transforming alcohol into
vinegar ; to the bacillus inducing the lactic fermentation, which is a
process of decomposition, in which sugar yields lactic acid ; as well as
 to that which brings about the butyric fermentation, a process of
reduction in which butyric acid is formed.
    These are the foundations and scaffolding on which subsequent
investigators of the phenomena of fermentation have laboured. Thus
making use of more refined methods than those which were at the
disposal of Pasteur, Christian Hansen, of Copenhagen, has enor
mously extended our knowledge of the alcohol-producing organisms
or yeasts ; he has shown that there are a number of distinct forms,
differing indeed but little amongst themselves in shape, but possess
ing very distinct properties, more especially in respect of the nature
of certain minute quantities of secondary products to which they give
rise, and which are highly important as giving particular characters
to the beers produced. Hansen has shown how these various kinds of
yeast may be grown or cultivated in a state of purity even on the
industrial tcale, and has in this manner revolutionised the practice
of biewing on the Continent. For during the past few years these
pure yeasts, each endowed with particular properties, have been
grown with scrupulous care in laboratories equipped expressly for
this purpose, and these pure growths are thence despatched to
breweries in all parts of the world, particular yeasts being provided
for the production of particular varieties of beer. In this manner
scientific accuracy and the certainty of success are introduced into
an industry in which before much was a matter of chance, and in
which nearly everything WAS subordinated to tradition and blind
empiricism.

 1892.] on Micro-vrganisms in their Relation to Chemical Change. 521
                     The Bacteria connected with the Soil.
     It is, however, with regard to the bacteria connected with other
 industries than those of alcoholic fermentation that our knowledge
 has particularly advanced during the last few years. Thus some of
 the most important phenomena in agriculture have recently received
 a most remarkable elucidation through the study of bacteria.
      Scientific agriculturists are generally agreed that one of the
 most important plant-foods in the soil is nitric acid, indeed they in
 form us that if a soil were utterly destitute of this material it would
 be incapable of growing the barest pretence of a crop either of corn, or
 of roots, or of grass, even if the soil were in other respects of the
 most superb texture, however favourably it might be situated, how
 ever well drained, tilled, and supplied with the purely mineral
 ingredients of plant-food, such as potash, lime, and phosphoric acid.
     Yet, notwithstanding the commanding importance of this sub
 stance nitric acid to vegetation, it is present in ordinary fertile soils
 in but little more than homoeopathic doses.
     These facts are gathered from those grand experiments which
 have during the past half century been going on at Rothamsted
 under the direction of Sir John Lawes and Dr. Gilbert, and which
 have rendered the Hertfordshire farm a luminous centre of the whole
agricultural world.
     From these experiments it appears that sometimes there is in
fertile soil under 1 part, and often under 10 parts, of nitrate of lime
per million of soil.
     Indeed, in order to detect and estimate these minute quantities, the
most refined methods of chemical analysis have to be called into
requisition. [Demonstration of the presence of nitric acid in soil by
diphenylamine test.]
     Now the cause of such minute quantities only of nitric acid being
found in soils is due partly to this material being washed away by
the rain and partly to its being so eagerly token up by plants for the
purposes of nutrition ; for it has long been known that by suitable
means the quantity can be enormously increased if no vegetation is
maintained, and tho ground properly protected from rain. The soil
in fact, under ordinary circumstances, continuously generates this
nitric acid from the various nitrogenous manures which are applied
to it, and it is in the form of nitric acid that the nitrogen of manures
principally gains access as nutriment to the plant.
    It was in the year 1877 that two French chemists, Schloesing and
Miintz, showed that this power of soils to convert the nitrogen of
nitrogenous substances into nitric acid was due to low forms of life—
to micro-organisms or bacteria. The proof which they furnished of
this statement was of a very simple character, and consisted essenti
ally in demonstrating that this production of nitric acid, or process
of nitrification, as it is generally called, is promptly inhibited or
 brought to a standstill by all those materials which have the property
     VOL. XIII. (No. 86.)                                     2 «

522                        Professor Percy F. Frankland                          [Feb. 19,
 of destroying micro-organisms, and which we call antiseptics, whilst
similarly the process is stopped hy heat and other influences, which
are known to be fatal to life in general.
     These results of Schlocsing and Mi'mtz were confirmed and greatly
extended in this country by Mr. Warington and Dr. Munro, but
although the vital nature of the process was fully established, little
practical advance was until recently made in the identification or
isolation of the particular bacteria responsible for this remarkable
and invaluable transformation.
    In 1886, however, a very important step was made by Dr. Munro,
who showed that this process of nitrification could take place in
solutions practically destitute of organic matter, or, in other words,
that the vital activity of the bacteria of nitrification could be main
tained without nutriment of an organic nature.
    In 1885, I had myself already established the fact that some
micro-organisms can actually undergo enormous multiplication in
ordinary distilled water :—
         MULTIPLICATION OF MICRO-ORGANISMS IN DISTILLED WATER.*
         Hours after Introductioa                    Number of Micro-organisms
           of Micro-organlBina.                        found in 1 c.c. of Water.
                     0                                           1,073
                     6                                           6,028
                   24                                           7,262
                   48                                          48,100
    In taking up the subject of nitrification in conjunction with my
wife in the autumn of 1886, I determined to avail myself of this
remarkable property of the nitrifying organisms to grow in the
absence of organic matter, thinking that in this way it would be
possible to achieve a separation of the nitrifying organisms from
other forms which can only grow if organic food materials are sup
plied to them.
    Proceeding on these lines, we have carried on the process of
nitrification over a period of upwards of four years without the
nitrifying organisms being supplied with any organic food materials
whatsoever :—
            COMPOSITION OF SOLUTION EMPLOYED FOR NITRIFICATION.
         Ammonium chloride -.                        '5 grm.
         Potassium phosphate
         Magnesium sulphate                          '02          In 1000 c.c. of
         Calcium chloride                            '01         distilled water.
         Calcium carbonate                          5-0
    In a solution of this composition the process of nitrification was
carried on over a period of upwards of four years, as indicated in the
following table :—
                                  * Proc. Roy. Soc., 18S5.

1892.] on Micro-organisms in their Relation to Chemical Change. 523
      EXPERIMENTS ON CONTINUOUS NITRIFICATION re MINERAL SOLUTIONS.
                                                                           Date when
  Generation. Date of Inoculation.  Quantity taken for Inoculation.    Nitrification first
                                                                            observed.
          I.     9    5   1887     Original garden soil                20     5   1887
         IL     25    6   1887     3 needle-loops from              I. 30     6   1887
        III.     I    7   1887              »»                    II.   7     7   1887
        IV.     14    7   1887              i»                   III.  23     7   1887
         V.     25    7   1887              i>                   IV.   17     8   1887
        VI.     26    8   1887                                    V.    1   10    1887
       VII.      3  10    1887     1 needle-loop from            VI.    7    10   1887
      VIII.      7  10    1887     1 needle-pomt from           VII.   17    10   1887
        IX.     17  10    1887              n                  VIII.   29    10   1887
         X.      7  11    1887              »                    IX.   30    11   1887
        XI.      1  12    1887              »                     X.   15    12   1887
       XII.     16  12    1887              n                    XI.   13     1   1888
     xm.        28    1   1888              »                   XII.   20     2   1888
      XIV.      29    2   1888              i»                 XIII.    5     4   1888
       XV.       7    4   1888                                 XIV.    27     4   1888
      XVI.      30    4   1888              »>                  XV.    10     5   1888
     XVII.      12    5   1888              »»                 XVI.    26     5   1888
   XVIII.       19    7   1888              M                 XVII.     3     9   1888
      XIX.       3    9   1888                              XVIII.       1   10   1888
       XX.      11  10    1888              fi                 XIX.    20    11   1888
      XXI.      24  11    1888              »»                  XX.    26     2   1889
    XXII.       26    2   1889                                 XXI.      4    5   1889
   XXIII.       28    6   1889              >»               XXII.     18    10   1889
   XXIV.         '1 11    1889              n               XXIII.     17    12   1889
     XXV.       27  12    1889              >i              XXIV.      25     4   1890
    XXVI.       16    5   1890              »»                XXV.      2     7   1890
  XXVII.        15    7   1890              i»              XXVI.      30     1   1891
 XXVIII.         3    3   1891              I*             XXVII.      28     5   1891
     In carrying on this series of experiments it was soon evident that
although a number of forms foreign to the nitrification-process were
being eliminated, there were still some remaining alongside of the
nitrifying organisms, or, in other words, that a pure culture of the
nitrifying organisms had not been obtained. From various considera
tions, however, we came to the conclusion that the nitrifying
organisms probably differed from the other forms which were still
present along with them in being unable to grow on the common
cultivating medium employed by bacteriologists, and known as
gelatin-peptone.                                     .
     The separation from these foreign forms was ultimately effected
by enormously diluting one of these nitrifying solutions, and then
taking out small portions of this diluted material and introducing
each of these portions into separate ammoniacal solutions. In some
of these nitrification was established, in others not, whilst amongst
those in which nitrification was established, some contained organisms
which grew upon gelatin, whilst one refused to give any growth on
the gelatin at all, although it was seen under the microscope to
                                                                       2 N 2

 624                   Professor Percy F. Frankland                 [Feb. 19,
contain abundantly bacteria of tbe form shown in the diagram.
 [Lantern-slide of Nitrifying Bacillococcus (Franfcland).]
     These results, which were published in March 1890, were followed
 in about a month by a communication in the ' Annales de 1'Institut
Pasteur,' by M. Winogradsky, who had also separated a very similar,
if not identical, nitrifying organism, and a few months later, again a
similar separation was made by Mr. Warington.
     But these discoveries had not completely unravelled the problem
of nitrification, for the organisms separated in these three independent
investigations possessed only the property of converting ammonia info
nitrous and not into nitric acid. The nitrous acid is an intermediate
body which curiously is rarely found excepting in very minute
quantities in soil. The changes will be more clearly understood by
reference to the chemical equations :—
     (1)     NH3        +       30          H,0    +        NH02
           (Ammonia)         (Oxygen)      (Water)       (Nitrous Acid)
     (2)             NH02           +   0        =   NH03
                  (Nitrous Acid)                   (Nitric Acid)
     The organisms separated by Winogradsky, by Warington, and by
myself, possessed only the property of effecting the first of these
changes, they were absolutely destitute of the power of bringing
about the second.
    Now the curious thing is that the first of these changes is by far
the most difficult to accomplish by purely chemical means, whilst the
second can be brought about with the greatest facility. [Demonstra
tion of addition of acid permanganate to solution of ammonium
sulphate, colour not discharged.] [Demonstration of addition of
acid permanganate to solution of potassium nitrite, colour discharged.]
     Thus the potassium permanganate has no action on the ammonia,
whilst the nitrite it oxidises to nitrate.
    In order to bring about the first change, we have to employ one
of the most powerful oxidising agents known to chemists, viz. ozone.
[Demonstration : ozone from a Siemens-tube was passed through
strong solution of ammonia ; the production of nitrous and nitric
acids was exhibited by the formation of white fumes, as well as by
the sulphanilic acid and diphenylamine tests.]
     We thus see that the power of oxidation possessed by our nitrifying
organism is altogether unique, and does not find its parallel amongst
purely chemical agents of -oxidation. But how then is the nitric acid
found in the soil produced, when these organisms yield only nitrous
acid?
     At the time when I found that the organism which I had separated
produced nitrous acid exclusively, I pointed out that it was doubtless
explicable on one of two hypotheses : (1) that nitrous and nitric acids
are produced by totally distinct organisms ; or (2) that the same
organism produces the one or the other according to the conditions
under which it is growing.

 1892.] on Micro-organisms in their Relation to Chemical Change.       525
     More recent researches of Winogradsky have shown that the first
 of these two alternative hypotheses is the correct one, for by making
 cultivations of soil in a solution containing nitrous acid and no
 ammonia, Winogradsky has succeeded in isolating a micro-organism
 which possesses the power of converting nitrous acid into nitric acid,
 but has no power of attacking ammonia. [Lantern-slide of Nitric
 Ferment (Winogradsky.)]
     This second organism or nitric ferment, as we may call it,
 resembles in its activity the purely chemical oxidising agent—
potassium permanganate—which, as we have seen, has no action on
 ammonia, but readily converts nitrous into nitric acid.
     The process of nitrification in the soil now becomes intelligible in
 its entirety. It is the work of two independent organisms, the first
 of which converts ammonia into nitrous acid, whilst the second
 transforms into nitric acid the nitrous acid produced by the first.
     There is a point in connection with the distribution of nitric acid
 in nature which is exceedingly remarkable, and which forces itself
 upon the attention of every student of the process of nitrification.
 Although nitric acid is generally so scantily present in the soil, there
 is one notable exception to this rule, for in the rainless districts of
 Chili and Peru there are found immense deposits of nitrate of soda,
 or Chili saltpetre, as it is called, which would appear to represent the
result of a gigantic nitrification process in some previous period of
the earth's history. The vast quantities of this material which occur
in these regions of South America can be gathered from the fact that
 its exportation has for years being going on at the rate indicated by the
following figures :—During the first six months of 1890 there were
brought to the United Kingdom 90,000 tons, and to the European
 Continent 480,000 tons.
     From the presence of such altogether enormous quantities, one is
almost tempted to hazard the suggestion that in this particular region
of the earth, under some special circumstances of which we know
nothing, the nitrifying organisms must have been endowed then and
there with very much greater powers than they possess to-day, and
it is particularly noteworthy that in a recent examination of soils
from nearly all parts of the earth, one coming from Quito, and there
fore not far distant from these nitrate fields, was found to possess the
power of nitrification in a degree far beyond that exhibited by any other
soil hitherto experimented with. Is it not possible, perhaps, that we
have in these vigorous nitrifying organisms of the soil of Quito, the
not altogether unworthy descendants of that Cyclopean race of nitri
fying bacteria, which must have built up the nitrate wealth of Chili
and Peru, and thus countless ages ago founded the fortunes of our
nitrate kings of to-day ?
     But these nitrifying organisms have also assisted in teaching us
a highly important lesson in connection with the maintenance of life.
     The facts which I have already referred to concerning the multi
plication of micro-organisms in distilled water, and the continuation

526                    Professor Percy F. Frankland               [Feb. 19,
of the nitrification-process over a period of four years in purely
mineral solutions, are strong presumptive evidence in favour of these
bacteria being able to gain a livelihood in the entire absence of
organic food-stufis. I refrained, however, from promulgating such a
revolutionary doctrine until I should have had an opportunity of
repeating these experiments with materials in which the absence of
even the merest traces of organic matter had been assured, for as
chemists well know, even distilled water may contain traces of
organic matter.
     Such a rigid proof as I had contemplated has, however, in the
meantime been attempted by M. Winogradsky, also in connection with
his experiments on nitrification, and he has indeed found that the
nitrifying organisms flourish, multiply, and actually build up living
protoplasm in a solution from which organic matter has been most
 rigorously excluded. Now this living protoplasm in the experiments
in question must have been elaborated by these bacteria from carbonic
 acid as the source of the protoplasmic carbon, and from ammonia
 and nitrous or nitric acids as the source of the protoplasmic nitrogen.
 If these experiments are correct, and they were undoubtedly per
 formed with great skill and much caution, they are subversive of one
 of the fundamental principles of vegetable physiology, which denies
 to all living structures, save those of green plants alone, the power of
 building up protoplasm from such simple materials.
      I had occasion to mention in connection with these nitrifying
 organisms that they refuse to grow on the ordinary solid cultivating
 media employed by bacteriologists, a fact which presents a great
 obstacle to their isolation in a state of purity, for it is just by means
 of these solid culture media that micro-organisms are most easily
 obtained in the pure state.
      This difficulty has, however, been overcome in a most ingenious
  manner, originally devised by Prof. Kuhne, in which the solid medium
  is wholly composed of mineral ingredients, the jelly-like consistency
  being obtained by means of silica. [Demonstration of preparation of
  silica-jelly, consisting of ammonia sulphate, potassium phosphate,
  magnesium sulphate, calcium chloride, magnesium carbonate, and
  dialysed silicic acid.]
                     Fixation of Free Nitrogen by Plants.
      But whilst the study of the bacteria giving rise to nitrification has
  thus led to the subversion of what was regarded as a firmly estab
  lished principle of vegetable physiology (viz. the incapacity of any but
  green plants to utilise carbonic acid in the elaboration of protoplasm),
  the same science has received another shock of perhaps equal if not
  greater violence through researches which have been carried on with
  other micro-organisms flourishing in the soil.
       For nearly a century past agricultural chemists and vegetable
  physiologists have been debating as to whether the free nitrogen of

 1892.] on Micro-organisms in their Relation to Chemical Change. 527
 tmr atmosphere can be assimilated or utilised as food by plants.
 This question was answered in the negative by Boussingault about
 fifty years since ; the problem was again attacked by Lawes, Gilbert,
 and Fugh about thirty years ago, and their answer was also in the
 negative. In the course, however, of their continuous experiments
 on crops, Lawes and Gilbert have frequently pointed out that whilst
 the nitrogen in most crops can be accounted for by the combined
 nitrogen supplied to the land in the form of manures and in rain
 water, yet in particular leguminous crops, such as peas, beans, vetches,
 and the like, there is an excess of nitrogen which cannot be accounted
 for as being derived from these obvious sources. The origin of this
 excess of nitrogen in these particular crops they admitted could not
 be explained by any of the orthodox canons of the vegetable physio
 logy of the time. The whole question of the fixation of atmospheric
 nitrogen by plants was again raised in 1876 by a very radical
 philosopher, in the person of M. Berthelot, whilst the most conclusive
 experiments were made on this subject by two German investigators,
 Prof. Hellriegel and Dr. Wilfarth, who have not only shown that this
 excess of nitrogen in leguminous crops is obtained from the atmo
 sphere, but also that this assimilation of free nitrogen is dependent
 upon the presence of certain bacteria flourishing in and around the
 roots of these plants, for when these same plants are cultivated in
 sterile soil the fixation of atmospheric nitrogen does not take place.
 Moreover, the presence of these microbes in the soil occasions the
 formation of peculiar swellings or tuberosities on the roots of these
 plants, and these tuberosities, which are not formed in sterile soil, are
found to be remarkably rich in nitrogen, and swarming with bacteria.
 [Lantern-slide of nodules on roots of sainfoin (Lawes and Gilbert).]
     Extremely important and instructive in this respect are the experi
ments of Prof. Nobbe, who has not only confirmed the results
mentioned, but has endeavoured to investigate the particular bacteria
which bring about these important changes, and ho has indeed suc
ceeded in showing that in many cases each particular leguminous plant
is provided with its particular micro-orgauism which leads to its
fixation of free nitrogen. Thus he found that if pure cultivations of
the bacteria obtained from a pea-tubercle were applied to a pea plant
there was a more abundant fixation of atmospheric nitrogen by this
pea-plant than if it was supplied with pure cultures of the microbes
from the tubercles of a lupin or a robinia; whilst similarly the robinia
was more beneficially affected by the application of pure cultures from
robinia-tubercles than by those from either pea-tubercles or lupin-
tubercles. [Lantern-slides exhibiting Nobbe's experiments on pea
and robinia.]
     This subject of the sonrce of nitrogen in leguminous plants has
again been taken up by Sir John Lawes and Dr. Gilbert at Eothamsted,
and their recent results fully confirm the observations of these foreign
investigators that it is partially derived from the free atmospheric
nitrogen through the agency of bacteria in tho soil.

528                        Professor Percy F. FranUand                     [Feb. 19,
    To micro-organisms again then we must ascribe the accomplish
ment of this highly important chemical change going on in the soil,
although it has not hitherto been so fully illuminated as the process
of nitrification.
                         Selective Action of Micro-organisms.
    Any of the ordinary plants and animals with which we are
familiar may be regarded as analytical machines, and we ourselves,
without any knowledge of chemistry, are constantly performing
analytical tests ; thus we can all distinguish between sugar and salt
by the taste, between ammonia and vinegar by the smell, whilst by a
more elaborate investigation we distinguish, for instance, between the
milk supplied from two different dairies by ascertaining on which we
or our children thrive best. In fact, such analytical or selective
operations are amongst the first vital phenomena exhibited by an
organism on coming into this world. It is, however, particularly
surprising to fiud this analytic or distinguishing capacity developed
in an extraordinarily high degree amongst micro-organisms. From
the power which we have seen that some possess of flourishing on the
extremely thin diet to be found in distilled water, we should be
rather disposed to think that caprice would be the very last failing
with which they would be chargeable. As a matter of fact, however,
the perfectly unfathomable and inscrutable caprice of these minute
creatures is amongst the first things with which the student of
bacteriological phenomena becomes impressed. Let me call your
attention to a striking example of this which I have recently investi
gated.
     I have here two substances, which have the greatest similarity :—
                      MANNITE.                                 DrLciTE.
      Occurrence. Numerous plant-juices         .. ..  Ditto, but less frequently.
      Taste. Sweet                                     Ditto, but less so.
      Melts. 166° C                                    188° C.
      C>-ystalline foitn. Large rhombic prisms      .. Large monoclinic prisms.
     Not only, however, do these two substances possess such a strong
 external resemblance to each other, but in their chemical behaviour
 also they are so closely allied that one formula has to do duty for
 both of them, for so slight is the difference in the manner in
 which their component atoms are arranged that chemists have not
 yet been able with certainty to ascertain in what that difference con
 sists. Under these circumstances it would have been anticipated that
 bacteria would be quite indifferent as to which of these two sub
 stances was presented to them, and that they would regard either
 both or neither as acceptable. But such is by no means the case ;
 some micro-organisms, like ordinary yeast, have no action upon either,
 whilst others will attack mannite, leaving diddle untouched, others again

1892.] on Micro-organisms in their Relation to Chemical Change.       529
being less discriminating, attack both ; representatives of a fourth pos
sible class which would act upon dulcite but not upon mannite are as yet
undiscovered. [Lantern-slide and Plate-culture of S. ethaceticus.]
     This bacillus, I have recently shown, has the property of breaking
down the mannite molecule into alcohol, acetic acid, carbonic
anhydride, and hydrogen, but leaves the dulcite molecule untouched.
     More recently I have, in conjunction with my late assistant,
Mr. Frew, succeeded in obtaining a micro-organism which decom
poses both mannite and dulcite into alcohol, acetic and succinic acids,
carbonic anhydride, and hydrogen. [Lantern-slide and Plate-culture
of B. ethacetosuccinicus.]
                        Optically Active Substances.
     But these are by no means the ultimate limits to which the
selective or discriminating powers of micro-organisms can be pushed,
for although mannite and dulcite are extremely similar substances,
 they are not chemically identical. We are acquainted, however,
 with substances which, though chemically identical, are different in
 respect of certain physical properties, and are hence known RS
 Physical Isomers. It is in explanation of this physical isomerism
 that one of the most beautiful of chemical theories was propounded
 by Le Bel and Van't Hoff in 1874, and which remains unsupplanted
 to the present day.
     This theory depends upon taking into consideration the dissym
 metry of the molecule which is occasioned by the presence in it of a
carbon-atom which is combined with four different atoms or groups
of atoms, and is most easily intelligible from an inspection of these
two models. [Demonstration of tetrahedral models of Asymmetric
Carbon-atom.]
     This molecular dissymmetry is specially exhibited in the crystal
line form of such substances, and in their action upon polarised
light.
     The molecule arranged according to the one pattern has the
property of turning the plane of polarisation in one direction, whilst
the molecule arranged according to the other pattern has invariably
the property of turning the plane through precisely the same angle
in the opposite direction. The molecular dissymmetry ceases when
 two snch molecules combine together, the resulting molecule having
 no action on polarised light at all.
     The interest of these phenomena in connection with micro
 organisms lies in the fact that they are sometimes possessed of the
 power of discriminating between those physical isomers. Although
 this remarkable property was demonstrated years ago by Pasteur in
 respect of the tartaric acids, it has only comparatively rarely been
 taken advantage of. Recently, however, chemical science has been
 enriched in several instances by successfully directing the energies
 of micro-organisms in snch work of discrimination.

630                   Professor Percy F. Frankland             [Feb. 19,
    During the past few years no chemical researches have com
manded more interest, both on account of their theoretic importance
and the fertility of resource exhibited in their execution, than those of
Emil Fischer's, which have led to the artificial preparation in the
laboratory of several of the various forms of sugar occurring in nature,
as well as of other sugars not hitherto discovered amongst the pro
ducts of the animal or vegetable kingdoms. The natural sugars are
all of them bodies with dissymmetric molecules, powerfully affecting
the beam of polarised light, but when prepared artificially they are
without action on polarised light because in the artificial product
the left-handed and right-handed molecules are present in equal
numbers, the molecules of the one neutralising the molecules of the
other and thus giving rise to a mixture which does not affect the
polarised beam either way. By the action of micro-organisms, how
ever, on such an inactive mixture, the one set of molecules is searched
out by the microbes and decomposed, leaving the other set of mole
cules untouched, and the latter now exhibit their specific action on
polarised light, an active sugar being thus obtained.
     The most suitable micro-organisms to let loose, so to speak, on
such an inactive mixture of sugar-molecules, are those of brewers'
 yeast, which decompose the sugar molecules with formation of
 alcohol and carbonic anhydride. Their action on these inactive
artificial sugars of Fischer's is particularly noteworthy.
     One of the principal artificial sugars prepared by Fischer is
called fructose, it is inactive, but consists of an equal number of
molecules of oppositely active sugars called Isevulose.
     One set of these laBvulose-molecules turns the plane of polarisa
tion to the right, and we may call them right-handed hevulose, whilst
 the other set of Isevulose-moleeules turns the plane of polarisation to
 the left, and we may call them left-handed lsevnlose.
     The left-handed lrevulose occurs in nature, whilst the right-
 handed laevulose, as far as we know, does not. Now, on putting
 brewers' yeast into a solution of the fructose, the yeast-organisms
 attack the left-handed Itevulose molecules and convert them into
 alcohol and carbonic anhydride, whilst the right-handed laovulose is
 loft undisturbed. The yeast organisms thus attack that particular
 form of Isevulose of which their ancestors can have had experience
 in the past, whilst they leave untouched the right-handed Isevulose
 molecules, which being a new creation of the laboratory, they have
 no hereditary instinct or capacity to deal with.
     This selective power is possessed also by other forms of micro
 organisms besides the yeasts, which are indeed only suitable for
 the separatory decomposition of sugars, and by means of bacterial
 forms a much greater variety of substances can be attacked in this
 manner. Thus I have recently found that glyccric acid can be
 decomposed by the B. ethacelicus, to which I have already referred
 this evening.

 1892.] on Micro-organisms in their Relation to Chemical Change.      531
     This glyceric acid is thus represented by chemists :—
                                               (CH2OH)
                        C3H504     or     (H)—C OH)
                                               (COOH)
 and this should, according to Le Bel and Van't HofFs theory, bo
 capable of existing in two physically isomeric forms, as easily shown
 by our models.
     The ordinary glyceric acid known to chemists is, however, quite
 inactive to polarised light, and must consist, therefore, of a com
 bination in equal molecules of a right-handed and left-handed
 glyceric acid. Now when the B. ethaceticus is put into a suitable
 solution of the calcium salt of this glycoric acid, it multiplies
 abundantly and completely consumes the right-handed molecules of
 the salt, but leaves the left-handed molecules entirely intact, a power
 fully active glycoric acid being thus obtained.
     [Demonstration of the Isevorotary power of solution of new zinc
 glycerate with projuction-polariscope.]
     A number of derivatives of this new active glyceric acid have
recently been prepared in my laboratory :—
                    DEBIVATIVES o» ACTIVE GLYCEBIC ACID.
               formula.                          Specfiic Rol ition.
        (C,H50,), Ba + 2 H,0                            - 9°
        (aU,O,),Br           2                          - 10
        (C.H.O,), Un + 2H20                             -  12
                       + 1JH20                         —   H
                   Zn + H20                             -  22
        (CXOA Mg + H,0                                 -   18-5
         C3H5O3 Na                                     - 16
         C,H,O, Am                                     - 20
         C3H5O, K.                                     - 15
         C3HS0, Id                                      -  20-5
         C,H.>0, Me                                    -    4-8
         C3H5O, Et                                     -    9'2
                 Pr (n)                                -   13 0
    Here again then chemistry has been enriched by a number of
new compounds, which we owe entirely to the unaccountable caprice
of this micro-organism.
                      Individuality of Micro-organisms.
   Although micro-organisms are thus becoming more and more
indispensable reagents in the chemical laboratory, essential as they
are for the production of many bodies, it is always necessary to bear
in mind that by virtue of their vitality their nature is infinitely

532                 Professor Percy F. Frankland              [Feb. 19,
more complex than that of any inanimate chemicals which we are
accustomed to employ. In a chemically pure substance we believe
that one molecule is just like another, and hence we expect perfect
uniformity of behaviour in the molecules of such a pure substance
under prescribed conditions. In a pure cultivation of a particular
species of a micro-organism, however, we must not expect such rigid
uniformity of behaviour from each of the individual organisms
making up such a cultivation, for there may be and frequently are
great differences amongst them, in fact each member of such a pure
culture is endowed with a more or less marked individuality of its
own, and these possible variations have to be taken into considera
tion by those who wish to turn their energies to account. In fact,
experimenting with micro-organisms partakes rather of the nature of
legislating for a community than of directing the inanimate energies
of chemical molecules. Thus frequently the past history of a group
of micro-organisms has to be taken into account in dealing with
them, for their tendencies may have become greatly modified by the
experiences of their ancestors.
    Of this I will give you an instance which has recently come under
my observation : —
    Here is a bacillus, which has the property of fermenting calcium
citrate ; I have found that it can go on exerting this power for
years. On submitting this fermenting liquid to plate-cultivation,
we obtain the appearances which you see here.
     [Lantern-demonstration of plate-culture of bacillus which fer
ments calcium citrate.]
     If one of these colonies be transferred to a sterile solution of
calcium citrate, it invariably fails to set up a fermentation of the
latter, the bacillus having thus by mere passage through the gelatin-
medium lost its power to produce this effect. If, however, we take
another similar colony and put it into a solution of broth containing
calcium citrate, fermentation takes place ; on now inoculating from
this to a weaker solution of broth containing calcium citrate, this
also is put into fermentation, and by proceeding in this manner we
may ultimately set up fermentation in a calcium citrate solution which
absolutely refused to be fermented when the bacilli were taken
directly from the gelatin-plate.
     Phenomena of this kind clearly indicate that there may be around
us numerous forms of micro-organisms of the potentiality of which
we are still quite ignorant ; thus if we were only acquainted with the
bacilli I have just referred to from gelatin cultures we should be
quite unaware of their power to excite this fermentation of calcium
citrate, which we have only been enabled to bring about by pursuing
 the complicated system of cultivation I have indicated. It is surely
exceedingly probable, therefore, that many of the micro-organisms
 with which we are already acquainted may be possessed of numerous
 important properties which are lying dormant until brought into
 activity by suitable cultivation.

1892.] on Micro-organisms in their Relation to Chemical Change.     533
     This power of modifying the characters of bacteria by cultivation
is, I venture to think, of the highest importance in connection with
the problems of evolution, for in these lowly forms of life in which,
under favourable circumstances, generation succeeds generation in a
period of as little as 20 minutes, it should be possible through the
agency of selection to effect metamorphoses, both of morphology
and physiology, which would take ages in the case of more highly
organised beings to bring about.
     We hear much about the possibility of altering the human race
through training from the enthusiastic apostles of education, but
even the most sanguine cannot promise that any striking changes
will be effected within several generations, so that such predictions
cannot be tested until long after these reformers have passed away.
In the case of micro-organisms, however, we can study the effect
of educational systems consequentially pursued through thousands
of generations within even that short span of life which is allotted to
us here.
                                                          [P. F. F.]

 534                        Sir David Salomons                 [Feb. 26,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 26, 1892.
 SIR FREDERICK BRAMWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Honorary Secretary
                    and Vice-President, in the Chair.
               SIR DAVID SALOMONS, Bart. H.A. M.B.I.
                            Optical Projection.
 THB intention of this lecture is to give a general survey of the
 subject of Optical Projection, which now takes its position in science,
 and to present examples of what may be done by this method. It
 would be difficult to determine which subject claims a first place.
 Some scientists say the microscope should have the preference, while
 others take a different view. For my own part, I think the microscope
 and polariscope stand foremost, on account of the facility with which
 these branches of science may be pursued for the benefit of a large
 number, without multiplying expensive apparatus ; also because of
 the convenience in saving the eyes from undue strain. Indeed, to
many persons, looking at objects in the table microscope is little
short of a painful operation, and consequently the study of small
objects becomes to them impossible. The projection method immedi
ately brings the required relief.
    For general instruction, projection methods are invaluable, such as
for instance, showing diagrams, photographs, and other slides, upon
the screen ; as well as for spectrum analysis. In fact, the subjects
which can bo illustrated by means of optical projection are in
numerable ; but time will allow me to present only a few examples,
and I trust that, when I approach the end of my lecture, my view
of the importance of this subject will be held in equal estimation
by you.
    Probably the only people in the world that benefit by the ex
perience of their predecessors are those who pursue the study of
science. They are free from the accusation of robbing the brains of
other men, when they take up methods or apparatus already known
and improve upon them or employ them for their own work. In such
cases, however, it is always understood that honour should be given
where honour is due, and accordingly I have no wish to represent to
you any piece of apparatus as of my own devising, when in reality it
belongs to another.
    Few men have had a larger experience, and attained greater
success in optical projection, than has Mr. Lewis Wright, who has
embodied in his most recent forms of apparatus all that was good in
designs existing until his time. I have, therefore, started from his
models, making such modifications as I thought to be desirable.

1892.]                     on Optical Projection.                     535
Mr. Wright does not appear—if I may say so—to have had mnch ex
perience with the electric arc light as a radiant, and I found, at a very
early stage, that great difficulties had to be encountered when this
light was used, chiefly because the radiant approaches more nearly to
what theory requires. That which was easy with the lime light
became almost impossible with the arc lamp, and these difficulties had
to be conquered.
     Many scientific men are dissatisfied with the projection microscope,
on the ground that very high magnification does not give that resolu
tion and that sharpness which is found in the usual methods of
observation. This want I fully admit. At the same time it is
scarcely right to condemn a particular method, because you try to
apply it to an unsuitable purpose. Hundreds of thousands of subjects
may be shown with the projection microscope with far greater profit
to the student than was possible in the old way. The very fact that
the professor can place his pointer upon any part of the picture on
the screen is invaluable to the students. I shall, therefore, attempt to
show you only a series of microscopical subjects suitable for projec
tion, and shall not employ very high magnification.
    In regard to some substances very high powers may be used with
advantage, but much time would be lost in getting them into the
field and focussing them upon the screen. These, consequently, I
omit, so that a larger number of subjects may be illustrated.
    It is fair to state that most of the apparatus used to-night has
been constructed by Messrs. Newton, of Fleet Street, and the luminous
pointer by Messrs. Steward, of the Strand. The arc lamp is a
Brockie's projector. Messrs. Baker, Watson, and others, have also
come to my assistance.
     I will first show, on the screen, a picture of the lantern carrying
its various apparatus ; and then a few systems of lenses, which may
be employed for the projection microscope, as well as a diagram of
the microscope itself.
     Sub-stage condensers and objectives are, as a rule, made to suit the
table microscope. When projecting, by means of an objective alone,
in consequence of the screen distance being very great-—or, in other
words, the microscope tube being exceedingly long as compared with
the table instrument—the objective has to be approached very close
to the slide ; in fact, with the higher powers, closer than the cover-
glass will allow. This close working distance renders necessary
special sub-stage condensers, and in many cases a special one is
required for every screen distance with each objective. This requisite
would seem to be a complete stumbling-block to microscope projec
tion work. With the limelight the difficulty does not enter in the same
degree as with the arc light, and as we are now dealing with the
latter, further reference need not be made to the oxy-hydrogen light.
There are two ways of surmounting the difficulty ; one by the use of
plano-concave lenses, introduced in such a way as to be equivalent to
greatly lengthening the focus of the objective on the screen side,

 536                        Sir David Salomons                   [Feb. 26,
 while it enables, as a consequence, the objective to be slightly further
 removedifrom the slide; i.e. giving what is termed a greater working
 distance. The objection to this method is that, even when these
 plano-concave lenses are corrected, the result, though greatly improved,
 is not perfect. The second way, which is a perfect one, is that of
 introducing an eye-piece. In both these methods, that the best results
 may be obtained, the objective is made to occupy a position not very
 different from that which it would do if employed on the table
microscope.
     In the eye-piece method almost the exact conditions can be com
plied with for which the objective was made. I propose, therefore, to
show the subjects by the eye-piece method. The only objectives which
will be used are : (1) Zeiss's 35 millimetre projection objective, with
a sub-stage condenser, 4 inches focal length, placed a considerable
distance from the slide ; (2) Newton's 1-inch projection objective, the
sub-stage condenser as in the first case ; and (3) Zeiss's ^-inch
achromatic objective, the sub-stage condenser being Professor Abbe's
three-lens condenser with the front lens removed. In all three cases
the eye-pieces used are Zeiss Huyghens No. 2 and No. 3.
     In each instance I will mention the magnification in diameters, as
well as the number of times when reckoned by area, for the apprecia
tion of those who estimate by area ; and I will also give the size to
which a penny postage-stamp would be increased, supposing it to be
made of iudiarubber, and stretchable to any extent in all directions.
In presenting these figures I do not pretend that they are absolutely
correct, but as they have been ascertained under conditions similar
to those now existing the errors will not be very great.
     In consequence of the field not being quite fiat, and the sections
having a certain thickness, although extremely thin in most cases, the
whole of the object cannot be in focus upon the screen at the same
time. By shifting the focussing screw slightly all parts may be brought
into focus successively. So-called greater depth of focus is obtained
by using an increased working distance ; and for projection work over-
correction for flatness can alone give a sharp picture all over with
very considerable depth of focus ; the difficulty of over-correction
being that, unless extreme care is taken, certain forms of distortion
may be introduced. By stopping down the objective greater flatness
of field may be secured, but at the expense of light. There is
thus a choice of difficulties, and the least one should be taken.
   Turning now to the polariscope. Polarized light teaches us a great
deal concerning the structure of matter ; it is also a means of con
firming the undulatory theory of light. This subject is so large that
no attempt can be made to give oven a general idea of the field it
covers, and the experiments, which will be shown in the polariscope,
may bo taken simply as a fow illustrations of the subject and nothing
more ; but they will, at any rate, be suggestive of the large field to
which this method of analysis can be applied. A vast amount of
mathematical proof can be illustrated graphically by various experi

1892.]                     on Optical Projection.                     587
incuts with polarized light. I will show on the screen a diagram of
the polariscope. (Shown.)
     With reference to showing the spectrum. The method of pro
jecting a spectrum, I think, is new, as I have not seen it described
anywhere. It gives practically a direct spectrum with an ordinary
prism, without turning the lantern round to an angle with the
screen ; and here is a diagram of the method.
      The details of the apparatus, as well as those of the methods of
working, I have modified in almost every instance, for five reasons :—
(1) That more certain results may be ensured ; (2) that rapidity may
be obtained ; (3) that only one operator may be needed ; (4) that, as
far as possible, all parts of the apparatus may be interchangeable
and (5) that loose screws and pieces may be dispensed with.
      There were then shown by projection a number of slides illustrat
ing various microscopic optical systems, and a number of microscopic
slides, followed by a series of general polariscopic projections, some
of them to illustrate the strains existing in many forms of matter ;
also a spectrum by a carbon disulphide prism, in conjunction with a
reflecting prism and with a mirror, which, apart from any other
result, demonstrates that the loss of light with a reflecting prism is
less than with an ordinary glass mirror. Slides and other projections
were also thrown upon the screen.
      The details are as follows : —
      The Microscope.—Screen distance, 21 feet. First, 35 millimetres
Zeiss projection objective, 4-inch sub- stage condenser, Zeiss Huyghens
eye-piece 2 ; 500 diameters = 250,000 times = penny stamp stretched
 to cover about 147 square yards. Subjects shown : proboscis of blow
 fly ; permanent molar displacing milk-tooth (kitten) ; human scalp,
vertical ; human scalp, surface ; fossil ammonites and belemnite.
 Second, 1-inch Newton's projection objective, 4-inch sub-stage con
 denser, Zeiss Huyghens eye-piece 2 ; 1000 diameters = 1,000,000
 times -- stamp stretched to about 588 square yards. Objects shown :
proboscis of blow-fly ; foot of a caterpillar ; section of human skin,
showing the sweat ducts ; phylloxera vastatrix of the vine. Third,
 1 inch Newton's projection objective, 4-inch sub-stage condenser,
Zeiss Huyghens eye-piece 3 ; 1300 diameters = 1,690,000 times =
 stamp stretched to about one-fifth of an acre. Slides shown : proboscis
 of blow-fly ; wings of bee (showing booklets and ridge) ; sting of bee
 (showing the two stings, sheath, and poison-sack) ; sting of wasp
 (showing same as last slide) ; eye of beetle (showing the facets).
 Fourth, ^-inch Zeiss's achromatic objective ; Abba's 3-lens sub-stage
 condenser, with top lens removed ; Zeiss Huyghens eye-piece 3 ;
 4500 diameters = 20,250,000 times = stamp extended to nearly 2£
 acres. Slides shown, proboscis of blow-fly ; hair of reindeer (showing
cell structure) ; hair of Indian bat (showing the peculiar funnel-like
 structure) ; sting of bee (showing the barbs) ; foot of spider ; stage of
the micrometer (the closest lines ruled to thousandths of an inch, which
      VOL. XIU. (No. 86.)                                     2 o

638                     Sir David Salomons                     [Feb. 2fi,
measure 1 .', inches apart under this magnification) ; a wave length
40000 inch, therefore, on screen measures about ^ inch.
    lite Polariscope.—Shown with parallel light ; plain glass ; glass
under pressure ; chilled glass (round, oval, and waved peripheries) ;
Prince Kupert's drop (broken in the field) ; horn ; selenites (over
lapped) ; butterfly (selenite) ; bunch of grapes (selenite) ; bi-quartz,
with ^-wave plate (the ^-wave plate in this experiment produces the
same effect upon the bi-quartz as if a column, 20 centimetres long, of
a 7i per cent, solution of cane sugar were placed between the
polarising nicol and the bi-quartz. The analyser has to be rotated
about 10J); a piece of sapphire to show asterigm. Shown with con
vergent light ; hemitrope (cut in a plane, not at right angles to the
axis) ; ruby ; topaz ; grape sugar (diabetic) ; cane sugar ; quartz ;
superposed right and left-handed quartz (spirals); calcite and phena-
kite superposed (showing transition from negative to positive crystal,
passing through the apopholite stage).
    fhe Soliiliscope.—New form of apparatus for showing solids, and
consisting of two reflecting prisms and suitable projecting lenses.
With this instrument were shown :—Barton's button, the works of a
watch, a coin.
    Spectrum Analysis.—Spectrum thrown by means of a disulphide
prism, combined with a reflecting prism ; the result being that a
good spectrum is thrown upon the screen direct without turning the
lantern. There wore shown :—The spectrum ; absorption bands
of chlorophyll, &c. ; effects produced by passing the light through
coloured gelatine films.
    Projection of Slides.—Decomposition of water ; expansion of a
wire by means of heat ; combination of colours to form white light ;
various diagrams, coloured photographs of a workshop, &c. As an
extra experiment there was shown, in the polariscope, with a con
vergent light, Mitscherlisch's experiment (illustrating the changes
which take place in a selenite under the influence of heat).
    There are but few who would disagree with me in the opinion
that the microscopic world, as regards its design and its molecular
structure, is quite as wonderful as the great works around us seen
with the unaided eye. A magnifying glass of low power opens up a
 world far larger than that which we are accustomed to see. At the
present time, even with the most perfect apparatus that exist, only a
small portion of the universe is known to us.
    Scientific study should be pursued by all in a greater or less
degree. It teaches more important lessons than the most impressive
discourse ever preached. During the investigation of what is
generally termed the invisible world, men should at times pause to
reflect, and ask themselves such questions as these : What is the
meaning of, and to what end is, creation ? Is it all mere chance ?
Were such wonderful designs and properties created at the beginning ?
Was there in matter at the beginning an inherent, or implanted,

1892.]                   on Optical Projection.                    539
power of development? Simple as these questions may seem, man
in the flesh will never be able to find the true answers. The extra
ordinary design and structure which have existed in the unseen
world for millions of years, or possibly in all past time, and even at
the present day known to so few, demonstrate at least that the Great
Power has bestowed the same care upon what appear to us the most
insignificant portions of creation, as upon what we think are the
greatest works in the universe. These silent sermons must surely
influence the mind, and set it thinking of the supernatural and of our
duties during life.
    It may now with truth be said that science gives us means, such
as never before existed, of appreciating the greatness of the Supreme
Spirit, by enabling us to read fresh chapters in the book of nature.
                                                             [D. S.]
                                                         2 o 2

 540                       Professor L. C. Miall               [March 4,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, March 4, 1892.
   BASIL WOODD SMITH, Esq. F.R.A.S. F.S.A. Vice-President, in the
                                   Chair.
        PROFESSOR L. C. MIALL, F.L.S. Professor of Biology at the
                         Yorkshire College, Leeds.
  The Surface-film of Water, and its relation to the Life of Plants and
                                  Animals.
  IT is necessary to the exposition of my subject that I should begin by
  reminding you of some well-known properties of the surface of water.
  These are familiar to every student of physics, and are set forth in
  many elementary books. They are well explained and illustrated,
  for instance, in Prof. Boys's deservedly popular book on " Soap-
  bubbles." But there may be some persons here who have not quite
. recently given their thoughts to this subject, and it will only cost us
  a few minutes to repeat a few simple experiments, which will establish
  some fundamental facts relating to the surface-film of water.
       The following experiments were then shown :—
       (1) Mensbrugghe's float. Proves that the surface-film of water
  offers resistance to the passage of a solid body from beneath.
       (2) Aluminium wire made to float on water. Proves that the
  surface-film of water offers resistance to the passage of a solid body
  from above. The resistance is proportional to the length of the line
  of contact of the solid with the water.
       (3) Copper gauze made to float on water. Here, a number of
  intersecting wires are employed instead of a single wire, and the
  consequent increase in the length of the line of contact greatly
  increases the weight which can be supported.
       (4) Frame with vertical threads, carrying a light plate of brass.
   The threads hang vertically at first, but when the whole is dipped
  into soapy water, the adhering film exerts a pull upon the sides of
   the frame, draws the threads into regular curves, and raises the brass
   plate. When the film is broken, the threads resume their previous
  vertical position, and the plate falls.
       (5) Aluminium wire supported by vertical copper wires. Each
   end of the aluminium wire forms a loop, which fits loosely to one of
  the copper wires. When the apparatus in dipped into soapy water,
  the contraction of the film draws the aluminium wire upwards.
   After pulling it down with a thread, the wire can be again drawn up.
   This is another illustration of the tendency of the film to contract.
   We use soapy water, because the film lasts for a considerable time,
   but the surface-film of pure water, though less viscous than that of

1892.]              on the Surface-Film of Water, dc.                541
soapy water, is even more contractile. We have already seen that
the surface-film clings with considerable tenacity to any solid body
introduced into it, and that its hold increases with the length of
the line of contact. It is for this reason that fine meshes oifer so
great a resistance to the passage of the surface-film. Air can pass
through the meshes with perfect ease; water also, if not at the
surface, can pass through readily enough, but the surface-film in
contact with air will only pass through with difficulty, and if there is
water behind it, the water may thus be restrained from passing
through the meshes.
     (6) Muslin bag hung in front of the lantern. Water poured into
the bag (a large spoonful) does not flow out ; but when the muslin
beneath the water is rubbed with a rod, it becomes wetted, the
surface-film passes to the outside of the bag, and the water trickles
through.
     There are many plants which take advantage of this property of
the surface-film of water, viz. that it will not penetrate small spaces,
in order to keep themselves dry. You must have observed how the
hairy grasses repel water. The surface-film is unable to pass into
the fine space between the hairs, and accordingly the water above the
surface-film is kept from contact with the leaf. This simple artifice
is often employed by plants which float at the surface of water. Here
 it is important that they should keep dry, not only for the purpose of
 respiration, but for another reason too. They commonly have great
 power of righting themselves when accidentally submerged, and this
 self-righting property depends upon the fact that the under surface of
 each leaf is always wet, while the upper surface is incapable of being
 wetted. The microscopic hairs which thickly cover the upper surface
 are sufficient to exclude the water. A leaf of Fistia is now sub
 merged, and shown as an opaque object in the lantern. You see by
 the gleaming of its surface that it is overspread by a continuous flat
 bubble of air, which looks like quicksilver beneath the water. I will
 next invert a leaf of Pistia by means of a rotating lever. It is now
 brought up beneath the surface of the water in an inverted position,
 and you see that, notwithstanding its buoyancy, it is unable to free
 itself and rise to the surface, because of the air-bubble, which adheres
 both to the leaf and to the disk at the end of the lever, and ties both
 together. Complete separation of the leaf from the disk would
 involve the division of the air-bubble into two smaller bubbles, one
 adhering to the leaf and the other to the disk. In this operation the
 surface-film would necessarily bo extended directly in opposition to
its natural tendency to contract. Several other water-plants exhibit
 the same properties as Pistia. I will mention two of the water-ferns
,—Salvinia and Azolla. Salvinia is found floating on still water in
 the warmer parts of Europe, as well as in other quarters of the globe.
 The leaves are attached on opposite sides of a horizontal stem. Long
 bairy roots (or what look like roots, and really answer the same
 purpose) hang down into the water. Salvinia has in a remarkable

542                          Professor L. 0. Miall                    [March 4,
degree the power of rising when submerged, of always rising with its
leaves up and its roots down, and of rising with the upper surface of
its leaves perfectly dry. It is obvious that these qualities are most
useful to a plant which may be pressed under water or drenched with
rain. Its nutrition, like that of all green plants, depends largely
upon substances extracted from the air ; and to be overspread with
water, which disappeared only by a slow process of evaporation,
would be disadvantageous, especially if the water were not absolutely
clean. Every leaf of Salviuia is, to begin with, excavated by a
double layer of air-spaces, which lodge so much air as to give it great
buoyancy. On the upper surface are placed at regular distances a
                                      FIG. 1.
     8akinia natans. A, combined surface-view and section of floating leaf, modi
 fied from a figure in Sachs's 'Botany,' showing the air-cavities, the submerged
 hairs of the lower surface, and the groups of stiff hairs on the upper surface.
 These latter inclose spaces into which water cannot enter, even when the leaf is
 completely submerged. B, one group of hairs from the upper surface, seen from
 above.
 number of prominences, each surmounted by a group of about four
 stiff, spreading hairs, which keep the water from reaching the surface
 of the leaf. When forcibly depressed, the Salvinia takes down with
 it a layer of air, which forms a flat bubble over the leaf, and of conrso
 gives great power of self-righting, for the specific gravity of the
 upper side is greatly reduced, while the lower side is weighted, as
 before, by the long, water-logged roots. Once restored to the surface,
 the bubble bursts, and the little drops into which it is instantly
 resolved roll off like drops of quicksilver. Azolla, which is found in
  most hnt countries, and is often grown in hothouses, behaves in a very
 similar way. Here the leaves are far smaller, and crowded together

 1892.]                on the Surface-Film of Water, dec.                      543
 upon a branching stem of minute size. There are a few hairs upon
 the upper surface, and between the leaves are narrow clefts, connected
 with globular cavities, which occupy the centre of every leaf. These
 cavities, whi^h are often closed, and never possess more than an
 outlet of extreme minuteness, are always filled with air ; so are the
                                      FIG. 2.
    Aznlla caroliniana. A, stem with leaven, magnified ; B, longitudinal section
through part of ditto, highly magnified. The air-cavities of the leaves are shown,
the narrow spaces between the leaves, into which water cannot enter, the fine
hairs of the upper surface, tin submerged leaf-lobes, and the vascular bundles.
clefts between the leaves. No water can lodge on the upper surface,
apparently because the surface-film is stretched from the raised edge
of one leaf to that of the next ; and thus buoyancy, self-righting, and
repulsion of water are efficiently secured.
     Many plants which ordinarily float on the surface of the water
(Salvinia, Azolla, Duckweed, Potamoijeton natans, &c.) sink on the
approach of winter. At this time it is very curious to see how com
pletely they lose both their buoyancy and their power of repelling
water. I do not know how this change is brought about, but the
result is one of obvious advantage. The leaves, or in some cases the
entire plants, sink to the bottom, and hibernate there, out of the reach
of frost. JU any perish ; some are broken up by decay into isolated
buds. When spring returns, the few survivors float up, and soon
cover the surface with leaves. It would be interesting to know
something of the mechanism by which these seasonal changes are
effected.
    One of the commonest objects in Nature, which is apt to escape

544                          Professor L. C. Miall              [March 4,
our notice on account of its minute size, for it is less than one-
quarter of an inch in length, is the egg-raft of the gnat. This
was beautifully described 150 years ago by Reaumur. The eggs
of the gnat are cigar-shaped, and 250 or 300 of them are glued
together, so as to make a little concave float, shaped like a shallow
boat. The upper end of each egg is pointed; the lower end is
provided with a lid, through which the larva will ultimately issue
into the water. The gnat in all stages, even while still in the egg,
requires an ample supply of air. It is therefore necessary that the
egg-raft should float at the surface ; it is also necessary that it
should always float in the same position, so as to facilitate the
escape of the larva. This is effectually secured by a provision of
almost amusing simplicity. Let us first notice how efficient it is.
If we take two or three of these tiny egg-rafts, and place them in
a jug of water, we may pour the water into a basin again and
again ; every time the egg-rafts float instantly to the surface ; and
the moment they come to the top, they are seen to be as dry as
at first. The fact is that the surface-film cannot penetrate the fine
spaces between the pointed ends of the eggs. The cavity of the
egg-raft is thus overspread by an air-bubble, which breaks the
instant it comes to the top. The larva of the gnat, when it escapes
from the egg, floats at the surface, and it is enabled to do so in
consequence of the properties of the surface-film. When the larva
changes to a pupa, it becomes buoyant, and floats at the surface,
except when alarmed. To enable it to free itself without unneces
sary effort from the surface of the water, the respiratory tubes of
the pupa are furnished with a valvular apparatus, which can cut
the connection with the air in a moment, and restore it at pleasure,
when the pupa again floats to the surface.*
     Another Dipterous insect, whoso larva inhabits rapid streams,
makes an ingenious use of the properties of the surface-film. This is
the larva of Simulium, of which I have given some account in the
lecture just quoted. At the time of the delivery of that lecture, I
was wholly unable to explain how one difficulty in the life of the
insect is surmounted. The larva clings to the water-weeds found in
brisk and lively streams. The pupal stage is passed in the same
situation. But a time comes when the fly has to emerge. Now the
fly is a delicate and minute insect, with gauzy wings. How does it
escape from the rushing water into the air above, where the remainder
of its life has to be passed ? This was a question upon which I had
spent much thought, but in vain. It appeared to me for many months
completely insoluble. However, I was informed last year by Baron
Osten Sacken of a paper written by Verdat, seventy years ago, in
which the emergence of the fly of Simulium is described. Guided by
Verdat's description, I had little difficulty in seeing for myself how
    * The larva and pupa of the gnat are more fully described in my British
Association lecture on " Some Difficulties in the Life of Aquatic Insects,"
reported in ' Nature," vol. Ixiv. p. 457.

 1892.]                on the Surface-Film of Water, &c.                    645
the difficulty is actually overcome. During the latter part of the
pupal stage, the pupa-case becomes inflated with air, which is ex
 tracted from the water, and passed through the spiracles of the fly into
 the space immediately within the pupal skin. The pupal skin thus
 becomes distended with air, and assumes a more rounded shape in
 consequence. At length it splits along the back, in the way usual
 among insects, and there emerges a small bubble of air, which rises
quickly to the surface of the water and there bursts. When the
bubble bursts, out comes the fly. It spreads its hairy legs, and runs
upon the surface of the water to find some solid support up which it
 can climb. As soon as its wings aro dry, it flies to the trees or
bushes overhanging the stream.
     A very interesting inhabitant of the waters, which makes use of
the properties of the surface-film to construct for itself a home
beneath the surface, is the water-spider (Argyroneta aquatica). This
interesting little animal has been described by many naturalists, some
of whom, judging from their accounts, had no personal acquaintance
with its habits. But among the number is the eminent naturalist
Felix Plateau, son of the physicist to whom we are so much indebted
for our knowledge of the phenomena of surface-tension. I need
hardly say that in his account of the water-spider, Prof. Plateau gives
a full and adequate account of the scientific principles concerned in
the formation of its crystalline home.* Plateau remarks that the
water-spider, like all other spiders, is an air-breathing animal. It
dives below the surface, and spends nearly its whole life submerged.
In order to do this without interruption to its breathing, the spider
carries down a bubble of air, which overspreads the whole abdomen
as well as the under side of the thorax. These parts of the body are
covered with branched hairs, so fine and close that the surface-film of
water cannot pass between them. The spider swims on its back, and
the air lodges in the neighbourhood of the respiratory openings,
which are placed on that surface which floats uppermost. When the
spider comes to the top, as it does from time to time to renew its
supply of air, it pushes the abdomen out of the water, and we can
then see that this part of the body is completely dry. When it sinks,
the water closes in again at a little distance from the body, and the
bubble forms once more.
     It would be inconvenient to the water-spider to be obliged to
come frequently to the surface for the purpose of breathing. A pre
datory animal on the watch for its victims must lie in ambush close
to the spot where they are expected to appear, and the water-spider
accordingly requires a lurking-place filled with air, beneath the
surface of the water. It has its own way of supplying this want.
Relying on the fact, already illustrated by our muslin bag, that the
surface-film of water will not readily pass through small openings,
the spider proceeds as follows. It begins by drawing together some
    * " Observations sur rArgyronfete aqualique," Bull. A cad. Roy. de Belgique,
2mc Bc'r. tom, xxiii. 18G7.

546                          Professor L. C. Miall                    [March 4,
water-weeds with a few threads, in such a way that they meet at one
or more points. It then fetches from the surface a fresh supply of
air, and squeezes part of it out by pressing together the bases of its
last pair of legs. The bubble rises, but is detained by some of the
threads previously spun across its path. Then the spider returns to
the surface to fetch another bubble, and repeats the operation as often
as is necessary. Now and then she secures the growing bubble by
additional threads, and before long has a bubble nearly as big as a
walnut, inclosed within an invisible silken net, wbich imprisons the
air as effectually as a dome of glass would do. The spider takes care
to conceal her home from observation, and before long the minute
Algae, growing all the more vigorously because of the air brought to
them, effectually conceal the habitation. The mouth of the dome,
which is of course beneath, is narrowed to a small circle, and Plateau
has observed a cylindrical horizontal tube, seven to eight millimetres
in diameter, by which the spider is enabled to enter or leave her
home without being observed. The air within is renewed as required,
by the visits of the spider to the surface.
     Besides this home, which is the ordinary lurking-place of the
spider, another is required at the time when the youug are hatched.
The new-born spiders are devoid of the velvety covering of hairs,
and would drown in a moment if placed in a nursery with a watery
floor. The female spider therefore makes a special nest for this
particular occasion, which floats on the surface of the water, rising
well above it. It is bell-shaped and strongly constructed. The
upper part is partitioned off, and contains the eggs. Beneath the
floor of the nursery the mother takes her station, and watches over
the safety of her brood, defending them against the predatory insects
 which abound in fresh waters.              It is interesting to see how the
 faculty of spinning silk, used by the house-spider for her snares, and
 at other times for the fluffy cocoon in which the eggs are enveloped,
 furnishes to the water-spider the materials of her architecture. It
 is not less interesting to observe the economy of material which
 results from the use of the tenacious and contractile surface-film, in
place of a solid wall.
     We will next consider another property of the surface-film, which
 is turned to account in the daily life of the very commonest of our
 floating plants, I mean the duckweed, which overspreads every pond
and ditch. A number of the green floating leaves of duckweed are
now placed in a shallow dish in the field of the lantern, and I will
 ask you to observe how they are grouped. They have spontaneously
arranged themselves in a very irregular fashion, forming strings and
chains which spread hither and thither over the surface of the water.
 This is not the way in which most floating bodies behave. Let us
 remove the duckweed, and replace it by another dish of water in
which I will put a number of small disks of cork.* You will see
    * In order to avoid the inconvenience caused by the attraction of the sides of
 the vessel, the dish should be over-lull of water.

1892.]            on the Surface-Film of Water, &c.                 547
that the bits of cork are attracted one to another and crowd together
in one place. Let us inquire why the floating bits of cork are thus
attracted towards one another. If any solid capable of being wetted
by water is partly immersed in water, the liquid rises round it in an
ascending capillary curve. If the solid is not wetted by water, the
curve will turn downwards. We may get ascending or descending
capillary curves in other ways. If, for instance, I were to lay a
sheet of paper upon water, and turn its edges up at certain places, we
should get marked ascending curves at these points. The raising of
some parts of the surface causes other parts to sink, and may bring
about descending curves, or make previously formed descending
curves more marked. We shall find it helpful in our experiments
to notice one very simple plan of producing a descending capillary
curve round the edge of a vessel. If we take a glass of water, and
fill it until the water is level with the brim, we naturally
speak of the glass as full ; but if we are careful to avoid rude
shaking, wo may still add a considerable quantity of water without
spilling any. The glass will then become what we may call over
full, and its surface will be bounded by a descending capillary
curve. Now, it is of immediate importance to us to observe that
like capillary curves, whether ascending or descending, attract one
another, and that unlike curves repel one another. The theoretical
explanation of this point is not difficult, but it must not detain us
here. To place the fact itself beyond dispute, we will try a little
experiment. A circular dish of water is now placed in the field of
the lantern, and we will introduce into it a small disc of wood.
Both the disc and the side of the vessel are wetted by water, and
 an ascending capillary curve rises round each. The result is
 that the two bodies attract one another. Every time the disc is
 moved away it is powerfully drawn towards the side of the vessel.
 With a little syringe we will add water to the dish in sufficient
quantity to raise the level above the edge of the vessel. You will
observe that the wooden disc is now repelled by the edge of the
vessel, and floats free in the centre. By sucking up a little water, it
 becomes attracted once more, and so we may go on, causing it to be
attracted or repelled, according as we add or subtract a small quantity
 of water. But what has all this to do with the duckweed ? In order
 to explain the behaviour of duckweed, I must ask you to examine a
 careful representation of its form. This common plant has not, to
 my knowledge, been faithfully represented in any botanical book.
 You will see that the liaf is of an irregular oval shape, broader at
one end than at the other, and that the narrow end is pointed. A
 raised ridge extends along the length of the leaf, from the point to
 the middle of the opposite or rounded border. Duckweed almost
invariably propagates itself by budding. New leaves are pushed out
 symmetrically on each side of the point. They grow bigger and
bigger, and gradually free themselves. The point upon each leaf
marks the place where it was last attached to the parent leaf. Some

548                         Professor L. C. Miall                       [March 4,
times the budding is so rapid, that, before a fresh pair of leaves have
become free, they have already budded out a second pair, which we
may call the grand-daughters of the parent leaf. The pointed end of
the leaf, and also the opposite end of the ridge, are raised above the
general level, and very marked capillary curves ascend from the
general water-level to these points. The free edge of every bud is also
raised above the general water-level, and a capillary curve ascends to meet
                                      FIG. 3.
              D
    Duckweed (Lcmna minor), magnified. A, single frond; a, scar of attachment
to parent. A ridge extends from a to 6 across the upper surface of the frond,
gently subsiding towards 6. B, frond, budding-out two new fronds. C, longi
tudinal section from a to b (A) showing ascending capillary curves at a and b.
D, transverse section at right angles to the last. The margins of Ihe frond in
this plane are level with the surface of the water. N.B.—The form of the fronds
is somewhat variable. Minor inequalities occur along the margin, but the
principal ascending curves, which are also centres of attraction, are at a, &, and c.
it. Hence, when a number of leaves of duckweed are floating freely on
water, they are powerfully attracted one to another at certain points, while
at intervening points they are relatively inert. If you take a floating
leaf of duckweed, and bring near it a clean needle or a pencil-point,
or any similar object, provided that it is not greasy, you will see that
the leaf is at once attracted towards the point, but it always turns
itself so as to bring one of its ascending curves round to the needle
or pencil. We all see in the lantern how readily a leaf of duckweed
is made to rotate rapidly by causing a needle-point to revolve round
it, without ever touching it. Let us now try to imitate the behaviour
of the leaves by some rude models. I have here some elliptical
paper floats, cut out with a pair of scissors, and having each of the
pointed ends a little turned up. We place these one by one on the

1892.]             on the Surface-Film of Water, dc.                 649
surface of the water, and you see in the lantern how they are
attracted to one another, point to point, and how they form long
chains, which have a tendency to break up into stars. It is the exist
ence of such points of attraction on the margin of the leaves which
causes the duckweed to form chains and strings, so long as there is
any unoccupied surface in the pond. A moment's consideration shows
how profitable this tendency is to the plant. Were the duckweed to
crowd together like the floating bits of cork, the pressure towards the
centre of any considerable mass of plants would be so great that the
new leaves budded out would find no room in which to expand : but,
by virtue of one very simple provision, viz. the existence of inequal
ities of level among the edges of the leaves, clear spaces and lanes are
left between the floating leaves, so long as any unoccupied space
 remains.
     Long exposure to the air, especially in still weather, affects the
 life of duckweed in a material way. Dust and decaying organic
 substances give rise to a pellicle, which is most mischievous to
 floating plants ; and I think I could show, if time allowed, how
 much the habits of duckweed have been altered thereby. But, apart
 from visible impurities, mere exposure to air gives, as Lord Ray-
 leigh has taught us, a considerable degree of superficial viscosity
 to water. Hence, the leaves of duckweed, when the surface is
 contaminated, will tend to lie in whatever positions they may be
 thrown by accidental causes, such as wind, and the attractions due
 to capillarity will be more or less impeded. But the effect of the
 superficial viscosity will in time be overcome by the attractive
 forces, so that it probably does not in the long run greatly affect
 the distribution of the leaves over the surface of water.
      Many other floating plants, but not all, behave more or less like
  duckweed, and for the same reason. As yet I know of none which
  space themselves quite so effectually, and the extreme abundance
  of the common duckweed, as well as its world-wide distribution,
  may be partly due to the completeness of its adaptation to capillary
  forces. Some dead objects may accidentally take a shape which
  causes them to spread out over water, but I have met with none
  which have particularly struck me. Floating natural objects, such
  as sticks or seeds, behave, in many cases at least, very differently,
  and become densely massed. My attention was first called to this
  subject by seeing how different was the grouping of duckweed from
  that of some seeds of Potamogeton natans, which were floating in
  the same pond.
      The capillary forces which spread the leaves of duckweed or
  Azolla upon the surface of the water are indirectly concerned in
  the transport of these and like plants to fresh sites. If we put a
  stick into water overspread with duckweed, we cannot fail to notice
  how the leaves cling to the stick. They cling in a particular way,
  which enables them to bear transport more safely. The wetted surface,
  for obvious physical reasons, is attracted to the wetted stick ; and the

 650                       General Monthly Meeting.            [March 7,
 water-repellent surface, which is that which best resists drying, is
 outwards. The tenacity with which duckweed clings to the legs of
 water-birds, and the position which it almost inevitably takes under
 such circumstances, may have a good deal to do with the safe trans
 port of the plant to distant pools. It is not, I think, too much to say
 that the prosperity of duckweed depends very largely upon the
 capillary forces which come into play at the surface of water.
     We have now exhausted our time, though I have been obliged to
 leave unnoticed many special adaptations of living things to the
 peculiar conditions which obtain on the surface of water. Had time
 allowed, I should have been glad to say something about the aquatic
 animals which creep on the surface-film as on a ceiling, and about the
 insects which run and even leap upon the surface-film without wetting
 their minute and hairy bodies.* All small animals and plants which
 float on water necessarily come into contact with the surface-film,
 and have to deal with the difficulties which result from it. We have
 seen that they generally manage in the long run to convert these
 natural difficulties into positive advantages.
     I have to thank my colleague, Dr. Stroud, for his frequent ex
planations of the physical principles upon which these adaptations
depend, and also for much practical and valuable help in the prepara
 tion of suitable experiments.                              [L. C. M.]
                      * See ' Nature," vol. xliv. p. 457.
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, March 7, 1892.
   SIR JAMES CRIOHTOJ»-BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.K.S. Treasurer and
                       Vice-President, in the Chair.
           The Right Hon. Lord Brougham and Vaux,
           Eric Bruce, Esq. M.A.
           Arthur N. Butt, Esq.
           Percy 0. Gilchrist, Esq. F.R.S. M. Inst. C.E.
           Frederick Hovenden, Esq. F.L.S. F.G.S.
           Herbert Edgell Hunt, Esq.
           Alphonse Normandy, Esq.
           W. R. Pidgeon, Esq.
           Mrs. W. R. Pidgeon,
           Sir Frederick Montagu Pollock, Bart.
           Alan A. Campbell Swinton, Esq.
           The Right Hon. Lord Watson,
           Mrs. Wigan,
           Arthur W. Williams, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.

1892.]                    General Monthly Meeting.                                  551
     The following Letters were read :—
                                                     " SANDRIXGnAH, NORFOLK,
                                                                " 121A February, 1S92.
    "Sir Francis Knollya is desired to convey to the Members nf the Royal
"Institution of Grunt Britain the thanks of the Prince and Princess of Wales for
" the sympathy they have expressed on the occasion of Their Royal Hignneosed'
" bereavement."
                                                            " WHITEHALL,
11 gre                                                           " 2atk February, 1892.
      " I have had the honour to lay before The Queen the loyal and dutiful
" Resolution which has been adopted by the Members of the Royal Institution of
" Great Britain on the occasion of the death of His Royal Highness The Duke of
" Clarence and Avondale, K.G., and I have to inform you that Her Majesty was
" pleased to receive the Resolution very graciously.
                                     " I have the honour to be,
                                                     " Sir,
                                                " Your obedient Servant,
                                                               "HENRY MATTHEWS.
"Sir J. C. Browne, M.D. LL.D., &c.
      The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
 following Donations:—
          Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart                        £100 0 0
          Sir Douglas Gallon                                      10 10 0
          Mrs. Bloomfield Moore                                   20 0 0
          Sir Frederick Abel                                      21 0 0
          C. Meymott Tidy, Esq                                    10 10 0
          Sir James Douglass           ..       ..       ..       10 10 0
          D. E. Hughes, Esq                                         500
          George Berkley, Esq.          ..      ..       ..         500
          Basil Woodd Smith, Esq.               ..       ..       10 10 0
          Sir Archibald Campbell, Bart                            25 0 0
          Professor Dewar                                       120 0 0
          Sir David Salomons, Bart.             ..       ..       50 0 0
          J. T. Brunner, Esq., M.P.             ..        ..      50 0 0
 for carrying on investigations on Liquid Oxygen.
      The following Arrangements for the Lectures after Easter were
 announced :—
     On THE SOTLPTBRING OF BRITAIN—ITS LATER STAGES. By PROFESSOR T. G.
 BONNEY, D.Sc, LL.D. F.R.S. F.G.8. Professor of Geology in University College,
 London. (The Tyndall Lectures.) Two Lectures on Tuesdays, April 26, May 3.
     On PHOTOGRAPHY IN THE COLOURS OK NATURE. By FREDERICK E. IVES, Esq.
 Two Lectures on Tuesdays, May 10, 17.
     On SOME ASPECTS OF GREEK POETRY. By PROFESSOR R. C. JERR, M.P.
 Litt.D. Regius Professor of Greek in University of Cambridge. Three Lectures
 on Tuesdays, May 24, 31, June 7.
     On THE CHEMISTRY OF GASES. By PROFESSOR DEWAR, ALA. F.R.S. M.R.I.
  Fullerian Professor of Chemistry, R.I. Four Lectures on Thursdays, April 28,
  May 5, 12, 19.

652                           General Monthly Meeting.                [March 7,
    On FACST. By R. G. MOULTON, Esq. M.A. Three Lectures on Thursdays,
May 26, June 2, 9.
    On J. S. BACH'S CHAMRER Music : I. Suites and Partitas ; II. Sonatas and
Concertos; III. Preludes and Fugues; IV. Toccatas and Variations. By E.
DANNREUTHER, Esq. (With many Musical Illustrations.) Four Lectures on
Saturdays, April 30, Muy 7, 14, 21.
    On SOME MODERN DISCOVERIES IN AGRICULTURAL AND FOREST BOTANY.
(Illustrated by Lantern.) By PROFESSOR H. MARSHALL WARD, Sc.D. F.R.S.
F.L.8. Professor of Botany at the Royal Indian Engineering College, Coopers
Hill. Three Lectures on Saturdays, May 28, June 4, 11.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The New Zealand Government—Statistics of the Colony of New Zealand, 1890.
     fol. 1891.
The French Government—Documents Ine'dits sur 1'Histoire de France :
   Lettres do Catherine de Me'decis, Tome IV. 1570-74. Par Cto. Hector de la
     Ferriere. 4to. 1891.
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quinta : Rendiconti. 1° Semes-
     tre, Vol. I". Fasc. 1, 2. 8vo. 1892.
American Geographical Society—Journal, Vols. III.-XXII. 8vo. 1870-90.
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. XIII. No. 4. 8vo. 1891.
Aristotelian Society—Proceedings, Vol. II. No. 1, Part 1. 8vo. 1892.
Hankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XIII. Part 2. 8vo. 1892.
Botanic Society of Lowlon, Royal—Quarterly Record, No. 48. 8vo. 1892.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1891-2, Nos. 8, 9. 4to.
British Association for Advancement of Science—Report of Meeting at Cardiff,
      1891. 8vo.
California Publishing Company—-Californian Illustrated Magazine, Vol. I. No. 3.
     8vo. 1892.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XL No. 1. 8vo. 1891.
domical Society—Journal for February, 1892. 8vo.
Cracoifie, VAcademic des Sciences—Bulletin, 1892, No. 1. 8vo.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. &c, M.R.I.—Journal of the Royal Microscopical
     Society, 1892, Part 1. 8vo.
Duckicortlt, Sir Dijce, M.D. LL.D. M.R.I, (the Author)—On the Higher Education
     of Women. 8vo. 1891.
East India Association—Journal, Vol. XXIV. No. 1. 8vo. 1892.
Editors—American Journal of Science for February, 1892. 8vo.
   Analyst for February, 1892. 8vo.
   AtheniEum for February, 1892. 4to.
   Brewers' Journal for February, 1 892. 4to.
   Chemical News for February, 1892. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for February, 1892. 8vo.
   Educational Review, New Series, Vol. I. No. 4. 8vo. 1892.
   Electrical Engineer for February, 1892. fol.
   Electricity for February, 1892. 4to.
   Electric Plant for February, 1892. 4to.
   Engineer for February, 1892. fol.
   Engineering for February, 1892. fol.
   Engineering Review for February, 1892. 8vo.
   Horologioal Journal for February, 1892. 8vo.
   Industries for February, 1892. fol.
   Iron for February, 1892. 4to.
   Ironmongery for February, 1892. 4to.
   Lighting for February, 1892. 4to.

  1892.]                    General Monthly Meeting.                          653
    Monist for February, 1892. 8vo.
    Nature for February, 1892. 4to.
    Open Court for February. 1892. 4to.
    Photographic News for February, 1892. 8vo.
    Revue Scientifique for February, 1892. 4to.
    Surveyor for February, 1892. 8vo.
    Telegraphic Journal for February, 1892. fol.
    Zoophilist for February, 1892. 4to.
 Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, No. 95. 8vo. 1892.
 Ex-Libris Society—Journal for February, 1892. 4to.
Florence Biblioteea Nazionale Centrale—Bolletino, No. 117. 8vo. 1892.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 794. 8vo. 1892.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XIV. No. 3. 8vo. 1892.
 Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1891, Nos. 15-18; 1832,
       No. 1. 8vo.
 GeorgofUl, Reale Accademie—A.tii, Quarta Serie, Vol. XIV. Disp. 4. 8vo. 1891.
 Harlem, 8ocit!te Hollandaise des Sciences—(Euvres Completes de Christiaan
      Huygens, Tome IV. Correspondance, 1662-63. 4to. 1891.
 Institute of Brewing—Transactions, Vol. V. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. 1892.
Johns Hopkins University—University Circulars, No. 95. 4to. 1892.
    American Chemical Jounral, Vol. XV. No. 1. 8vo. 1892.
 Laws, Sir J. Sennet, F.Ji.S. and Gilbert, Dr. J. H. F.R.S. (the Authors)—The
       Sources of the Nitrogen of our Leguminous Crops. 8vo. 1892.
    Observations on Rainfall, Percolation, and Evaporation. 8vo. 1891.
 Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXI. Part 13. 8vo. 1892.
 Mechanical Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings, 1891, No. 5. 8vo.
 Meteorological Office—Communications from the International Polar Commission,
       Part?. 4to. 1891.
Ministry of Public Works, Home—Giornale del Genio Civile, 1891, Fasc. 12. 8vo.
      And Design!, fol. 1891.
 Odontological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXIV. No. 4. 8vo. 1892.
 Payne, W. W. and Hale, G. E. (the Editors)—Astronomy and Astro-Physics for
      February, 1892. 8vo.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, February, 1892. 8vo.
   Calendar, 1892. 8vo.
Phipson, T. L. Esq. Ph.D. F.C.S. (the Author)—On Nootiluoine; the phosphores
      cent principle of Luminous Animals. 8vo. 1875.
   Wilson W. Phipson. A Memoir. 8vo. 1892.
Photographic Society of Great Britain—Journal, Vol. XVI. No. 5. 8vo. 1892.
Preussisehe Akademie der Wissenschaften—Sitzungsberichte, Nos. XLI.-LIII.
      8vo. 1891.
Rio de Janeiro, Obsertmioire Imperial de—Revista, No. 12. 8vo. 1892.
Robinson, Professor William (the Author)—Petroleum Oil Engines. (British
      Association.) 8vo. 1891.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes, Vol. III. No. 27. 8vo. 1892.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. IV. Noe. 6, 7. 8vo. 1892.
Society of Arts—Journal for February, 1892. 8vo.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Report, Vol. XXVII. 8vo. 1891.
Tacchini, Prof. P. Hon. Mem. R.I.—Memorie della Societa degli Spettroscopisti
      Italian!, Vol. XX. Disp. 12" ; Vol. XXI. Disp. 1'. 4to. 1892.
United Service Inriitution, Royal—Journal, No. 1C8. 8vo. 1892.
United States Geological Surrey—Bulletins, Nos. 62, 65, and 67-81. 8vo. 1890-91.
Vereins sur BefSrderung des Gewerbfeises in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1892:
      Heft 2. 4to.
Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 97. 8vo. 1892.
Wright * Co. Messrs. J. (the Publishers)—Medical Annuul for 1892. 8vo.
   Pye's Surgical Handicraft. 3rd edition. 8vo. 1891.
   Epitome of Mental Diseases. By Dr. J. Shaw. 8vo. 1892.
     VOL. XIII. (No. 86.)                                            2 p

554                        Mr. F. T. Piggott                 [March 11,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, March 11, 1892.
  SIR JAMBS CRIOHTON-BROWNB, M.D. LL.D. F.K.S. Treasurer and
                     'Vice-President, in the Chair.
                          F. T. PIGOOTT, Esq.
                               Japanesque.
I HAVE been very severely and very properly called to order by the
learned Secretary of this Institution for coining a new word " Japan
esque," to meet the exigencies of the occasion of my appearing before
you. But the word " Japanese " has already three uses. It is both
singular and plural, applying to one and to all the inhabitants of
Japan ; and as an adjective it is applied to the products of the
islands, connoting probably some slight idea of artistic excellence. I
could not very well append to these a fourth use, applying it to
things in the Japanese style, to things ' Japanesy ' in fact, because,
as I shall endeavour to show you this evening, it could not in such
use connote any idea of art at all ; it would, on the contrary, connote
a great deal that is terribly inartistic. Therefore, again craving
your pardon for having coined it, I will use the word Japanesque
to signify, not the European facsimiles of Japanese work, which
are indeed fairly well executed, but a certain bastard form of
ornament which has seized on our art wares, and which has derived
some sort of inspiration from Japan. The history of the rise
and progress of Japanesque is well-known in the potters' trade :
I believe that the precise date of its first appearance has been
chronicled on the sherds which form the archives of that trade. For
this reason my examples of Japanesque will be drawn from plates,
the decoration of which indeed, holding as they do no unimportant
place among our household gods, is a matter of considerable interest.
But it will probably not be necessary for me to point out that the
potters having once set the example, as indeed they have done in
decorative art through many centuries, Japanesque has been adopted
by the carvers, the weavers, the broiderers, and the candlestick makers.
I shall endeavour to point out to you the chief points in which Japan
esque misses the mark, commits unpardonable sins against the art of
Japan. If I should conclude with a panegyric on that art itself, I
trust you will find me sufficient excuse.
    Here are some Japanesque plates, the designs upon them are as
far removed from Japanese as this Island of Fogs which has produced
them is from the Islands of the Sun. And yet, no one who is familiar,
as who amongst us is not, with the crude formalities of true Victorian
decoration, with the parodies of the Renaissance grotesques with
which so much of our street architecture is plastered, no one but

  1892.J                       on Japanesque.                          655
 can fail to discern in these extraordinary designs a striving after
 something new, an effort to be original, a desire to shake off the
 fetters of formalism and pseudo-classicism. You will not need, I
 think, to be reminded that these plates are fair samples of a species of
 art-work with which we are now familiar : nor will you fail to recog
 nise the cause which called these artistic strivings and desires into
 being. A light had dawned suddenly on British artists in design, at
 a time when they were beginning to weary of the stencil plates and
 tracing-papers which are the handmaids of formalism. That light
 dawned from the far-eastern Islands of Japan, which, though their
 existence had been long known, were for us practically discovered
 not more than forty years ago. And in the pathway of this light
 there came these revelations, which to the designers of those days
 must have been simply startling : that it was not then essential to
 good ornament to divide a circle into eight, sixteen, or thirty-two
 parts, in each of which the same amount of pattern was to be stencilly
 repeated ; that it was not then essential to find the true centre of an
 object, and fixing a flower there to let all the stems radiate from it in
 ordered arrangement ; that it was not then essential to make every
 thing balance truly from that centre, of equal size, and at equal
 distances. In the work which came from Japan these and many
 other traditional rules which we deemed to be of the essence of art
 were cast to the winds, ignored in most insolent fashion : and yet the
 work was strangely delightful : had a grace of infinitely more charm
 than anything our traditions had ever produced for us : revealed a
 feeling of proportion and balance whose laws, if indeed there were any,
 were wrapped in deepest mystery. The effect of this on the Western
 workman was strange. Broad and pleasant paths of artistic wicked
 ness seemed to open straight before him: to walk in them, he forsook
 the narrow path which his education bade him follow ; he too, would
 cast his traditions and his stencil-plates to the winds. And when he
 had so done his work became sprawly, his designs began to lack
 unity, he cultivated irregularity, and in proportion as he developed
 these peculiarities his execution deteriorated : a dabby, spotty, eccen
 tricity pervaded everthing he did. The great art-spirit of the
Japanese had been true to the first of artistic principles : she had
concealed herself. Without any very great attempt to track her to
her hiding-place we contented ourselves with a poor parody of her,
and formulated a style which has no laws to guide it, and which for
want of a better name I have christened Japanesque.
     I think I am not exaggerating when I describe the result as
execrable ; nor in saying that the revelation which came with the
dawning light was startling am I using a mere rhetorical figure of
speech. ' The Times ' of 1854 contains an account of one of, if not
the earliest, exhibitions of Japanese things in London. A certain
Dutch merchant " wishing to ascertain whether the taste of the English
nation was in accordance with the works of Japan," held an exhibition
in Fall Mall in January of that year. ' The Times ' wondered
                                                            2 p 2

556                         Mr. F. T. Piggott                 [March 11,
" whether the same thing would happen to the Japanese as had already
happened to the Hindoos, whose art work had been depreciated by
the stupid conceit of the European, who must needs tie down their
exuberant fancy to his own meagre or vulgar designs. . . . Such
delicate and beautiful ornamentation had never been seen in the same
perfection in this country. . . . Our papier-mache^ manufacturers
ought to feel themselves under special obligations to this Dutch
mercbant for enabling them to see how immeasurably the artisans of
that barbarous island (as we thought it then) excel them." Thus
' The Times ' : and I have heard too how in this theatre, very nearly
thirty years ago, the audience was so enraptured with a lecture
delivered by Mr. Leigbton on Japanese art, and with the objects ho
exhibited, that it was past midnight before this staid Institution could
close its doors.
     I may attack at once one of the chief vices of Japanesque,
which is an abortive attempt to grasp one of the leading char
acteristics of Japanese work ; it is the fragmentary spray work
with which our pots, and pans, and plates are nowadays orna
mented, the angnlate sprig of flower or fruit which comes from
 nowhere in particular and sprawls everywhere in general. Without
 putting you in darkness again let me picture to your mind's
 eye a very familiar dessert-service, the shape of dishes and plates
 unexceptional, the price a sum unmentionable, the colour a greenish-
 grey, which is itself but a weak vibration of the pure celadon of
 the East. Thereon straggle various boughs and sprays of flowers
 coming, " a la Japonaise," from beyond the edge, with birds hovering
 about them. But the drawing of these birds is horridly impossible,
 and as to the proportion between them and the flowers, why, either
 they must have been snared in Lilliput, or the flowers culled in
 Brobdignagian gardens. But even this is a small matter compared
 with the execution of them. The whole subject is first drawn in
 black outline, and the petals, stalks, and leaves simply dabbed or
 splashed with colour. This is not an unfair description of average
 Japanesque work.
     Now the points which the draughtsman fights for, on the supposed
 authority of Japanese art, are : visible irregularity of design coupled
 with haphazard composition ; a suggestion of an invisible shrub
 growing somewhere, which has allowed one of its branches to trail
across the plate ; and a sort of conventional naturalism which serves
as an excuse for hasty and poor workmanship. In this respect,
indeed, his work does not approach even that of those palmy old days
of British art when the potters painted just in the centre of a plate a
posy of flowers as like to nature as they could make them. The
 Japanese work which this feeble stuff attempts to copy belongs essen
 tially to the domain of pictorial art, and is governed by the same laws
as the pictorial art of Japan. The greatest purist among decorators
 would never deny that pictorial art may very properly be applied to
 the purposes of decoration ; but he would insist, and rightly, that

1892.]                        on Japanesque.                          057
when it is so applied it should conform to the principles of pictorial
art, and must be judged by its standards. A base form of pictorial
work, wort without artistic vitality, is not to be tolerated merely
because technical difficulties stand in the way of getting good execu
tion- on clay. If I paint a landscape on a potter's vessel I shall not
be forgiven its crudity, its lack of depth and light ; nor if it be a
human face, its vacuity, simply because of the difficulties which my
materials set in my way. Admittedly the work is much more diffi
cult than if I painted my subject on paper or canvas ; but art is
power, and if it succeed, I may look for greater praise for my picture,
because of the great technical difficulties which I have overcome ;
but the attempt to overcome them was of my own seeking, and if I
fail, I cannot insist that, by reason of these technical difficulties, my
art finds legitimate expression in a lower range of feeling. Nor,
again, for art is long, can the length of time which work 'would
occupy were it well done, be an excuse for doing it badly. Is it
 essential to my happiness to cover my walls with red roses and
 ribbons, and my ceilings with chubby cupids and all the winged
hierarchy of artistic space ? I may do so, and infringe no real or
 imaginary law. But the cost, if it be the work of men's hands, or
 the difficulty of getting good results, if it be processed, will not be
 an answer to kind friends who tell me that my variegated patches of
 colour are hideous and mere nothingness, or that my cherubs are up
 aloft in positions of anatomic impossibility. Decorative art in its
 lowest form supplies the means of obviating those terrible productions
in which our fathers of an age not so long past seem to have
delighted.
     Lot me turn your attention now for a moment to the pictorial art
of Japan. Much of it depends for its charm on the simplicity of the
means by which it produces its effects. It revels in suggestion.
The works of one of the greatest of its schools is in great part in
monochrome. The treatment of leaves and flowers often approaches
very closely to the conventional treatment necessary to ornament.
In these simple black and white pictures much of the detail, even of
the foreground, is left to the imagination ; the middle distance is
veiled in a misty cloud ; the distance is suggested by a few delicate,
almost disappearing, touches. Now the technical difficulties in the
way of executing pictures such as these in materials less easy to
manipulate than ordinary pigments, are obviously much diminished.
     The canons of the art can be observed as faithfully by an artist
working with lacquer and gold dust as by one who uses water and
Chinese ink. The wood-carver and the metal worker, the embroiderer
and the dyer, know that the masses of colour which their materials
produce may be made to correspond entirely with the masses of full
tone in a picture. Again, that wonderful dexterity of workmanship,
which surpasses all we have ever dreamed of in the West, looks upon
the hammer, the chisel, the needle, the knife, as no less facile instru
ments for producing sweeping swelling lines than the brush. And,

 558                         Mr. F. T. Piggott               [March 11,
 yet again, whether they work with liquid pigment or stiff enamel,
 with threads of silk or with metal inlay, all craftsmen alike possess a
 complete mastery over the gradation of their tones, even to the
 vanishing point. And thus the art of all of these craftsmen is
 identical both in spirit and in execution with the art of the painter ;
 the result, monochrome pictures in shades of gold or steel, in patina
 of varied lustres, in dyes or in silk embroidery, which are as effective,
 and which are endowed with the same charms as the painted picture
in black and white. Thus it comes about that the lacquer boxes, the
 porcelain, the silk or cotton raiment, and all the thousand things
 which add to the charm of life to the Japanese, are embellished with
 pictures, executed in precisely the same way, with the same firm
lines and evenly-covered surfaces, with the same gradations of tone,
the same dark shadows and fleecy clouds, as those which came from
 the studios of the Kano masters.
     I will ask you to look at my Japanesque plates once more.
Mr. Lennox has very kindly turned them upside down ; he evidently
thought it made the boughs of the trees a little truer to nature,
though the birds now fare rather badly. They are full of extraordinary
angles, which, considered as a mere arrangement of lines, are bad
enough, but looked at as an interpretation of nature are impossible.
There is little of either Eastern or Western pictorial art about any of
them ; the one in which the spray comes on at three places might
perhaps be taken as giving the idea of a plate hidden in a bush.
     The Japanesque designer delights to dwell on the fragmentari-
ness of his design, insists on the existence of the remainder of the
boughs ; his designs arc clumsily composed, and still more clumsily
set upon the surface. These are among the chief characteristics
of Japanesque which I will ask you to bear in mind.
     Now let me endeavour to explain to you how essentially this
Japanesque work differs from the Japanese work upon which it is
based. In point of mere execution it lacks two of its essential
qualities, the smooth swelling surfaces which are produced by gradual
pressure on the long pliant brush, and the strength and sweep of the
lines. I will not dwell upon this point ; but I think you will follow
me at once when I say that the free lines which are drawn by a man
kneeling, as the Japanese do, over his paper laid upon the floor, must
be essentially different from the free lines drawn by a man facing
his canvas, and working with a mahl-stick, or sitting on a chair with
his material on a table in front of him. The part of the body which
forms the axis of the free lines is in each case different. The line
drawn, for example, with the axis at the wrist must have a different
character from that drawn with the axis at the shoulder. The
methods of drawing in the East and the West have each produced
characteristic results. I do not wish to compare them, only the
quality of Japanese work is so intimately connected with the method
of its execution, that it is impossible quite to catch the spirit of it
unless wo adopt the method, pro hue vice of course.

 1802.]                        on Japanesque.                         659
     But the drawing of most Japanesque work is execrable from a
Western point of view. Western art does not sanction smudges as
 substitutes for rose-leaves ; Western art requires some observance of
proportion between the different objects of a picture ; therefore in
the most elementary essentials, Japanesque sins against both the East
and West. That it cannot catch the trick of the Eastern line is, as I
have said, not exactly the fault of the draughtsmen. They do not
profess to copy Japanese models, but rather to adapt Japanese
principles to their own work. And the first point, on which I would
not have dwelt so long did it not pervade the whole subject, is that
they have missed the pictorial quality of this form of Japanese
decoration, and have parodied it with crude outlines and haphazard
smudging. It is the failure to recognise the pictorial quality of this
Japanese work that has led to the Japanesque arrangement of
branches which makes them appear as if they came from somewhere
else, and the insistence on the existence of the rest of the branch,
both of which are entirely foreign to the Japanese idea.
     Now, in the first place, it must be clearly understood that the
Japanese do both profess and practise a rigid adherence to the struc
tural principle of ornament. Their art never allows them so to
ornament a surface as to make it appear part of something which
is non-existent. Perhaps the corresponding principle in pictorial
art may be stated concisely, thus : a picture should not look as if it
were a slice cut out of a panorama, with more to follow at either
end.
     Japanese pictorial art, in its very nature, delighting to paint one
incident, not many, enables the principles of focus to be more care
fully observed than they are in the West.
     Now the bough of plum or cherry-tree, with its buds and blossoms,
is one of the most familiar subjects in Japanese paintings, for a very
sufiicient reason ; it is one of the most familiar objects in a Japanese
house. In the floral pictures with which, week by week, they
beautify their homes, the Japanese use everything that nature gives
them, not the bud and flower alone, nor the twig and leaf alone, but
the whole bough. Whole branches of flowering shrubs are set in
their vases, and these branches reappear in their pictures. And I
think the simple secret of their being set close to the edge of
the paper or the plate, is, that that is precisely how the branch is
seen in the house, cut in a sharp line by the edge of the vase or hanging
basket in which it is placed. Then too a sort of artificial focos is-
obtained by the pruning of twigs and flowers at the base of the
branch. But of suggestion of the rest of the tree, the suggestion of
which Japanesque is so full, there is not the slightest trace. Such
an idea as that a spray should come on to the plate in three different
places would be quite impossible for a Japanese artist even to
imagine.
    Far more important even than the points I have already touched
upon is the composition of the design for picture or ornament. And

660                         Mr. F. T. Piggott                  [March 11,
it is in this, as I think you will have seen, that Japanesque with its
astonishing angles, true neither to nature nor to art, so terribly
misses the mark : it is in this that the Japanese so entirely excel.
    I cannct but digress to dwell for a short space upon the Japanese
art of beautiful arrangement, out of which composition in design
springs. You are all probably familiar with one of the commonest
forms of Japanese ornament, that in which the surface is sprinkled
with heraldic devices, or with fragments or patches of ornament;
often in the case of a continuous design it is broken in upon here and
there by imaginary, or slightly indicated, cloud-masses. The prin
ciple is the same in both cases. The devices or patches may be
few, or many, but they are set upon the surface irregularly, with
apparent hap-hazard, or, as the Japanese say, "jiggi-jiggi." The
effect is invariably charming; in spite of the very small material
used to produce it, there is a sense of completeness which is the
more surprising as it seems to conflict with every principle known
to our own symmetrical art. And yet there is nothing hap-hazard
about it, it is the result of a most finished study, guided by a most
refined taste ; the taste which enters into the minutiae of every day
life in Japan ; whether it be the coolie setting-out minute maple
trees on the slopes of a miniature Fujiyama, the maiden settling gew-
gews in her raven tresses, your " boy " arranging flowers for your
table, the journeyman painter daubing colour on the commonest fan,
all alike know the mysterious secret, and act upon it. You cannot
live a week in Japan without noticing that it is deeply-rooted in
the people's instincts. I verily believe that, with some inclinings of
the head, and not a few soft interjaculatory reflections, a Japanese
could put a postage-stamp on an envelope artistically.
    I pray you to forgive the banality of this word " artistically,"
but I use it deliberately. When the Japanese are said to be " so
artistic " the speaker usually refers to this skill of theirs in beautiful
arrangement. And those esthetic souls who pose as the high priests
of something they call " high art," they too have their little fantasies
of arrangement ; they love to set things all askew, thinking thereby
to redeem themselves from the curse of commonplace, which indeed,
they do; they are certainly dimly conscious of one fact, that it is
possible not to be commonplace. Beyond this they do not go,
deeming " all anyhow " to be the perfect rule of art. " Culture " with
its inept niaiseries, its tawdry and fade conceits, struggles still in
the primers of a science of which the Japanese have long ago formu
lated every rule, and daily practise the examples. If they put one
little flower-vase on a table, or paste on a screen a dozen differently
shaped poetry papers, the result is always effective, always charming ;
in their subtle arrangements there is a most admired disorder, they
seem indeed " to snatch a grace beyond the reach of art."
     Though I travel somewhat " beyond the reach of art," let me
indicate, in the lightest and most Japanese method of suggestion,
how wrapped up are the subtleties of this charm with intellectual

1892.]                        on Japanesque.                           561
pleasure. The delight which we derive from following a graceful
curve, or from contemplating a perfectly balanced arrangement, seems
to grow as the proportion between the " x " and " y " of the curve's
equation, or between the " x " and "1 — a " of the rectilinear arrange
ment increases in subtlety. There appear to be three distinct degrees
of this pleasure. The pleasure of knowledge first, as of the proportions
of a circle, or of a vase in the centre of a table ; but this is of a very
low order, often indeed approaching contempt. The mind knows at
once how that is done. Then there is the repose and satisfaction of
not knowing and not wanting to know. But when this satisfaction
gives place to curiosity and the desire to know, the trouble of finding
out produces cerebral fidgets ; there is the excitement of discovery,
probably the annoyance that the discovery was not worth the trouble
after all, and the general subversion of that repose which beauty
engenders.
     Some snch intellectual processes seem to be the origin of the
effects we call commonplace, beautiful, eccentric.
     And so coming back to my vase and my table, the Japanese
know not the one, but the hundred and one, places where to set the
vase, so that the conditions are satisfied of subtle proportion and
 avoidance of curious or eccentric effect.
     And here let me add is an example of the abundant latitude
 which is left to individual expression in spite of the cloud of rules
in which tradition and convention have wrapped this and every
 other Japanese subject.
           »»•****
     Precisely the same principle pervades the composition of all
 Japanese pictures, though one form of it very often leads to large
 spaces of blank, or as it is often called, wasted paper. If the
 paper were cut down it would be so much nicer, so mnch more
 suited to form one of the crowd of pictures which jostle one another
 on our walls. Well, but the Japanese consider, in setting out the
 scheme of the picture, its relation to the area it has to cover ; the
 balance of lines or of masses may, for instance, possibly require one
 shaft of bamboo to be carried up isolated into an otherwise blank
 space. The blank or slightly tinted paper seems to me as sufficient
 for all the requirements of -art as the wilderness of black, red, or blue
 paint with which we cover similar spaces on our canvases, calling
 them " backgrounds " of wall, curtain, or sky.
     The ugly necessities of primed canvas compel us to cover it all
 over with pigment ; the necessities of the rapidly absorbent paper, or
 prepared silk, which the Japanese nse, preclude their doing so ; thus
 each necessity has produced its own law.
     But it is not in the somewhat lavish use of blank spaces alone,
 but in every line of the drawing that this art of balanced arrange
 ment is discernible, making for wholeness and completeness and repose.
 It is the absence of this that makes Japanesque work so sprawly,
 distorted, and abortionate. And verily it is not to be wondered at ;

 562                        Mr. F. T. PiggoU                [March 11,
 it is not on onr bizarre porcelain alone that this same quality of
 composition is lacking, but (I speak this with very bated breath) all
 our art seems to lack it altogether.
           *******
     Time permits me to dwell only on one other feature of Japanesque
work which greatly grieves the souls of the elect. Of recent years
panels of doors have been decorated with boughs of trees which
begin in space, sprawl across one panel, are continued in imagination
behind the joint, to reappear and wander on across the second
panel.
     It violates our own canons of art, but it is supposed to derive
authority from the Japanese ; yet like every other Japanesque notion
it is entirely contrary to their idea. If a Japanese artist hag to
ornament two panels of a screen with a continuous picture, he lays
them close together on the floor, and treating them as one, pro
ceeds to paint his picture. Afterwards the panels are separated and
put into the frame of the screen. There is thus no notion of the
design being continued behind the frame. Yon will find the same
principle in any Japanese picture-book. The double-page illustra
tions are deliberately cut down the middle and printed on opposite
pages.
     Double-page illustrations are a vexation of the spirit. We
have four ways of dealing with them, stitching-in, folding-down,
printing sideways, and mounting on a guard. I do not say that in
this case the Japanese way is the best, but at least it is not more
ruthless than stitching-in or folding-down, and is certainly more
convenient than printing sideways.
           *******
     I have, with your kind indulgence, abused Japanesque sufficiently
for one evening. I will endeavour to sum up its misdemeanours
in a single sentence. It conceived the Japanese art of ornament
to be merely the embodiment of eccentricity, and therefore to be
judged by other standards than those with which we had long been
familiar: it cultivated eccentricity in its turn, and substituted for
simplicity of style and vigour of execution crude designs and coarse
workmanship.
    I have talked more of Japanesque than of Japanese ; but I must
now carry out my threat of saying a few words on Japanese art, and
of showing you a few more specimens of it chiefly drawn from the
Shiba and Nikko temples.
     With the form of Japanese decorative art which I have chiefly
discussed this evening, the floral spray-work, most people are I
think familiar. But I do not think it is so generally known that
the art of the country, eclectic as is everything in Japan, embraces
as many different forms of expression as there are styles in
current use in the West. It is an eclectic art ; but nothing ever
passed into the service of the Japanese but it received the impres

  1892.]                       on Japanesque.                         663
  of tin; national spirit. A graceful symbolism and an ultimate
 reference to nature pervade it in all its forms, whether in the more
 fanciful side which makes it the most delightful of home arts, or
 in the severely classical side which puts it in the front rank of
 arts suited to devotion.
      For the panels and doorways for the shrine to a departed hero the
 Buddhist emblems furnish a hundred different diapers, so that the
 walls and doors glitter and scatter the light in a thousand fanciful
 ways. For the friezes and the ceilings, not a flower that blows, nor
 leaf that withers, but is pressed into the service ; the pieony and the
 chrysanthemum bend their stalks into a classic scroll, or the plum
 blossoms floating down the stream suggest new lines of exquisite
 tracery. Here a few lines of conventional work, notwithstanding
 their recurrence at regular intervals, and their almost geometrical
 treatment, compose a design as restless in its beauty as the sea-waves
 which have suggested it ; and there the oft-repeated scroll-work tells
 of the summer cloud from which it has borrowed its shape. Dull
 monotony is packed away along with moulds and stencil-plates, and
 in its place, imaginativeness, suggestion, devotional reminders, worship
 of nature, infinite variety everywhere.
     That the art-instinct in the East, and among Eastern nations in
 Japan the highest, is higher than in the West, none will deny. It is
 not indeed to be wondered at. In that beautiful country life passes
 under easier and more graceful conditions than with us ; there the
 days are not marred by the ever-presence and worship of the machine
 which civilisation the king has set up : there the sway of fashion
 is unknown, only that changeless law, the joy perpetual in the
things of beauty ; there one learns how great a part in life art may
play, rendering every incident of the day more interesting by
beautifying its surroundings, making them, when they minister to the
wants of the body, minister also to the lust of the eye. It is in great
part the lack of this, when one comes back to be ground by the great
machine, that causes that Japanostalgia, which all suffer who have
once set foot in that land of flowers.
           •          *"••*
                                                             [F. T. P.]

564                      Weekly Evening Meetings.                    [March,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 18, 1892.
  SIR JAMES CRIOHTON-BROWNB, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                       Vice-President, in the Chair.
                        GEORGE Du MAURIER, Esq.
                   Modern Satire in Black and White.
                                 [No Abstract.]
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 25, 1892.
     BASIL WOODD SMITH, Esq. F.S.A. F.E.A.S. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
          EVANS, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. Sc.D. P.S.A. Treasurer, E.S.
                                 Posy-Kings.
                                 [No Abstract.]
 [The whole discourse is printed in the May number of ' Longman's Magazine.*]

1892.]       Prof. 0. Lodge on the Motion of the Ether, Ac.          565
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, April 1, 1892.
WILLIAM HUGOINS, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. Ph.D. F.E.S. Vice-President,
                             in the Chair.
       PROFESSOR OLIVER LODGE, D.Sc. LL.D. F.R.S. F.R.A.S.
                 The Motion of the Ether near the Earth.
EVERYRODY knows that to shoot a bird on the wing you must aim in
front of it. Every one will readily admit that to hit a squatting rabbit
from a moving train you must aim behind it.
    These are examples of what may be called " aberration " from the
sender's point of view, from the point of view of the source. And
the aberration, or needful divergence between the point aimed at and
the thing hit has opposite sign in the two cases—the case when
receiver is moving, and the case when source is moving. Hence, if
both be moving, it is possible for the two aberrations to neutralise each
other. So to hit a rabbit running alongside the train you must aim
straight at it.
    If there were no air that is all simple enough. But every rifle
man knows to his cost that though he fixes both himself and his target
tightly to the ground, so as to destroy all aberration proper, yet a
current of air is very competent to introduce a kind of spurious aber
ration of its own, which may be called windage ; and that he must
not aim at the target if he wants to hit it, but must aim a little in the
eye of the wind.
     So much from the shooter's point of view. Now attend to the
point of view of the target.
     Consider it made of soft enough material to be completely pene
trated by the bullet, leaving a longish hole wherever struck. A
person behind the target, whom we may call a marker, by applying
his eye to the hole immediately after the hit, may be able to look
through it at the shooter, and thereby to spot the successful man. I
know that this is not precisely the function of an ordinary marker,
but it is more complete than his ordinary function. All he does
usually is to signal an impersonal hit ; some one else has to record the
 identity of the shooter. I am rather assuming a volley of shots, and
 that the marker has to allocate the hits to their respective sources by
 means of the holes made in the target.
     Well, will he do it correctly ? assuming, of course, that he can do
BO if everything is stationary, and ignoring all curvature of path,

666                      Professor Oliver Lodge                 [April 1,
whether vertical or horizontal curvature. If you think it over you
will perceive that a wind will not prevent his doing it correctly ; the
line of hole will point to the shooter along the path of his bullet,
though it will not point along his line of aim. Also, if the shots are
fired from a moving ship, the line of hole in a stationary target will
point to the position the gun occupied at the instant the shot was
fired, though it may have moved since then. In neither of these
cases (moving medium and moving source) will there be any aberration
error.
    But if the target is in motion, on an armoured train for instance,
then the marker will be at fault. The hole will not point to the man
who fired the shot, but to an individual ahead of him. The source
will appear to be displaced in the direction of the observer's motion.
This is common aberration. It is the simplest thing in the worlil.
The easiest illustration of it is that when you run through a vertical
shower, you tilt your umbrella forward ; or, if yon have not got one,
the drops hit you in the face ; more accurately, your face as you run
forward hits the drops. So the shower appears to come from a cloud
ahead of you, instead of from one overhead.
     We have thus three motions to consider, that of the source, of the
receiver, and of the medium ; and of these only motion of receiver
is able to cause an aberrational error in fixing the position of the
source.
     So far we have attented to the case of projectiles, with the object
of leading up to light. But light does not consist of projectiles, it
consists of waves; and with waves matters are a little different.
Waves crawl through a medium at their own definite pace ; they
cannot be flung forwards or sideways by a moving source ; they do
not move by reason of an initial momentum which they are gradually
expending, as shots do ; their motion is more analogous to that of a
bird or other self-propelling animal than it is to that of a shot. The
motion of a wave in a moving medium may be likened to that of a
rowing boat on a river. It crawls forward with the water, and it
drifts with the water ; its resultant motion is compounded of the two,
but it has nothing to do with the motion of its source. A shot from a
passing steamer retains the motion of the steamer as well as that given
it by the powder. It is projected therefore in a slant direction. A
boat lowered from tho side of a passing steamer, and rowing off, re
tains none of the motion of its source ; it is not projected, it is self-
propelled. That is like the case of a wave.
     The diagram illustrates the difference. Fig. 1 shows a moving
cannon or machine-gun, moving with the arrow, and firing a succession
of shots which share the motion of the cannon as well as their own,
and so travel slant. The shot fired from position 1 has reached A,
that fired from the position 2 has reached B, and that fired from posi
tion 3 has reached C by the time the fourth shot is fired at D. The
line A B C D is a prolongation of the axis of the gun ; it is the line of
aim, but it is not the line of fire ; all the shots are travelling aslant

1892.]          on the Motion of the Ether near Ute Earth.          567
this line, as shown by the arrows. There are thus two directions to
be distinguished. There is the row of successive shots, aud there is
the path of any one shot. These two directions enclose an angle. It
may be called an aberration angle, because it is due to the motion of
the source, but it need not give rise to any aberration. True direction
may still be perceived from the point of view of the receiver. Attend
                                    FIG. 1.
                        Disturbances with Momentum.
to the target. The first shot is supposed to be entering at A, and if
the target is stationary will leave it at Y. A marker looking along
Y A will see the position whence the shot was fired. This may be
likened to a stationary observer looking at a moving star. He sees it
where and as it was when the light started on its long journey. He
does not see its present position, but there is no reason why he should.
He does not see its physical state or anything as it is now. There is
no aberration caused by motion of source.
      But now let the receiver be moving at same pace as the gun, as
when two grappled ships are firing into each other. The motion of
the target carries the point Y forward, and the shot A leaves it at Z,
 because Z is carried to where Y was. So in that case the marker
 looking along Z A will see the gun, not as it was when firing, but as
 it is at the present moment ; and he will see likewise the row of shots
                                    Fio. 2.
                                c •.-..
                      Disturbances without Momentum.
 making straight for him. This is like an observer looking at a terres
 trial object. Motion of the earth does not disturb ordinary vision.
      Fig. 2 shows as nearly the same sort of thing as possible for the

668                       Professor Oliver Lodge                 [April 1,
case of emitted waves. The tube is a source emitting a succession of
disturbances without momentum. A BCD may be thought of as
horizontally flying birds, or as crests of waves ; or they may even be
thought of as bullets, if the gun stands still every time it fires, and
only moves between whiles.
    The line A B 0 D is now neither the line of fire nor the line of
aim : it is simply the locus of disturbances emitted from the successive
positions 1234.
    A stationary target will be penetrated in the direction A Y, and
this line will point out the correct position of the source when the
received disturbance started. If the target moves, a disturbance
entering at A may leave it at Z, or at any other point according to its
rate of motion ; the line Z A does not point to the source, and so there
will be aberration when the target moves. Otherwise there would be
none.
    Now Fig. 2 also represents a parallel beam of light travelling from
a moving source, and entering a telescope or the eye of an observer.
The beam lies along A B C D, but this is not the direction of vision.
The direction of vision to a stationary observer is determined not by
the locus of successive waves, but by the path of each wave. A ray
may be defined as the path of a labelled disturbance. The line of vision
is Y A 1, and coincides with the line of aim ; which in the projectile
case (Fig. 1) it did not.
    The case of a revolving lighthouse, emitting long parallel beams
of light and brandishing them rapidly round, is rather interesting.
Fig. 3 may assist the thinking out of this case. Successive dis-
                                  FIG. 3.
                    Beam from a Revolving Lighthouse.
turbances A, B, C, D, lie along a spiral curve, the spiral of Archi
medes ; and this is the shape of the beams as seen illuminating the
dust particles, though the pitch of the spiral is too gigantic to be dis
tinguished from a straight line. At first sight it might seem as if an
eye looking along those curved beams would see the lighthouse
slightly out of its true position ; but it is not so. The true rays or
actual paths of each disturbance are truly radial ; they do not coincide
with the apparent beam. An eye looking at the source will not look
tangentially along the beam, but will look along A S, and will see the

1892.]           on the Motion of the Ether near the Earth.               669
source in its true position. It would bo otherwise for the case of pro
jectiles from a revolving turret.
     Thus, neither translation of star nor rotation of sun can affect
direction. There is no aberration so long as the receiver is sta
tionary.
     But what about a wind, or streaming of the medium past source
and receiver, both stationary ? Look at Fig. 1 again. Suppose a row
of stationary cannon firing shots, which get blown by a cross wind
along the slant 1 A Y (neglecting the curvature of path which would
really exist) : still the hole in the target fixes the gun's true position,
the marker looking along Y A sees the gun which fired the shot.
There is no true deviation from the point of view of the receiver,
although the shots are blown aside and the target is not hit by the
particular gun aimed at it.
     With a moving cannon, combined with an opposing wind, Fig. 1
would become very like Fig. 2.
     (N.B.—The actual case, even without complication of spinning,
&c., but merely with the curved path caused by steady wind-pressure,
is not so simple, and there would really be an aberration or apparent
displacement of the source towards the wind's eye : an apparent ex
aggeration of the effect of wind as shown in the diagram.)
     In Fig. 2 the result of a wind is much the same, though the details
are rather different. The medium is supposed to be drifting down across
 the field opposite to the arrows. The source is stationary at S. The
arrows show the direction of waves in the medium ; the dotted slant
 line shows their resultant direction. A wave centre drifts from D to
 1 in the same time as the disturbance reaches A, travelling down the
 slant line D A. The angle between dotted and full lines is the angle
 between ray and wave movement. Now, if the motion of the medium
 inside the receiver is the same as it is outside, the wave will pass straight
 on along the slant to Z, and the true direction of the source is fixed.
 But if the medium inside the
target or telescope is stationary,                       FIG. 4.
 the wave will cease to drift as
 soon as it gets inside, under cover
 as it were ; it will proceed along
the path it has been really pur
suing in the medium all the time,
and make its exit at Y. In this
latter case, of different motion of
the medium inside and outside
the telescope, the apparent direc
tion, such as Y A, is not the true
direction of the source. The                 Bay through a Moving Stratum.
ray is in fact bent where it enters
the differently-moving medium (as shown in Fig. 4).
     A slower moving stratum bends an oblique ray, slanting with the
 motion, in the same direction as if it were a denser medium.
      VOL. XIII. (No. 86.)                                         2 q

570                       Professor Oliver Lodge              [April 1,
A quicker stratum bends it oppositely. If a medium is both denser
and quicker moving, it is possible for the two bendings to be equa
and opposite, and thus for a ray to go on straight. Parenthetically
I may say that this is precisely what happens, on Fresne1's theory,
down the axis of a water-filled telescope exposed to the general
terrestrial ether drift.
     In a moving medium waves do not advance in their normal direction,
they advance slantways. The direction of their advance is properly
called a ray. The ray does not coincide with the wave-normal in a
moving medium.
     All this is well-shown in Fig. 5.
                                   Fio. 5.
                  Successive Wave Fronts in Moving Medium.
      S is a stationary source emitting successive waves, which drift as
 spheres to the right. The wave which has reached M has its centre
 lit 0, and C M is its normal ; but the disturbance, M, has really
 travelled along S M, which is therefore the ray. It has advanced as
 a wave from S to P, and has drifted from P to M. Disturbances
 subsequently emitted are found along the ray, precisely as in Fig. 2.
 A stationary telescope receiving the light will point straight at S.
 A mirror, M, intended to reflect the light straight back must be
 Bet normal to the ray, not tangential to the wave front.
      The diagram also equally represents the case of a moving source
 in a stationary medium. The source, starting at C, has moved to S,
emitting waves as it went, which waves as emitted spread out as
simple spheres from the then position of source as centre. Wave-
normal and ray now coincide : S M is not a ray, but only the locus of

1892.]          on (he Motion of the Ether near the Earth.            671
successive disturbances. A stationary telescope will look not at 8,
but along M C to a point where the source was when it emitted the
wave M ; a moving telescope, if moving at samo rate as source,
will look at S. Hence S M is sometimes called the apparent ray.
The angle S M C is the aberration
angle.
     Fig. 6 shows normal reflection
for the case of a moving source.
The mirror M reflects light re
ceived from S> to a point S2, just
in time to catch the source there.
     Parenthetically I may say that
the time taken on the double
journey, S> M S.,, is not quite the
same as the double journey SMS,
when all is stationary, and that
this is the principle of Michelson's
great experiment.                               Normal reflection.
     For the rest of the lecture I am going to call the medium which
conveys light, " ether " simply. Every one knows that ether is the
light conveying medium, however little else they know about the
properties of that tremendously important material.
     We have arrived at this : that a uniform ether stream all through
space causes no aberration, no error in fixing direction. It blows
the waves along, but it does not disturb the line of vision.
     Stellar aberration exists, but it depends on motion of observer,
and on motion of observer only. Etherial motion has no effect upon
it, and when the observer is stationary with respect to object, as he
is when using a terrestrial telescope, there is no aberration at all.
     Surveying operations are not rendered the least inaccurate by
the existence of a universal ethereal drift ; and they therefore afford
no means of detecting it.
     But observe that everything depends on the ethereal motion being
uniform everywhere, inside as well as outside the telescope, and
along the whole path of the ray. If stationary anywhere it must
be stationary altogether. There must be no boundary betweeen
stationary and moving ether, no plane of slip, no quicker motion
even in some regions than in others. For (referring back to the
remarks preceding Fig. 4) if the ether in receiver is stagnant while
outside it is moving, a wave which has advanced and drifted as far as
the telescope will cease to drift as soon as it gets inside, but will
advance simply along the wave normal ; and in general at the
boundary of any such change of motion a ray will be bent, and an
observer looking along the ray will see the source not in its true
position, not even in the apparent position appropiate to his own
motion, but lagging behind that position.
     Such an aberration as this, a lag or negative aberration, has never
yet been observed ; but if there is any Blip between layers of ether,
                                                           2 Q !i

572                          Professor Oliver Lodge                   [April 1,
if the earth carries any ether with it, or if the ether, being in motion
at all, is not equally in motion everywhere throughout every trans
parent substance, then such a lag or negative aberration must occur :
in precise proportion to the amount of the carriage of ether by
moving bodies.
     On the other hand, if the ether behaves as a perfectly frictionless
inviscid fluid, or if for any other reason there is no rub between it
and moving matter, so that the earth carries no ether with it at
 all, then all rays will be straight, aberration will have its simple and
 well-known value, and we shall be living in a virtual ether stream
of 19 miles a second, by reason of the orbital motion of the earth.
      It may be difficult to imagine that a great mass like the earth
can rush at this tremendous pace through a medium without dis
turbing it. It is not possible for an ordinary sphere in an ordinary
fluid. At the surface of such a sphere there is a viscous drag, and a
spinning motion diffuses out thence through the fluid so that the
energy of the moving body is gradually dissipated. The persistence
of terrestrial and planetary motions shows that ethereal viscosity, if
existent, is small ; or at least that the amount of energy thus got rid
of is a very small fraction of the whole. But there is nothing to
show that an appreciable layer of ether may not adhere to the earth
and travel with it, even though the force acting on it be but small.
     This, then, is the question before us :—
     Does the earth drag some ether with it ? or does it slip through the
ether with perfect freedom ? (Never mind the earth's atmosphere ; the
part it plays is not important.)
     In other words, is the ether wholly or partially stagnaut near
the earth, or is it streaming past us with the opposite of the full
terrestrial velocity of nineteen miles a second ? Surely if we are
living in an ether stream of this rapidity we ought to be able to
detect some evidence of its existence.*
     It is not so easy a thing to detect as you would imagine. We
have seen that it produces no deviation or error in direction.
Neither does it cause any change of colour or Doppler effect ; that is,
no shift of lines in spectrum. No steady wind can affect pitch,
simply because it cannot blow waves to your ear more quickly than
they are emitted. It hurries them along, but it lengthens them in
the same proportion, and the result is that they arrive at the proper
frequency. The precise effects of motion on pitch are summarised in
the following table :—
                   Changes of Frequency due to Motion.
    Source approaching shortens waves.
    Receiver approaching alters relative velocity.
    Medium flowing alters both wave-length and velocity in exactly compensatory
    * The word "stationary" is ambiguous. I propose to use "stagnant," as
meaning stationary with respect to the earth, i. e. os opposed to stationary in
epaoe.

 1892.]          on (lie Motion of the Ether near the Earth.               673
     What other phenomena may possibly result from motion ? Here
is a list :—
                       Phenomena resulting from Motion.
    (1) Change or apparent change in direction; observed by telescope, and
called aberration.
    (2) Change or apparent change in frequency ; observed by spectroscope, and
called Doppler effect.
    (3) Change or apparent change in time of journey ; observed by lag of phase
or shift of interference fringes.
    (4) Change or apparent change in intensity ; observed by energy received by
thermopile.
     Motion of either source or receiver can alter frequency, motion of
receiver can alter apparent direction, motion of the medium can do
neither ; but surely it can hurry a wave so as to make it arrive out
of phase with another wave arriving by a different path, and thus
produce or modify interference effects.
     Or again, it may carry the waves down stream more plentifully
than up stream, and thus act on a pair of thermopiles, arranged
fore and aft at equal distances from a source, with unequal
intensity.
     And again, perhaps the laws of reflection and refraction in a
moving medium are not the same as they are if it be at rest. Then,
moreover, there is double refraction, colours of thin plates and thick
plates, polarisation angle, rotation of the plane of polarisation ; all
sorts of optical phenomena.
     It may be, perhaps, that in empty space the effect of an ether
drift is difficult to detect, but will not the presence of dense matter
make it easier ?
     Consider No. 3 of the phenomena tabulated above. I expect
that every one here understands interference, but I may just briefly
say that two similar sets of waves " interfere " whenever and
wherever the crests of one set coincide with and obliterate the
troughs of the other set. Light advances in any given direction when
crests in that direction are able to remain crests, and troughs to
remain troughs. But if wo contrive to split a beam of light into two
halves, to send them round by different paths, and make them meet
again, there is no guarantee that crest will meet crest and trough
trough ; it may be just the other way in some places, and wherever
that opposition of phase occurs there there will be local obliteration
or "interference." Two reunited half-beams of light may thas
produce local stripes of darkness, and these stripes are called inter
ference bands.
     If I can I will produce actual interference of light on the screen,
but the experiment is a difficult one to make visible at a distance,
partly because the stripes or bands of darkness are usually very
narrow. I have not seen it attempted before. [Very visible bands

574                        Professor Oliver Lodge                [April 1,
were formed on screen by three mirrors, one of them semi-
transparent, as in Fig. 7.1
     Now a most interesting and important, and I think now well-
known experiment of Fizeau proves quite simply and definitely
                                   that if light be sent along a stream
            FIG. 7.                of water, travelling inside the water
                                   as a transparent medium, it will go
                                   quicker with the current than against
                                   it. You may say that is only natural ;
                                   a wind helps sound along one way
                                   and retards it the opposite way.
                                   Yes, but then sound travels in air,
                                   and wind is a bodily transfer of air,
                                   hence, of course, it gives the sound a
                                   ride ; whereas light does not really
                                   travel in water, but always in ether.
                                   It is by no means obvious whether
                                   a stream of water can help or hinder
                                   it. Experiment decides, however, and
                                   answers in the affirmative. It helps
                                   it along with just about half the speed
                                   of the water ; not with the whole
                                   speed, which is curious and impor
                                   tant, and really means that the moving
                                   water has no effect whatever on the
                                   ether of space, though it would take
                                    too long to make clear how this
    Plan of Interference Kaleido   comes about. Suffice for present pur
                scope.              poses the fact that the velocity of
                                    light inside moving water, and there
fore presumably inside all transparent matter, is altered by motion
of that matter.
     Does not this fact afford an easy way of detecting a motion of the
earth through the ether ? Here on the table is water travelling along
nineteen miles a second. Send a beam of light through it one way and it
 will be hurried ; its velocity, instead of being 140,000 miles a second,
will be 140,009 miles. Send a beam of light the other way, and its
 velocity will by 139,991 ; just as much less. Bring these two beams
 together ; surely some of their wave-lengths will interfere. M. Hoek,
 Astronomer at Utrecht, tried the experiment in this very form ; here
 is a diagram of his apparatus (Fig. 8). Babinet had tried another
form of the experiment previously. Hoek expected to see interference
bands, from the two half-beams which had traversed the water, one in
the direction of the earth's motion and the other against it. But no
interference bands were seen. The experiment gave a negative
result.
     An experiment, however, in which nothing is seen is never a very
satisfactory form of a negative experiment ; it is, as Mascart calls it,

1892.]          on the Motion of the Ether near the Earth.            675
" doubly negative," and we require some guarantee that the condition
was right for seeing what might really have been in some sort there.
Hence Mascart and Jamin's modification of the experiment is prefer-
                                   Fid. 8.
                            Hook's arrangement.
able (Fig. 9). The thing now looked for is a shift of already existing
interference bands, when the above apparatus is turned so as to have
different aspects with respect to the earth's motion ; but no shift was
seen.
                                   Fio. 9.]
                     Arrangement of Mascert and Jamin.
    Interference methods all fail to display any trace of relative motion
between earth and ether.
     Try other phenomena then. Try refraction. The index of re
fraction of glass is known to depend on the ratio of the speed of light
 outside, to the speed inside, the glass. If then the ether be streaming
 through glass, the velocity of light will be different inside it accord
ing as it travels with the stream or against it, and so the index of
refraction will be different. Arago was the first to try this experiment
by placing an achromatic prism in front of a telescope on a mural
circle, and observing the deviation it produced on stars.
     Observe that it was an achromatic prism, treating all wave-lengths

676                       Professor Oliver Lodge               [April 1,
alike ; he looked at the deviated imago of a star, not at its dispersed
imago or spectrum, else he might have detected the change-of-
frequency-effect due to motion of source or receiver first actually seen
by Dr. Huggins. I do not think he would have seen it, because I do
not suppose his arrangements were delicate enough for that very small
effect ; but there is no error in the conception of his experiment, as
Prof. Mascart has inadvertently suggested there was.
    Then Maxwell repeated the attempt in a much more powerful
manner, a method which could have detected a very minute effect
indeed, and Mascart has also repeated it in a simple form. All are
absolutely negative.
    Well, what about aberration ? If one looks through a moving
stratum, say a spinning glass disk, there ought to bo a shift caused
by the motion (see Fig. 4). The experiment has not been tried, but
I entertain no doubt about its result, though a high speed and con
siderable thickness of glass or other medium is necessary to produce
even a microscopic apparent displacement of objects seen through it.
    But the speed of the earth is available, and the whole length of a
telescope tnbe may be filled with water ; sorely that is enough to
displace rays of light appreciably.
    Sir Geo. Airy tried it at Greenwich on a star, with an appropriate
zenith-sector full of water. Stars were seen through the water-
telescope precisely as through an air telescope. A negative result
again.
    Stellar observations, however, are unnecessarily difficult. Fresnel
had said that a terrestrial source of light would do just as well. He
had also (being a man of exceeding genius) predicted that nothing
would happen. Hoek has now tried it in a perfect manner and nothing
did happen.
    Since then Prof. Mascart with great pertinacity has attacked the
phenomena of thick plates, Newton's rings, double refraction, and the
rotatory phenomenon of quartz ; but he has found absolutely nothing
attributable to a stream of ether past the earth.
    The only positive result ever supposed to be attained was in a
very difficult polarisation observation by Fizeau in 1859. As this
has not yet been repeated, it is safest at present to ignore it, though
by no means to forget that it wants repeating.
    Fizeau also suggested, but did not attempt, what seems an easier
experiment, with fore and aft thermopiles and a source between them,
to observe the drift of a medium by its convection of energy ; but
arguments based on the law of exchanges* tend to show, and do show
as I think, that a probable alteration of radiating power due to motion
through a medium would just compensate the effect otherwise to be
expected.
    We may summarise most of these statements as follows :—
                   Lord Kayleigl', ' Nature,' March 25, 1892.

1892.]           on the Motion of the Ether near the Earth.                     577
                                 Summary.
                           A real and apparent change of wave-length.
Source alone moving pro    A real but not apparent error in direction.
   duces                   No lag of phase or change of intensity, except that
                             appropriate to altered wave-length.
                           No change of frequency.
Medium alone moving,       No error in direction.
   or source and receiver  A real lag of phase, but nndeteotable without
                             control over the medium.
   moving together, pro    A change of intensity corresponding to different
   duces                      distance, but compensated by change of radiating
                              power.
                          {An apparent change of wave-length.
                            An apparent error in direction.
                            No change of phase or of intensity, except that
                              appropriate to different virtual velocity of light.
     I may say, then, that not a single optical phenomenon is able to
show the existence of an ether stream near the earth. All optics go
on precisely as if the ether were stagnant with respect to the earth.
     Well then perhaps it in stagnant. The experiments I have quoted
do not prove that it is so. They are equally consistent with its
perfect freedom and with its absolute stagnation ; though they are
not consistent with any intermediate position. Certainly, if the ether
were stagnant nothing could be simpler than their explanation.
     The only phenomena then difficult to explain would be those
depending on light coming from distant regions through all the layers
of more or less dragged ether. The theory of astronomical aber
ration would be seriously complicated ; in its present form it would
be upset. But it is never wise to control facts by a theory ; it is
 better to invent some experiment that will give a different result in
 stagnant and in free ether. None of those experiments so far de
 scribed are really discriminative. They are, as I say, consistent with
either hypothesis, though not very obviously so.
      Mr. Michelson, however, of Harvard, U.S., has invented a plan
that will discriminate ; and, what is much more remarkable, he has
 carried it out.
      That it is an exceptionally difficult experiment you will realise
 when I say that the experiment v, ill fail altogether unless one part in
 400 millions can be clearly detected.
      Mr. Michelson reckons that by his latest arrangement he could see
  1 in 4000 millions if it existed (which is equivalent to detecting an
 error of T-^^ of an inch in a length of 40 miles); but he saw
 nothing. Everything behaved precisely as if the ether was stagnant;
 as if the earth carried with it all the ether in its immediate neigh
 bourhood. And that is his conclusion. If he can repeat it and get
 a different result on the top of a mountain, that conclusion may be
 considered established. At present it must be regarded as tentative.
      I have not time to go into the details of his experiment (it is
 described in ' Phil. Mag.,' 1887), but I may say that it depends on

578                      Professor Oliver Lodge                  [April 1,
no doubtful properties of transparent substances, but on the straight
forward fundamental principle underlying all such simple facts as
that—It takes longer to row a certain distance and back up and down
stream than it does to row the same distance in still water ; or that
it takes longer to run up and down a hill than to run the same
distance laid out flat ; or that it costs more to buy a certain number
of oranges at three a penny and an equal number at two a penny
than it does to buy the whole lot at five for twopence.
     Hence, although there may be some way of getting round Mr.
Michelson's experiment, there is no obvious way ; and I conjecture
that if the true conclusion be not that the ether near the earth is
stagnant it will lead to some other important and unknown fact.
    The balance of evidence at this stage seems to incline in the sense
that the earth carries the neighbouring ether with it.
    But now put the question another way. Can matter carry neigh
bouring ether with it when it moves ? Abandon the earth altogether ;
its motion is very quick, but too uncontrollable, and it always gives
negative results. Take a lump of matter that you can deal with, and
see if it pulls any ether along.
    That is the experiment I set myself to perform, and which in the
course of the last year, I have performed.
    I take a steel disk, or rather a couple of steel disks clamped
together with a space between. I mount it on a vertical axis and
spiu it like a teetotum as fast as it will stand without flying to pieces.
Then I take a parallel beam of light, split it into two by a semi-
transparent mirror (Michelson's method), a piece of glass silvered so
thinly that it lets half the light through and reflects the other half ;
and I send the two halves of this split beam round and round in
opposite directions in the space between the disks. They may thus
travel a distance of 20 or 30 or 40 feet. Ultimately they are allowed
to meet and enter a telescope. If they have gone quite identical
distances they need not interfere, but usually the distances will differ
by a hundred-thousandth of an inch or so, which is quite enough to
bring about interference.
    The mirrors which reflect the light round and round between the
disks are shown in Fig. 10. If they form an accurate square the last
two images will coincide, but if the mirrors are the least inclined to
one another at any unaliquot part of 360° the last image splits into
two, as in the kaleidoscope is well known, and the interference bands
may be regarded as resulting from those two sources. The central
white band bisects normally the distance between them, and their
amount of separation determines the width of the bands. There are
many interesting optical details here, but I shall not go into them.
    The thing to observe is whether the motion of the disks is able to
replace a bright band by a dark one, or vice versa. If it does, it
means that one of the half beams, viz. that which is travelling in the
same direction as the disks, is helped on a trifle, equivalent to a
shortening of journey by some quarter millionth of au inch or so in

1892.]          on the Motion of the Ether near the Earth.             579
the whole length of 30 feet; while the other half beam, viz. that
travelling against the motion of the disks, is retarded, or its path
virtually lengthened, by the same amount.
    If this acceleration and retardation actually occurs, waves which
did not interfere on meeting, before the disks moved, will interfere now,
for one will arrive at t.ho common goal half a length behind the other.
    Now a gradual change of bright space to dark, and vice versa,
shows itself, to an observer looking at the bands, as a gradual change
of position of the bright stripes, or a shift of the bands. A shift of
                                    FIG. 10.
         Plan of Steel Disks, one yard in diameter, and Optical Frame.
the bands, and especially of the middle white band, which is much
more stable than the others, is what we look for.
    At first I saw plenty of shift. In the first experiment the bands
bailed across the field as the disks got np speed until the crosswire
had traversed a band and a half. The conditions were such that had
the ether whirled at the full speed of the disks I should have Been a
shift of three bands. It looked very much as if the light was helped
along at half the speed of the moving matter, just as it is inside water.
    On stopping the disks the bands returned to their old position.
On starting them again in the opposite direction, the bands ought to
have shifted the other way too ; but they did not ; they went the
same way as before.
    The shift was therefore wholly spurious; it was caused by the
centrifugal force of the blast of air thrown off from the moving disks.
The mirrors and frame had to bo protected from this. Many other

680         Pro/. 0. Lodge on the Motion of the Ether, &c,       [April 1,
small changes had to be made, and gradually the spurious shifts have
been reduced and reduced, largely by the skill and patience of my
assistant, Mr. Davies, until now there is barely a trace of them.
    But the experiment is not an easy one. Not only does the blast
exert pressure, but at high speeds the churning of the air makes it
quite hot. Moreover, the tremor of the whirling machine, in which
some four or five horse-power is sometimes being expended, is but too
liable to communicate itself to the optical part of the apparatus. Of
course elaborate precautions are taken against this. Although the two
parts, the mechanical and the optical, are so close together, their
supports are entirely independent. But they have to rest on the same
earth, and hence communicated tremors are not absent. They are the
cause of all the slight residual trouble.
    The method of observation now consists in setting a wire of the
micrometer accurately in the centre of the middle band, while another
wire is usually set on the first band to the left. Then the micrometer
heads are read, and the setting repeated once or twice to see how
closely and dependably they can be set in the same position. Then
we begin to spin the disks, and when they are going at some high
speed, measured by a siren note and in other ways, the micrometer
wires are reset and read—reset several times and read each time.
Then the disks are stopped and more readings are taken. Then their
motion is reversed, the wires set and read again ; and finally the motion
is once more stopped and another set of readings taken. By this
means the absolute shift of middle band and its relative interpretation
in terms of wave-length are simultaneously obtained ; for the distance
from the one wire to the other, which is often two revolutions of a
micrometer head, represents a whole wave-length shift.
    In the best experiments I do still often see something like a fiftieth
of a band shift, but it is caused by residual spurious causes, for it
repeats itself with sufficient accuracy in the same direction when the
disks are spun the other way round.
    Of real reversible shift, due to motion of the ether, I see nothing.
I do not believe the ether moves. It does not move at a five-hundredth
part of the speed of the steel disks. I hope to go further, but my
conclusion so far is that such things as circular-saws, flywheels,
railway trains, and all ordinary masses of matter do not appreciably
carry the ether with them. Their motion does not seem to disturb it
in the least.
    The presumption is that tho same is true for the earth ; but the
earth is a big body, it is conceivable that so great a mass may be able
to act when a small mass would fail. I would not like to be too sure
about the earth. What I do feel already pretty sure of is that if
moving matter disturbs ether in its neighbourhood at all, it does so by
some minute action, comparable in amount perhaps to gravitation, and
possibly by means of the same property as that to which gravitation
is due—not by anything that can fairly be likened to ethereal
viscosity.                                                      [0. L.]

1892.]                   General Monthly Meeting.                          681
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, April 4, 1892.
  SIR JAMES CRIOHTON-BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                       Vice-President, in the Chair.
           His Grace The Duke of Devonshire, M.A. LL.D.
            The Right Hon. Lord Herschell, D.C.L.
            Peter Brotherhood, Esq. M. Inst. O.E.
           A. H. Brown, Esq. M.P.
            W. Le Geyt Dudgeon, Esq. B.A.
            George King, Esq.
            Allen Lee, Esq.
            Sir Joseph Lister, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
            Arthur Henry Renshaw, Esq.
            George James Snelus, Esq. F.R.S. F.C.8.
            Sir George Tryon, G.C.B.
            Corbet Woodall, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
   The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
following Donations :—
         J. Emerson Dowson, Esq.              ..     .. £20 0 0
         Captain Noble       ........ 60 0 0
         George Matthey, Esq....... 25 0 0
         Sir William Bowman, Bart.            ..     ..     500
         Sir Henry Doulton           ...... 10 10 0
for carrying on investigations on Liquid Oxygen.
    The Chairman reported, That at the Meeting of the Managers
held this day the decease of Sir William Bowman, Bart. M.R.I. on
the 29th of March last, was announced, and that the following
Resolution had been passed :—
    " Resolved : That the Managers of the Royal Institution desire to
express their most sincere sympathy with Lady Bowman in the deep
sorrow which has befallen her by the death of their friend and former
colleague, Sir William Bowman, and to put on record their sense of
the unvarying interest he for over 34 years took in the welfare of the
Institution, and their appreciation of the valuable services rendered
by him as Manager and as Honorary Secretary."
    The PRBSENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
    FROM
Tim Secretary of State for India—South Indian Inscriptions. By E. Hnltzach.
    Vol. II. Part 1. 4to. 1891.
        Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Arabic Class Weights. Svci. 1891.
  Catalogue of the Cuneiform Tablets in the Kouyunjik Collection, Y»l. II. 8vo.
     1891.

582                          General Monthly Meeting.                   [April 4,
The British Museum (Natural History)—Catalogue of Birds, Vol. XX. 8vo.
      1891.
The Madras Government—Madras Meridian Circle Observations, 1871-73. By
      C. Miohie Smith. 4to. 1802.
The New Zealand Government—Statistics of the Colony of New Zealand, 1890.
      fol. 1892.
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serio Quinta : Kendiconti. 1° Seraes-
      tre, Vol. I. Faac. 3-4. 8vo. 1892.
Agricultural Society of England, Royalr-Journal, Vol. III. Part 1. 8vo. 1892.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No 136. 8vo. 1891.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LII. No. 4. 8vo. 1892.
Bankers, Institute o/—Journal, Vol. XIII. Part 3. 8vo. 1892.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal—Sitzungsberichte, 1891, Heft 3. 8vo.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1891-2, Nos. 10, II. 4to.
Carmichael, C. H. E. Esq. For. Sec. R£.L.—History of the Royal Society of
      Literature. By E. W. Braybrook. 8vo. 1891.
   Report of Royal Society of Literature, 1890-91. 8m
Chemical Industry, Society of—.Journal, Vol. XI. No. 2. 8vo. 1892.
Chemical Society—Journal for March, 1892. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for March, 1892. 8vo.
   Analyst for March, 1892. 8vo.
   Athenteum for March, 1892. 4to.
   Brewers' Journal for March, 1892. 4to.
   Chemical News for March, 1892. tin.
   Chemist and Druggist for March, 1892. 8vo.
   Educational Review. Vol. I. No. 5. 8vo. 1892.
   Electrical Engineer for March, 1892. fol.
   Electric Plant for March, 1892. 8vo.
   Electricity for March, 1892. 8vo.
   Engineer for March, 1892. fol.
   Engineering for March, 1892. fol.
   Horologioal Journal for March, 1892. 8vo.
   Industries for March, 1892. fol.
   Iron for March, 1892. 4to.
   Ironmongery for March, 1892. 4to.
   Manufacturer's Engineering and Export Journal, Vol. I. Nos. 1-3. 4to. 1892.
   Monist for March, 1892. 8vo.
   Nature for March, 1892. 4to.
   Open Court for March, 1892. It...
   Surveyor for March, 1892. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for March, 1892. fol.
    Zoophilist for March, 1892. 4to.
 Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, No. 96. 8vo. 1892.
 Ex Libris Society—Journal for March, 1892. 4to.
 Florence BiblioUca, Nazionale Centrale—Bolletino, Nos. 149, 150. 8vo. 1892.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 795. 8vo. 1892.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XIV. No. 4. 8vo. 1892.
 Institute of Brewing—Transactions, Vol. V. No. 5. 8vo. 1892.
 Johns Hopkins University—University Circulars, No. 96. 4to. 1892.
 Keeler, James E. Esq. (thf Author) — The Star Spectroscope of the Lick
       Observatory. 8vo. 1892.
   Elementary Principles governing the efficiency of Spectroscopes for Astro
       nomical Purposes. 8vo. 1891.
 Linnean Society—Journal, No. 198. 8vo. 1892.
 Maryland Medical and Chirurgical Faculty—Transactions, 93rd Session. 8vo.
       1891.
 Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Transactions, Vol. LXXIV. 8vo. 1891.
 Ministry of Public Works, Rome—Giornale del Geuio Civile, 1892, Faso. 1. 8vo.
       And Design!, fol. 1892.

1892.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                     583
Motti, G.A.M. 8. Esq. (the Author)—Risoluzioni della Quadrature del Circolo.
     8vo. Pavia, 1S9U.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
     Vol. XLI. Part 1. 8vo. 189?.
Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1891, Parts 3 and 4. 8vo. 1892.
Odonioloqical Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXIV. No. 5. 8vo.
     1891             ' "
Payne, Wm. W. Esq. and Hale, Geo. E. Esq. (the Editors)—Astronomy and Astro-
     Physics for March, 1892. 8vo.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for March, 1892. 8vo.
Richards, Admiral Sir 8. H. K.C.B. F.R.S. ice. ((he Conservator)—Report on the
     Navigation of the River Mersey, 1891. 8vo. 1892.
Richardson, B. W. M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I. (the Author)—The Asolepiad, Vol. IX.
     No. 33. 8vo. 1892.
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CLXXXI1. 4to.
     1892.
   Proceedings, No. 305. 8vo. 1892.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Mathematischo-Physischen Classe
   Abhandlungen, Band XVIIL Nos. 3, 4. 4to. 1892.
   Berichte, 1891, No. 4. 8vo. 1892.
   Philologisoh-Historischen Classe :
   Berichte, 1891, NOs. 2, 3. 8vo. 1892.
SeJborne Society—Nature Notes, Vol. III. No. 28. 8m 1892.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. IV. Nos. 8, 9. 8vo. 1892.
Society of Arts—Journal for March, 1892. 8vo.
Solar Physics Committee {Department of Science and Art)—Measures of Positions
     and Areas of Sun-spots and Faculae on Photographs at Greenwich, Dehra-
     Dun, and Melbourne, 1878-81. fol. 1891.
St. Petersbourg Academie Impg-riale des Sciences—Bulletin, Tome XXIV. No. 3.
      4to. 1892.
 Tacchini, Professor P. Won. Mem, R.I. (the Aulhnr)—Memorie della Societa degli
      Spettroscopisti Italiani, Vol. XXI. Disp. 2". 4to. 1892.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 169. 8vo. 1892.
 United States Department of Agriculture—Monthly Weather Review for Novem
      ber-December, 1891. 4to. 1892.
 Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleises in Preussen—Verhandlnngen, 1892
      Heft3. 4to. 1892.
 Wild, Dr. H. (the Director)—Annalen der PhysikaliBohen Central Observatorium,
      1890, Theil II. 4to. 1891.
   Repertormm fur Meteorologie, Band XIV. 4to. 1891.
 Yorkshire Archxological and Topographical Association—Journal, Part 45. 8vo
      1892.
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, April 8, 1892.
            DAVID EDWARD HTJOHBS, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                     in the Chair.
                       PROFBSSOR W. E. AYRTON, F.E.S.
                 Electric Meters, Motors, and Money Matters.
                                  [Abstract deferred.]

584                       Dr. B. W. Richardgon                  [April 29,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, April 29, 1892.
   SIR JAMBS CRIOHTON-BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
           B. W. RIOHARDSON, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                        The Physiology of Dreams.
                                        " We are such stuff
                  As dreams are made of, and our little life
                  Is rounded with a sleep."
IF we take the word " stuff " as meaning our bodies living and moving
in what we conaider the activity of consciousness, and if we consider
sleep as resembling the infinite repose of the space through which we
are being carried by the planet, then truly the great poet is right to
the letter. Every one of us is dreaming now. Between that which we
are now doing and that which we are doing when we are said to dream
in sleep there is this simple difference only, if it be a difference, that
in the present or wakeful state the will directs or moves with the
phantasy, and that in the dream of sleep the will is passive, neither
suggesting nor directing the course of the story.
    There is a romance about dreams in sleep ; and whoever—poet,
novelist, historian, philosopher—would investigate the influence of
dreams of sleep on dreams of wakefulness would find subject matter
for a life of labour. Some of the mightiest events in the whole of
human life, some of the most persistent, have had their origin in the
shortest of involuntary, sleeping dreams. Men do not seem to will
dreams ; dreams come without will, that is to say without being willed
consciously, therefore they are dreams ; but having come, they do not
necessarily pass away when the conscious will returns into activity.
Some dreams do—and this is fortunate—but all do not, and it is
because some come without being summoned and remain afterwards
that they are a mystery. For this reason they were ghostly mes
sengers to the larger part of mankind in days of simple life, when
science had no presence, no explanatory reason. Why should dreams
come if they are neither wanted, expected, nor called ? They
must be provoked by messengers unseen and to the world at large
unknown. Little wonder that they should have played their
marvellous parts, and that, to fervid natures, immortal spirits, gods
themselves, should have spoken, as it has been assumed, to men in
dreams, when gods and spirits, formulated by the minds of men, were
accepted as firmly by belief as if they were veritable fact ; as if

1892.J               on the Physiology of Dreams.                         585
believing and knowing were one and the game thing, which practically
they are in an immense number of matters, even in a modern com
munity that boasts the possession of the Royal Institution itself !
    Great men, as well as little, have pnt their interpretations on
dreams according to their cherished beliefs. Hannibal the mighty,
with his one eye, wished to steal—I am bound in honesty to use the
unvarnished term " wished to steal "—from one of the temples of Juno
a pillar of gold which he had drilled into and found to be the metal
unalloyed. Thereupon Juno appeared to Hannibal in a dream, and
like a virago—she had the credit of being of that stamp even to Jupiter
—threatened Hannibal that if he dared to take away the pillar of gold
from her temple she would have her reprisal ; she would take good
care to have his remaining eye removed from the temple of his brain.
Juno had the further credit, founded on belief, of always keeping her
promises ; so Hannibal, a wise and discreet man, did the correct act
when he woke out of his dream. He was a great general, a brave
general, and a filching general, loving spoil ; but his belief in Juno
was equal to knowledge, and he was afraid of her, notwithstanding the
weakness of her sex. Instead therefore of bearing away the pillar of
gold, he had the dust he had drilled out of it made into an ornament
—some say a ring, but I should rather say a ci>lf (buculam)—and
left it on the top of the pillar, where it will no doubt still be found
should the pillar be turned up by some enthusiastic antiquarian.
    I have, I confess, a strong dislike to say a word that shall break
through any divine enchantment. It seems such a letting down of
man from heaven to earth, such a transformation of him from the
spiritual to the mechanical, to teach that dreams after all may be
nothing more than the common vibrations of terrestrial media acting
upon a corporeal vibratorium. Yet so, it is to be feared, the fact
stands. There is a string or a wire in tension on some instrument of
music. If we were to strike that wire, it would give us a sound which
could be determined by our will into a living or rational sound, an
extension of ourselves, consciously extended. Wo might, if we had
the skill of a man like Faganini, make that string discourse in
beautiful language. We cease to strike it and cease to hear a sound.
But the vibration has not ceased. We bring our friend Professor
Hughes's microphone into use, and hear still, for a time, the lost
sound ; a dream on the part of the instrument. All musical instru
ments dream after we cease to play on them.
    We may do something more with the tense string : we may pass
over it a current or breath of air. If the breath be sufficient, the
instrument will speak out like a thing of life ; if it be not sufficient, the
instrument dreams ; and if we bring the microphone into use, we hear
the dream so long as the gentlest vibration is sustained.
    If in some part of this room we should make a string emit a sound
in harmony with the sound which another string near that could be
made to give out, we should set the second into sympathetic vibration,
and after we had ceased to hear the sympathetic note by our ordinary
    Voi. XIII. (No. 86.)                                         2 B

686                        Dr. B. W. Richard»on                 [April 29,
sense of hearing, we should be able by the microphone to hear it, for
again tho instrument would dream. Or, once more, if we were to put
into vibration other strings, we could bring out a series of discordant
noises, confused, unpleasant, and audible by the microphone, even
when we did not appreciate them if I may so say, by the naked
sense.
    In those similes I have cast a glance at certain vibratory movements
which occur and are the causes of some dreams in men, women, and
animals. Dreams are vibrations varying from those of the waking
dream down to the most delicate and accidental. The sleep that is
frea from dreams is therefore that which is most clear of any vibratory
movement derived either from within the body or from without. Some
physiologists have contended that no sleep is quite free from dream,
but that many dreams are existent that make no impression on the
memory, and are therefore as if they had no existence. Whether this
hypothesis be sound or unsound is difficult to say, for although it be
true that the memory carries dreams that are so intense as to be like
waking dreams, it is also true that the body often wakes with weari
ness for which there is no accounting except the weariness of drcamings
that have left no impression on the memory. Again, acts are some
times performed in sleep which are not carried in memory—a fact
which indicates that active dreaming may leave no story.
    The most perfect sleep, the sleep least molested with dreams, is
one in which the sleeper sinks into repose and wakes again after
several hours, having no more consciousness of lost time than if he
had closed his eyes and opened them once more. This is what Words
worth called " the twinkling of oblivion," and a healthful twinkling it
is. It belongs perhaps always to the happiest days of childhood. In
a condition of body leading to such an elysium, the balance of all the
organic parts is being accurately timed and sustained. There is no
jarring chord within the organism to disturb by its own motion ; the
senses rest too soundly to allow of the conveyance of any vibration
from without. If then there be a dream, it must be of the lightest
kind, so light that not even the responsive movement of a limb is per
ceivable. In adult life such sleep is exceptional, and marks out an
exceptionally healthy and strong individual, in whom mental placidity
balances physical strength, one who even during waking hours is less
perturbed than others about him by the clamours of life. I kuow an
individual of this kind who can lay himself down in a Pullman car
and sleep from Loudon to Glasgow without being conscious of the
journey and without recalling a dream on the awukoning—the nearest
perfection, perchance, of adult repose in nervous serenity. Such
persons are to be envied ; they never grow prematurely old ; and when
they are stricken with disease of a passing kind, they are led to believe
with Menander that sleep is the natural cure for all diseases.
     There are not many of this dreamless nature ; the majority of men
and women dream, and some so intently that they work, it may almost
 be said, tis earnestly by night as by day, waking in fact as fatigued as

1892.]                on the Physiology of Dreams.                   587
when they resigned themselves to rest. A limited few acquire so much
the habit of dreaming, they i'ail to distinguish hetween dreaminess and
wakefulness. They call themselves iiisomniacs, declare they never
sleep at all, and wonder why it is that after they have risen from what
they believe to be a perfectly sleepless night they are able next day,
improving hour by hour as the day progresses, to carry out their
ordinary labours and duties with fair activity ; as if, without knowing
it, they had slept, after all, in some part of their nervous organisa
tion.
     In referring to these different classes of sleepers and dreamers, I
am bordering on the topic of causes of the phenomena of dreams,
about which it will be necessary to speak at some length. But it
will be most philosophical, before noticing causes, to dwell upon the
phenomena themselves, the understanding of phenomena being ever
the true preliminary method of divining the cause or causes of them.
A grand field opens to me here. I might, for lecture upon lecture,
stand in this place reporting stories of dreams, stories written or
told by the dreamers themselves. Unfortunately recorded dreams
thought out and written out by their authors are too suspicious, as a
general rule, to be accepted as reliable authority. The most vivid
dreams and the most circumstantial are often the most fleeting, and
when the dream seems to be borne in the memory, recollection,
which is not the same as memory, fails to supply the tine account.
The recollection of one memory commingles with other memories,
and the general tendency is to put together a mixture of dream and
fancy. Paul Richter in his narrative of a dream of the universe,
the most magnificent story of its kind ever told, affords illustration
of this fact. He had been thinking, he says, of the mighty space of
the universe, until, lost in the immensity of the contemplation, he
fell asleep and dreamed of an angel coming to him who, ordering
him to be stripped of his robes of flesh and divested of his gravitating
body, led him through the unfathomable abysses of space until he
cried, " Insufferable is the glory of God. Let me lie down and hide
myself from the infinite. Angel, I can bear it no longer." But this
is not the narrative of a simple dream of sleep ; it is the dream of
a poet touched with the most rt fined delicacy ; a picture drawn with
unmeasured care, conceived as celestial, and beyond the grasp of
any but of the imaginative scholar, who can make a new heaven and
a new earth out of the little sphere in which be lives ; the dream of
a constructive Ovid, singing a new and immortal song.
     The phenomena of dreams I have to present, though they lack
all fancy and are the most commonplace fact, have this advantage :
that they are scientifically valid. Throwing aside for my work of
observation all fancy, I determined, nearly half a century ago, to
make notes of such phenomena of dreams us should in my profes
sional life be told to me while yet the phenomena were fresh in the
minds of those who experienced them. When 1 had, in this manner,
collected a goodly number of phenomena, I began to classify them,
                                                           2 R 5J

588                       Dr. B. W. Richardson                fApril 29,
and in tin; end I have come to a classification which, although it
may be imperfect, is perhaps more nearly perfect than any that has
gone before or been recorded in physiological literature. The clas
sification, easily remembered, is set forth under three beads :—
     1. There is a dream which is the effect of an external vibration
acting 11 {inn the sleeper. In this dream there is always an outside
object telling upon the sensorium. We might call it the dream of
Queen Mab, in which, as you remember, the sleeper is always assailed
by the busy Fairy tickling " the parson's nose as he lies asleep," or
some other sense of some other sleeper. It is best to describe this
as the objective dream, the dream in which an external movement
or thing excites the phenomena.
     2. There is a dream in which, without provocation of an external
kind, something progressing in the body of the sleeper himself pro
vokes the phenomena. This I call the subjective dream, because it is
dependent on changes in the subject who dreams.
    3. There is another dream, in which the phenomena are lighted
up partly by external vibrations conveyed to the sleeper, and partly by
conditions belonging to the sleeper himself which favour the external
interference or exalt its influence. This I would call the compound
dream.
    The objective dream is not uncommon, and is, as a rule, most
distinctive. It is a dream produced by vibration started from the
outside of the body. It is a dream through a sound or through an
impression on a sensitive open surface. It is never, I believe,
through the sight, a fact probably due to the circumstance that the
closed eyelids shut out impressions of sight. This, however, is not
all, for I once knew a person who slept with his eyes open, and
although he dreamed, he never dreamed as if he had been led to
dream from the sight of an object. I have seen, also, a somnambulist
with the eyes wide open, but I could never find afterwards that she
had seen any object during the sleep, and I am sure it is a mistake
to assume that, guided by sight, somnambulists pick their course over
obstacles that lie in the way. They put out their hands as if to
touch, but they neither see nor hear in the sleep, although they some
times perform, automatically, feats which convey the idea that their
faculties are awake and on the alert.
    We are all more or less familiar with the phenomenon of the
objective dream. Some experience it from slight causes, and in
nearly all the physiological experiments conducted to ascertain the
time and duration of dreams the action of an excitement on the
sensitive surface of the skin, or on tho sense of smell, or on the sense
of hearing, has been traceable. Tims the effect of pressure on the
body produced by weight, or by pressure on the limbs from the weight
of the body itself during sleep, has been found to induce dreams of
struggle and wrestle, as if for liberty. The presence of odours has
produced excitement, leading sometimes to tho most pleasant, some

1892.]                on the Physiology of Dreams.                  589
times to the most terrible, dream. A friend of mine who was
sleeping in a strange bouse woke one night in a state of actual
exhaustion from the deathly struggle of a dream, in which he thought
that ho was overpowered by birds of prey. His dream curried him
to the gardens of the dead in India : and, what was more strange, it
carried him to the story of Philip Quail,—a hero of the Robinson
Crusoe type,—a story he had not read for many years. He thought
the dream must have resulted from indigestion ; but it recurred
night after night, and at last he began to suspect, from a kind of
reasoning that took place in the dream itself, that the down pillow
in which his head was half buried was connected with the cause.
He inquired into the matter, and at once discovered that the pillow
was stuffed with feathers undergoing decomposition and giving forth
a peculiar odour so soon as the warmth of his body produced
diffusion of the odour. The pillow changed, he was no longer
 troubled with the dream. All the details of the mystery were also
unravelled. The fact of the odour wus disclosed, and the story of
Philip Quail, from his recollection of it, supplied a similar incident,
in that a pillow stuffed with the decomposing feathers of wild birds
induced, in Philip, his dream.
    Sounds, particularly when they aro suddenly brought to bear on
the sleeper, produce the strangest dreams In my early days of
professional life the sound of the night-bell, familiar as I was with it,
always produced a vivid, but necessarily brief, dream—for I was up
in a minute—that varied with the manner of the messenger who rang
the bell. A violent clang led onue to the idea of a fall from a height,
with noise of thunder, as if I were falling down on an avalanche ; a
series of gentle ringings led me back to school days, when, at the
close of term, I took part with my companions in a peal on the Kills
of the village church, and that so vividly, I seemed to have the rope
of the tenor bell still in my hand.
    In these objective dreams, expectation and long watching play an
important part ; the briefest dream may then become the iutensest
and most real. A few seconds of sleep—nine winks, literally—will
come over the wearied watcher, and afford, from the effect of some
outer impression, a dream of long duration, with events occurring in
it of the most striking nature. Such dreams have deceived many a
sleeper, and have led him, unconscious of the transient " twinkle of
oblivion," to give to the world tales of manifestations made to himself
that have not merely sounded like miracles, but have acted like
miracles, in their after influence. The Hegira itself might count
amongst dreams of this nature.
    In these brief objective dreams it would seem as if one or more of
the senses may be awake whilst the others sleep. My learned and
finely observant friend Dr. Hack Tuke dreamt that a gentleman
called at his house and stood at the front door. He saw the gentle
man from the window, and as no one let him in, he (the drenmer)
went to tho top of the kitchen stairs, where there was a bell, which

590                      Dr. B. W. Richardson                  April 29,
he shook forcibly ; the bell moved, and the tongue of it moved, but
no sound proceeded from it. The visual centre was dreaming ; that
of hearing was dead asleep.
    The subjective dream, the result of some vibration within the body
of the sleeper, is the dream of indigestion, of pain, of fever, of self-
investigation or of self-contention.
     The dream of indigestion is a dream always of trouble, of fear, of
anxiety, of depression. It is, occasionally, attended by the distressing
phenomenon of nightmare, incubus, with its difficult breathing, sense
of weight on the chest, palpitation, intermittency, or temporary
stoppage of the circulation, and a feeling of some terrible blackness
or thunder-cloud over-shadowing life, a coldness of body, and an
awakening in a severe alarm, as if death itself were impending and
inevitable. The disturbed dreams of childhood are often of this
alarming nature, and many a peculiarity of character, many a super
stitious fear of later life, is implanted into sensitive natures by
frequently repeated dreams of this order, and especially when, at the
early term of life, the surroundings each day are of sombre cast,
leading during waking hours to gloomy thoughts, forebodings, and
strained contritions for trifling and imaginary offences, against morals,
doctrines, or habits, breeding mental doubts and terrors. These
subjective dreams are mental discords, disturbances between the
voluntary and involuntary nervous systems, which, extending by
reflected vibrations from one centre to another, bring all the centres
of sensation during the dream into confusion and clamour, until
 perfect consciousness, with return to common life, is restored.
     The subjective dream of pain differs from the dream of disturb
ance. The dream of pain is the continuance of pain through sleep.
It differs according to the character of the pain. After burns, in
which vibration at the seat of injury is most intense and continuous,
and during which sleep, if it be not artificially induced, comes on
from sheer weariness, the dream is literally one of fire and flame.
The dream of toothache or of neuralgia is of accident, of struggle
attended with a fall, a crush, a blow, or a stab.
     Fever leads to a variable dream—variable, I believe, according to
the varying degrees of febrile heat. The active dream, when fever is
high, is one of rambling exaltation of mind, followed by depression
when fever is low, like the flow and ebb of a tide, from the sensorial
organs being, from time to time, at different tensions. The fever
dream is attended by sensations which extend through the whole of
the body, as if the common sensibility were appreciable by touch, with
concentration of the sensibility in particular parts. I remember this
experience in the course of a nervous remittent to which I was sub
jected in early life, and I have often heard repetition of the sensation
from others. The most remarkable illustration of the kind is one I
have published in the ' Asclepiad' for 1884, pages 29d-5, and which will
be found in the library. In this instance a most intelligent observer
suffering from enteric fever reported to me the recollection of bis

1892.]                 on the Physiology of Dreams.                691
dreams BO soon as he had sufficiently recovered to undertake the task.
His dreams were, to those who observed him, deliriums in sleep ; but
to him it seemed that his brain was passive to everything external.
He was aware that any voluntary activity would be at the expense of
his vital centres, on which he depended for life ; whilst at the same
time, there was an intelligent connection going on between those parts,
so that each could feel what the other was thinking of. After long
trouble in this manner, he suddenly woke up in a state of profuse
perspiration, and with that the dreams passed away. He was ex
hausted in the extremest degree, but he felt, as he expressively and
graphically described it, a " tingling feeling of life," whereupon he
felt he had taken a turn and would live through the disease.
     Amongst these subjective dreams there is one which accompanies
extremest exhaustion : a state when the body lies between life and
death, when the consciousness of all worldly things has faded away so
completely that neither words nor acts nor persons are any longer
recognisable, but when movements, sights, and sounds are translated
 in exaltation perhaps through every sense, and certainly through the
 senses of sight and hearing. I had occasion once to see a gentleman
 in this condition of temporary death produced by a mechanical arrest
 of the circulation of the blood in the outgoing current of blood from
 the heart. Nothing except the dislodgment of the obstructing cause
could save life, and hope of this relief was practically given up. The
 condition was that of a person rapidly passing away in a struggling
 dream. By a change—I had almost said an accident—which would
 not occur once in a thousand instances of this nature, the cause of
 obstruction did suddenly become loosened and carried away, with
 almost instant return of consciousness, followed ultimately by com
 plete recovery to a life afterwards prolonged, in fair health, for
 twenty-two years. From the lips of this gentleman, whilst yet his
 memory was fresh, I took down the particulars of his dream. All the
 world had faded from him, and he had not the least knowledge that I
 had visited him in his sleep and had endeavoured to rouse him to con
 sciousness. He was by profession a farmer, a fact which accounts for
 much of what he experienced through a long and terrible dream, in
 which he had been struggling with all kinds of imaginary foes,
 human and animal : with burglars, horses, and bulls, that got away
 from him after he had conquered them, allowing him to go to sleep
 again, and then returning to the contest. These were the causes of
 the struggles we had witnessed as he lay in the sinking sleep so near
 to actual dissolution. I asked him how he struggled, and he repeated
 to the letter the unconscious struggles we had witnessed.
     There is a subjective dream occurring mostly amongst dyspeptics,
 and which may be considered a dream of regret or of despair. It is a
 melancholic dream, in which, in the most mysterious manner, con
 science, as the dreamer may explain, seems to whisper some strong
 and yet unintelligible message, or in which some indescribable doubt is
 conjured up, with so much effect that when the dreamer first awakes he

592                      Dr. B. W. Richardson                 [April 29,
feels as if an insuperable difficulty, which quickly clears away, lay
straight before him. This is the dream of apprehension, and is nothing
more than an attack during sleep which visits many dyspeptic persons
in their waking hour*, and which seems to suggest the idea of panic,
of an impending anxiety or danger, for the occurrence of which there
is no conceivable reason. Allied to the same dream is another of
desire to escape from an imaginary pain, peril, or pressure, a desire
well expressed in the despairing words, " Oh that I had the wings of
a dove! for then would I fly away and be at rest." I knew one
subject of this dream who was often heard to mutter portions of these
 words while asleep, and who frequently woke with them on his lips,
 saying them audibly to himself.
    Lastly, under this head of subjective dreaming, there is what may
be designated the dream of contention, in which, in Pauline para
phrasing from philosophy, the flesh seems to war against the spirit,
and the spirit against the flesh, so that the dreamer is bound in bonds,
unable to do the things that he would, a very mischievous dream in
the history of human action. Some dreams have counterparts, but
the dream of contention has none. The most conceited dreamer
rarely, if ever, awakes from a dream assured by it of his own self-
importance, a discount on dreaming which is good all round.
    The compound dream, in which subjective phenomena combine
with external impressions, is the most common dream. The impres
sion is often made during the period of dreaming, but it may be made
before going to sleep, or it may be revived in the period of sleep, and
it may take part in the phenomena of the dream. Vibration of motion
is in this manner conveyed. After being on the sea for a time, the
rocking or vibration of the vessel may be communicated to the body
so strongly that afterwards, during sleep on land, the bed seems to
take the motion of the vessel, and the sleeper wakes from a realistic
dream astonished to find himself once more on terra firma. This is a
commonplace illustration, but many more are at hand, one of which I
will relate, because it bears particularly on a physiological point at
which I shall arrive at a later stage. In IMS I Mr. Edward Paysou
Weston, the pedestrian, put himself under the feat of walking five
thousand miles in one hundred days-—50 miles per day. Ho was
so finely trained that on the last day of the trial he walked from
Brighton to London without once sitting down or ceasing to travel.
He placed himself the while under scientific observation, in which I
was allowed to take part ; and one of the questions I kept in view was
the dreams he experienced after walks in all weathers and on all kinds
of roads from the beginning to the end of his task. In all the timo
he could recall no dream ; in fact, be fell asleep at once, and woke
each day from dreamless sleep, one of the decisive aids in the accom
plishment of his success. But—and here comes the fact I wish to
emphasise—in a later feat he did the walking in a circle, on a path
in which there were many laps to a mile. Then dreaming bogan.

 1892.]                on the Physiology of Dreamt.                   593
 As he sank into repose those laps recurred in a painful form, as if
 he were making somersaults. He would wake up under this dream,
 and through all the ordeal experienced the same interruption. One
 day he told mo he could not get it out of his mind that on the
 previous night he really did make a somersault, and that although he
 knew it was impossible, because he neither got out of bed nor raised
 himself, and because he felt sure that the bedstead was not likely to
 play a trick of the sort, yet nothing could clear his mind from the
 sensation that he had veritably turned a forward somersault, not once,
 but several times before he awoke to consciousness. More striking
 still, he felt, after he awoke to consciousness, that same muscular
 strain and momentary fatigue which would follow exercise of the kind
 named. In this instance the impression was, so to speak, set in the
body before going to sleep; then came a dream which would,
 ordinarily, have been forgotten, but in the course of which the
 impression was liberated perhaps, nay probably, by a muscular move
 ment of the body—raising the head on the pillow, for instance—
and the phenomena of the somersault were developed.
      The compound dream is frequently a continuation of a waking
dream. We go to sleep with something on the mind, and either the
mental labour continues, or, after a short rest, the subject of contem
plation returns and is. or seems to be, sustained until awakening. Two
very different lines of mental work are thus sustained : the purest
reasoning, the mathematical, and the purest imaginative. I knew a
scholar who after a dreary night, in which he slept well physically,
woke in the morning with different and difficult problems quite solved,
but mentally worn out and ready only for some active sport. I know
another scholar who, engaged in a work of imagination, and thinking
himself to sleep at the junction of cross roads of thought, haa often
risen in the morning well advanced on one of them, and inspired to
write, as fast as his pen would let him, a passage or a poem.
      The compound dream is often one of memory. The memory may
be of things recent, but more frequently it is of things, events, or
persons, remembered from long ago, but impressed and fixed in the
mind. Dreams thus become, as it were, reminders of the past. I
inquired of a blind person who had an extensive knowledge of other
persons in his own unhappy condition whether he or they ever had
dreams of visible things. He explained to me that he had, and that
some like himself had, but that they always were dreams of objects
with which the mind had become familiar before the loss of the sense
of sight. These are dreams of memory purely, dreams called up by
current circumstances that have led to trains of thought connected
with the condition of former life when sight aided comprehension. I
notice that the prince of physiological writers, Muller, relates that the
distinguished Huber, who had been blind from his eighteenth year,
in his sixty-sixth year still dreamed of objects which appeared dis
tinctly visible to him, though these dreams referred to the time at
which he was possessed of vision. In a similar manner the deaf

594                      Dr. B. W. Richardson                  [April 29,
occasionally dream of the sounds they heard before the period when
deafness was established in them ; and I remember an instance in
which a child, who was dumb, in consequence of his becoming quite
deaf in his second year, would call out in his dreams words which he
never pronounced when awake.
    The compound dream is now ami then one of suspicion which may
attach itself to some particular person who is being dreamed about.
This, I have no doubt, is the true explanation of the dream of a
woman that Corder was the culprit in the case of the murder of Maria
Martin, the victim of what was called the " Red Barn Murder." Here
a process of reasoning goes on in the dream, in the course of which
many circumstances combine, as in the construction of circumstantial
evidence. Such dreams have been considered as revelations, and
received as manifestations of special character and importance.
     Again, the compound dream may be one of hope or of fear, and,
according to its nature in these respects, may lead to conclusions
which seem like predictions, but which are nothing more than reason
ings from possible or probable data. Once in some thousands of such
instances the conclusion drawn may in some degree prove correct, as
it might if it had been arrived at in wakefulncss ; and, thereupon,
the importance of the dream has been magnified to the last degree.
     Amongst the class of compound dreams, we have to take in all
those which are developed when sleep has been artificially induced
by the action of the narcotic series of chemical bodies, such as opium,
Indian hemp, inandragora, chloroform, chloral, methylene, amylene,
the ethers, carbonic acid, mercuptan, alcohol, coal gas, and other
narcotising substances. Some years ago I wrote a paper on this topic
in which I showed that each distinctive substance produces its own
peculiar dream, probably from the effect it has over the action of the
heart, as well as from the direct effect exerted on the sensorium. The
subject is rich in interest ; but I must not dwell upon it beyond the
relation of one or two facts.
     I found that the vapour of the substance called amylene induced
 a sleep attended with a dream which might be called somnambulistic,
 during which acts the most natural were performed by the sleeper
 without consciousness of them or remembrance of them afterwards,
 the consciousness being, for the time, so obliterated that a painful
 surgical operation called forth no expression of pain or anxiety.
     In investigating the action of another sleep-producing vapour,
 methylic ether, I discovered a still more curious dream ; one, namely,
 in which the dreaming person would perform acts under the direction
 of the observer while quite unconscious of pain and without after-
 remembrance of that which had occurred during the sleep. This was
 a kind of artificially induced hysteria, not unlike the condition
 known as hypnotism presented by very susceptible individuals.
     There is a medicinal plant which in the days of the Greek
 physicians, and from them up to the thirteenth century, was used as a
 narcotic. It was called Mandragora. Dioscorides gave a formula for

1892.]                 on the Physiology of Dreams.                  595
making a wine, which got the name of Morion or death-wine, by
steeping the root of the plant, Atropa Handragora,—a plant which
grows in the islands of the Grecian Archipelago, and is akin to our
Atropa Belladonna, or deadly nightshade—in wine. Morion, or death-
wine, when swallowed was capable of producing such a deep sleep
that it veritably led to the phenomena of " shrunk death." Tins was
the wine Juliet took. It caused a dream from which the sleeper
awoke with screams and terror. They who by habit drank this sub
stance uttered shrieks on waking, and from that probably came
the idea, ridiculous enough, that the plant itself shrieked when it
was torn from the earth. I made this wine some years ago, and
found, that its properties were as stated. It produces its own special
dream, a dream, even in lower animals that are susceptible to its
influence, of anxiety, excitement, and alarm, ending in sudden return
to consciousness in the midst of excitement.
    A dream of a special and remarkable kind is induced by cannabina,
the active principle of Indian hemp. My friend the late Professor
Polli, of Milan, who experimented on himself with cannabina, found
that the dream was recurrent ; and the peculiarity of it was that
within a brief period, even of a few seconds, events occurred to the
mind that seemed actually to occupy an eternity of time. The facts
gave direct experimental proof of the theory that in dreams time plays
no important part in the phantasy, but that a whole lifetime of story
may be compressed into a minute of existence.
    From the study of the phenomena of dreams we may pass now to
that of causes of the phenomena, why we dream and wherofore ?
   In considering this question with the scientific spirit we are led to
see that the dream is a pure physical phase of life ; that it depends on
two conditions : our own corporeal organisation and the state, for a
time, of the surroundings of our life. There is in it no more mystery,
no more prescience, no more power, than there is in the dream of the
wakeful day. We dream according to our nature, our habit, and our
environment. Hannibal dreamt of Juno : he could not have dreamt
of the Virgin, because he did not know of her ; a good Catholic, in
these days, would never dream of Juno, because she is to him a non
entity, but be might dream reverently of her who, to him, is both
Queen and Mother. And so with all else in the way of dream ; it is
a partial mental activity combined with more or less complete physical
repose.
    The seat of dreaming is in the locked-up closet of mental im
pressions, the brain and spinal column, commonly called the cerebro-
spinal centre, the absorbing centre of vibrations from the surrounding
universe, the retainer of those vibrations, and the sender forth of them
by the energy employed in thought, deed, and word.
    In the course of its vital activity this nervous centre wears out
from its motor work, its power of keeping the great muscles in play,
more decisively than from mental labour. So the muscular eyelids

596                       Dr. B. W. Richardson                 [April 29,
droop, and the limbs fail, and all except the vital involuntary
movements of the heart and breathing muscles sink into rest for
vital repair of their own structure, whilst the central battery, to use
a simile as distinct from an identity, recruits itself. In this
" twinkling of oblivion," the sentinels, the senses of sight, hearing,
smell, taste, touch, common sensibility, which through their nervous
cords pulsate the impressions they receive to their centres, more or
less cease to vibrate. The eyes close first, for if they did not, sleep
would be well-nigh as impossible as it is in the fish, which never seems
to sleep ; the ear reposes less readily, for if it did not, we should be
exposed to many dangers we are aroused from by noise ; the sense of
odour, having its origin in the open nasal cavity, never closes, a fact
which accounts for odours having so powerful an influence in dreams ;
the sense of taste closes ; that of touch, situated in the finger tips, is
in abeyance, but the common sensibility from the nervous expanse
of the skin and mucous membranes is ever imperfectly closed, a fact
which accounts for pressure and movement causing dreams or actual
awakenings to full life. Thus between the outer world and the great
centres of thought and feeling there are vibrations even in sleep, and
•when these reach their central points there is wakefnlness, activity
there, and that imperfect argument which we call dream, in which
some centres are more or less active and some more or less absolutely
passive, as if, for the time, dead.
     These explanations of communication betwixt the outer and inner
world of man account for the objective dream ; but there are other com
munications, more personal if I may so express myself, which deserve
 to be considered. We have two nervous systems : one our own, by
which we will and do ; the other nature's, which goes on with our
vital work whether we will or no. When wo lay open the nervous
casket, we see, as now on the screen, two brains, cerebrum and
cerebellum, with their spinal cord and nerves communicating with
sensitive surfaces and with muscles, all under our own rule and
governance. But there is the other system, belonging to nature,
centred within the trunk of the body, not in the closed box of the skull
and spinal column, but in the line of the great viscera, to which its
nerves are distributed, and in which it communicates with the nerves of
the cerebral system, which are our own. In this second system lies
the governance of the heart, of the digestive organs, of the breathing
organs, to a considerable extent, and of the great secreting glands.
How extensive this second nervous distribution is can only be under
stood when it is fully laid out before us in dissection, or in this
faithful picture before us. In one set of organs alone, those con
cerned in digestion, such a view conveys, at a glance, the richness of
the supply of these involuntary nerves. Strangely also, these organic
nerves combine with a nerve that wanders down to them from the
cerebrum itself. Vesalius, the first great anatomist, traced tin's
wandering nerve, or par vagum, and depicted it, not knowing of the
 organic nerves with which it cumes into communion. Dissected out,

 1892.]               on the Physiology of Dreams.                   597
this true wanderer runs, as you will observe, to the larynx, the
oesophagus, the heart, the stomach, conveying intelligence to the
brain of any local disturbance in those organs, and ronsing up the
great nervous centres to exert themselves, and by a reflex notice to
the muscles, force the muscles to do their best to remove any
intruding cause of evil.
    We have not yet finished. If we follow those filaments of organic
nervous centres which are not our own and have nothing to do with
our royal wills, we find them accompanying the arteries which carry
the vital blood to the extremest destination of the blood-serving or
arterial system, governing those vessels up to the minutest twig, and, as
the late Sir Thomas Watson simply but finely defined it, regulating
the supply of blood to every part, as a gas tap regulates flame, so
that the arterial vessels, in senseless pulsation during our lives, are
quickened, or slowed, by insensible direction, into various stages, from
the surface redness of rage to the pallor of death.
    In these mechanisms we see the origin of the subjective dream.
That indigestion, perturbation in the richly nerved digestive organs,
should lead to the transmission of vibrating and startling messages
to the mental centres, is simple truth enough ; that fever should
excite, and that every influence or disturbance—friction, distension,
heat—should disturb, in parts, the sensorium and conjure up a
phantasy, is no longer a mystery. It is a phenomenon that must be.
    Touching the effect of external influences I have one word more to
add. Warmth of the air breathed by the sleeper favours dreams,
while coldness of the air disfavours them. Hence the vivid, brilliant
dream of the Asiatic, the dull dream of the Northern blood. I have
been assured by one eminent Arctic explorer, the late Sir Edward
Belcher, that the Esquimaux do not know what dreaming means, and
our distinguished colleague Dr. Rae, in a letter I have before me,
pays he does not recollect hearing of the phenomenon, although he
thinks such an imaginative people as the Esquimaux may dream.
    The reference to the effects of cold brings me to an experimental
demonstration bearing on motor and on sensory dreams. We all
know from our common experiences that there are in us two powers :
one of mind, the other of motion. If I were to enter fully into this
experience I might be able to prove that the two powers are essen
tially one. It is enough now to explain, from what hns preceded,
that in the dream the motor powers sleep, as a rule, uninterruptedly,
whilst the mental may be dreaming actively. We have, however,
seen exceptions to this rule ; and I may add that we can bring out
such exceptions by experiment.
    In some of my early experiments on the effects of extreme cold on
nervous function, I found that the centres of nervous action could bo
reduced to such inertia by cold that deepest sleep was inducible,
sleep leading to unconsciousness and perfect reprise of all parts save
those which are under the influence of the organic nervous ganglia
and their fibres. Soon afterwards Dr. Weir Mitchell, of Philadelphia,

 598                      Dr. B. W. Richardson                  [April 29,
 and I, simultaneously and independently discovered that by putting
 different centres to sleep by cold of different intensities we could pro
 duce variations of motion, by influencing the motor parts of the brain
  that balance each other. For example, we found that in birds the
 cerebellum, which in full activity impels the body to forward move
 ments, is balanced by two great ganglia in the fore part of the cere
 brum, called by the old anatomists the corpora striata, and that if the
 cerebellum be put to sleep the body makes backward somersaults;
 while if the ganglia in the fore part of the cerebrum be made to
 sleep, the body is impelled forward in a similar mode of motion.
 There was thus produced one of the same conditions which Mr. Weston
 experienced in his dream after walking many short laps. He had
 wearied his cerebral centres by the constant jerk he encountered in
 his long exercise on the short circuit ; and when he passed into sleep,
 his propelling centre, the cerebellum, which in its action had become
 almost automatic, seemed to force him forward imperatively. In this
 way dreams often become automatic where balance is not correct. In
 some persons a kind of sudden dream occurs when they look down a
 steep height ; the controlling centre in the brain is for the moment
 overpowered, while, the .propelling centre continuing unaffected, the
 danger is occasionally realised, of precipitation into the space below.
     This is the dream of the motor centres in a state of broken
 balance, but there is a dream also of the reasoning centres due to
 broken balance in them, in which one nature in man seems to struggle
 with another, as if indeed two were contending, a dream of weariness
 and strife, such as is commonly present in the unhappy during waking
 dreams, as well as in dreams of sleep. I have called this the dream
 of contention. The break of balance in this instance is between the
 two hemispheres of the brain, which, like the two bauds, the two eyes,
 the two lungs, are independent organs, and which, as Dr. Wigan
 tnught nearly fifty years agone, are by their independency the cause
 of the dual nature of the mind. If these hemispheres are closely akin
 in function, either for strength or weakness, we have the evidence of
the single mind for strength or for weakness. But in very few
 is there such equality : in the majority of persons one hemisphere is
 strong, the other less strong, the stronger ruling until it is so
 wearied that it gives way to the feebler. The apparent contradictions
of human nature are readable, by this key, in the dream of contention,
dream of resolution, of contrition, of remorse, in some cases of con
fession of real or imaginary offences against common or moral
law.     The sleeping dreams of the insane, like their waking
dreams, are specially of this character, and afford the best insight
we have into the meaning of what is called the unbalanced or insane
mind.
     My reading of dreams, their phenomena, and their causes would
be incomplete were I not able to draw from the study some useful
practical lessons. We can draw many such, and here are a few.

 1892.]                on the Physiology of Dreams.                   599
     Dreams are all explainable on physical grounds ; there is no
mystery about them save that which springs from blindness to natural
 facts and laws. We make our dreams as we make our lives. They are
 reflexes of that which we take into our organisation.
     Absence of dream in sleep is a sign, all other things being natural,
 of sound health physically, mentally, and morally.
     Dreams occurring in childhood are, invariably, signs of disturbed
health, and should be regarded with anxiety. If they are subjective
they indicate derangement of body ; if they are objective they tell
 of some mischief to the developing mind.
     A night of dream relating to events of the day is a sure sign of
 mental overstrain ; and the dream of continuation of mental work is
 a sign of danger which should never be disregarded. It becomes
 very quickly automatic in its course and injurious in its effect.
     Dreams are a cause of mental weariness extending into waking
 hours, and when that fact is experienced the grand remedy is exercise
 of body. Exercise calls into play the centres of motion which have
 rested ; and whilst they, with new associations, are in play, the
mental centres rest and recuperate, the truest re-creation.
     It is an open question whether a dream ever leads to permanent
disturbance of mental equilibrium, that is to say insanity. Dr. Hack
Tuke has supplied me with a history which gives colour to an affir
mative view of this question. I am uncertain on the point ; but I am
certain that every circumstance leading to dreams should be removed
from persons of unbalanced mind.
     To avoid wearying and wearing dreams, all objective influences
•which excite the mental centres should be under control. Sleep, in
short, should be in the most noiseless atmosphere, where thieves
break not in and steal the repose. How shall a man sleep dream-
lessly who, by excitement of any kind for finding sleep, makes
those arteries on which his brain is built beat two beats to one,
hammering away at his senses and putting on them ten, fifteen, twenty
foot-tons of pressure from the heart, as if it were a good experiment
to find how quickly the delicate brain structure may be beaten into
a solidity which natural vibration shall fail to call into natural func
tion ?
     In this temple of science it is our business to converse with the
universe, using experiment as our interpreter. If we cannot explain
we confess we are ignorant, and must remain ignorant until time and
circumstance bring insight. If we acquire knowledge we must speak
of it with so much understanding as is given to us to plane and square
and fit it into a shape that is understandable. Beyond this we cannot
pass. Pardon me therefore if I have ventured to-night to speak of
the " stuff" that dreams are made of on physical principles, and none
other. It is the spirit of our craft, and must be implicitly obeyed.
                                                           [IB. W. E.J

      600                               Annual Meeting.                          [May 2,
                              ANNUAL             MEETING,
                                    Monday, May 2, 1892.
        SIR JAMES CRIOHTON-BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                                Vice-President, in the Chair.
          The Annnal Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
      1891, testifying to the continued prosperity and efficient management
      of the Institution, was read and adopted. The Real and Funded
      Property now amounts to above 83.000Z. entirely derived from the
      Contributions and Donations of the Members.
          Fifty new Members were elected in 1891.
          Sixty-three Lectures and Twenty-one Evening Discourses were
      delivered in 1891.
          The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1891 amounted to about
      248 volumes, making, with 517 volumes (including Periodicals bound)
      purchased by the Managers, a total of 765 volumes added to the
      Library in the year.
          Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and the Honorary
      Secretary, to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the
      Professors, for their valuable services to the Institution during the
      past year.
           The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
      for the ensuing year :
           PRESIDENT—The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. D.C.L. LL.D.
           TREASURER—Sir James Crichton-Browne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
           SECRETARY — Sir Frederick BramwelL, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S.
                              M. Inst. C.E.
                 MANAGERB.                                         VISITORS.
8ir Frederick Abel. K.C.B. D.C.L. F.R.8.          Thomas Buzzard, M.D. F.R.C.P.
Captain W. de W. Abney, R.E. C.B. D.C.L. F.R.8.   Michael Carteighc, Esq. F.C.8.
George Berkley, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.                Andrew Ainslie Common, Esq. LL.D. F.R.8.
8helford Bidwell, Esq. M.A. F.K.8.                   F.R.A.8.
Joseph Brown, Esq. Q.C.                           James Farmer, Esq. J.P.
Arthur Herbert Church, Esq. M.A. F.R.8.           Robert Hannah, Esq.
8ir Andrew Clark, Bart. M.D. LL.D. F.K.8.         George Herbert, Esq.
8ir Douglas Gallon, K.C.B. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.8.    Donald William Charles Hood, M.D. M.R.C.P.
The Rt. Hon. Lord Halsbury, M.A. D.C.L. F.R.8.    James Mansergh, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
William Huggins, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.         Lachlan Mackintosh Rate, Esq. M.A.
David Edward Hughes, Esq. F.R.8.                  John Callander Ross, Esq.
The Rt. Hon. Lord Kelvin, D.C.L. LL.D. Prcs.R.8.  Arthur William Riicker, Esq. M.A. F.R.8.
Hugo Miillcr, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.8.                   8ir David Salomons, Barf. M.A. F.R.A.8. F C.8.
John Rae, M.D. LL.D. F.R.8.                       John Bell Sedgwick, Esq. J.P. F.R.G.8.
William Chandler Roberts-Austen, Esq. C.B.        John Isaac Thornycroft, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
  F.K.8.                                          Robert Wilson, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.

  1892.] Capt. W. de W. Abney on the Sensitiveness of the Eye, dc.    601
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, May 6, 1892.
 SIR FREDERICK BRAMWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.E.S. Honorary Secretary
                    and Vice-President, in the Chair.
           CAPTAIN W. DB W. ARNEY, C.B. E.E. D.C.L. F.B.S.
             The Sensitiveness of the Eye to Light and Colour.
 THERE may be some here who have had the pleasure—or the
 pain—of rising very much betimes in a Swiss centre of moun
 taineering in order to gain some mountain peak before the sun has
 had power enough to render the intervening snow- fields soft, or
 perhaps dangerous. Those who have, will recollect what were the
 sensations they experienced as they sallied out of the comfortable
 hotel, after endeavouring to swallow down breakfast at 2 a.m., into
 the darkness outside. Perhaps the night may Lave been moonless,
 or the sky slightly overcast, and the sole light which greeted them
 have been the nervous glimmer of the guides' lanterns. By this
 feeble light they may have picked their way over the stony path, and
 between the frequent stumbles over some half hidden piece of rock
 lying in the short grass they may have had time to look around
 and above them, and notice that the darkness of the night was alone
 broken by stars which gave a twinkle through a gap in the clouds,
 or if the sky were cloudless, every star would be seen to lie on a very
 slightly illuminated sky of transparent blackness. Although giant .
 mountains may have been immediately in front of them, their out
lines would be almost if not quite invisible. As time went on the
sky would become a little brighter, and what is termed the petit jour
 would be known to be approaching. The outlines of the mountains
 beyond would become fairly visible, the tufts of grass and the flowers
along the path would still be indistinguishable, and most things would
be of a cold grey, absolutely without colour. The guide's red woollen
scarf which he bound round his neck and mouth would be black
as coal. But a little more light, and then some flowers amongst the
grass would appear as a brighter grey, though the grass itself would
still appear dark ; but that red scarf would still be as black as a
funereal garment. The mountains would have no colour. The sky
would look leaden, and were it not for the stars above it might be a
matter of guesswork whether it were not covered over with cloud.
    More light still, and the sky would begin to blush in the part
where the sun was going to rise, and the rest would appear as a blue-
grey ; the blue flowers will now be blue, and the white ones white ;
the violet or lavender coloured ones will still appear of no particular
colour, and the grass will look a green grey, whilst the guide's neck-
gear will appear a dull brown.
    VOL. XIII. (No. 86.)                                     2 s

 602                      Captain W. de W. Abney                  [May 6,
      The sun will be near rising, the white peaks beyond will appear
  tipped with rose ; every colour will now be distinguished, though
  they would still be dull ; and, finally, the daylight will come of its
  usual character, and the cold grey will give place to warmth of hue.
      But there may be others who have never experienced this early
  rising, and prefer the comfort of an ordinary English tramp to that
  just described ; but even then they may have felt something of the
  kind. In the soft autumn evening, when the sun has set, they may
  have wandered into the garden and noticed that flowers which in the
  daytime appear of gorgeous colourings—perhaps a mixture of red
  and blue—in the gloaming will be very different in aspect. The
  red flowers will appear dull and black ; a red geranium, for instance,
  in very dull light, being a sable black, whilst the blue flowers will
  appear whitish-grey, and the brightest pale yellow flowers of the
  same tint ; the grass will be grey, and the green of the trees the same
  nondescript colour. A similar kind of colouring will also be visible
  in moonlight when daylight has entirely disappeared, though the sky
  will have a transparent dark blue look about it, approaching to green.
  These sensations, or rather Inck of sensations of light and colour,
  which as a rule attract very little attention, as they are common ones,
  are the subjects of my discourse to-night.
       Experiments which can be shown to a large audience on this
  subject are naturally rather few in number, but 1 will try and show
  you one or two.
       We are often told that the different stages of heat to which a body
  can bo raised are black, red, yellow, and white heat, but I wish to
  show you that there is an intermediate stage between black and red
' heat, viz. a grey heat. An incandescence lamp surrounded by a tissue
   paper shade, has a current flowing through it, and in this absolutely
  dark room nothing is seen, for it is black hot. An increase of the
  current, however, shows the shade of a dim grey, whilst a further
   increase shows it as illuminated by a red, and then a yellow light.
   A bunch of flowers placed in the beam of the electric light shows
   every colour in perfection ; the light is gradually dimmed down,
   and the reds disappear, whilst the blue colours remain aud the green
   leaves become dark. These two experiments show that there is a
   colour, if grey may be called a colour, with which we have to reckon.
       Now the question arises whether we can by any means ascertain
   at what stage a colour becomes of this grey hue, and at what stage
  of illumination the impression of more light also disappears, and
   whether in any case the two disappear simultaneously.
       As all colours in nature are mixed colours, it is at the outset
   useless to experiment with them in order to arrive at any definite
  conclusion, hence we are forced— and the forcing in this direction
   to the experimentalist is a very agreeable process—we are forced to
  come to the spectrum for information.
       The apparatus on this table is one which I have before described
   in this theatre, and it is needless for me to describe it again. I can

1892.]      on the Sensitiveness of the Eye to Light and Colour.    G03
only say that it has in all colour investigations been of such service
that any attempt on my part to do without it would have been most
disadvantageous. The apparatus enables a patch of what is prac
tically pure monochromatic light of any spectrum colour to be placed
upon the screen at once, and an equally large patch of white light
alongside it, by means of the beam reflected from the first surface of
the first prism.
    It should be pointed out that this beam of white light reflected
from the first prism of the apparatus, having first passed through
the collimator, must of necessity diminish with the intensity of the
spectrum, when the collimator slit is closed.
                                   FIG. 1.
                       Extinction of Spectrum Colours.
    Having got these patches, the next stop is to so enfeeble the
light that their colour and then their visible illumination disappear.
    An experiment which well demonstrates loss of colour is made
by throwing a feeble white light on one part of the screen, and then
in succession patches of red, green, and violet alongside it. The
luminosity of the coloured light gradually diminishes till all the
colour disappears, the white patch being a comparison for the loss of
colour.
    If red, green, and violet patches be placed alongside each other,
                                                           2 s 2

604                     Captain W. de W. Abney                   [May 6,
and they are bedimmed in brightness together, it will be noticed that
the red disappears first, then the green, and then the violet ; or I may
take a red and green patch overlapping, which when mixed form
orange, and extinguish the colour: the slit allowing red light to fall
on the screen may bo absolutely closed, and no alteration in the
appearance of the patch is found to occur. This shows, I think,
that when all colour is gone from a once brilliant colour, a sort of
steel-grey remains behind, and that red fails to show any luminosity
when the green still retains its colour.
    The measurement of the extinction of colour from the different
parts of the spectrum was made on these principles. A box, similar
                                  Fio. 2.
                              Extinction Box.
to Fig. 2, was prepared, but having two apertures, one at each side.
Through one the coloured ray was reflected, and through the other a
white beam of light to a white screen. Both beams were diminished,
and when the white and coloured patches appeared the same hue, the
amount of illumination was calculated. Fig. 1 shows graphically the
reduction of illumination, when the D light of the spectrum is the
Bamc intensity as one amyl-acetate lamp at one foot from the screen.
To measure the extinction of light, a box was made as in the diagram,
closed at each end, but having two apertures as shown, Fig. 2 :—

1892.]      on the Sensitiveness of the Eye to Light and Colour.   605
E is a tube through which the eye looks at 8, which is a black
screen with a white spot upon it, and which can be illuminated by
light coming through the diaphragm D first falling on a ground glass
which closes the aperture, and reflected on to it by M a mirror.
    The patch of light of any colour being thrown on D, rotating sec
tors, the apertures of which could be opened and closed at pleasure,
were placed in the path of the beam, thus enabling the intensity of
                                   F,o. 3.
                        Extiuction of the Spectrum.
the patch to be diminished. D could bo made of any desired aperture,
and thus the illumination of the ground glass would be diminished
at pleasure. After keeping the eye in darkness for some time the
eye was placed at B when the white spot illuminated by the colour
thrown on D was visible, and the sectors closed till the last scintilla
of light was extinguished. This was repeated for rays at different

606                       Captain W. de W. Abney                 [May 6,
parts of the spectrum, and the resnlts are shown in Fig. 3 by the con
tinuous curved lines. The diagram would have been too largo had
the same scale been adopted throughout for the ordinates, each curve
is therefore made on a scale ten times that of its neighbour, counting
from the centre.
    In the diagram the sodium light of the spectrum before extinction
was made of the luminosity of the amyl-acetate lamp (hereafter
called A L), which is about ' 8 of a standard candle, at 1 foot distance
from the source. Before it ceased to cause an impression on tho eye,
                                              350
tho illumination had to bo reduced to ^Tr?,™ nf)K A L.
                           f*m
     Blight    to       -                 of its spectrum luminosity.
                           150            15
                      10,0007)00  or i,ooo:ooo
     „ .. .,              3000           3
       <llght    "    10,000,000  or 10,000
     rr
     1 '"'"     "     —'_ °F 10,000
                      10,000^000      -—
     ,,..,.             70,000          7
      M>ght     "     10,000,000   or 1000
      There was one objection which might have been offered to this
 method, and that was to the use of the rotating sectors, and perhaps
 to the ground glass. This objection was met by first of all reducing
 the light by means of a double reflection of the beam forming the patch
 from one or two plain glass mirrors, and also by using a plain glass
 mirror in the box instead of a silvered glass. By this plan the light
 falling on the first plain glass mirror was reduced, before it reached
 the end of the box, 1000 times ; and again, by narrowing the slit of
 the collintator, and also the slit placed in the spectrum, another
 similar reduction would be effected. All rays thus enfeebled were
 within the range of extinction. It was found that neither ground
 glass nor rotating sectors had any prejudicial effect, and therefore
 this extinction curve may be taken as correct.
      In the curves there are two branches at tho violet side, and this
 requires explanation. One shows the extinction when viewed by tho
 most sensitive part of the eye, wherever that may be, and the other
 when the central portion of the eye was employed. The explanation
 of this difference in perception is chiefly as follows :—
      In the eye wo have a defect—at least we are apt to call it a defect,
 though no doubt Providence has made it for a purpose—in that
 there is a yellow spot which occupies some 6° to 8° of the very centre

1892.]      on the Sensitiveness of the Eye to Liglit and Colour.      607
of the retina, and as it is on this central part that we receive any small
image, it has a very important bearing on all colour experiments.
The yellow spot absorbs the blue-green, blue, and violet roys, and
exercises its strongest absorption towards the centre, though pro
bably absent in the very centre, that is, in the "fovea centralis," and
is less at the outer edges. That absorption of colour by the yellow
spot takes place can he shown you in this way. Any colour in
nature can be imitated by mixing a red, a green, and violet together,
and with those I will make a match with white and then with brown,
two very representative colours, if we may call them colours. Now
if I, standing at this lecture table, match a white by mixing these
                                    FIG. 4.
                                 Colour SenBittiuus.
throe colours together, using a Inrge patch, the imago will fall on a
part of the retina of considerably larger area than the yellow spot, and
it will appear too green for those at a distance ; but it is correct for
myself. If I place a mirror at a distance, and make a match again
by the reflected image, the match is complete for us all, as we all
see it through the yellow absorbing medium. If I look at it direct
from where I stand the match is much too pink. It may bo asked
why the comparison patches and the mixed colours do not always mutch
since both images are received on the same part of the retina. The

608                     Captain W. de W. Abney                  [May 6,
reason i.s that the green I have selected for mixture is in the part
of the spectrum where great absorption takes place, whilst the com
parison white contains the green of the whole spectrum, some parts
of which are much less absorbed than others. I may remark that
just outside the yellow spot the eye is less sensitive to the red than
is the centre, and this is one additional cause of the difference. See
Fig. 5.
     More on this subject I have not time to say on this occasion, but
it will be seen that the extinction of light for the centre and the
outside of the eye differs on account of this.
     I must take you to a theory of colour vision which, though it may
not be explanatory of everything, at all events explains most pheno
mena—that is, the Young-Helmholtz theory. The idea embodied
                                 Fir. 5.
in it is that we have three sensations stimulated in the eye, and that
these three sensations give an impression of a red, a green, and a
violet. These three colours I have said can be mixed to match any
 other colour, or, in other words, the three sensations are excited in
 different degrees, in order to produce the sensation of the inter
mediate spectrum colours, nnd those of nature as well.
     The diagram Fig. 4 shows the three sensations as derived from
colour equations made by Koanig. It will be seen that there are three
complete colour sensations, all of which are present in the normal

1892.]       on the Sensitiveness of the Eye to Light and Colour.      609
eye. I wonld ask you to note that at each end of the spectrum only
one sensation is present, viz. at the red end of the spectrum, the
red sensation, and at the violet end the violet.
     This is a matter of some importance, as we shall now Bee.
     It will be recollected that in making the extinctions, the D light
of the spectrum was made equal to one amyl-acctato lamp, and the
other rays had the relative luminosity to it, which they had in the
spectrum before they were extinguished. The luminosity curve of
the spectrum is shown in Fig. 5.
     Suppose we make all the luminosities of the different rays equal
to one A L, we should not get the same extinction value, as shown
in the continuous lines in Fig. 3. The violet would have to be
much more reduced, but by multiplying the extinction by the lumi
nosity we should get the curve of reduction for equal luminosities,
and we get the dotted curves in Fig. 3.
     It will be seen that it is the violet under such circumstances that
would bo the last to be extinguished, and that all the rays at the
violet end of the spectrum would be extinguished simultaneously, as
would also those at the extreme red. This looks like a confirmation
of the Young-Helmholtz theory which I have briefly explained, for
we cannot imagine that it can be anything but a single sensation
which fails to be excited.
     The violet is extinguished when it is . . . . .r^r A L, that is, a
screen placed 817 feet away and illuminated by an A L violet lamp
                                                                   17
                                                             ,——r;-,--r-
 would be invisible. The blue-green •v(F)' light when it is 10  milhouths
                                                      35
 or 770 feet away. The green (E) light KjlniMmtES or B5° feet
 away. The orange (D) light is extinguished as before at rg—qy-—ii
 or 180 feet away, whilst the red (C) light has only to be reduced to
      2200
 J-Q —rjp— TJ- or an A L lamp radiating C light would have to be
 placed only 67 feet away, whilst the radiation for an A L of the
 colour of the B light of the spectrum would have to be diminished to
           9fon
 but^jQ—.|p—7^ or the screen would have to be placed 60 feet
 away.
      It is therefore apparent that with equal luminosities the violet
 requires about 175 times more reduction to extinguish it than does
 the red, and probably about 25 times more than the green.
      This being BO, I think it will be pretty apparent that, at all events
 from the extreme violet to the Fraunhofer line D of the spectrum, the
 extinction is really the extinction of the violet sensation, a varying
 amount of which is excited by the different colours. If then we take

610                     Captain W. de W. Abney                   [May G,
the reciprocals of the numbers which give extinction of the spectrum,
we ought to get the curve of the violet sensation on the Yonng-Helm-
holtz theory. For if one violet sensation has to be reduced to a
certain degree before it is unperceived, and another has to bo reduced,
to half that amount, it is evident that the violet sensation must bo
double in one case to what it is in the other ; that is, the degrees
of stimulation are expressed by the reciprocal of the reduction.
    Such a curve is shown in Fig. 5 (in which also are drawn the
curves of luminosity of the spectrum when viewed with the centre
of the retina and outside the yellow spot). And it will be noticed
that it is a mountain which reaches its maximum about £. Remem
ber that the height of the curve signifies the amount of stimulation
given to the violet sensatory apparatus by the particular ray indicated
in the scale beneath.
    Turning once more to Fig. 3, it will be noticed that if any one
or two of the three sensations are absent, the persons so affected are,
what is called, colour blind. Thus if the red sensation is absent they
are red blind ; if the green, then green blind ; if the violet, then
violet blind ; if both red and green sensations arc absent, then the
person would see every colour, including white, as violet. The
results of the measurement of the luminosity of the spectrum by
persons who have this last kind of monochromatic vision should be
that they give a curve exactly, or at all events very approximately, of
the same form as the curve given by the reciprocals of the extinction
curve obtained by the normal eye, as the violet sensation is that
which is last stimulated.
    It has been my good fortune to examine two such persovs, and I
find that this reasoning is correct, the two coinciding when the curves
for the centre of the retina are employed.
    Further, I examined a case of violet blindness, and measured the
luminosity of the spectrum as apparent to him. Now if the Young-
Helmholtz theory be correct, then in his case the violet sensation ought
to be absent, and the difference between his luminosity and that of
the normal eye ought to give the same curve as that of the violet
sensation. This was found to be the case.
    Again, the reciprocal of the extinction curves of the red blind
and green blind ought to be the same as those of the normal eye,
for the violet sensation must be present with them also. This was
found to be so. We have still one more proof that the last sensation
to disappear is the violet.
    If we reduce the intensity of the spectrum till the green and red
disappear to a normal eye, and measure the luminosity of the spec
trum in this condition, we shall find that it also coincides with the
persistency curve. On the screen we have a brilliant spectrum, but by
closing the slit admitting the light and placing the rotating sectors
in the spectrum and nearly closing the apertures, we can reduce
it in intensity to any degree we like. The whole spectrum is now
of one colour aud indistinguishable in hue from a faiut white patch

1892.]     on the Sensitiveness of the Eye to Light and Colour.      Gil
thrown above it. If the luminosity of this colourless spectrum be
measured we shall get the result stated. The curve obtained in this
way is in reality identical with the other curves. By these four
methods then we arrive at the conclusion that the last colour to
be extinguished is the sensation which when strong gives the sensa
tion of violet, but which when feeble gives a blue-grey sensation.
     One final experiment I may show you. It has been remarked that
moonlight passing through painted glass windows is colourless on
the grey stone floor of a cathedral or church.
     We can imitate the painted glass and moonlight. Here is a
diaper pattern of different coloured glasses and by means of the
electric light lantern we throw its coloured pattern on the screen.
The strength of moonlight being known we can reduce the intensity
of the light of the lamp till it is of the same value. When this is
done it will be seen that the pattern remains, but it is now colour-less,
showing that the recorded observations are correct, and I think you
are now in a position to account for the disappearance of the colour.
     I have now carried you through a series of experiments which
are difficult to carry out perfectly before an audience, but at any
rate I think you will have seen enough to show you that the first
sensation of light is what answers to the violet sensation when it is
strong enough to give the sensation of colour. The other sensations
seem to be engrafted on this one sensation, but in what manner it is
somewhat difficult to imagine. Whether the primitive sensation of
light was this and the others evolved, of course we cannot know.
It appears probable that even in insect life this violet sensation is
predominent, or at all events existent. Insects whose food is to be
found in flowers seek it in the gloaming when they are comparatively
safe from attack. Professor Huxley states that the greatest number
of wild flowers are certainly not red but more or less of a blue
colour. This means that the insect eye has to distinguish these
flowers at dusk from the surrounding leaves which arc then of a
dismal grey ; a blue flower would be visible to us whilst a red flower
•would be as black as night. That the insects single out these flowers
seems to show that they participate in the same order of visual sensa
 tions. I venture to think, without adopting it in its entirety, that
these results at all events give an additional probability as to the
general correctness of the Young-Helmholtz theory of colour vision.
Where the seat of colour sensation may be is not the point, it is only
the question as to what the colour sensations make us feel which the
physicist has to deal with. The simpler the theory, the more likely
is it to be the true one, and certainly the Young-Helmholtz theory
has the advantage over others of simplicity.
                                                       [W. DE W. A.J

612                        General Monthly Meeting.                          [May 9,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, May 9, 1892.
 SIB JAMBS CRIOHTOS-BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                         Vice-President, in the Chair.
     The following Vice -Presidents for the ensuing year were
announced :—
      Sir Frederick Abel, K.C.B. D.C.L. F.B.S.
      Sir Douglas Gallon, K.C.B. D.C.L. LL.D. F.E.S.
      The Eight Hon. Lord Halsbury, M.A. D.C.I,. F.B.S.
       William Huggins, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.E.S.
       David Edward Hughes, Esq. F.R.S.
       The Right Hon. Lord Kelvin, D.C.L. LL.D. Pres. B.S.
       Sir Jamea Crichton-Browne, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer.
       Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart. D.C.L. F.B.S. Hon. Secretary.
             Harry Spencer Ashbee, Esq. F.S.A.
             Charles Ballance, Esq. F.E.C.S.
             Francis Elgar, Esq. LL.D. M. Inst. C.E.
             Montague Ellis, Esq.
             8. H. Wells Foote, Esq.
             J. E. H. Gordon, Esq. M. Innt. C.E.
             Sir Robert Jardine, Bart. M.P.
             Harry E. Jones, Esq. M.Iust. C.E.
             Aleiander B. W. Kennedy, Esq. F.B.S. M.InsL C.E.
             William Macnab, Esq. F.C.S.
             Colonel L. J. Oliphant,
             C. D. F. Phillips, M.D.
             Mrs. Shield,
             Sydney Francis Staples, Esq.
             R. Palmer Thomas, Esq.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      The following Letter was read :—
                                       CORPORATION HOCsE, BlXX>H8BD*T PLACE, W.C.,
 DEAR SIH FREDERICK BRAMWELL,                                wedneiday, et* April, wa.
         My mother, Lndy Bowman, desires me to acknowledge the receipt of your
 letter, enclosing the copy of a Resolution passed at a meeting of the Board of
 Managers of the Royal Institution, held on Monday last. The testimony borne
 by many friends to the affectionate regard, no less than to the high esteem, in which
 they held my dear father, helps greatly to soften the blow which has fallen upon
 us and we fire further consoled in the memory of the peaceful death which
 ended, and seemed to complete, his antive and useful life. His services to tho
 Boyal Institution were a source of very great pleasure to himself, and we are glad
 to know that they were appreciated by his colleagues. You will please do my
 mother the favour of conveying to the Managers her most grateful ncknowledg-
 tnents for the Resolution which has been placed npou the minutes.
                                         Believe me, very truly yours,
                                                                W. PAGET BOWJIAX.

1892.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                        613
      The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
following Donation :—
           Sir Lowthian Bell, Bart, (collection by) .. £50 0 0
for carrying on investigations on Liquid Oxygen.
      The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to the Sub-
Committeo of the Forrest Engraving and Lectureship Fund for the
presentation of an Engraving of a Portrait of Mr. James Forrest.
      The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
       FROM
Tlte Governor-General nf India—Geological Survey of India : Records, Vol. XXV.
       Part 1. 4to. 1892.
The Secretary of State for India—R -port on Public Instruction in Bengal, 1890-91.
       fol. 1891.
    Great Trigonometrical Survey of India, Vols. XXII -XXIV. 4to. 1891.
The Madras Government—Madras Meteorological RrsulU, 1861-90. 4to. 1892.
Academy of Natural Sciencet, Philadelphia— Proceedings, 1891, Part 3. 8vo.
Amuh miii del Lincei, Jteale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quinta: Rendioonli. 1° Stmes-
       tre, Vol. I". Faso. 5. 8vo. 1892.
American Geographical Society—Bulletin, Vol. XXIII. No. 4 ; Vol. XXIV. No. 1.
       8vo. 1891-92.
Astronomical Society, Roynl—Monthly Notices, Vol. HI. No. 5. 8vo. 1892.
Hankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XIII. Part 4. 8vo. 1892.
Basset, Allred B. Esq. M.A. F.H.S. Jf.R.1. (the Author)—Treatise on Physical
       Optics. 8vo. 1892.
I'nt'iri'i Observatory—Magnetio.il ami Meteorological Observations, 1890, Vol.
       XIII. 4to. 1X91.
    Kniiif ill in E i.-l Indian Archipelago, 1890. 8vo. 1891.
 liirl, ]\'ill'nin, Ksq.—Official Guide to the Great Eastern Railway. 8vo. 1892.
liis'hoffsheim, M. R. L.—Munogntphie de 1'ObBervatoire de Nice. Par C. Garnier.
       fol. 1892.
Brituh Architectt, Royal Instilute of—Proceedings, 1891-2, No. 12. 4to.
Chemical Industry. Society of—Journal, Vol. XI. No. 3. 8vo. 1892.
("In iiui-nl Society—Journal fur April, 1x92. 8vo.
Crarovie, VArademie das Sciencet— Bulletin, 1892, No. 3. 8vo.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LI. .11. F.L.S. &c. M.R.I.—Journal of the Royal Microscopical
       Society, 18'J2, Part 2. 8vo.
East India Association—Journal, Vol. XXIV. No. 2. 8vo. 1892.
Editors—American Journal of Science for April, 1892. tivo.
    Analyst for April, 1892. 8vo.
    Athenaeum for April, 1892. 4to.
    Chemical News for April, 1892. 4to.
    Chemist and Druggist for April, 1892. 8vo.
    Educational Review for April, 1892. 8vo.
    Electrical Engineer for April, 1892. fol.
    Engineer for April, 1892. fol.
    Engineering for April, 1892. fol.
    Engineering Review for April, 1892. 8vo.
    Horological Journal for April, 1892. 8vo.
    Industrie* for April, 1892. fol.
    Iron for April, 1892. 4to.
    Ironmongery for Apr 1, 1892. 4to.
    Nature for April, 1892. 4to.
    Telegraphic Journal for April, 1892. fol.
    Zoopliilist for April, 1892. 4to.

614                         General Monthly Meeting.                    [May 9,
Electrical Engineers, Tnstilution of—Journal, No. 97. 8vo. 1892.
Evans, J,,l,n, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—Posy Rings. 8vo. 1892.
Kx-Li'irir Society—Journal for April, 1892. 4to.
Florence Biblinteca Na-.ionale Centrale— Holletino, Nos. 151, 152. 8vo.  1892.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 796. 8vo. 189:2.
Geneva, SocicU de Physique et cThistoire Naturelle—Memoires, Vol. supplemenlairo
     G'nlenairo de la Fondation. 4tn. 1891.
Geologietd Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlunnen, 1892, No*. 2-5. 8vo.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 190. 8>o. 1892.
Georgofili, Reals Aecarfemie—Atti, Quarla Seri.-, Vol. XV. Disp. 1. 8vo. 1892.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XV. Part I. 8vo. 18.12.
Inm and Steel Institute- Jnnrnal f»r ix.H . 8vo.
Johns Hopkins Univtrtlty —University Circulars, No. 97. 4to. 1892.
   Studies in Historical and P..litic.d Science, Ninth Series, Nos. 9-12; Tenth
      Series, Nos. 1-3. 8vo. 1891-92.
   American Journal of Philology, Vol. XII. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1831.
   American Chemical Journal, Vol. XIII. No. 7 ; VoL XIV. No. 2. 8vo. 1891-92.
   Annual Report. 8vo. 1891.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 19H, 200. 8vo. 1892.
Medtanical Kngineers, Iiutilution of—Proceedings. 1892, No. 1. 8vo.
Meteorological Society, Royal—Quarterly Journal, No. 81. 8vo. 1892.
   Meteorological Record, No. 41. 8vo.' 1892.
Milter, W. J. C. Esq. (the Regtstrar)—Thq Medical Rpgist-r for 1892. 8vo.
   The Dentists' Register fur 1892. 8vo.
Odontological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXIV. No. 6. 8vo. 1892.
Payne, W. W. and Bale, G. E. (the Editors)—Astronomy und Astro-Physics for
     April, 1892. 8vo.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, April, 1892. 8vo.
Photographic Society of Great Britain—Journal. Vol. XVI. No. 6. 8vo. 1892.
Physical Society of London—Proceedings, Vol. XI. Purt 3. 8vo. 1892.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 306. 8vo. 1892.
Rtusett, The Bon. Rollo, M.R.I. (the Author)— Epidemics, Plagues, and Fevers ;
     their Causs s and Prevention. Sv i. 1892.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Mathematisch-physiachen Claase, Berichto,
     1891, No. 5. 8vo. 1892.
   PhilologiRch-historischnn Classe, Band XIII. No. 4. Sv... 1892.
Selhorne Society— Nature Notes, Vol. IlL No. 29. 8vo. 1892.
Smithsonian Institution—Bureau of Ethnology :
   Catalogue of Prr historic Works. 8vo. 1891.
   Omnha and Ponka Lett. r-. 8vo. 1891.
Society of Architects—Proceedinsa. Vol. IV. No. 10. 8vo. 1892.
Society of Arts—Journal for April, 1892. 8vo.
Statistical Society, Royal—Journ»\, Vol. LV. Purt 1. 8vo. 1892.
St. Petersburg Academie Imperiale des Sciences—Bulletin, Tome XXXIV. No. 4.
     4to. 1892.
   Memoires, Tome XXXVIII. N..S. 7, 8; Tome XXXIV. 4to. 1891.
Tacehini. Prof. P. Hon. Mem. R.I.—Mem"rie dtllu Societe degli Spettroscopisti
      Ibdiani, Vol. XXI. Uwp. 3». 4to. 1892.
Teyler Museum-Archives Serie II. Vol. III. Fasc. 7. 4to. 1892.
 Uailed Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 170. 8vo. 1892
 Vaughan, Henry, Esq. M.R.I.— Illustrated Catalogue of Bookbindings at the
     'Exhibition of Burlington Fine Arts Club. 4to. 1891.
 Vereins sur llefiirderung des Gewerbfleises in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1892:
     Heft 4. 4to.
Zoological Societif of London—Tnmsactions, Vol. XIII. Part 4. 4to. 1892.
   Proueedings, J89I, Part 4. 8vo. 1892.
   Index to Proc<edings, 1881-90. 8vo. 1892.

1892.]        Mr. William Hugrjins on the New Star in Auriga.       C15
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 13, 1892.
   SIR JAMES CRICHTON-BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                       Vice-President, in the Chair.
      WILLIAM HUGGINS, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. PH.D. F.R.S. M.R.L
                          The Neto Siar in Auriga.
WE depend so absolutely at every moment, and in every action, npon
the uniformity of Nature, that any event which even appears to break
in upon that uniformity cannot fail to interest us. Especially is this
the case if a strange star appears among those ancient heavenly
bodies by the motions of which our time and the daily routine
of life are regulated, and which through all ages have been to man
the most august symbols of the unchanging. For, notwithstanding
small alterations due to the accumulated effects of changes of invisible
slowness which are everywhere in progress, the heavens, in their
broad features, remain as they were of old. If Hipparchus could
return to life, however changed the customs and the kingdoms of the
earth might appear to him, in the heavens and the hosts thereof, he
would find himself at home.
     Only some nineteen times in about as many centuries have we
any record that the eternal sameness of the midnight sky has been
broken in upon by even the temporary presence of an unknown star,
though there is no doubt that in the future, through the closer watch
kept upon the sky by photography, a larger number of similar
phenomena will be discovered.
     According to Pliny it was the sudden outhurst into splendour of
a new star in 130 R.O. which inspired Hipparchus to construct his
 catalogue of stars. Passing at once to more modern times we come to
 the famous new star of 1572 discovered by Tycho Brahe in the
 Constellation of Cassiopeia which outshone Venus, and could even bo
 seen as a bright object upon the sky by day. But its brilliancy,
 like that of the new stars before and since, was transitory ; within a
 few weeks its great glory had departed from it, and it then con
 tinued to wane until at last it had fallen back to its original low
 estate, as a star invisible to the naked eye.
     The star of 1886 which, on May 2nd of that year, burst forth as
 a star of the second magnitude in the Northern Crown, is memorable
 as the first of those objects which was subjected to the searching
 power of the spectroscope. Two temporary stars have appeared
 since, one of the third magnitude in 1876 in Cygnus, and a small
 star in the Great Nebula of Andromeda in 1885.
     It may be asked whether these temporary stars are in reality new

616                       Mr. William Huggins                  [May 13,
stars, the creations of a day, or but the transient outbursts into
splendour of small stars usually invisible ; and, indeed, whether they
may be but extreme cases of the large class of variable stars which
wax and wane in periods more or less regular.
    In the case of the more modern temporary stars the evidence
is forthcoming that they did exist before and do exist still. The
star of 1866 may be seen as one of about the ninth magnitude, with
nothing to distinguish it from its fellows. So the star of 1876
in Cygnns, which rose to the third magnitude, is still there as a star
of about the fourteenth magnitude. To these may be added, perhaps,
Tycho's star.
    The new star which makes the present year memorable is,
indeed, so far as our charts go, without descent. But there is no
improbability in assuming that in its usual low estate, to which it
has now returned, it is of smaller magnitude than would bring it
within our catalogues and charts.
    Of great value in similar cases, in the future, will be the plates of
the International Star Chart, which begins its existence this year.
Such a photographic record, like the partial ones already made at
the Cape Observatory and at the Harvard Observatory, will enable
ns to put back at will the dial of time, and to re-observe the heavens
as they appeared when the plates were taken.
    The absence of any previous record of the new star of the present
year is not necessarily to be regarded as a proof that it did not
exist as a star emitting light. Visibility and invisibility in our
largest instruments are but expressions in terms of the power of the
eye. The photographic plate, untiring in its power of accumulation,
has brought to our knowledge multitudes of stars which shine, but
not for us. The energy of their radiation is too small to set up the
changes in the retina upon which vision depends.
    A striking illustration is presented by plates taken of the
neighbourhood of ij Argus by Mr. Eussel at Sydney, and later by Dr.
Gill at the Cape. In these photographs a crowd of stars reveal
themselves for the first time, which have hitherto shone in vain for
the dull eye of man.
    It is not improbable that the new star in Auriga did exist as
a very faint star ; but what were the conditions under which it woke
up into sudden splendour ? Such information as is forthcoming has
been gained chiefly from that particular application of the spectro
scope by which we can measure motion in the line of sight. It is
not too much to say that this method of observation has opened for
us in the heavens a door through which we can look upon the
internal motions of binary and multiple systems of stars, which
otherwise must have remained for ever concealed from us.
    With every increase of telescopic aperture more stars are resolved
into double or multiple systems, but no conceivable progress in
instrument-making could have put it in our power, as the spectro
scope does, to discover within the point-like image of a star, in many

1892.]                    on the New Star in Attriga.                          617
cases, a complex system of whirling sans, gigantic in size, and
revolving with enormous speed, close about each other. An object-
glass, as large in diameter as this theatre, if it could be constructed,
would fail to show close systems of stars which the prism easily lays
open to our view.
     It is as many as twenty-three years ago since I had the honour of
describing in this place the first successful application of this mode
of using the spectroscope to the heavenly bodies. The method is
now too well known for me to say more than that the change of
wave-length or pitch of the light shows itself by a shift of the lines
in the spectrum ; towards the blue for an approach, towards the rod
for a recession between the light-source and the observer. It is
obvious that the prism can take note only of the motions which are
precisely in the line of sight. The stars, as seen from the earth, are
moving in all directions; the spectroscope selects out of the star's
motion, whatever it may be, that part only which is in the line of
sight. It is of this component only of the complete motion that we
can gain information directly by the spectroscope.
     My original observations of the motion of Sirius were made in
1868, and of other stars in the following years, but the advance since
then, and especially in recent years, in the improvements of instru
ments and in the use of the sensitive gelatine plate, has made a much
higher degree of accuracy in the determination of motions attainable
now, than was then possible. To Prof. Vogel is due the working
out of a photographic method by which he has now determined tho
motions in the line of sight of more than fifty stars.*
     This method is applicable not only to the drift of star-systems,
but what is of more immediate interest in connection with the new
star, to the internal motions within those systems. The simplest
case of such systems is where one body only is bright enough to
produce a spectrum. Unless the plane of the orbit is across the line of
sight the star will have alternate periods of approach and of recession,
and the lines in its spectrum will be seen to swing backwards and
forwards relatively to a terrestrial line of the same substance in times
corresponding to the star's orbital period. A grand example of this
state of things was revealed by the discovery at Potsdam of the orbital
motion of the bright star of Algol showing that the variation of its
light is caused by its being partially eclipsed at intervals by a dusky
companion star, the existence and motions of which were thus brought
to light.
    * Photographs of tho spectrum of Sirius compared with that of iron, and pho
tographs of the spectra of other stars, showing motions in the line of sight taken
at Potsdam were thrown upon the screen.
    I wish to express my great obligations to Professor Vogel, Professor Pickering,
Professor Holden, M. Deslandres, MM. Henry, Dr. Be'lopolsky, Dr. Roberts, ami
Father SiJgreaves, for photographs of star-motions and of the New Star, and its
spectrum, many of which were specially prepared for this lecture. The photo
graphs not suitable for throwing upon the screen were exhibited in the Library.
      VOL. XIII. (No. 86 )                                             2 T

618                       Mr. William Huggint                  [May 13,
    If the plane of the star-system is inclined to the line of sight, the
dark body might pass above or below the bright one as seen from
the earth, and not eclipse it. Vogel had the good fortune to discover
such a system in Spiea, which he showed to consist of a pair of great
suns, one bright and the other dark, or nearly so, whirling round
their common centre of gravity in abont four days.
     If, however, in a binary system both stars are bright, the minute
stellar point formed in the telescope will contain the light of both
stars ; and its spectrum will be a compound one, the spectrum of one
bright star being superposed upon that of the other. If the spectra
are identical, all the lines will be really double, though apparently
single when the stars have no relative motion ; and will open and
close in periods depending upon the stars' motions.
     Such a system was first made known to us spectroscopically by
Prof. Pickering from his photographs of Mizar, which consists of a
pair of gigantic blazing suns, equal together to forty times the sun's
mass and whirling round their common centre of gravity with the
speed of about 50 miles a second. Then followed at Harvard the
discovery in !i Auriga of an order of close binary stars hitherto un
known. In Fig. 2 of Plate I. are reproduced the original photographs
showing the duplication every second day of the lines in the spectra
of this double star ; the doubling is well seen in K, which is very
narrow in this star.
     Now it is to this method of spectroscopic observation that we are
indebted for the revelation of the remarkable state of things existing
in the new star. I may remark, in passing, that it is not a little sur
prising that a new star as bright as the fifth magnitude should have
burst out almost directly overhead in the heavens, and yet have
remained undiscovered for nearly seven weeks. Europe and the
United States bristle every clear night with telescopes pointed from
open observatories, which are served by an army of astronomers;
and yet the honour of the discovery of the new star is due to an
amateur, Mr. Anderson, possessed only of a small pocket-telescope
and a star-chart. Happily the days are not over when discoveries
can be made without an armoury of instruments.
     As soon as the news reached Cambridge, U.S., Prof. Pickering,
by means of photographs which had been taken there, was able to
 cause the part of the sky where the new star appeared, to pass again
 under his examination, precisely as it had appeared at successive
 intervals during the last six years ; but the new star's place had
 remained unoccupied all that time by any star so bright as of the
 eleventh magnitude.
     For about a year a still closer watch has been kept upon the sky
 at Cambridge by means of a photographic transit instrument driven
 by clockwork, which automatically patrols the sky every clear night,
 and registers upon one plate all stars as bright as of the sixth mag
 nitude, within a great zone 60° in breadth, and three hours of Right
 Ascension in length. On December 1 the Nova did not appear upon

     -
 i
'8,
 31
 35•
       f
       ^
       i-3
       -
       p
       to

j. Jil i V E -'- ' i.
 V^frr;' ^


9
£

 1892.]                 on the New Star in Auriga.                  619
the plate, but the next night that was clear, December 10th, the
Nova is recorded as of the fifth magnitude. Most fortunately, on
December 8, Dr. Max Wolf photographed this part of the constella
tion of Auriga, but no star so bright as of the ninth magnitude was to
be found where the Nova afterwards appeared.
    The new star must therefore have sprung up to the brightness of
the fifth magnitude between the 8th and the 10th of December last.
    At that early time the Nova was not nebulous on Prof. Pickering's
plates. The question has been raised since whether the star was
surrounded by a faint nebula. To us, in our observations, it appeared
like an ordinary star ; but the point may be considered set at rest
by photographs taken by Mr. Roberta, which by his kindness I am
able to throw upon the screen. With an exposure of over three
hours, there is only the usual small fringe of nebulosity due to our
atmosphere, and which is present also about the other stars on the
plate. How searching a test for faint nebulous matter is so long an
exposure, is strikingly shown by contrasting a short exposure plate
of the Pleiades, where nebula do exist, with a photograph on which
the light action has been prolonged for nearly four hours. The
Nova is free from nebulosity in photographs which have been sent to
me by the Brothers Henry, and by Prof. Holden of the Iack
Observatory.
    The changes of magnitude of the Nova as shown by photographs
taken at Greenwich, from eye-observations at Prof. Pritchard's ob
servatory, and by Mr. Stone and by Mr. Knott, are recorded in the
diagram on the wall. These observations show that notwithstanding
continual fluctuations a slow but steady decline had set in, carrying
the light of the star from nearly the fourth and one-half magnitude
down to the sixth magnitude by the early days of March ; but after
March 7th, these swayings to and fro of its light, set up probably by
commotions attendant on the causes of the star's outhurst, calmed down,
and the light fell rapidly and with regularity to about the eleventh
magnitude by March 24th, and then down to 14 '5th magnitude by
April 1st. On April 26th, however, it was still visible at Harvard
observatory as a star of the 14 ' 5th magnitude.
    We commenced our observations on February 2nd. The spectrum
of the star in the visible region is represented in Fig. 1 of Plate II.
Below the star's spectrum are placed the terrestrial spectra with
which it was directly compared. The spectrum showed a brilliant
array of bright lines, among which four in the green were very
conspicuous.
    The brightest of these we recognised as the second line of hydro
gen, and passing the eye to the red, we saw blazing the first line of
hydrogen at C ; the blue line near 6 was also visible. But a remark
able phenomenon presented itself in that each bright line seemed to
cast a shadow, for on the blue side of each was a narrow space of
intense blackness. When we threw into the spectroscope for com
parison the bright lines of hydrogen, the secret of this unusual
                                                           2 T 2

620                       Mr. William Huggins                  [May 13,
appearance was revealed. The hydrogen line did not fall npon the
middle of the F line, but upon one side. We had before us a magni
ficent example, on a grand scale, of motions in the line of sight—two
mighty streams of hydrogen fleeing from each other ; the hotter one,
emitting the bright lines, going from us ; the cooler producing the
dark shadows by absorption, coming towards us, indicating a relative
velocity of about 550 miles a second.
    Direct comparisons of the bright line near the position of the
chief nebular line, with lines of nitrogen and lead, showed that the
stellar line was less refrangible than the principal nebular line. The
second nebular line was not present in the star. The spectrum of the
Nova showed, therefore, no relationship with the well-known spectrum
of the bright-lined nebulte.
    A similar want of relationship of the spectrum of the new star
with the usual hydro-carbon spectrum of comets was shown by direct
comparison with the Bunsen flame. The bright line near b differs in
position and in character from the beginning of the brightest band of
the Bunsen flame spectrum, and no bright lines were found in the
star at the positions of the other bright bands of this spectrum.
    This bright line in the star falls very near the magnesium triplet
at l>, but a careful comparison of the spark spectrum of mag
nesium leaves little doubt that it does not owe its origin to this
substance.
    The sodium line at D is bright in the spectrum of the star, in
which appears also a thin bright line at about the position of I >.,.
The continuous spectrum extended, when the star was brightest, below
C in the red, and as far into the blue beyond G as the eye could follow
it. The spectrum in Fig. 2 of Plate II. is from a photograph of the
spectrum of the Nova which we took on February 22nd, using a
mirror of speculum metal and a spectroscope with a prism of Iceland
spar and lenses of quartz, so that the extreme violet part of the star's
light was not cut off by passing through glass. The brilliant lines
followed by absorptions, and the fainter continuous spectrum were
found to extend upon the plate nearly as far as the light of Sirius,
and not far short of the place where our atmosphere cuts off all
celestial light. A photograph of the spectrum of Sirius showing
the group of lines near the end of the spectrum has been added for
comparison. In the star the whole range of the hydrogen lines,
including the ultra-violet series and the calcium lines 11 and K, were
bright, each accompanied on the blue side by a dark absorption
band. In this respect, as well as in the positions of the principal
bright lines in the visible region, the Nova suggested a state of
things not unlike what we find in the erupted matter at the solar
surface.
    M. Deslandres permits me to reproduce in Fig. 3, Plate I., the
photograph of a remarkable prominence taken on March 4th, 1892,
in which are reversed not only H and K, and the known hydrogen
series, but three additional members are to be seen at the more

  1892.]                   on the New Star in Auriga.                    621
  refrangible end, the positions of which M. Deslandres informs me
 fall into Balmer's formula for the hydrogen scries.*
      The resemblance of the spectrum of the Nova to that of the
 erupted solar surface is further shown in a remarkable feature of
 great significance in the character of the hydrogen lines both bright
 and dark. On February 2nd we noticed that the F line was not of
 uniform brightness throughout its breadth. We soon came to the con
 clusion that it was divided, not quite symmetrically, by a very narrow
 dark line. The more refrangible component was brighter, and
 rather broader than the other. Later on in February, we were sure
 that small alterations were taking place in this line, and that the
 component on the blue side no longer maintained its superiority.
 We suspected, indeed, at times that the line was triple, and towards
 the end of February and in the beginning of March we had no
 longer any doubt that it was occasionally divided into three bright
 lines by the incoming of two very narrow dark lines.
     Similar alterations, giving a more or less apparent multiple
 character to the lines, are to be seen not only in the bright lines,
 but also in those of absorption in contemporary photographs taken
 of the spectrum of the star. I may mention those taken at Potsdam,
 Stonyhurst, and the Lick Observatory. These changes were specially
 watched and measured by M. Belopolsky at Pulkova.
     Prof. Pickering informs me that on a photograph taken at Cam
 bridge, U.S., on February 27th, H, K, and a are triple, and that Miss
Manry recorded, " the dark hydrogen lines rendered double, and
sometimes triple, by the appearance of fine bright threads super
posed upon the dark bands."
     Now, when on the sun's surface, or in the laboratory, portions of
 the same gas at different temperatures come in before each other, the
cooler gas may cause a narrow absorption line to form upon a broader
bright line, and thus impart to it the appearance of a double line ;
or in the case of hotter gas, a narrow bright line upon a dark line.
Prof. Liveing and your distinguished Professor of Chemistry, Prof.
Dewor— whose researches with the electric arc-crucible have made
them specially familiar with the ever-changing guises and disguises
of this protean phenomenon of reversal—have recorded cases not only
of double reversals, giving apparent triplicity to single bands, but
also of threefold reversals. The phenomenon of the unsymmetrical
division of the bright and dark lines which was occasionally seen in
the Nova frequently presents itself in the laboratory from the unequal
expansion on the two sides of the line on which the reversed line
falls ; and at the solar surface from the relative motions in the line
of sight of the hotter and cooler portions of the gas taking part in
the phenomenon. Unless we accept this obvious interpretation of
the apparent multiple character of the stellar lines, we should have
    * M. Deslaudres has detected since two more lines, thus adding five new
lines to the hydrogen series.

 622                        Mr. William Huggiru                [May 13,
to assume a system of at least six bodies, all moving with different
velocities.
     In Fig. 1, Plate I., is reproduced a photograph of the blue part
of the spectrum taken at Harvard Observatory with a prism placed
over the object-glass. The dark absorption lines on the blue side of
the bright lines are well shown.
     It is of great importance to state that the waning of the star
was not accompanied by any material change of its spectrum, but only
of such apparent changes as might well come in when parts of an
object differ greatly in brightness. On March 24th, when the star's
light had fallen so low as to nearly the eleventh magnitude, we could
still glimpse the faint continuous spectrum, upon which the remark
able quartet of bright lines still shone out without any great change
of relative intensity. Prof. Pickering informs mo that on his
plates the principal lines in the photographic part of the spectrum
" faded in the order K, H, a, F, i, G, the latter becoming brighter as
the star was faint." Omitting the calcium lines H and K, which
varied, the order of disappearance agrees with that of the sensitive
ness of the plate for these parts of the spectrum, and is in accordance
with the view that the star's spectrum remained without material
alteration through this great range of magnitude.
     How are wo to account for the appearance and doings of this new
star, or rather stars ? For, as we have seen, the great shifts in the
spectrum of the bright and dark lines, the bright to the red, and the
dark to the blue, appear to show two bodies having relative motion
in the line of sight of about 550 miles a second. Now, during the
whole time, some seven weeks, that the star was under observation,
this relative velocity was maintained without any great alteration,
though it is probable that small changes, beyond the reach of our
instruments, took place.
    A reasonable explanation of these phenomena may perhaps be
found if we venture to assume, though with considerable hesitation,
as the subject is obscure, two gaseous bodies, or bodies with gaseous
atmospheres, moving away from each other after a near approach, in
parabolic or hyperbolic orbits, with our sun nearly in the axis of the
orbits ; the components of the motions of the two bodies in the lice of
sight, after they had swung round, might well be as rapid as those
observed in the new star, and might continue for as long a time
without any great change of relative velocity. Unfortunately, infor
mation as to the motions of the bodies at the critical time is wanting,
for the event through which the star became suddenly bright had
been over for some lorty days before any observations were made with
the spectroscope.
    Analogy from the variable stars of long period would suggest
the view that the near approach of the two bodies may have been
of the nature of a periodical disturbance, arising at long intervals
in a complex system of bodies. Chandler has recently shown in
the case of Algol thnt the minor irregularities in the variation of

1892.]                 on (he New Star in Auriga.                   623
its light are probably caused by the presence of one or more bodies
in the system, besides the bright star and the dusky one which
partially eclipses it. To a similar cause are probably due the minor
irregularities which form so prominent a feature in the waxing and
waning of the variable stars as a class. We know that the stellar
orbits are usually very eccentric. In the case of y Virginis the
eccentricity is as great as 0'9, and Auwers has recently found the
very considerable eccentricity of 0 ' 63 for Sirius.
    The great relative velocity of the component stars of the Nova,
however, seems to force us to look rather to the casual near approach
of bodies possessing previously considerable motion, unless we are
willing to concede to them a mass very great as compared with that
of our sun. Such a near approach of two bodies of great size is very
greatly less improbable than would be their actual collision. The
phenomena of the new star scarcely permit us to suppose even a
partial collision ; though if the bodies were very diffuse, or the
approach close enough, there may have been possibly some mutual
interpenetration and mingling of the rarer gases near their boundaries.
    A more reasonable explanation of the phenomena, however, may be
found in a view put forward many years ago by Klinkerfues, and
recently developed by Wilsing, that under such circumstances of near
approach enormous disturbances of a tidal nature would be set up,
amounting it may well be to partial deformation in the case of gaseous
bodies, and producing sufficiently great changes of pressure in the
interior of the bodies to give rise to enormous eruptions of the hotter
matter from within, immensely greater, but similar in kind, to solar
eruptions ; and accompanied probably by large electrical disturb
ances.
     In such a state of things we should have conditions so favourable
for the production of reversals undergoing continual change, similar
to those exhibited by the bright and dark lines of the Nova, that we
could not suppose them to be absent ; while the integration of the
light from all parts of the disturbed surfaces of the bodies would
give breadth to the lines, and might account for the varying inequal
ities of brightness at the two sides of the lines.
     The source of the light of the continuous spectrum upon which
 were seen the dark lines of absorption shifted towards the blue, must
 have remained, as seen by us, behind the cooler absorbing gas, so as
 to form a background to it ; indeed, must have formed with it the
 body which was approaching us, unless we assume that both bodies
 were moving exactly in the line of sight, or that the absorbing gas
 was of enormous extent.
     The circumstance that the receding body emitted bright lines,
 while the one approaching us gave a continuous spectrum with broad
 absorption lines similar to a white star, may, perhaps, be accounted
 for by the two bodies being in different evolutionary stages, and con
 sequently differing in diffuseness and in temperature. Indeed, in the
 variable star /3 Lyra, we have probably a binary system, of which

624     Mr. William Hugging on the New Star in Auriga.           [May 13,
one component gives bright lines, and the other dark lines of absorp
tion. We mast, however, assume a similar chemical nature for both
bodies, and that they existed tinder conditions sufficiently similar for
equivalent dark and bright lines to appear in their respective spectra.
    We have no knowledge of the distance of the Nova, but the
assumption is not an improbable one that its distance may be of the
same order of greatness as that of the Nova of 1876, for which Sir
Robert Ball failed to detect any parallax. In this case, the light-
emission suddenly set up, certainly within two days and possibly
within a few hours, was probably much greater than that of our sun ;
yet within some fifty days after it had been discovered, at the end of
January, its light fell to about l/300th part, and in some three
months to nearly the l/10,000th part. As long as its spectrum
could be observed the chief lines remained without material altera
tion of relative brightness. Under what conditions could we suppose
the sun to cool down sufficiently for its light to decrease to a similar
extent in so short a time, and unaccompanied with the incoming of
very material changes in its spectrum. It is scarcely conceivable that
we can have to do with the conversion of gravitational energy into
light and heat. On the theory we have ventured to suggest, the
rapid calming down, after some swayings to and fro of the tidal
disturbances, and the closing in again of the outer and cooler gases,
together with the want of transparency which might come in under
such circumstances, as the bodies separated ; might account reason
ably for the very rapid and at first curiously fluctuating waning of the
Nova, and also for the observed absence of change in its spectrum.
    I may, perhaps, be permitted to remark that the view suggested
by Dr. William Allen Miller and myself, in the case of the Nova of
1866, was essentially similar, in so far as we ascribed it to erupted
gases. The great suddenness of the outburst of that star, within
a few hours probably, and the rapid waning from the 3 • 6 magni
tude to the 8'1 magnitude in nine days, induced us to throw out
the additional suggestion that possibly chemical actions between
the erupted gases and the outer atmosphere of the star may have
contributed to its sudden and transient splendour, a view which,
though not impossible, I should not now, with our present know
ledge of the light changes of stars, be disposed to suggest.
    The subject is necessarily obscure, but we must not on this account
feebly relinquish the hope of conquest. The words of a great Seer
may well be taken as the watchword of the Astronomer :—
                                  ..." Fervent love,
                     And lively hope, with violence assail
                     The kingdom of the heav'ns, and overcome '
                                                                [W. H.]

1892.]          Mr. J. Wilson Swan on Electro-Metallurgy.            625
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 20, 1892.
 DAVID EDWARD HUGHES, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                      J. WILSON SWAN, Esq. M.A.
                           Electro-Metallurgy.
THIS is not the first time a lecture has been delivered here on
electro-metallurgy. I find that so long ago as January 1841 there
was a lecture on the subject by Mr. Brand.
    At that time electro-metallurgy was very new and very small. 1^
consisted solely of electro-plating and electrotype. Electro-plating
had already begun to be practised as a regular industry, but it was
still a question whether the now kind of plating was good, and there
were not a few silversmiths who would not offer electro-plate for sale
because of its supposed inferiority to plate of the old style. That
question has long been definitely settled by the fact that every week
more than a ton of silver is deposited in the form of electro-plate.
     Electrotype in 1841 was not so far advanced—it had not then
been taken hold of by the artisan and manufacturer—it was still in
the hands of the amateur.
     While the voltaic battery was the cheapest source of electric
current, electro-metallurgy was necessarily restricted to artistic
metal work, or to those applications where the fine quality of the
electrotype cast outweighed the consideration of its cost, or where
only a thin film of metal was required for the protection of a baser
metal from the action of the air.
    Within this limited field, the electro deposition of copper, of
gold, of silver, of iron, and of nickel, has been carried on commer
cially with very great success and advantage for almost the whole
period of the existence of the art. But beyond these bounds, set
by the limitation of cost, it could not pass.
    Now, all this is changed—since engineer and electrician have
united their efforts to push to the utmost the practical effect of
Faraday's great discovery, of the principle of generating electric
currents by motive power. The outcome is the modern dynamo,
with its result—cheap electricity. The same cause that has led to
electric lighting, and to the electric transmission of power, has also
led to a very great development of electro-metallurgic industry, and
not only in the old directions but in new. It is no longer a matter of
depositing ounces or pounds of metal, but of tons and thousands of
tons. And it is no longer with metal deposition merely that electro
metallurgy now deals, but also with the extraction of metals from their

  626                       Mr. J. Wilson Swan                   [May 20,
  ores, and the fusion and welding of metals. Electro-metallurgy has
  in fact grown BO large and many-branching, that it is impossible to
  treat it in a complete manner in a single hour.
      One of the latest developments is electric welding. This, in
  one of its forms, that invented by Elilui Thomson, has recently
  been so thoroughly explained and demonstrated by Sir Frederick
  Bramwell, that it is not necessary for me to do more than mention
  it as belonging to the subject.
      There is also another species of electric welding—that of Dr.
  Benardos—in which the electric arc is used after the manner of a blow
  pipe flame, to obtain the welding of such forms and thicknesses of
  iron, steel, and other metals, as would be difficult or impossible to
  weld in any other way ; and not only is the electric blow-pipe used
  for welding, but also for the repair of defects in steel and iron
  castings, by the fusion of pieces of metal, of the same kind as the
  casting, into the faulty place, so as to make it completely sound.
  This new kind of electric welding, as improved by Mr. Howard,
  is now of sufficient importance to entitle it to the full occu
  pation of an evening. I therefore propose to leave it for detailed
  description to some other lecturer, and content myself with calling
  your attention to the interesting collection of specimens on the table,
  and in the Library (lent by Messrs. Lloyd & Lloyd), showing the
  results of this process.
       Even with this curtailment, the extent of the field is still too
  great, and I must reduce it further by omitting a considerable section
' of that portion which relates to the extraction of metals from their
  ores, and, in this connection, only speak of the extraction of
  aluminium.
       But, in the first place, I am going to speak of the deposition
  of copper, and you will pardon me if I treat it as if you were un
  acquainted with the subject.
       One of the wonderful things about the electro-deposition of
  copper, and in fact any other metal deposited from a solution of its
  salt in water, is, that bright, hard, solid metal, such as we are
   accustomed to see produced by means of fusion, can, by the action
  of the electric current, bo made to separate from a liquid which has
  no appearance of metal about it.
       The beginning of every electro-deposition process is the making
   a solution of the metal to be deposited. I am going to dissolve a
   piece of copper, the most elementary of all chemical operations, but
   I want to make it quite clear where the metal to be deposited comes
   from—to show that it is actually in the solution, and actually comes
   out of it again ; for that is an effect so surprising, that it requires
   both imagination and demonstration to make it evident. There is
   projected on the screen a glass cell containing nitric acid. Mr.
  Lennox will put into it a piece of copper. He has done so; it
  quickly disappears, and a blue solution of copper nitrate is formed.
  Now, if I pass an electic current through this solution, or through

1892.]                    on Electro-Metallurgy.                    627
some solution of the same kind, which, to save time, has been pre
pared beforehand, and immerse in it, a little apart from each other—
the positive and negative wires coming from some generator of
electric current—this will happen : metallic copper will come out of
the solution, 'and attach itself as a coating to the negative wire, and
consequently that wire will grow in thickness. At the other wire—
the positive—exactly the reverse action will take place. There, if
the positive wire be copper, it will gradually dissolve, and become
thinner. The quantity of metal deposited on the negative wire will
almost exactly equal the quantity dissolved from the positive, and
therefore the solution will contain the same quantity of metal at the
end of the experiment as at first, but it will not l>e the same metal ;
it will be fresh metal dissolved from the positive wire, and the metal
originally contained in the solution will have been deposited as
metallic copper.
    I will show on the screen this process in operation. Here are the
two wires I spoke of. The electric circuit, which includes these two
wires, is so arranged that on its completion the thick wire will be
the positive, and the thin wire the negative. Now please complete
the circuit. One wire (the positive) is carrying an electric current
into the copper solution, and the other (the negative) is carrying the
current away. The solution is conveying the current between the
wires, and one of the incidents of the transport of current from wire
to wire by the solution, is electro-chemical decomposition, or electro
lysis ; and the result of that is, the deposition, out of the solution,
of copper, upon one wire, and the dissolving away, or entering into
solution, of copper, from the other. Now it can be clearly seen that
the wire that was thick is now thin, and the wire that was thin is now
thick.
    Imagine the growing wire to be an electrotype mould, and that
the deposit of copper which formed on the wire has spread over the
surface, and formed a nearly uniform film, and that by continuing the
process it has become thick, that deposit, stripped from the mould,
would be an electrotype.
    Or imagine the negative wire to be a thin sheet of pure copper, and
the positive wire to be a thick sheet of impure copper, and suppose
the action carried on so far that the thin sheet has become thick, by
the deposition of copper upon it from the solution, and the thick
one thin, by its copper entering into solution, that case would
represent the condition of things in electrolytic copper refining.
    Allow your imagination to take one more short flight, and suppose
that this is not a solution of copper, but one of silver, and that the
growing wire is a teapot, to be silvered ; and further, suppose that
the dissolving electrode is silver, and you will then understand the
principle of electro-plating.
    It requires very little explanation to make the ordinary arrange
ment of electrotyping intelligible. Hero is a trough containing
sulphate of copper solution. Here is a mould, that, through the

628                        Mr. J. Wilson Swan                    [May 20,
kindness of Messrs. Elkington, has been prepared for me, this is
connected with the negative pole of a battery—and here is a plate of
copper, connected with the positive pole. \V hen I immerse the mould
in the solution—at about two inches from the copper plate—the
electrical circuit is completed, and the same electrolytic action that
the experiment illustrated will take place. Copper will be deposited
on the mould, and will be dissolved in equal quantity from the copper
plate, and the supply of copper in the solution will thus be kept up.
As it will take a little time to obtain the result I wish to show, I
will put this aside for ten minutes or so, and proceed to speak of
different applications of this principle of copper deposition.
     For the reproduction of fine works of art in metal, electrotype is
unapproachable. The extreme minuteness with which every touch
of graver or modelling-tool is copied by the deposited metal film,
separates electrotype by a wide space from all other modes of casting.
Even the Daguerreotype image is not too exquisitely fine, for electro
type to copy it so perfectly, that the picture is almost as vivid in the
cast as in the original.
    It is this quality that has given to electrotype a role which no
other process can fill, and, so far, its practical utility is not greatly
dependent on the cost of the current. This applies to all those most
beautiful things here and in the Library, lent by Messrs. Elkington.
These could all have been produced commercially even if there
had been nothing better for the generation of the current than
Smee's battery ; a very good battery, by the way, for small operations
in copper deposition. It gives a very low electro-motive force,
and that is a defect, but in copper deposition, the half volt or
so is generally sufficient to produce, automatically, the required
current density.
    One of the uses of electrotype, not greatly affected by the cost of
deposition, is that of the multiplication of printing surfaces. In
these days of illustrated periodicals, electrotype has come more and
more into use for making duplicate blocks from wood engravings,
which would soon be worn out and useless if printed from direct. It
is also employed to make casts from set-up type, to be used instead
of ordinary stereotype casts, when long numbers of a book have to be
printed ; also as a means of copying engraved copper-plates. Here
are examples of all these uses of the electrotype process. The electro-
blocks are lent by Messrs. Bichardson & Co., and the copper-plates
by the Director General of the Ordnance Survey Office, Southampton.
    The plates illustrate the method employed at Southampton in the
map printing department. The original plates are not printed from,
except to take proofs. The published maps are all printed from
electrotypes. Here is an original plate—here the matrix, or first
electro, with, of course, all the lines raised, which are sunk in the
original. The second electro is, like the original, an intaglio. Here
is a print from it, and here one from the original plate. Practically
they are indistinguishable from each other, and bear eloquent testi

1892.]                    on Electro-Metallurgy.                     629
mony to the wonderful power of electrotype to transmit an exceedingly
faithful copy of such a surface.
    Nickel, has, of late years, come into extensive use for what is
termed nickel-plating, as applied to coating polished steel and brass
with nickel. Kickel, not only has the advantage over silver of cheap
ness, but also, in some circumstances, of greater resistance to the
action of the air.
    Another metal, usually deposited in the form of a coating, is iron.
The electrolytic deposit of iron is peculiarly hard—so much so, that
it is commonly, but erroneously spoken of as 8/eeZ-facing. The
deposition of a film of iron upon engraved copper-plates, as a means
of preventing the wear incidental to their use in being printed from,
has become almost universal. Valuable etchings, mezzo-tints, and
photogravure plates are thus made to bear a thousand or more impres
sions without injury. By dissolving off the iron veil with weak acid,
when the first signs of wear appear on the surface of the plate, and
re-coating it with iron, an engraved copper-plate is, for all practical
purposes, everlasting.
     In this case, of course, the film of iron is extremely thin—one or
two hundred thousandths of an inch. But it is possible to produce
most of the metals commonly used as coatings, in a more massive
form. Here, for example, is an iron rod half-an-inch in diameter,
entirely formed by electrolytic deposition. I am indebted to Mr.
Roberts-Austen for being able to show this, and also for this other
example of a solid. deposit of iron, and for this beautiful specimen of
electrolytic coating with iron. Here also are solid deposits of silver.
This drinking cup is a solid silver electro-deposit.
     These are all departments of electro-metallurgy which would have
 maintained a perfectly healthy industrial existence and growth without
 the dynamo ; but now I come to speak of a branch of the subject—
 electrolytic copper refining—which, without that source of cheap
electricity, could not have existed. This is the most extensive of
 all the applications of electro-chemistry, and is rendering valuable
 assistance to electrical engineering by the improvement it has led to
 in the conductivity of copper wire.
     One of the results of this is seen in the raising of the commercial
 standard of electrical conductivity.
     Ten years ago, contracts for copper wire for telegraphy, stipulated
for a minimum conductivity of 95 per cent, of Matthiessen's standard
 of pure copper; Now, chiefly owing to electrolytic refining, a con
ductivity of 100 per cent, is demanded by the buyer and conceded by
the manufacturer.
     To show the difference between the past and present state of
 things in relation to the commercial conductivity of copper, I am
 going to exhibit on the screen measurements of the resistance of six
 pieces of wire of equal length and equal cross section—they have
 been drawn through the same drawplate. Three of the pieces are
 new, and three are old. The three new pieces are made from elec

630                         Mr. J. Wilson Swan                 [May 20,
trolytic copper, and are representative of the present state of things.
The three old pieces are taken from three well known old submarine
telegraph cables, and they show how very bad the copper was when
it was first employed for telegraphic purposes, and how great has
been the improvement. I will take No. 1 wire as the standard of
comparison. It is a piece of the wire about to be supplied to the
Post Office Telegraph Department for trunk telephone lines. It will
show the very high standard of conductivity that has been reached in
the copper of commerce. I am indebted for it, and for two out of
three of the old cable wires, to Mr. Preece. No. 2 wire is made from
electrolytic copper, deposited in my own laboratory. No. 3 is also
electrolytic copper, but such as is commercially produced in electro
lytic copper refining, it has been supplied to me by Mr. Bolton, to
whom I am also indebted for wire No. 6—a particularly interesting
specimen : it is from the first Trans-Atlantic cable—the cable of '58.
No. 4 wire is from the Ostend cable of 1860, and No. 5 wire is from
the old Dutch cable. These wires are so arranged that I can send a
small and constant current partly through any one of them, and
partly through a galvanometer. When this is done the result will be
a deflection of the spot of light on the scale from the zero point to an
extent corresponding to the resistance of the particular wire in the
circuit. The worse the wire is, the greater will be the deflection.
We will begin with the Post Office sample first. I connect the
galvanometer terminals to wire No. 1, you see there is a deflection of
ten degrees. I will now shift the contacts to wire No. 2 —exactly
the same length of wire is included—but now you see there is a
deflection of slightly less than ten degrees, showing that this wire
has a little lower resistance than No. 1. The difference is very small
—it may be 2 per cent.—and 2 per cent. less of it would be required
to conduct as well as the No. 1 wire. The next is No. 3. This ia
Mr. Bolton's wire, and shows a resistance almost equal to the last.
     Nos. 1, 2, and 8 are, therefore, nearly alike, and have a degree of
conductivity almost as high as it can possibly be.
     Now we come to the three old wires.
     We will take No. 4 (the Ostend cable). There, you see, is a
great difference. Instead of spot of light being on the tenth degree, it
is upon the eleventh.
     We will now try No. 5 (the Dutch cable). That drives the index
to 17.
     Now I change to No. 6 (the old Atlantic cable), and we have a
deflection of no less than 25 degrees. I suppose we may assume that
this wire fairly represents the commercial conductivity of copper in
1858, for it is highly probable that for a work so important as the
first Atlantic cable every care would be taken in the selection of
the copper.
     The result of this experiment shows that the copper of that cable
was extremely bad as a conductor, that in fact it is 150 per cent,
 worse than the best commercial copper of to-day. In other words, it

1892.]                   on Electro-Metallurgy.                     G31
shows that, in point of electrical conductivity, one ton of the copper
of to-day will go as far as two-and-a-half tons of such copper as
was used for the cable of '58.
     This change is largely due to electrolytic copper refining.
    The process of electrolytic copper refining is the same in principle
as that which produced the thickening of one of the wires and the
thinning of the other in my first experiment. To prepare the crude
copper for the refining process it is cast into slabs ; these form the
anodes, and correspond to the wire which in my experiment became
thin. The cathodes, corresponding to the wire which became thick,
are formed of thin plates of pure copper. Here are plates such as
are used in electrolytic copper refining works. They are portions
of actual cathodes and anodes, and represent the state of things at
the commencement, and at the end, of the depositing operation—an
operation that takes several weeks to complete, and effect the great
 change these plates show. In copper refining works, an immense
 number of these plates, each having 6 to 10 square feet of superficial
 area, are operated upon together, in a great number of large wooden
 vats, containing sulphate of copper solution and a small proportion of
 sulphuric acid. Electric current from a dynamo, driven by a steam-
 engine or water-power, is conveyed by massive copper conductors to
 the vats, arranged in long lines of 50 or 100 or more in series.
 Thick copper bars connect adjoining vats, and provide a positive and
 negative support for the plates, which hang in the solution, opposite
 each other, two or three inches apart. During the process, the
 impure slabs dissolve, and at the same time pure copper is deposited
 from the solution upon the thin plates. The deposition and dis
 solving go on slowly, in some cases very slowly, for a slow action
 takes less power, and gives purer copper than a more rapid one. The
 usual rate is one to ten amperes per square foot of cathode surface.
 You will better realise what these rates of deposit mean, when I say
 that one ampere per square foot rate of deposition gives for each foot
 of cathode surface, nearly one ounce of copper in twenty-four hours,
 and a thickness of one-eight hundredth of an inch ; and therefore
 the production of one ton of copper, at that rate, in twenty-four
 hours, would require a cathode surface in the vats, in round numbers,
 of 36,000 square feet. At the higher rate of ten amperes per square
 foot, which is used where coal is cheap, one-tenth of this area
 would be required.
     The importance of the electrolytic copper refining industry,
 and the extent of the plant connected with it, may be inferred from
 the fact that, reckoning the united production of all the electrolytic
 copper works in the world, nearly one ton of copper is deposited
 every quarter of an hour.
     Very little power is required for copper deposition if the extent
 of the dissolving and depositing surfaces is large, relatively to the
 quantity of copper deposited in a given time.
     Some of the impurities ordinarily found in crude copper are

632                         Mr. J. Wilson Swan                   [May 20,
valuable. Silver and gold are common impurities, and these, and
some other impurities, do not enter into solution, but fall down as
black mud, are recovered, and go to diminish the cost of the
process, or increase the profit ; and even those impurities which enter
into solution, are, under ordinary conditions, almost completely
separated.
    Electrolytic copper refining is both an economical and an effective
process. The deposited copper is exceptionally pure. At one time
it was supposed that it must necessarily be quite pure, but this is
not the case ; other metals can be deposited with the copper, but it is
not difficult to realise in practice a close approximation to absolute
purity in the deposited copper. Here is an example of the deposition
of a mixed metal—brass, that is, copper and zinc deposited together,
and there are in the Library a number of interesting specimens of
mixed metal deposition. These deposits of brass and other alloys
show that more than one metal can be deposited at the same time.
The great enemy to conductivity in copper is arsenic, and the depo
sition of arsenic as well as copper, is one of the things to be guarded
against in electrolytic copper refining. Not only are the chemical
characteristics of electrolytically refined copper generally good, but its
mechanical properties are largely controllable. Usually electrolytic
copper is melted down and cast into billets of the form required for
rolling and wire-drawing. This treatment not only involves cost, but
the copper is apt to imbibe impurity during fusion ; though, if the
process is carefully conducted, the deterioration is slight.
    But it is evident that the re-melting of the deposited copper is a
thing to be avoided, if possible, and the question naturally arises,
why, now that deposition costs so little, may not the beantiful prin
ciple which comes into play in electrotype, and which enables the
most complicated forms to be faithfully copied, be taken advantage of
to give to plainer and heavier objects their ultimate form ?
    There are several reasons why this idea is not more frequently
acted upon. One is, that the process of electrolytic deposition is
slow ; another, that knowledge of the conditions necessary for ob
taining a deposit having the required strength, and other qualities,
is not very widespread. Moreover, in the electrolytic deposition of
copper, and indeed of all metals, there is a strong tendency to rough
ness on the outside of the deposit, and to excrescent growths, the
removal of which involves waste of labour and material. These
tendencies can, to a very great extent, be counteracted by careful
manipulation, and the use of suitable solutions, and they can also be
 counteracted by mechanical means. This has been done by Mr.
Elmore. He remedies the faults I have mentioned by causing a
burnisher of agate (arranged after the manner of a tool in a screw-
cutting lathe) to press upon and traverse a revolving cylindrical
surface on which the deposit is taking place, and while it is immersed
in the copper solution. The result is that it is kept smooth and
bright to the end of the process.

1892.]                    on Electro-Metallurgy.                      633
    But the use of the burnisher is not the only means available for
the production of a smooth deposit. It was observed in the early
days of electro-plating how great a change was effected in the character
of the metal deposited, by the presence of a very small quantity of
certain impurities. It was found, for example, that an exceedingly
minute dose of bisulphide of carbon, if put into a bath from which
silver was being deposited, caused the deposit to change from dull to
bright.
    I have lately had experience of a similar kind with nickel and
with copper. I was working with a hot solution of nickel, and up
to a certain point the deposit had the usual dead-grey appearance.
Suddenly, and without doing anything more than putting in a new
cathode, I found the character of the deposit completely changed.
Instead of the grey, tough, adherent deposit, there was produced a
brittle, specular deposit, which scaled off in brilliantly shining flakes
of metal. I sought for the cause of this extraordinary change, and
traced it to the accidental introduction into the solution of a minute
quantity of glue.
    By adding gelatine to a fresh nickel solution I obtained the same
peculiar bright and brittle deposit that had resulted from the accident.
I then made a similar addition to a solution of copper, aud when I
hit the right quantity—an exceedingly minute one—bright copper,
instead of dull or crystalline, was deposited. Here are some speci
mens. These were deposited on a bright surface, and they are bright
on both sides.
    Not only is the copper made bright, under the conditions I have
described, but, if the proportion of the gelatine be carried to the
utmost that is consistent with the production of a bright deposit, it
becomes exceedingly hard and brittle. Beyond this point the deposit
is partly bright and partly dead, the arrangement of the patches of
dead and bright being in some cases very peculiar, and suggestive
of a strong conflict of opposing forces.
    Before I leave the subject of copper deposition, I may mention
that I have found the range of current density within which it is
possible to obtain a deposit of reguline metal, far wider than is
commonly supposed.
    The rate of deposition in copper-refining is usually very slow, and it
is one of the drawbacks of the process, since slow deposition necessi
tates largo plant. But rapid deposition necessitates a larger con
sumption of power, and larger cost on that account, and therefore,
there is a point beyond which it is not good economy to go, in the
direction of more rapid deposition. Still thore are cases, where, if
we had the power to deposit more rapidly, it might bo found useful
to exercise it. The subject of more rapid deposition is also interest
ing from a scientific point of view, I therefore meut.ou au unusual
result I have arrived at in this direction.
    Taking, as one extreme, the slow rate of deposit, of one ampere
per square foot of cathode—a rate not infrequent in copper-refining,
    VOL. XIII. (No. 86.)                                      2 u

634                       Mr. J. Wilson Swan                  [May 20,
I have found that the limit in the other direction is not reached by
a rate of deposit one thousand times faster. I have produced, and
I hope to be able to produce before you, a perfectly good deposit of
copper, with a current density of 1000 amperes per square foot of
cathode.
    This cell contains a solution of copper nitrate with a small pro
portion of ammonium chloride. The plate on which I am going to
produce a deposit of copper has an exposed surface of 21 square
inches. Opposite, at a distance of one inch, is a plate of copper.
When I close the circuit, a current of 140 amperes is passing through
the solution. I continue this for just one minute. Now I wash it,
and remove the outer edge so as to detach the deposit, and as you
see, I have a sheet of good copper—an electrotype.
    To have produced a deposit of this thickness at the ordinary
rate used in electrotyping operations, would have occupied more than
an hour.
    In this experiment an extreme degree of rapidity of deposition
has been shown. I do not intend to suggest such a rate as of
practical value. But it is at least interesting, as showing that the
characteristic properties of copper are not less perfectly developed
when the atoms of metal have been piled np one on the other at
this extremely rapid rate than when there is slower aggregation.
    I think it probable that a rate of deposit intermediate between
this rate and the usual one of about 10 amperes per square foot may
frequently be useful, for no doubt the slowness of the rate of
deposit has often prevented electrotype from being made use of,
where, if the rate could have been increased ten times, it might have
been employed with advantage.
    Here are some thick plates, deposited at the rate of 100 amperes
per square foot. They are as solid and as free from flaw as plates
deposited ten times more slowly.
    I said that electrolytic copper-refining owed its existence to the
discovery and improvement of the dynamo, and that other electro-
metallurgic industries had originated from the same cause. One of
these industries is the electrolytic production of aluminium.
    When Deville produced aluminium by the action of sodium on
aluminium chloride, exaggerated expectations were entertained of
the great part it was about to play in metallurgy. It was very
soon found that aluminium had not all the virtues that its too
sanguine friends had claimed for it, but that it had a great many
most valuable properties, and, given a certain degree of cheapness,
a number of useful applications could be found for it. Some
of these are suggested and shown by the various articles made of
aluminium, kindly lent by the Metal Reduction Syndicate, and
metallurgical research is rapidly extending our knowledge of its
importance in connection with the improvement of steel castings,
and the production of bronzes and other alloys of extraordinary
strength. The cost of the aluminium produced by Deville's process

1892.]                     on Electro-Metallurgy.                     635
was too great to permit of its use on any large scale fur these
purposes.
    After Davy demonstrated, by the electrolytic extraction of potas
sium and sodium, the power of the electric current to break down
the strong combination existing between the alkaline metals and
oxygen, it seemed natural to expect that aluminium would also be
reduced by the same means. But Davy did not succeed in producing
any appreciable quantity of aluminium by the electrolytic method.
Deville and Bunsen were more successful, but they did not possess
the modern dynamo : that has made all the difference, between the
small experimental results they achieved, and the industrial produc
tion of to-day, a production now so large that I suppose every day it
amounts to at least one ton, and has resulted in a very great reduction
of the price of the metal.
    There are two electrolytic processes at work. One is the Hall
process —employed at Pitteburg, and at Patricroft, Manchester—and
now in experimental operation here. The other, the Herault pro
cess, worked at Nenhansen, is not greatly different from the Hall
process—the shape of the furnace or crucible is different, and the
composition of the bath yielding the aluminium may be different,
but, in all essentials these two processes are one and the same. They
depend on the electrolysis of a fused bath, composed of cryolite,
aluminium fluoride, fluorspar and alumina. In the Hall process this
mixture is contained in a carbon-lined iron crucible—the cathode in
an electric circuit ; and between which and the anode—a stick of
carbon immersed in the fused bath—a difference of potential of 10 volts
is maintained. In carrying out the process on a manufacturing scale,
there are many of these sticks of carbon to each bath. Here, in our
experimental furnace, there is only one.
    The heat developed by the passing of so large a current as we are
using (180 amperes), through an electrolyte of but a few inches area
in cross section, is sufficient to melt and keep red-hot the fluorides in
which the alumina is dissolved.
    The electrolytic action results in the separation of aluminium
from oxygen. The metal settles to the bottom of the pot, and is
tapped, or ladled out, from time to time as it accumulates. The
oxygen goes to the carbon cylinder, and burns it away at about the
same rate as that at which aluminium is produced. It is only neces
sary to keep up the supply of alumina, to enable the operation to be
continued for a long time. I mean, of course, in addition to the
keeping up of the current, and the supply of carbon at the anode.
    By far the greater part of the cost of aluminium obtained by
electrolysis, is the cost of motive power, 20 horse-power hours
are expended to produce 1 Ib. of aluminium. Therefore it ia
essential for the cheap production of aluminium to have cheap
motive power.
    There is one feature about the Neuhausen production of aluminium
which is very striking, and that is the generation of the electric
                                                           2 u 2

636           Mr. J. Wilson Swan on Electro-Metallurgy.         [May 20,
current by means of water power derived from a portion of the Falls
of the Rhino at Schaffhausen.
    The motive for making use of water power is economy. But
apart from that, it is interesting to see water replacing coal, not only
in the production of power, but also in the production of the heat
required in a smelting furnace.
    Here is the Hall apparatus on a small scale. It is simply a
carbon-lined iron crucible, and a thick stick of carbon. As already
mentioned, the crucible is the cathode, the stick of carbon the anode.
    As the process takes time to get into full operation, it was
commenced some hours ago, and at the rate at which it has been
working, we should by now have produced several ounces of aluminium.
In beginning the process, the charge has first to be melted. This
is done by bringing the carbon stick into contact with the bottom
of the crucible, so as to allow the current to pass from carbon to
carbon to develop heat between the electrodes.
    The alumina compound, which, when melted, forms the bath, is
added, in powder, little by little, and when sufficient is melted, the
carbon stick is raised out of contact with the bottom, and the elec
trolytic action then commences.
    I will now ask Mr. Sample to empty the crucible and let us see
the result of the operation, and while he is doing so I take the
opportunity of expressing my very sincere thanks for his having so
kindly and so successfully carried out this most interesting demon
stration of the latest and one of the most important of all the appli
cations of electricity to metallurgical operations.
    Here is the result of our experiment. It is not very large, cer
tainly, but it is quite enough for our purpose, which is to illustrate
the principle of a newly developed electro-metallurgical industry
directly derived from discoveries made at the Royal Institution.
                                                            [J. W. S.]

 1892.]         Mr. Nikola Tesla on Alternate Currents, rfc.             637
                    EXTRA EVENING MEETING,
                        Thursday, February 4, 1892.
      SIR FREDERICK BRAMWELL, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Honorary
                Secretary and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                            NIKOLA TESLA, Esq.
       Alternate Currents of High Potential and High Frequency.
AT the first outset this investigation was taken up with the view
of studying the effects of rapidly changing electrostatic and electro
magnetic stresses. It was thought, from theoretical considerations,
that some useful observations would be made in following up this
line of experiment by means of properly constructed apparatus ; but
the anticipations were by far surpassed, for a number of unexpected
phenomena were noted, and some novel facts brought to light, which
have opened up a new and promising field of research. Some of the
results obtained are of special interest on account of their direct
bearing upon the problem of producing an efficient illuminant.
    The phenomena which are due to tho changing character of the
stresses are exalted when the time rate of change is increased, hence
the study of these phenomena is much facilitated by the employment
of apparatus adapted especially for the purpose of carrying on such
investigations. With this object in view, several types of alternators
were constructed, capable of giving currents of frequencies from five
to ten thousand and even more. Currents of much higher frequencies
used in some of these experiments, were obtained by disruptively
discharging condensers.
    The construction of the alternators offered at first great difficulties.
To obtain these frequencies it was necessary to provide several
hundred polar projections, which were necessarily small and offered
many drawbacks, and this the more as exceedingly high peripheral
speeds had to be resorted to. In some of the first machines both
armature and field had polar projections. These machines produced
a curious noise, especially when tho armature was started from the
state of rest, the field being charged. The most efficient machine was
found to be one with a drum armature, the iron body of which con
sisted of very thin wire annealed with special care. It was, of course,
desirable to avoid the employment of iron in the armature, and several
machines of this kind, with moving or stationary conductors, were
constructed, but the results obtained were not quite satisfactory, on
account of the great mechanical and other difficulties encountered.
A few of the machines constructed were described in some periodicals
of the past year, notably in the Electrical Engineer, New York,
March 18, 1891.

638                         Mr. Nikola Tesla                     [Feb. 4,
     The study of the properties of the high frequency currents
obtained from these machines ia very interesting, as nearly every
experiment discloses something new.
     Two coils traversed by such a current attract or repel each other
with a force which, owing to the imperfection of our sense of touch,
seems continuous.
     An observation, scarcely foreseen, is that a piece of iron, sur
rounded by a coil through which the current is passing appears to
be continuously magnetised. This apparent continuity might be
ascribed to the deficiency of the sense of touch, but there is evidence
that in currents of such high frequencies one of the impulses pre
ponderates over the other.
     As might be expected, conductors traversed by such currents are
rapidly heated, owing to the increase of the resistance, and the heating
effects are relatively much greater in the iron.
     The hysteresis losses in iron are so great that an iron core, even
if finely subdivided, is heated in an incredibly short time. To give
an idea, an ordinary iron wire of 1/16 inch in diameter inserted
within a coil having 250 turns, with a current estimated to be five
amperes passing through the coil, becomes within two seconds' time
so hot as to scorch wood. Beyond a certain frequency, an iron core,
no matter how finely subdivided, exercises a dampening effect, and it
was easy to find a point at which the impedance of a coil was not
affected by the presence of a core consisting of a bundle of very thin
well annealed and varnished iron wires.                                   /
     Experiments with a telephone, a conductor in a strong magnetic
field, or with a condenser or arc, seem to afford certain proof that
sounds far above the usually accepted limit of hearing would be
perceived if produced with sufficient power.
    The arc produced by these currents possesses several interesting
features. Usually it emits a note the pitch of which corresponds
to twice the frequency of the current, but if the frequency be
sufficiently high it becomes noiseless, the limit of audition being
determined principally by the linear dimensions of the arc. A
curious feature of the arc is its persistency, which is due partly to
the inability of the gaseous column to cool and increase considerably
in resistance, as in the case with low frequencies, and partly to
the tendency of such a high frequency machine to maintain a constant
current.
    In connection with these machines the condenser affords a par
ticularly interesting study. Striking effects are produced by proper
adjustments of capacity and self-induction. It is easy to raise the
electro-motive force of the machine to many times the original value
by simply adjusting the capacity of a condenser connected in the
induced circuit. If the condenser be at some distance from the
machine, the difference of potential on the terminals of the latter may
be only a small fraction of that on the condenser.
    But the most interesting experiences arc made when the tension

1892.]    on Alternate Currents of High Potential and Frequency.      639
of the currents from the machine is raised by means of an induction
coil. In consequence of the enormous rate of change obtainable in
the primary current, much higher potential differences are obtained
than with coils operated in the usual ways, and, owing to the high
frequency, the secondary discharge possesses many striking peculi
arities. Both the electrodes behave generally alike, though it appears
from some observations that one current impulse preponderates over
the other, as before mentioned.
     The physiological effects of the high tension discharge are found
to be so small that the shock of the coil can be supported without
any inconvenience, except perhaps a small burn produced by the
discharge upon approaching the hand to one of the terminals.
     The decidedly smaller physiological effects of these currents are
thought to be due either to a different distribution through the body
or to the tissues acting as condensers. But in the case of an induc
tion coil with a great many turns the harmlessncss is principally due
to the fact that but little energy is available in the external circuit
when the same is closed through the experimenter's body, on account
of the great impedance of the coil.
     In varying the frequency and strength of the currents through
the primary of the coil, the character of the secondary discharge is
greatly varied, and no less than five distinct forms are observed :—A
weak, sensitive thread discharge, a powerful flaming discharge, and
three forms of brush or streaming discharges. Each of these
possesses certain noteworthy features, but the most interesting to
study are the latter.
     Under certain conditions the streams, which arc presumably due to
 the violent agitation of the air molecules, issue freely from all points
of the coil, oven through a thick insulation. If there is the smallest
air-space between the primary and secondary, they will form there
and surely injure the coil by slowly warming the insulation. As they
form even with ordinary frequencies when the potential is excessive,
the air-space must be most carefully avoided.
    These high frequency streamers differ in aspect and properties
from those produced by a static machine. The wind produced by
them is small and should altogether cease if still considerably higher
frequencies could be obtained.
    A peculiarity is that they issue as freely from surfaces as from
points. Owing to this, a metallic vane, mounted in one of the terminals
of the coil so as to rotate freely, and having one of its sides covered
with insulation, is spun rapidly around. Such a vane would not rotate
with a steady potential, but with a high frequency coil it will spin,
even if it be entirely covered with insulation, provided the insula
tion on one side be either thicker or of a higher specific inductive
capacity. A Crookes' electric radiometer is also spun around when
connected to one of the terminals of the coil, but only at very high
exhaustion or at ordinary pressures.
    There is still another and more striking peculiarity of such a

640                        Mr. Ntlcola Tesla                   [Feb. 4,
high frequency streamer, namely, it is hot. The heat is easily per
ceptible with frequencies of about 10,000, even if the potential is
not excessively high. The heating effect is, of course, due to the
molecular impacts and collisions. Could the frequency and potential
be pushed far enough, then a brush could be produced resembling
in every particular a flame and giving light and heat, yet without a
chemical process taking place.
     The hot brush, when properly produced, resembles a jet of burn
ing gas escaping under great pressure, and it emits an extraordinary
strong smell of ozone. The great ozonising action is ascribed to
the fact that the agitation of the molecules of the air is more
violent in such a brush than in the ordinary streamer of a static
machine.
     But the most powerful brush discharges were produced by em
ploying currents of much higher frequencies than it was possible to
obtain by means of the alternators. These currents were obtained
by disruptively discharging a condenser and setting up oscillations.
In this manner currents of a frequency of several hundred thousand
were obtained.
     Currents of this kind produce striking effects. At these fre
quencies, the impedance of a copper bar is so great that a potential
difference of several hundred volts can be maintained between two
points of a short and thick bar, and it is possible to keep an ordinary
incandescent lamp burning at full candle power by attaching the
 terminals of the lamp to two points of the bar no more than a few
 inches apart. When the frequency is extremely high, nodes are
 found to exist on such a bar, and it is easy to locate them by means
 of a lamp.
     By converting the high tension discharges of a low frequency
 coil in this manner, it was found practicable to keep a few lamps
 burning on the ordinary circuit in the laboratory, and by bringing
 the undulation to a low pitch, it was possible to operate small
 motors.
     This plan likewise allows of converting high tension discharges
 of one direction in low tension unidirectional currents, by adjusting
 the circuit so that there are no oscillations. In passing the oscil
 lating discharges through the primary of a specially constructed coil,
 it is easy to obtain enormous potential differences with only few
 turns of the secondary.
     Great difficulties were at the beginning experienced in producing
 a successful coil on this plan. It was found necessary to keep all
 air, or gaseous matter in general, away from the charged surfaces,
 and oil immersion was resorted to. The wires used were heavily
 covered with gutta-percha and wound in oil, or the air was pumped
 out by means of a Sprengel pump.
      The general arrangement was the following : — An ordinary
 induction coil, operated from a low frequency alternator, was used to
 charge Loyden jars. The jars were made to discharge over a single

1892.]    on Alternate Currents of High Potential and Frequency.   641
or multiple gap through the primary of the second coil. To insure
the action of the gap, the arc was blown out by a magnet or air-
blast. To adjust the potential in the secondary a small oil con
denser was used, or polished brass spheres of different sizes were
screwed on the terminals and their distance adjusted.
     When the conditions were carefully determined to suit each
experiment, magnificent effects were obtained.
     Two wires, stretched through the room, each being connected to
one of the terminals of the coil, emit streams so powerful that the
light from them allows distinguishing the objects in the room ;
the wires become luminous even if covered with thick and most
excellent insulation. When two straight wires, or two concentric
circles of wire, are connected to the terminals, and set at the proper
distance, a uniform luminous sheet is produced between them. It
was possible in this way to cover an area of more than one meter
square completely with the streams. By attaching to one terminal
a large circle of wire and to the other terminal a small sphere, the
 streams are focussed upon the sphere, produce a strongly lighted
 spot upon the same, and present the appearance of a luminous cone.
 A very thin wire glued upon a plate of hard rubber of great thick
 ness, on the opposite side of which is fastened a tinfoil coating, is
 rendered intensely luminous when the coating is connected to the
 other terminal of the coil. Such an experiment can bo performed
 also with low frequency currents, but much less satisfactorily.
      When the terminals of such a coil, even of a very small one,
 are separated by a rubber or glass plate, the discharge spreads over
 the plate in the form of streams, threads, or brilliant sparks, and
 affords a magnificent display, which cannot be equalled by the largest
 coil operated in the usual ways. By a simple adjustment it is
 possible to produce with the coil a succession of brilliant sparks,
 exactly like with a Holtz machine.
      Under certain conditions, when the frequency of the oscillation
 is very great, white phantom-like streams are seen to break forth
 from the terminals of the coil. The chief interesting feature about
 them is, that they stream freely against the outstretched hand or
 other conducting object without producing any sensation, and the
 hand may be approached very near to the terminal without a spark
 being induced to jump. This is due presumably to the fact that a
 considerable portion of the energy is carried away or dissipated in
 the streamers, and the difference of potential between the terminal
 and the hand is diminished.
      It is found in such experiments, that the frequency of the vibra
  tion and the quickness of succession of the sparks between the knobs
  affect to a marked degree the appearance of the streams. When
  the frequency is very low, the air gives way in more or less the
  same manner as by a steady difference of potential, and the streams
  consist of distinct threads, generally mingled with thin sparks,
  which probably correspond to the successive discharges occurring

 642                         Mr. Nikola Tesla                    [Feb. 4,
 between the knobs. But when the frequency is very high, and the
 arc of the discharge produces a sound which is loud and smooth
 (which indicates both that oscillation takes place and that the
sparks succeed each other with great rapidity), then the luminous
 streams formed are perfectly uniform. They are generally of a
 purplish hue, but when the molecular vibration is increased by
raising the potential they assume a white colour.
     The luminous intensity of the streams increases rapidly when the
 potential is increased ; and with frequencies of only a few hundred
 thousand, could the coil be made to withstand a sufficiently high
 potential difference, there is no doubt that the space around a wire
 could be made to emit a strong light, merely by the agitation of the
molecules of the air at ordinary pressure.
     Such discharges of very high frequency which render luminous
the air at ordinary pressure we have very likely occasion to witness
in the Aurora borealis. From many of these experiments it seems
reasonable to infer that sudden cosmic disturbances, such as erup
tions on the sun, set the electrostatic charge of the earth in an
extremely rapid vibration, and produce the glow by the violent agita
tion of the air in the upper and even in the lower strata. It is thought
that if the frequency were low, or even more so if the charge were
not at all vibrating, the lower dense strata would break down as in a
lightning discharge. Indications of such breaking down have been
repeatedly observed, but they can be attributed to the fundamental
disturbances, which are few in number, for the superimposed vibration
would be so rapid as to not allow a disruptive break.
    The study of these discharge phenomena has led to the recognition
of some important facts. It was found that gaseous matter must be
most carefully excluded from any dielectric which is subjected to
great, rapidly-changing electrostatic stresses. Since it is difficult to
exclude the gas perfectly when solid insulators are used, it is
necessary to resort to liquid dielectrics. When a solid dielectric is
used, it matters little how thick and how good it is ; if air be present
streamers form, which gradually heat the dielectric and impair its
insulating power, and the discharge finally breaks through. Under
ordinary conditions the best insulators are those which possess the
highest specific inductive capacity, but such insulators are not the
best to employ when working with these high frequency currents, for
in most cases the higher specific inductive capacity is rather a
disadvantage. The prime quality of the insulating medium for these
currents is continuity. For this reason principally it is necessary to
employ liquid insulators, such as oils. If two metal plates, connected
to the terminals of the coil, are immersed in oil and set a distance
apart, the coil may be kept working for any length of time without a
break occurring, or without the oil being warmed, but if air bubbles
are introduced, they become luminous; the air molecules, by their
impact against the oil, heat it, and after some time cause the insula
tion to give way. If, instead of the oil, a solid plate of the best

1892.] on Alternate Currents of High Potential and Frequency.         643
dielectric, even several times thicker than the oil intervening
between the metal plates, is inserted between the latter, the air having
free access to the charged surfaces, the dielectric invariably is warmed
 and breaks down.
     The employment of the oil is advisable or necessary even with
 low frequencies, if the potentials are such that streamers form, but
only in such cases, as -is evident from the theory of the action. If
 the potentials are so low that streamers do not form, then it is even
disadvantageous to employ oil, for it may, principally by confining
 the heat, be the cause of the breaking down of the insulation.
     The exclusion of gaseous matter is not only desirable on account
of the safety of the apparatus, but also on account of economy,
especially in a condenser, in which considerable waste of power may
 occur merely owing to the presence of air, if the electric density on
 the charged surfaces is great.
     In the course of these investigations a phenomenon of special
 scientific interest has been observed. It may be ranked among the
 brush phenomena, in fact it is a kind of brush which forms at, or
 near, a single terminal in high vacuum. In a bulb with a conducting
 electrode, even if the latter be of aluminium, the brush has only a
 very short existence, but it can be preserved for a considerable length
 of time in a bulb devoid of any conducting electrode. To observe
 the phenomenon it is found best to employ a large spherical bulb
having in its centre a small bulb supported on a tube sealed to the neck
 of the former. The large bulb being exhausted to a high degree, and
the inside of the small bulb being connected to one of the terminals of
 the coil, under certain conditions there appears a misty haze around
 the small bulb, which, after passing through some stages, assumes the
 form of a brush, generally at right angles to the tube supporting the
small bulb. When the brush assumes this form it may be brought to
a state of extreme sensitiveness to electrostatic and magnetic influence.
 The bulb hanging straight down, and all objects being remote from
it, the approach of the observer within a few paces will cause the
 brush to fly to the opposite side, and if he walks around the bulb it
 will always keep on the opposite side. It may begin to spin around
 the terminal long before it reaches that sensitive stage. When it
 begins to turn around, principally, but also before, it is affected by a
 magnet, and at a certain stage it is susceptible to magnetic influence
to an astonishing degree. A small permanent magnet, with its poles
at a distance of no more than two centimetres, will affect it visibly
at a distance of two metres, slowing down or accelerating the rotation
according to how it is held relatively to the brush.
     When the bulb hangs with the globe down, the rotation is always
clockwise. In the southern hemisphere it would occur in the opposite
direction and on the (magnetic) equator the brush should not turn at
all. The rotation may be reversed by a magnet kept at some distance.
The brush rotates best, seemingly, when it is at right angles to the
lines of force of the earth. It very likely rotates, when at its maximum

644                        Mr. Nikola Tesla                        [Feb. 4,
speed, in synchronism with the alternations, say 10,000 times a second.
The rotation can be slowed down or accelerated by the approach or
receding of the observer, or any conducting body, but it cannot be
reversed by putting the bulb in any position. Very curious experi
ments may be performed with the brush when in its most sensitive
state. For instance, the brush resting in one position, the experi
menter may, by selecting a proper position, approach the hand at a
certain considerable distance to the bulb, and he may cause the brush
to pass off by merely stiffening the muscles of the arm, the mere
change of configuration of the arm and imperceptible displacement
 being sufficient to disturb the delicate balance. When it begins to
 rotate slowly, and the hands are held at a proper distance, it is
 impossible to make even the slighest motion without producing a
 visible effect upon the brush. A metal plate connected to the other
 terminal of the coil affects it at a great distance, slowing down tho
 rotation often to one turn a second.
     It is hoped that this phenomenon will prove a valuable aid in the
investigation of the nature of the forces acting in an electrostatic or
 magnetic field. If there is any motion which is measurable going on
 in the space, such a brush would be apt to reveal it. It is, so to
 speak, a beam of light, frictionless, devoid of inertia.
     On account of its marvellous sensitiveness to electrostatic or
 magnetic disturbances it may be the means of sending signals through
 submarine cables with any speed, and even of transmitting intelli
 gence at distance without wires.
     In operating an induction coil with these rapidly alternating
 currents, it is astonishing to note, for the first time, the great import
 ance of the relation of capacity, self-induction, and frequency as
 regards the general result. The combination of these elements pro
 duces many curious effects. For instance, two metal plates are con
 nected to the terminals and set at a small distance, so that an arc is
 formed between them. This arc prevents a strong current to flow
 through the coil. If the arc be interrupted by the interposition of
 a glass plate, the capacity of the condenser obtained counteracts the
  self-induction, and a stronger current is made to pass. The effects
  of capacity are the most striking, for in these experiments, since the
  self-induction and frequency both are high, the critical capacity is
 very small, and need be but slightly varied to produce a very con
 siderable change. The experimenter brings his body in contact with
  the terminals of the secondary of the coil, or attaches to one or both
  terminals insulated bodies of very small bulk, such as exhausted
 bulbs, and he produces a considerable rise or fall of potential on the
 secondary, and greatly affects the flow of the current through the
 primary coil.
      In many of the phenomena observed, the presence of tho air, or,
  generally speaking, of a medium of a gaseous nature (using this term
 not to imply specific properties, but as contradistinction to homo
 geneity or perfect continuity) plays an important part, as it allows

1892.] on Alternate Currents of High Potential and Frequency. 645
energy to be dissipated by molecular impact or bombardment. The
action is thus explained :—
    When an insulated body connected to a terminal of the coil is
suddenly charged to a high potential, it acts inductively upon the
surrounding air, or whatever gaseous medium there might be. The
molecules or atoms which are near it are, of course, more attracted,
and move through a greater distance than the further ones. When
the nearest molecules strike the body they are repelled, and collisions
occur at all distances within the inductive distance. It is now clear
that, if the potential be steady, but little loss of energy can be caused in
this way, for the molecules which are nearest to the body having had
an additional charge imparted to them by contact, are not attracted
until they have parted, if not with all, at least with most of the
additional charge, which can be accomplished only after a great
many collisions. This is inferred from the fact that with a steady
potential there is but little loss in dry air. When the potential,
instead of being steady, is alternating, the conditions are entirely
different. In this case a rhythmical bombardment occurs, no matter
whether the molecules after coming in contact with the body lose the
imparted charge or not, and, what is more, if the charge is not lost,
the impacts are only the more violent. Still, if the frequency of the
impulses be very small, the loss caused by the impacts and collisions
would not be serious unless the potential were excessive. But when
extremely high frequencies and more or less high potentials are used,
the loss may bo very great. The total energy lost per unit of time
is proportionate to the product of the number of impacts per second,
or the frequency and the energy lost in each impact. But the energy
of an impact must bo proportionate to the square of the electric
density of the body, on the assumption that the charge imparted to
the molecule is proportionate to that density. It is concluded from
this that the total energy lost must be proportionate to the product
of the frequency and the square of the electric density ; but this law
needs experimental confirmation. Assuming the preceding considera
tions to be true, then, by rapidly alternating the potential of a body
immersed in an insulating gaseous medium, any amount of energy
may be dissipated into space. Most of that energy, then, is not
dissipated in the form of long ether waves, propagated to considerable
distance, as is thought most generally, but is consumed in impact and
collisional losses—that is, heat vibrations—on the surface and in the
vicinity of the body. To reduce the dissipation it is necessary to
work with a small electric density—the smaller the higher the
frequency.
    The behaviour of a gaseous medium to such rapid alternations of
potential makes it appear plausible that electrostatic disturbances of
the earth, produced by cosmic events, may have great influence upon
the meteorological conditions. When such disturbances occur both
the frequency of the vibrations of the charge and the potential are in
all probability excessive, and the energy converted into heat may be

646                       Mr. Nikola Tesh                       [Feb. 4,
considerable. Since the density must be unevenly distributed, either
in consequence of the irregularity of the earth's surface, or on account
of the condition of the atmosphere in various places, the effect pro
duced would accordingly vary from place to place. Considerable
variations in the temperature and pressure of the atmosphere may in
this manner be caused at any point of the surface of the earth. The
variations may be gradual or very sudden, according to the nature of
the original disturbance, and may produce rain and storms, or locally
modify the weather in any way.
    From many experiences gathered in the course of these investiga
tions it appears certain that in lightning discharges the air is an
element of importance. For instance, during a storm a stream may
form on a nail or pointed projection of a building. If lightning
strikes somewhere in the neighbourhood, the harmless static dis
charge may, in consequence of the oscillations set up, assume the
character of a high-frequency streamer, and the nail or projection
may be brought to a high temperature by the violent impact of the
air molecules. Thus, it is thought, a building may be Bet on fire
without the lightning striking it.
    In like manner small metallic objects may be fused and volati
lised—as frequently occurs in lightning discharges—merely because
they are surrounded by air. Were they immersed in a practically
continuous medium, such as oil, they would probably be safe, as the
energy would have to spend itself elsewhere.
    An instructive experience having a bearing on this subject is the
following :—A glass tube of an inch or' so in diameter and several
inches long is taken, and a platinum wire sealed into it, the wire
running through the centre of the tube from end to end. The tube
is exhausted to a moderate degree. If a steady current is passed
through the wire it is heated uniformly in all parts and the gas in
the tube is of no consequence. But if high frequency discharges are
directed through the wire, it is heated more on the ends than in the
middle portion, and if the frequency, or rate of charge, is high
enough, the wire might as well be cut in the middle as not, for most
of the heating on the ends is due to the rarefied gas. Here the gas
might only act as a conductor of no impedance, diverting the current
from the wire as the impedance of the latter is enormously increased,
and merely heating the ends of the wire by reason of their resistance
to the passage of the discharge. But it is not at all necessary that
the gas in the tube should be conducting ; it might be at an
extremely low pressure, still the ends of the wire would be heated,
as, however, is ascertained by experience, only the two ends would
in such case not bo electrically connected through the gaseous
medium. Now what with these frequencies and potentials occurs in
an exhausted tube, occurs in the lightning discharge at ordinary
pressure.
    From the facility with which any amount of energy may be carried
off through a gas, it is concluded that the best way to render harm

1892.]    on Alternate Currents of High, Potential and Frequency.    647
less a lightning discharge is to afford it in some way a passage through
a volume of gas.
    The recognition of some of the ahove facts has a bearing upon far-
reaching scientific investigations in which extremely high frequencies
and potentials are used. In such cases the air is an important factor
to be considered. So, for instance, if two wires are attached to the
terminals of the coil, and streamers issue from them, there is dissi
pation of energy in the form of heat and light, and the wires behave
like a condenser of larger capacity. If the wires be immersed in oil,
the dissipation of energy is prevented, or at least reduced, and the
apparent capacity is diminished. The action of the air would seem
to make it very difficult to tell, from the measured or computed
capacity of a condenser in which the air is acted upon, its actual
capacity or vibration period, especially if the condenser is of very
small surface and is charged to a very high potential. As many
important results are dependent upon the correctness of the estimation
of the vibration period, this subject demands the most careful scrutiny
of other investigators.
    In Leyden jars the loss due to the presence of air is comparatively
small, principally on account of the great surface of the coatings and
the small external action, but if there are streamers on the top, the
loss may be considerable, and the period of vibration is affected. In
a resonator, the density is small, but the frequency is extreme, and
may introduce a considerable error. It appears certain, at any rate,
that the periods of vibration of a charged body in a gaseous and in
a continuous medium, such as oil, are different, on account of the
action of the former, as explained.
    Another fact recognised, which is of some consequence, is, that in
similar investigations the general considerations of static screening
are not applicable when a gaseous medium is present. This is
evident from the following experiment.
    A short and wide glass tube is taken and covered with a substantial
coating of bronze, barely allowing the light to shine a little through.
The tube is highly exhausted and suspended on a metallic clasp from
the end of a wire. When the wire is connected with one of the
terminals of the coil, the gas inside of the tube is lighted in spite
of the metal coating. Here the metal evidently does not screen the
gas inside as it ought to, even if it be very thin and poorly conducting.
Yet, in a condition of rest the metal coating, however thin, screens
the inside perfectly.
    One of the most interesting results arrived at in pursuing these
experiments, is the demonstration of the fact that a gaseous medium,
upon which vibration is impressed by rapid changes of electrostatic
potential, is rigid. In illustration of this result an experiment may
be cited.
    A glass tube about 1 inch in diameter and 3 feet long, with out
side condenser coatings on the ends, was exhausted to a certain point,
when, the tube being suspended freely from a wire connecting the

648                          Mr. Nikola Tesla                      [Feb. 4,
upper coating to one of the terminals of the coil, the discharge
appeared in the form of a luminous thread, passing through the axis
of the tube. Usually the thread was sharply defined in the upper
part of the tube and lost itself in the lower part. When a magnet
or the finger was quickly passed near the upper part of the luminous
thread, it was brought out of position by magnetic or electrostatic
influence, and a transversal vibration like that of a suspended cord,
with one or more distinct nodes, was set up, which lasted for a few
minutes and died gradually out. By suspending to the lower con
denser coating metal plates of different sizes, the speed of the vibration
was varied. This vibration would seem to show beyond doubt that
the thread possessed rigidity, at least to transversal displacements.
     Many experiments were tried to demonstrate this property in
air at ordinary pressure. Though no positive evidence has been
obtained, it is thought nevertheless, that a high frequency brush or
streamer, if the frequency could be pushed far enough, would be
decidedly rigid. A small sphere might then be moved within it
quite freely, but if thrown against it the sphere would rebound. An
ordinary flame cannot possess rigidity to a marked degree because
the vibration is directionless ; but an electric arc, it is believed, must
possess that property more or less. A luminous band excited in a
bulb by repeated discharges of a Leyden jar must also possess
rigidity, and if deformed and suddenly released should vibrate.
     From like considerations other conclusions of interest may be
made. The most probable medium filling the space is one consist
ing of independent carriers immersed in an insulating fluid. If
through this medium enormous electrostatic stresses are assumed to
act, which vary rapidly in intensity, it would allow the motion of a
body through it, yet it would be rigid and elastic, although the
fluid itself might be devoid of these properties. Furthermore, on
the assumption that the independent carriers are of any configura
tion such that the fluid resistance to motion in one direction is
greater than in another, a stress of that nature would cause the
 carriers to arrange themselves in groups, since they would turn to
each other their sides of the greatest electric density, in which
position the fluid resistance to approach would be smaller than to
receding. If in a medium of the above characteristics a brush would
 be formed by a steady potential, an exchange of the carriers would
 go on continually, and there would be less carriers per unit of
volume in the brush than in the space at some distance from the
 electrode, this corresponding to rarefaction. If the potential were
rapidly changing, the result would be very different : the higher
the frequency of the pulses, the slower would be the exchange of
the carriers ; finally, the motion of translation through measurable
space would cease, and, with a sufficiently high frequency and inten
 sity of the stress, the carriers would be drawn towards the electrode,
and compression would result.
     An interesting feature of these high frequency currents is that

 1892.]     on Alternate Currents of High Potential and Frequency.     649
 they allow to operate all kinds of devices by connecting the device
 with only one leading wire to the source. In fact, under certain
 conditions it may be more economical to supply the electrical energy
  with one lead than with two.
      An experiment of special interest is the running, by the use of
  only one insulated line, of a motor operating on the principle of the
  rotating magnetic field enunciated by the author a few years ago.
  A simple form of such a motor is obtained by winding upon a lami
  nated iron core a primary and close to it a secondary coil, closing
  the ends of the latter and placing a freely movable metal disk within
  the influence of the moving field. The secondary coil may, how
  ever, be omitted. When one of the ends of the primary coil of the
  motor is connected to one of the terminals of the high-frequency
  coil and the other end to an insulated metal plate, which, it should
  be stated, is not absolutely necessary for the success of the experi
  ment, the disk is set in rotation.
       Experiments of this kind seem to bring it within the reach of
  possibility to operate a motor at any point of the earth's surface
  from a central source, without any connection to the same except
  through the earth. If, by means of powerful machinery, rapid varia
  tions of the earth's potential were produced, a grounded wire reach
  ing up to some height would be traversed by a current which could
   be increased by connecting the free end of the wire to a body of
   some size. The current might be converted to low tension and used
   to operate a motor or other device. The experiment, which would
   be one of great scientific interest, would probably best succeed on a
' ship at sea. In this manner, even if it were not possible to operate
   machinery, intelligence might be transmitted quite certainly.
       In the course of this experimental study special attention was
   devoted to the heating effects produced by these currents, which are
   not only striking, but open up the possibility of producing a more
   efficient illuminant. It is sufficient to attach to the coil terminal a
   thin wire or filament, to have the temperature of the latter perceptibly
   raised. If the wire or filament be inclosed in a bulb, the heating
   effect is increased by preventing the circulation of the air. If the
   air in the bulb be strongly compressed, the displacements are
   smaller, the impacts less violent, and the heating effect is diminished.
   On the contrary, if the air in the bulb be exhausted, an inclosed
   lamp filament is brought to incandescence, and any amount of light
   may thus be produced.
        The heating of the inclosed lamp filament depends on so many
   things of a different nature, that it is difficult to give a generally
   applicable rule under which the maximum heating occurs. As re
   gards the size of the bulb, it is ascertained that at ordinary or only
   slightly differing atmospheric pressures, when air is a good insulator,
   the filament is heated more in a small bulb, because of the better
   confinement of heat in this case. At lower pressures, when air
   becomes conducting, the heating effect is greater in a large bulb,
       VOL. XIII, (No. 86.;                                      2 x

650                         Mr. Nikola Tetla                    [Feb. 4,
but at excessively high degrees of exhaustion there seems to be,
beyond a certain and rather small size of the vessel, no perceptible
difference in the heating.
     The shape of the vessel is also of some importance, and it has
been found of advantage for reasons of economy to employ a spheri
cal bulb with the electrode mounted in its centre, where the re
bounding molecules collide.
     It is desirable on account of economy that all the energy supplied
to the bulb from the source should reach without loss the body to
be heated. The loss in conveying the energy from the source to
the body may be reduced by employing thin wires heavily coated
with insulation, and by the use of electrostatic screens. It is to be
remarked, that the screen cannot be connected to the ground as under
ordinary conditions.
     In the bulb itself a large portion of the energy supplied may be
lost by molecular bombardment against the wire connecting the body
to be heated with the source. Considerable improvement was effected
by covering the glass stem containing the wire with a closely fitting
conducting tube. This tube is made to project a little above the glass,
and prevents the cracking of the latter near the heated body. The
effectiveness of the conducting tube is limited to very high degrees
of exhaustion. It diminishes the energy lost in bombardment for
two reasons : firstly, the charge given up by the atoms spreads over
a greater area, and hence the electric density at any point is small,
and the atoms are repelled with less energy than if they would strike
against a good insulator ; secondly, as the tube is electrified by the
atoms which first come in contact with it, the progress of the following
atoms against the tube is more or less checked by the repulsion which
the electrified tube must exert upon the similarly electrified atoms.
This, it is thought, explains why the discharge through a bnlb is
established with much greater facility when an insulator than when
a conductor is present.
     During the investigations a great many bulbs of different construc
tion, with electrodes of different material, were experimented upon,
and a number of observations of interest were made.
     It was found that the deterioration of the electrode is the less the
higher the frequency. This was to be expected, as then the heating
is effected by many small impacts, instead of by fewer and more violent
ones, which shatter quickly the structure. The deterioration is also
smaller when the vibration is harmonic. Thus an electrode, main
tained at a certain degree of heat, lasts much longer with currents
obtained from an alternator, than with those obtained by means of
a disruptive discharge. One of the most durable electrodes was
obtained from strongly compressed carborundum, which is a kind of
carbon recently produced by Mr. E. G. Acheson. From experience,
it is inferred, that to be most durable, the electrode should be in the
form of a sphere with a highly polished surface.
     In some bulbs refractory bodies were mounted in a carbon cup

1832.] on Alternate Currents of High Potential and Frequency.      651
and pushed under the molecular impact. It was observed in such
experiments that the carbon cup was heated at first, until a higher
temperature was reached; then most of the bombardment was
directed against the refractory body, and the carbon was relieved.
In general, when different bodies were mounted in the bulb, the
hardest fusible would be relieved, and would remain at a consider
ably lower temperature. This was necessitated by the fact that
most of the energy supplied would find its way through the body
which was easier fused or " evaporated."
    Curiously enough it appeared in some of the experiments made,
that a body was fused in a bulb under the molecular impact by
evolution of less light than when fused by the application of heat in
ordinary ways. This may be ascribed to a loosening of the structure
of the body under the violent impacts tunl changing stresses.
    Some experiences seem to indicate that under certain conditions
a body, conducting or nonconducting, may, when bombarded, emit
light, which to all appearance is due to phosphorescence, but may in
reality be caused by the incandescence of an infinitesimal layer, the
mean temperature of the body being comparatively small. Such
might be the case if each single rhythmical impact were capable of
instantaneously exciting the retina, and the rhythm just high enough
to cause a continuous impression in the eye. According to this view,
a coil operated by disruptive discharge would be eminently adapted
to produce such a result, and it is found in experience that its power
of exciting phosphorescence is extraordinarily great. It is capable
of exciting phosphorescence at comparatively low degrees of exhaus
tion, and also projects shadows at pressures far greater than those
at which the mean free path is comparable to the dimensions of the
vesseL The latter observation is of some importance, inasmuch as
it may modify the generally accepted views in regard to the " radiant
state " phenomena.
    A thought, which early and naturally suggested itself, was to
utilise the great inductive effects of high frequency currents to pro
duce light in a sealed glass vessel without the use of leading-is
wires. Accordingly, many bulbs were constructed in which the
energy necessary to maintain a button or filament at high incan
descence, was supplied through the glass either by electrostatic or
electrodynamic induction. It was likewise easy to regulate the
intensity of the light emitted by means of an externally applied
condenser coating connected to an insulated plate, or simply by
means of a plate attached to the bulb which at the same time per
formed the function of a shade.
    A subject of experiment, which has been exhaustively treated by
Prof. J. J. Thomson, has been followed up independently by the
author from the beginning of this study, namely, to excite by electro-
dynamic induction a luminous band in a closed tube or bulb. In
observing the behaviour of gases, and the luminous phenomena
obtained, the importance of the electrostatic effects was noted and it
                                                         2x2

652           Mr. Nikola Tetla on Alternate Currents, dc.      [Feb. 4,
appeared desirable to produce enormous potential differences, alter
nating with extreme rapidity. Experiments in this direction led to
some of the most interesting results arrived at in the conrse of these
investigations. It was found that by rapid alternations of a high
electrostatic potential, exhausted tubes could be lighted at consider
able distance from a conductor connected to a properly constructed
coil, and that it was practicable to establish with the coil an alter
nating electrostatic field, acting through the whole extent of a room
and lighting a tube, wherever it was placed in the same. Phosphor
escent bulbs may be excited in such a field, and it is easy to regulate
the effect by connecting to the bulb a small insulated metal plate.
It was likewise possible to maintain a filament or button mounted in
a tube at bright incandescence, and in one experiment, a mica vane
was spun by the incandescence of a platinum wire.
     It is hoped that the study of these phenomena, and the perfection
of the means for obtaining rapidly alternating high potentials, will
lead to the production of an efficient illuminant.
                                                    [NIKOLA TKSLA.]

1892.]    Hit- James Orichton-Brotone, on Emotional Expression.      653
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 27, 1892.
       SIR FREDERIOK BRAMWBLL, Bart. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
         Honorary Secretary and Vice-President, in the Chair.
    SIR JAMBS CRIOHTON-BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treas. R.I.
                          Emotional Expression.
IT has been argued that any detailed list or description of the emo
tions is impossible, and that so numerous and varied are the feelings
of the mind that it is as futile and unprofitable to catalogue them as
it would be to register the ever shifting patterns of the kaleidoscope.
These feelings, it is alleged, are not specific mental entities like the
old immutable species of plants and animals, bat ever changing
phases of life which defy analysis and classification. Now, allowing
that many psychologists have divided and subdivided the feelings
with too much elaboration, have drawn artificial distinctions between
them, and have mistaken mere passing phenomena for permanent
types, I must still maintain that the feelings do admit of arrangement
in certain great natural orders, and that however multifarious or
blended their manifestations may be, we can always recognise in
them some of the ingredients of which they are made up. When we
look at a painting—a landscape, portrait, or historical scene, and
delight in its rich and delicate colouring, we soon perceive that the
colours that please us are cunningly and perplexingly mixed. Almost
every touch is compounded of several pigments, and in no two touches
do the same pigments mingle in exactly the same proportion. And
yet in these compounded touches we can say in most instances what
pigments have gone to their composition, while every here and there,
amongst them we discern a point or streak of pure colour, and so in
the end we can affirm with tolerable certainty what paints— crimson-
lake, burnt-sienna, flake-white, or Vandyke-brown—were on the
palette of the painter who produced the picture. And so when we
witness on the canvas of the human face, representations of feeling,
trivial, stirring, or profound, we are at first struck by the high com
plexity and infinite variety of their constituent parts. The features
move in ever new and subtle combinations, and for no two seconds
are their aspects exactly alike. But when we look a little deeper we
find that we are able to identify in the flux of feeling many of its
 constituent elements, while here and there we detect flashes of pure
 primitive emotion, and the result is that we are able to say with some
confidence what feelings—curiosity, rage, hatred, or pride—were in
the mind of the man or woman whose agitated countenance we have
been watching.

654                   Sir James Crichton-Brotone               [May 27,
    And to carry our analogy a little further, we can by comparing
the works of different painters arrive at certain definite conclusions
as to their colour proclivities, and satisfy ourselves that one has a
partiality for yellow, another prefers rose-madder, and a third neutral
tints. And so by comparing the facial manifestations of feeling in
different men and women, we can discover their general emotional
tone and temperament and put down one as spiteful, another as
melancholic, and a third as choleric.
    And to take still another step in analogy; we know that the
pigments on the palette of the painter are not ultimate colours, but
would on final analysis resolve themselves into the primary colours
red, blue, or green, and yet we find the recognition and distinction
of these pigments convenient, nay, essential in all practical artistic
work and in conversation, and so we know that the feelings in a
man's mind which we identify by the expressions flitting across his
face, are not ultimate states of mind, but might be resolved into
simpler and simpler constituents, last of all perhaps into the primitive
feelings of defence, accompanying contraction, and of attack, accom
panying expansion in the lowest organisms (the negative and positive
emotional poles), and yet we find the differentiation and the naming
of these several feelings not only convenient but essential in all
physiological work, and in all intercourse between man and man.
We all know by our daily experience that there are such feelings as
jealousy, modesty, compassion, and contempt ; and whatever the
composition of these feelings may be, or however intricate the enlace-
ments which connect them with other feelings, we treat them as
realities, and know tolerably well what we mean when we are talking
about them.
     Now the feelings of the mind, whether crude or subtle, are
expressed in several different ways, but always in movement.
Expression in its widest sense includes form, gesture, play of
feature, visceral changes, and language, but each of these implies
movement. Form, which corresponds with the development of the
skeleton and the chiselling of the soft parts, depends on the move
ments of growth ; gesture depends on the movements of the muscles
of the trunk and limbs ; play of feature on the movements of the
muscles of the face ; visceral changes on the movements of the blood
vessels supplying internal organs ; and language on the movements
of the muscles of the larynx, tongue, and lips. Almost every feeling
that arises in the mind, we have now reason to believe, expresses
itsr.lf in all these ways, except in the most evolved and highly
symoolic way, that is to say, in speech. The central excitement
corresponding with feeling aroused by any object in our environment
or recalled in memory, reverberates through the whole organism,
and may by delicate instruments bo detected, not only in the
quivering of the muscles, but in the heart-beats, the respiration, the
 sweat-glands, the pupils of the eyes, and indeed everywhere. But
 while each feeling thug diffuses its effects generally throughout tha

 1892.]                  on Emotional Expression.                     655
 body, each feeling has at the same time special channels, internal
 and external, through which it principally discharges itself, and
 makes its existence known. Each feeling has its appropriate
 expression different from the expression of every other feeling, and
 our main objects this evening are to inquire what are the appropriate
 expressions of certain feelings, and how comes it that these appropriate
 expressions have been attached to certain feelings? What is the
 origin and significance of emotional expression ?
     In the investigation of these questions—and few questions are
 more difficult or obscure—the illustrious Darwin has, as I daresay
 you know, taken the foremost place. By an elaborate research he
endeavours to explain the origin of the expressions, used by man and
animals under the influence of emotions, and he arrives at the con
clusion that these are to bo explained by three principles which he
calls the principles of Associated Serviceable Habits, of Antithesis,
 and of the Action of the Nervous System.
    Movements, he argues, which have been found serviceable to
escape from danger, or to relieve distress, which were at first
voluntarily performed for a definite object, have by frequent repetition
become innate or inherited, and are afterwards performed whether of
service or not, whenever the desire or sensation out of which they
originally arose is again experienced. Horses, which fight with their
teeth in their native state, at some remote period found it serviceable
to prevent their prominent ears from being bitten or torn ; by
retracting them and laying them flat against the head when engaged
in combat. In the course of generations this, at first purposive and
voluntary movement, becomes involuntary and habitual, and now we
have the laying back of the ears as the sure sign of anger in the
horse—the expression of those emotions which were stirred in it by
conflict, even when those emotions recur in a much milder degree,
and are provoked by some insignificant cause, such as the tickling of
the curry-comb, and when its ears are no longer in danger. When
infants scream loudly to intimate hunger or pain, the circulation in
the eyeballs and their sockets is affected. These parts become
gorged with blood, an uneasy sensation results, and the infant finds
that contraction of the muscles in front of the eye— the musclus of
the eyelids and eyebrows —is serviceable to relieve this sensation and
afford protection. By frequent repetition of this experience through
many generations of infants, the action, at first wilful, has become
fixed and inherited, so that now, even in grown men and women who
have learnt to suppress screaming when in pain or distress, contrac
tion of the muscles round the eyes still betrays the existence of these
feelings, contraction of these muscles having become the expression
of the emotion of pain or distress. This is Darwin's principle of
Associated Serviceable Movements.
    But movements, again Darwin argues, which have never them
selves been serviceable, but which are the opposites of movements
that have been so, have come to be representative of states of emotion

656                     Sir James Crichton-Brotene            [May 27,
opposite to those in which the movements of which they are them
selves the opposites arise. The dog, approaching a supposed enemy,
in a hostile or savage mood, holds itself erect, has a straight back,
rigid tail, ears pricked forward, eyes set in a fixed stare and lips
retracted so as to show the teeth, and all these attitudes and move
ments can be explained as serviceable, being calculated to intimidate
the enemy, or to facilitate attack; but when the dog suddenly finds
that it is a friend and not an enemy it is approaching, these move
ments and attitudes are instantly replaced by their opposites. It
crouches, its back is curved, its tail is wagged, its ears droop, its
eyes are turned upwards, its lips hang loosely, and these movements,
Darwin says, can never have been of any service, but are simply the
opposites of the movements expressive of anger, and so have come to
be expressive of affection. A man who is indignant, or resents an
injury, holds his head up, squares his shoulders, expands his chest
and clenches his fists, and these movements are serviceable ; but a
man who manifests helplessness, bends his head, shrugs his shoulders,
contracts his chest, opens his hands—exhibits, in short, movements
not serviceable but opposite to the movements of indignation or
self-assertion, and which have therefore come to be recognised as
expressive of the opposite emotion, that of helplessness and self-
depreciation. This is Darwin's principle of Antithesis.
    But movements, Darwin still further argues, which are inde
pendent of the will, which cannot have been acquired by habit, but
which are expressive of emotional states, are the direct result of the
constitution of the nervous system, and are to be ascribed to its
mechanism, or the existence in it of connections between its several
parts, and of definite channels through which nerve energy flows. An
animal thrown into a state of fear, trembles violently, and this
general quivering of the muscles can have been of no service, but is
indeed of much dis-service to it, by weakening its power of flight or
resistance, and cannot have been voluntarily assumed, as it is not
 under voluntary control, but must be attributed to a profuse genera
 tion of force in the excited nerve-centres, and to the overflow of this
 through the ordinary outlets. In a woman under a sense of shame
 the blood-vessels of the face dilate, and a blush suffuses the counte
 nance, and this movement is certainly not serviceable, is not
 voluntary, for the muscles of the blood-vessels are beyond the control
 of the will and can only be explained by the existence of a connec
 tion between the nerves regulating the calibre of these blood-vessels
 and the part of the nervous system stimulated in this particular emo
 tion. This is Darwin's principle of the Action of the Nervous System.
     Now, as regards these three principles of Darwin, I venture, with
 the utmost deference, to think that the time has come when they may
 be subjected to criticism and revision. They have been eminently
 useful ; have let in a flood of light on a very obscure subject ; have
 guided to further elucidative researches ; but the very illumination of
 which they have been themselves the cause, has revealed flaws in

1892.]                  on Emotional Expression.                      657
their own constitution. The facts bearing on emotional expression
which Darwin observed or with scrupulous discrimination collected,
remain and must always remain, unassailable, of high value to the
naturalist and psychologist, but the laws by which he sought to
systematise these facts are open to question.
    As regards Darwin's second principle, that of Antithesis, accord
ing to which certain movements are expressive of certain emotions,
simply because they are the opposites of other movements which are
expressive of opposite emotions, I have all along felt some diffi
culty in accepting it. In physiology we know nothing of antithesis,
though we see a good deal of antagonism ; and it is difficult to
believe that a whole series of movements of a very definite and
positive character, betokening mental states, are merely the negations
of other movements betokening other mental states. It is difficult to
believe also that a series of emotions, those, according to Darwin,
antithetically expressed, existed without any appropriate expression
of their own, until they had tacked on to them certain movements
not really related to them, but contrary to other movements by which
the emotions farthest removed from them are displayed.              Each
emotion, I conceive, must have a language of its own, adequate to its
requirements, evolving with its evolution, and cannot be dependent
on the inverted echo of the utterances of the emotion with which it is
least in sympathy. Then it is difficult, I might say impracticable, to
arrange the emotions in pairs of opposites; indeed, only with the
very primitive emotions can this be done, for during the development
of the mental faculties in the individual and race the emotions
branch out in various directions, and it is not possible to trace out any
parallelism in the lines they pursue, or to say what is the opposite of
a highly differentiated emotion. Humility is the opposite of both
pride and vanity, but pride and vanity have entirely distinctive
 expressions, and it is impossible that the expression of humility can
 be opposite to the expression of both.
    Again, when we study the movements of the body systematically,
we discover that opposite movements are not always significant of
opposite states of mind. Clenching of the fist, produced by strong
flexion of the hand and arm, is undoubtedly expressive of anger; but
the opposite movement, strong extension of the hand and arm, is not
expressive of the opposite emotion, conciliatory good humour, which
is expressed by the open hand— a position intermediate between the
two. So far is it from being the case that opposite emotions are
necessarily expressed by opposite movements, that the extremes of
contrary passions are sometimes expressed by the same actions. Sir
Joshua Reynolds noticed this, and pointed as instances to a Bacchante
in frantic joy, with a facial expression not unlike that of a Mary
Magdalene in overwhelming grief. Excessive happiness and bitter
sorrow may both fill the eyes with tears. Laughter may be the out
burst of joy, or the cynical mask of poignant suffering. I do not
believe that the expressions of different emotions are ever identical.

658                    Sir James Crichion-Broune                 [May 27,
Strict analysis will always reveal significant differences between them,
but superficially they sometimes closely resemble each other, and if
not identical are certainly not antithetical.
     Without troubling you with further comments on it, I may say
that Darwin's second principle of Antithesis may, it seems to me, be
dispensed with ; and that all the instances of it which he has adduced
may be explained by a reference to the principle of Associated Ser
viceable Habits, or of the Action of the Nervous System, or to
another principle to which I shall shortly allude.
     Since the time when Darwin wrote on the expression of the
emotions, our knowledge of the structure and action of the nervous
Bystem, and especially of its crown, the brain, has advanced enor
mously. His book was published in 1872. At that time the
experiments performed by Fritsch and Hitzig, in Germany in 1870,
were scarcely known in this country, and Ferrier's fruitful and
memorable work had not been begun ; and it is since then that tho
investigations of Munk, Goltz, Schafer, Horsley, Beevor, Tamburini,
and others, have unravelled for us some tangled mysteries of cerebral
organisation. Thanks to their labours, we now know that there is
localisation of function in the brain, or division of labour between
the several parts, and that in one of its parts—what we call the
motor area—that division is carried out to a considerable degree of
subdivision ; so that we have centres presiding over definite groups
of muscular movements in the upper and lower extremities — face,
neck, and trunk.
      The active part of tho brain is the cortex, or mantle of grey
matter which forms its surface, covering its convolutions or folds,
and enclosing the mass of white or medullary substance within. This
white or medullary substance within the cortex or grey matter, and,
forming the great balk of the organ, is made up of communicating
fibres which are equivalent to marine electric cables or telegraph
wires, and convey currents to and from the brain. They carry to
it sensory impressions, or information from the organs of sense, the
surface of the body, its interior—indeed from every nook and cranny
of it ; they carry from it the mandates of the will to the muscles,
and every tissue under its control ; and they carry within it im
pressions putting the different parts of the brain in communication
with each other. In the cortex or grey matter are to be found, of
course, those communicating fibres that go to or from it, or traverse
it ;' but its essential structure consists in brain-cells, its active con
stituents, a diamond-dust of protoplasm arranged in a striatified
manner, and of different shapes and sizes—round, stellate, pyramidal.
These little cells, scattered amongst the delicate white fibrils, are
the true fountains of nerve-energy, into which are gathered the rills
of sensory impressions from which flow forth the streams of voluntary
and emotional impulses. It is in correspondence with changes in
their protoplasm that all mental activities are manifested. These
little brain-cells are of different forms, and are differently arranged

1892.]                 on Emotional Expression,                      659
in different regions of the brain, and they undergo wasting and
degeneration in chronic insanity.
    What the changes in the protoplasm of the cerehral cells corre
sponding with psychical activity really are we do not know, but,
thanks to the recent researches of Professor Mosso, of Turin, we
have now positive evidence that certain chemical changes, with
loss of heat, accompany their activity. Discarding the thermopile,
Professor Mosso has employed thermometers of extreme delicicy, and
by the application of these to the surface of the hemispheres has
found that the temperature of the brain—which in deep sleep falls
below that of the arterial blood—is raised even during the conti
nuance of sleep by a noise or any sensory impression which infringes
upon the brain without causing awakening, or by the direct appli
cation of the interrupted current to the cortex, and is raised very
decisively by the transition from the sleeping to the waking con
dition. Professor Mosso has found that the brain of an animal
awake is hotter than that of an animal asleep, and that during con
sciousness the temperature of the brain rises as much as 0 • 5° C. above
that of the arterial blood, a clear indication that the maintenance of
consciousness involves chemical action. Strange to say, Professor
Mosso has not found that variations in conscious activity are accom
panied by variations in the temperature of the brain. Once the tem
perature corresponding with conscious activity has been attained it
remains, according to his experiments, steady, and is uninfluenced by
such psychical stimulation as he has been able to induce. But, for a
great variety of reasons, I cannot believe that there is any dead level
of consciousness or uniform distribution of functional activity in the
brain, and I am inclined to believe that Professor Mosso's conclusions
on this point will be modified by further experiments ; and especially
by simultaneous thermometric observations in different regions of the
brain during emotional disturbances of different kinds. All analogy
and many recorded facts warrant the belief that, even if the hemi
spheres have a function common to the mass of their groy matter, as
far as thonght is concerned, there are during consciousness incessant
variations in the functional activity of different brain areas, and there
must be chemical changes, delicate but probably cognisable, corre
sponding with these.
    An image, in matters scientific that arc obscure and difficult to
comprehend, is sometimes obstructive and misleading, but it is some
times useful, and in connection with the functional activity of the
brain I would suggest an image drawn from the phenomena of the
Polar lights as seen in our northern'sky. Think of the brain during
unconsciousness steeped in slumber, and imagine it to be the dark seg
ment which forms the core of the aurora, which can sometimes be seen
before any luminosity has appeared. Think of the brain, agiin, as
it has passed from the sleeping to the waking condition, an 1 is in
common conscious life, and conceive of it as spanned by the luminous
arch in constant motion, now rising, now falling, forming a continuous

660                     Sir Jamet Crichton-Browne             [May 27,
cnrtain of flickering light over its whole surface. And think of the
brain, again, in times of intense conscious elevation, of concentrated
attention or agitated feeling, and picture it as Bending forth from
its luminous arch of common consciousness long brilliant rays of
psychical energy, that shoot towards the zenith, now here, now there,
now east, now west, green, purple, or violet, according to the emotive
complexion of the moment.
    But whatever image of the brain in its active and quiescent states
we may form, the important point to bear in mind now is that some
of its special activities— long rays of function—may be evoked by
that electrical stimulation of its surface which Mosso has shown to
cause a rise of temperature there. It was the determination of this
fact by Fritsch and Hitzig that was the starting point of all the
discoveries in cerebral physiology since made. They showed that
the surface of the brain, which all previous experimenters had found
to yield absolutely no response to any kind of stimulation, mechanical
or chemical, that could be applied to it, is excitable to electricity.
Before their time, brains of living animals (exposed by removal under
chloroform of the skin, skull, and membranes) had been subjected to
stimulation, by light, heat, pressure, acid, alkalies, pricking, and
burning, and had remained dead and inert, insensible and motionless.
But under the inspiration of their genius, brains of living animals,
the moment that their surface was touched by the electrodes con
nected with a battery, sprang as it were into life and moved respon
sive to every appeal made to them.
    One spot on the surface (and let us suppose it is a monkey's brain
that is under observation) is touched by the electrodes, and the knee
of the opposite side is bowed ; the electrodes are removed, and it is
straightened. An adjoining spot is touched and the ankle is twisted ;
the electrodes arc raised, and it is straightened. Another spot is
touched and the shoulder is raised, another and the elbow is flexed,
another and the wrist, and so on, through all the movements of leg,
foot, arm, hand, fingers, face, neck, trunk. It is exactly like playing
the piano : a key is depressed and a definite note follows ; a spot is
 touched and a definite movement follows. And every time that the
same spot is touched, the same movement follows, while an adjacent
 spot gives an entirely different movement with the same unerring
regularity. No puppet responds more accurately to the twitching of
the strings attached to it than do the body and limbs of a deeply
unconscious monkey to the touches of the electrodes of the experi
menter, who can make it perform any movement you may suggest.
Numerous elaborate and careful experiments have made it certain
that all the movements of the body are localised or have their central
springs of action in this middle region of the brain, and that they are
localised there in a definite order, movements of the lower limbs being
uppermost, those of the upper limbs next in order downwards, and
those of the face lower still.
     But it may be objected that these movements have been localised

 1892.]                   on Eiiiotiunal Expression.                   661
 in the brains of monkeys, and that we have no guarantee that they
 are localised in the same manner in the far larger and more complex
 brain of man, and the answer to that objection is that the ravages of
 disease have satisfied us that movements are localised in exactly the
 same way in the human and Simian brains. A man suffers from
 convulsive twitchings of his thumb ; he dies, and on post-mortem
 examination a small tumour is found setting up irritation in the spot
 of the brain precisely corresponding with that electrical stimulation
 of which caused twitching of the thumb in the monkey. Another
 man suffers from paralysis of the corner of his month ; he dies, and
 a patch of softening is found destroying the spot of the brain
 precisely corresponding with that electrical stimulation of which
 caused retraction of the angle of the mouth in the monkey. But
 more than this, it has been experimentally demonstrated that
 electrical excitation of a certain number of the motor centres in the
 human brain causes the same movements represented in the homolo
 gous parts of the brains of monkeys.
      But it must have occurred to you that there are largo tracts of
 brain outside this motor area, before it, behind it, beneath it, about
 the functions of which nothing has been said. Well, all I shall say
 about these is that some of them—those in the frontal lobes—
 probably afford the anatomical substratum for certain intellectual
 functions, while it is certain that some of them are sensory. It is
 established that the visual function is localised in the occipital area,
 it is all but established that hearing is localised in the temporal area,
 and it is probable that the limbic lobe is sensory.
      Now, emotions are compounded of sensations; they are what
 Herbert Spencer has called centrally initiated sensations, that is to
 say they are feelings arising in the mind not from any sensory
 impression conveyed to it from the outer world or from the body, but
 from the revival of former sensations of a complex character. Of
 course a sensory impression may call forth an emotion. A blow
excites anger, but the emotion—the anger—is quite distinct from the
sensation—the pain of the blow. And an emotion, however excited, is
evolved by intellectual processes, and differs from a sensation in that
it persists for some time after its exciting cause has ceased to operate.
 And, as emotions are revived or compounded sensations, they must
originate in those centres in which the sensations of which they are
compounded first arose, and so must have as their starting point the
sensory centres of the brain. But in all our sensations and per
ceptions, even in the simplest sensations, there are motor elements,
and so it is certain that in all emotional states, even when they do
not pass over into action, these motor centres are concerned. But it
is when the emotion demands external manifestations that these
motor centres are obviously brought into play, and then by obser
vations of the physical correlatives, the attitude of the body, the cast
of the features, &c. we are able to say which centres are principally
involved in different emotions.

 662                   Sir James Crichton-Browne                [May 27,
     A great many emotional movements are involuntary, and hence
 they have often been referred to nerve centres lower than the cerebral
 hemispheres, but it is to be borne in mind that many emotional acts
 are also ideo-motor—that is to say there is a mental representation
 of the act to be performed before it is performed, and ideo-motor
 acts or movements can have no other origin than in the cerebral
hemispheres—the seat of consciousness. And it is farther to be
 borne in mind that a large number of motor acts which have become
 involuntary by repetition and habit, were at first voluntary, purposely
 devised or imitative, and as they must then have originated in the
 highest cerebral centres, it is exceedingly improbable that they have
since been transferred to centres at lower levels.
     Expression, in its widest sense, is the manifestation of mental by
 bodily conditions, and includes, as I have already said, language as
 well as emotional movements. Language or speech—a peculiarly
 human function, the last to evolve in the animal scale—consists in
 certain muscular movements which at first thought we would regard
 as altogether voluntary, but amongst which we see going on just the
 same process that we have referred to as so much more marked
 amongst emotional movements, the conversion of the voluntary into
 the involuntary and automatic. Each of us has by incessant repeti
 tions of certain common words and phrases, such as salutations and
 exclamations of various kinds, made them so automatic that they
blurt forth when required without any voluntary effort, and continue
to be uttered when through disease of the brain voluntary speech has
been lost.
    It is agreed that language or speech is localised in the third
frontal convolution of the human brain which lies just at the front
of the motor area, and that its voluntary and involuntary expressions
alike have here their origin ; and it is fair to infer that the simpler
language of feature and gesture has also both its voluntary and
involuntary utterances localised in the region where the former must
unquestionably be placed.
     I regard the central region of the brain as a great expressional
area, whence proceed all the movements of the body that are an index
to conditions of the mind. In this region is placed the intricate
and delicate machinery by which emotional movements are produced,
and here we must study that action of the nervous system to which
Darwin gave a subsidiary, but to which I would give a first place in
the explanation of emotional expression.
    Every emotion, as has been explained, radiates throughout the
organism to its utmost confines. We must each of us have expe
rienced the widespread diffusion of emotional disturbance in that
general tremor or shiver which runs down the backbone and along
the limbp, under a strong feeling of indignation or alarm ; but, besides
this general discharge, there are special channels of overflow of
emotional disturbance appropriate to each emotion. The motor
impulses expressive of each emotion start, as it were, from one centre

1892.]                 on Emotional Expression.                     663
in the motor area, whence proceeds what may be called its " signal
symptoms "; and if the emotion be slight and transient, these alone
may suffice for its expression ; but if it be strong and sustained, and
more particularly if it be gravepcent, the nervous vibrations initiated
at this centre spread to other centres adjacent, or with which they
are in functional connection, and result in varied, complex, and
extensive movements.
    All emotions of extreme and uncontrolled violence ultimately
involve the whole motor area of the brain, and some such emotions,
pushed to a pathological conclusion, end in general convulsions.
We actually see this conclusion reached when the religious emotion
is powerfully stirred in persons of excitable temperament. In the
dancing mania of the Middle Ages it was no uncommon occurrence
for those who had been caught by the mental contagion, and had
passed through a paroxysm of delirious excitement, to fall finally in
epileptic convulsions ; and to-day, alike in East and West, similar
phenomena may sometimes be witnessed. The religions transports of
dervishes, beginning in slow, monotonous movements of the hands, and
mounting into wild gyrations, not infrequently end in fits ; and the
negroes of the States, who at their camp meetings pass from slight
swaying movements of the body to frantic leapings and vociferous
shouting of that refrain which has found favour recently in this cul
tured metropolis—" Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ey "—the negroes sometimes
tumble down unconscious and in violent spasms.
    But, short of this point of universal sudden explosive discharge
of the whole motor area of the cerebral cortex, -there are always
differences in the grouping of the movements by which emotions even
in their violent phases are displayed, showing involvement in different
degrees, and in different combinations of the motor centres in the
expressional area ; and in the gradual rise and culmination of certain
emotions it is possible even now to trace out in a rough way the
lines of diffusion of the cortical excitation which correspond with
their gradually extended expression.
    ( This point was illustrated by photographs of different stages of
emotional excitement, as exhibited by muscular action, and by indi
cating how each of these stages corresponded with the implication of
a new centre, or group of centres, in the brain. The photographs
shown were those of a young Scotch girl, knowing nothing of stage
tricks or conventional artifices, who most kiudly assisted by throwing
herself, at the word of command, into various emotional attitudes—
withdrawing the control of the will, letting herself go, as it were,
and slip into the spontaneous expression of each emotion suggested—
and being instantaneously photographed while the expression lasted.]
    I wish next to direct your attention to the frequent association
of face and hand movements in emotional expression. Next to the
face, the hand is the great instrument of emotional expression ; but
perhaps this manual function has been somewhat lost sight of.
We all readily recognise the services of the hand in executing the

 66 i                   Sir James Crichton-Brotone               [May 27,
 orders of the will, and giving us our control over matter, but we are
 apt to forget that it moves responsive to passing feelings of the mind,
 may tell with nice precision of our pains and pleasures, and heighten
 and elucidate the emotional expression of the face. Our constitutional
 reserve in this country has led to the systematic suppression of
 emotional movements in the hand, 'and^we must go to the South of
 Europe if we would learn how rich and diversified the emotive
 language of the hand may be. Canon Farrar says of the mimic
 actors of Rome—who in the time of Nero expressed in movement,
 and in movement alone, every burning passion and soft desire —that
 they literally spoke with their hands ; and we had recently in London
 a play without words, " L'Enfant Prodigue," in which a somewhat
 complicated story, full of incident and feeling, was told by pantomime
 with musical accompaniment, and in which the hands of some of the
 actors became articulate, and supplied the place of dialogue. Facial
 expression counted for little. The two principal characters, the
 Pierrots, were masked and their faces therefore blank. The music
 no doubt was suggestive and the large movements of the body
 conveyed broad effects, but it was the hands that really told the
 story, clearly and forcibly, and that like tongues of fire flashed and
 flickered forth the hidden strivings of the spirit. Suppose that the
 hands of the actors had been cut nil', and that they had played in
 other respects exactly as they did and with the same music, only in
 stumps and minus hand movements—why, the whole piece would have
 been absolutely unintelligible.
      The education of the motor centres consists in great part in raising
 them to individuality of action, or to the power of combined action
in a definite order. At first these centres tend to discharge them
 selves in a confused and disorderly way. Present an object of desire
—say a red-cheeked apple—to a young infant, and what does it do ?
 Does it take hold of the coveted object ? Not at all. It kicks up its
heels, crows loudly, and throws its whole body into agitation, and
this it does because the sense impression conveyed from tho eye to
the brain and awakening the emotion of pleasure and desire there,
sets up a motor activity which is widely diffused through the motor
area and ends not in definite but in wholesale and indiscriminate
display. Only gradually does the child learn, by observation,
imitation, and experiment during evolution of its brain centres, to cut
off one superfluous movement after another, and ultimately to confine
itself to those movements that are essential to its purpose, to wit, the
stretching out of the arm, the closing of the hand, and the conveyance
of the apple to its mouth. All through education this process of
specialisation of motor centres goes on. Any one who has watched a
dancing class will know what pains are required to put a stop to
unnecessary sprawling movements and grimaces, and all through
education and long after education is over, illustrations may be
noticed of the failure of this process in certain directions, and of what
I may call leakage from one centre to another. I daresay most of

1892.]                  on Emotional Expression.                    665
you have noticed how in children learning to write, their tongues
twist about, keeping time with their fingers ; how in a woman using a
pair of scissors, the jaws will sometimes move synchronously with the
fingers (although the opening and closing of the mouth does not ia
any way facilitate the process of cutting) ; and how in a man using a
corkscrew the corner of his mouth is sometimes drawn down with every
turn he gives the instrument. These are instances of leakage from the
hand to the mouth centres. It is as if the hand centres had been im
perfectly banked up, and permitted of overflow at one part, so that
voluntary hand movements are followed by an automatic mouth move
ment. And overflows in the opposite direction from the mouth to the
hand centres are of the most constant occurrence. You all know that it
is a word and a blow—a word, a voluntary act dependent on the mouth
centre, followed by a blow which may be almost automatic, dependent
on the hand and arm centres ; and innumerable examples might be
given of the way in which emotional conditions first expressed in the
mouth centres immediately afterwards involve the hand, the move
ments of hand and face in these cases being partly voluntary and
partly automatic ; and it is important to note that while the currents
of overflow of purely voluntary into automatic movements are from
the hand to the face centres, the currents of overflow of emotional
into voluntary expression are from the face to the hand.
     [A few more photographs illustrating the rapid diffusion of
emotional excitation from face to hand centres wore exhibited.]
    I can but mention now another great law of emotional expression
which affords a key to a large class of emotional movements, and
admits of very beautiful demonstration, and which although present
to the minds of Piderit and Gratiolet seems to have escaped Darwin
—I allude to the law of correlation of movements with ideas, which
has been insisted on by Professor Clelland, of Glasgow.
    Words indicating position and quantity, represent ideas which relate
alike to the physical and the menial world ; and emotions expressed
by such words are indicated by the attitudes, gestures, and move
ments of the body, expressed by the same words. Take words
relating to height—upward, downward, ascent, descent, elevation,
depression, rise, fall—and you will find that you apply them equally
to physical and mental conditions. You speak of the elevation of a
building, and of elevation of soul ; of a depression in the ground,
and of depression in spirits ; of the ascent of a balloon, and of the
ascent of genius ; of the descent of a stair, and of descent into
vice. Take words expressing magnitude—such as large and small,
wide and narrow, expanded and contracted. You speak of large
gooseberries and large hearts ; small profits and small wits ; bodies
that are expanded and contracted, and ideas that are the same. And
so it is with words expressing direction—forward, backward, advance,
retrogression ; with words expressing distance—far and near, attrac
tion, repulsion ; with words expressing resistance—as strong, weak,
hard, soft ; with words expressing motion—as quick, slow, tension,
    VOL. XIII. (No. 86.)                                     2 Y

 666                     Sir James Crichton-Browne               [May 27,
 relaxation ; all are equally applicable to physical and to mental
 states, and the bond linking these words seems to be universal and
 necessary, for it is to be found in all languages. Primarily physical
 in their application, they have, in the course of evolution, had meta
 physical and metaphoric meanings attached to them.
      But emotions to which such words as I have been referring to
 have application, are indicated by attitudes, gestures, and movements
 of the body expressed by the same words. The workings of the
 feelings are expressed by attitudes, gestures, and movements of
 the body correlative with them, and we have symbolism in expres
 sion. In expressing superiority or authority, the body is drawn up ;
 in expressing inferiority or humility, it is bent down. In expressing
 liking or attraction, we bend the body forward to be near that which
 we like ; in expressing dislike, or repulsion, we draw the body back
 ward, as if to be far away from that which we dislike ; and these
 movements are made not from any notion of achieving a purpose, still
 less from an inherited habit founded on their utility to real or
 supposed ancestors, but simply from the close connection subsisting
 between movements towards an object and mental attraction, or
 between movement away from an object and a feeling of repulsion.
     We have slight movements of the arms to express the hugging of
 an idea to the bosom, when nothing but what is thoroughly impersonal
 is thought of; and we have a sweep downwards and backwards of the
 arm with the palm of the hand turned away from the body ; and no
 gesture can more thoroughly express the putting away of something
 vile, and this gesture is applied to the intangible and invisible; by
 it the cleric puts away the false doctrine, and the fastidious brands
 a notion as vulgar. And in the direction of the eyes we see the
 appropriate supplement of gesture in expression. An erect carriage
 may be given to the body by a sense of authority, by pride, by conceit,
 by scorn, by reproach, and by ennobling thought, and it is really the
 direction of the eyes that best distinguishes these.
     I have said enough, perhaps, to illustrate the correlations of move
 ments and positions with ideas, and I need only add that this corre
 lation is seen elsewhere in nature besides in the face of man. In the
vegetable kingdom the flower holds the place of honour ; in vertebrate
animals the nervous system, which with the exception of the supra-
oesophageal ganglion, has been inferior, in the articulate becomes
superior, while in man, the brain becomes superior in every sense.
     I have tried to demonstrate that the immediate explanation of
emotional expression is to be found in the structure of the nervous
system, and that its origin must be sought in the conditions that have
determined the constitution and evolution of the brain. In doing so,
I have had to consider the emotions solely on their cerebral side, and
in connection with their material manifestations, but I would now
add that whatever advance in this direction modern research may
have secured, we are not one hair's breadth nearer comprehending the
real relation between emotional and bodily states. Why emotion or

1892.]                on Emotional Expression.                     667
consciousness should arise in connection with the activity of the
cerebral hemispheres is as much hidden from ns as ever, and the
further we pursue the parallelism between mental processes and
neural changes, the more deeply convinced do we become that it is
a perfect parallelism after all, and that we must reverently bow our
heads in the presence of a great and inscrutable mystery.
                                                          [J. C. B.]
                                                        2 Y 2

 668                        Nr. Lndwig Mond                    [June 3,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, June 3, 1892.
      SIR FREDERICK AREL, K.C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vicc-Presidcnt,
                               in the Chair.
                   LUDWIG MOND, Esq. F.E.S. M.R.I.
                            Metallic Carbonyls.
 JUSTUS LIERIG, perhaps the most prophetic mind among modern men
 of science, wrote in the year 1834, in the ' Annalen dor Pharmacie,'
 " I have previously announced that carbonic oxide may be considered
 as a radical, of which carbonic acid and oxalic acid are the oxides,
 and phosgene gas is the chloride. The further pursuit of this idea
 has led me to the most singular and the most remarkable results."
     Liebig has not told us what these results were, and it has taken
 many years before the progress of chemical research has revealed to us
 what may at that early date have been before Liebig's vision. I will to
 night bring before you some important discoveries made only within
 the last few years by following up Liebig's idea.
      Carbonic oxide, composed of one atom of carbon and one atom of
 oxygen, is a colourless gas, without taste or smell, which I have hero
 in this jar. It burns in air with a blue flame. When it acts as a
 radical, combining with other bodies, we term it carbonyl, and its
 compounds with other elements or radicals are termed carbonyls.
 Liebig defined a radical as a compound having the characteristics of
 a simple body, which would combine with, replace, and be replaced
 by simple bodies. In more modern times a radical has been defined
 as an uusatiated body. I am of course speaking of chemical radicals.
 If we look at it from the modern point of view, carbonyl should be
 the very model of a radical, because only half of the four valencies of
 carbon are satiated, the other two remaining free. Carbonic oxide
 should even be a most violent radical because amongst all organic
 radicals it is the only one we know to exist in the atomic or free
 state. All the other organic radicals, even such typical ones as
cyanogen and acetylene, are known to us as molecules composed of
two atoms of the radical, so that the cyanogen gas and acetylene gas
we know should more properly be called di-cyanogen and di-acety-
lene ; they consist of two atoms of the radical cyanogen or of the
radical acetylene, the free valencies or combining powers of which
satiate or neutralise each other. On the other hand, carbonic oxide
gas, as I stated before, makes the solo exception. Its molecule con
tains only one atom of carbonyl moving about with its free valencies
unfettered by a second atom. For all that, carbonic oxide is by no
means a violent body, but the very reverse, and instead of being

1892.]                     on Metallic Carbonyh.                    669
ready to attack with its two free valencies anything coming in its
way, until very recently we only knew it to interact and to combine
with substances possessing themselves extreme attacking powers, such
as chlorine and potassium. Although Liebig had so long ago pro
claimed it as a radical, the chemical world was startled when, two
years ago, I announced in a paper I communicated to the Chemical
Society in conjunction with Drs. Langer and Quincke, that carbonic
oxide combines at ordinary temperature with so inactive an element
as nickel, and forms a well-defined compound of very peculiar
properties.
    The fact that carbonic oxide does not possess the chemical
activity one would suppose in a radical composed of single atoms
may, I believe, be explained by assuming that the two valencies of
carbon which are not combined with oxygen do satiate or neutralise
each other. Everybody admits that the valencies of two different
carbon atoms, which are all considered of equal value, can neutralise
each other. I see, therefore, no reason to question the possibility of
two valencies of the same carbon atom neutralising each other. On
this assumption carbonic oxide may be looked upon as a self satisfied
body—one which keeps in check its free affinities within itself. I
have tried to explain this by the graphic formula in this diagram.
    You have here (see diagram on next page) the typical carbon
radicals containing one atom of that element, acetylene, niethyleno,
methyl, cyanogen, and carbonyl. In the second column you have
these substances as they are known to us in the free state. You see
the carbonyl is the only one which exists in the free state as a single
atom, while all the others only exist as molecules, composed of two
atoms the free valencies of which neutralise each other. The carbonyl
I have represented in the last formula, with the two valencies not
combined with oxygen neutralising each other, so that in this way it
also becomes a satiated body.
    The paper published by Liebig in 1834, from which I have
already quoted, was entitled " On the Action of Carbonic Oxide on
Potassium." Iu it Liobig fully described the preparation and pro-
pertios of the first metallic carbouyl known—a compound of potassium
and^ carbonic oxide. Liebig obtained this compound by the direct
action of carbonic oxide upon potassium at a temperature of 80~ C., and
proved it to be identical with a substuucu which had been previously
obtained as a very disagreeable bye-product of the manufacture of
potassium from potash and carbon by Bruimor's method. It forms
a grey powder which is not volatile, and which on treatment with
water yields a red solution, gradually turning yellow in contact with
air and from which on evaporation a yellow salt is obtained called
potassium croconate, on account of its colour. Liebig showed this

    670                        Mr. Ludwig Nond                          [Jnne 3
                            TYPICAL CABBON BADICALS.
               I.                                              n.
                                                     (Known in the free state.)
Acetylene    — C -- H            Di-aoetylene    H -- C -- C -- H               C,H,
                       JT                         TT                    -- TT
                N '              Di-methylene             ,-.     p
Methylene                        (Oleflant gas)           '        (    _
                  ,    H                          H        v    ,       H
 Methyl      —C        H          Di-methyl       H        C— C         H       CH
                   '   H                          H        '    v       H
 Cyanogen    —C         N         Di-cyanogen     N       C—C           N       C,N,
 Carbonyl         C    O           Carbonic oxide     CO                         CO
      Bait to consist of two atoms of potassium, five of carbon, and five of
      oxygen, and not to contain any hydrogen, as had previously been
      supposed.
           Since the publication of Liebig's paper, potassium carbonyl has
      been studied by numerous investigators, amongst whom Sir Benjamin
      Brodie deserves particular mention ; but it has been reserved to
      Nietzki and Benkiser to determine finally in the year 1885, by a
      series of brilliant investigations, its exact constitution and its place
      in the edifice of chemistry. They have proved that it has the
      formula K,A(\; that the six carbons in this compound are linked
       together in the form of a benzole ring ; that, in fact, the compound
       is hexhydroxylbenzole, in which all the hydrogen is replaced by
       potassium. By simple treatment with an acid it can be converted
       into the hexhydroxylbenzole, and from this substance it is possible
       to produce, by a series of reactions well known to organic chemists,
       the whole wide range of the benzole compounds. The body which
       Liebig obtained by the direct action of carbonic oxide on potassium
       has thus enabled us to prepare synthetically in a very simple way
       from purely inorganic substances—to wit, from potash and carbon, or
       if we like even from potash and iron—the whole series of those most

1892.]                    on Metallic Carbonyls.                    671
important and interesting compounds called aromatic compounds,
including all the coal-tar colours, which have furnished us with an
undreamt of variety of innumerable hues and shades of colour, as
well as manv new substances of great value to suffering humanity as
medicines. Surely a startling result, which alone would have fully
justified Liebig's prediction of 1834 !
     Speaking of coal-tar colours, everybody will be reminded of the
great loss the scientific world has recently sustained by the death of
August Wilhelm Hofinann, their first discoverer, Liebig's greatest
pupil. Hofmann will ever be remembered in this Institution, where
he so often delighted the audience by his lucid lectures, and in whose
welfare he took the greatest interest, of which he gave us a fresh
proof only last year, in the charming letter he wrote on the occasion
of his election as an Honorary Member.
     Looking back upon the wonderful outcome of Liebig's idea I have
referred to, it seems surprising indeed that others should not have fol
lowed up his work by attempting to obtain other metallic carbonyls.
     A very few experiments were made with other alkaline metals.
Sodium, otherwise resembling potassium so closely, has been shown
not to combine with carbonic oxide ; lithium and calcium are stated
to behave similar to potassium. But metals of other groups received
little or no attention. The very important role which carbonic
oxide plays in the manufacture of iron did lead to a number of
 metallurgists (among whom Sir Lowthian Bell and Dr. Alder
 Wright are the most prominent) to study its action upon metallic
iron and other heavy metals, including nickel and cobalt at high
 temperatures. They proved that these metals have the property to
split up carbonic oxids into carbon and carbonic acid at a low red heat,
a result of great importance, which threw a new light upon the chemis
try of the blast furnace. None of these investigators, however, turned
their attention to obtaining compounds of these metals with carbonic
 oxide, and, owing to the high temperature and the other conditions
under which they worked, the existence of such compounds could not
come under their observation. In order to obtain these compounds,
very special conditions must be observed, which are fully described
in the papers I have published during the last two years in conjunc
tion with Dr. Langor and Dr. Quincke.
     The metals must be prepared with great care, so as to obtain
 them in an extremely fine state of division, and must be treated with
 carbonic oxide at a low temperature. The best results are obtained
 when the oxalate of the metal is heated in a current of hydrogen at
 the lowest temperature at which its reduction to the metallic state is
 possible. I have in the tube before me metallic nickel prepared in this
 way, and over which a slow current of carbonic oxide is now passing.
 The carbonic oxide before entering the tube burns, as you see, with
 a blue non-luminous flame. After passing over the nickel it burns
 with a highly luminous flame, which is due to the separation of me
 tallic nickel from the nickel carbonyl formed in the tube, which is

672                         Mr. Lttdwig Mond                    [June 3,
heated to incandescence in the flame. If we pass the gas through a
freezing mixture, you will observe that a colourless liquid is con
densed, of which I have a larger quantity standing in this tube. In
passing the gas issuing from our tube through a glass tube heated to
about 200° C., we obtain a metallic mirror of pure nickel, because at
this temperature the nickel carbonyl is again completely resolved
into its components, nickel and carbonic oxide. We will by-and-by
show you that this mirror consists of pure nickel. This liquid is
pure nickel carbonyl, and has the formula Ni(CO)4. It has a
specific gravity at ordinary temperature of 1'3185, and boils under
atmospheric pressure at the low temperature of 43° C.
    It has a very high vapour tension at ordinary temperature and
possesses a very high rate of expansion. If cooled to — 25° C. it
solidifies, forming needle-shaped crystals. A mixture of the vapour
with air explodes readily, sometimes at ordinary temperature, but
without violence, as we will show you. The liquid itself in the pure
state does not explode, but decomposes into its constitutents when,
heated sufficiently.    The vapour of nickel carbonyl possesses a
characteristic odour and is poisonous, but not more so than carbonic
oxide gas. Prof. McKeudrick has studied the physiological action
of this liquid, and has found that, when injected subcutuneously in
extremely small doses in rabbits, it produces an extraordinary reduc
tion of temperature, in some cases as much as 12°.
    The liquid can be completely distilled without decomposition,
but from its solution in liquids of a higher boiling point it cannot bo
obtained by rectification. On heating such a solution the compound
is decomposed, nickel being separated in the liquid, while carbonic
oxide gas escapes. I will try to demonstrate this by an experiment.
    We have here a solution of the substance in heavy petroleum oil,
which you will, in a few minutes, see turns completely black on heat
ing by the separation of nickel, while a gas escapes which is pure
carbonic oxide.
    In a similar way, when the nickel carbonyl is attacked by oxidising
agents, such as nitric acid, chlorine, or bromine, it is readily broken
up, nickel salts being formed, and carbonic oxide being liberated.
Sulphur acts in a similar way. Metals, even potassium, alkalies, and
acids, which have no oxidizing power, will not act upon the liquid at
all, nor do the salts of other metals react upon it. The substance
behaves therefore, chemically, in an entirely difierent manner from
potassium carbouyl, arid does not lead, as the other does, by easy
methods to complicated organic compounds. It does not show any
one of the reactions which are so characteristic for organic bodies
containing jarbonyl, such as the Ketones and Quinones ; and we have
not been able, in spite of very numerous experiments, either to substi
tute the carbonic oxide in this compound by other bivalent groups, or
to introduce the carbonic oxide by means of this compound into
organic substances.
    By exposing the liquid to atmospheric air a precipitate of carbo

1892.]                    on Metallic Carbonyls.                      673
nate of nickel is slowly formed of varying composition, which is
yellowish-white if perfectly dry air is used, and varies from a light
green to a brownish colour if more or less moisture is present.
    We have found all these precipitates to dissolve easily and com
pletely in dilute acid, with evolution of carbonic acid, leaving ordinary
nickel salts behind, and can therefore not agree with the view pro
pounded by Professor Berthelot in a communication to the French
Academy of Science, that these precipitates contain a compound of
nickel with carbon and oxygen, comparable to the so-called oxides of
organo-metallic compounds. In the same paper Professor Berthelot
has described a beautiful reaction of nickel carbonyl with nitric oxide,
which Dr. Langer will now show you. You will notice the intense
blue coloration which the liquid solution of nickel carbonyl in
alcohol assumes by passing the nitric oxide through it. Professor
Berthelot has reserved to himself the study of this body, but has so
far not published anything further about it.
    The chemical properties of the compound I have just described to
you are without parallel ; we do not know a single substance of
similar properties. It became, therefore, of special interest to study
the physical properties of the compound.
    Professor Quincke, of Heidelberg, has kindly determined its
magnetic properties, and found that it possesses in a high degree the
property discovered by Faraday, and called by him dia-maguetism,
which is the more remarkable, as all the other nickel compounds are
para-magnetic. He also found that it is an almost perfect non-con
ductor of electricity, in this respect differing from all other nickel
compounds.
    The absorption spectrum, and also the flame spectrum of our com
pound are at present under investigation by those indefatigable spec-
troscopists, Professors Dewar and Liveing, by whose kindness I am
enabled to bring before you, in advance of a paper they are sending
to the Royal Society, some of the interesting results they have ob
tained. We have here a photograph of the absorption spectrum,
obtained by means of a hollow prism through quartz plates filled
with nickel carbonyl, through which the spark spectrum of iron is
passed, which is photographed on the same plate. You see that the
 whole of the ultra-violet rays of the iron spectrum have disappeared,
being completely absorbed by the nickel carbonyl, which is thus
quite opaque for all the rays beyond the wave-lengths 3820.
    The spectrum of the highly luminous flame of nickel carbonyl,
which I have shown you before, is quite continuous ; but if the nickel
carbonyl is diluted with hydrogen, and the mixture burnt by means of
oxygen, the gases burn with a bright yellowish-green flame without
visible smoke ; and the spectrum of this flame shows in its visible
part, on a background of a continuous spectrum, a large number
of bands, brightest in the green, but extending on the red side beyond
the red line of lithium, and on the violet side well into the blue.
 These bauds cannot be seen on the photograph which I will now

674                         Mr. Ludwig Mond                     [June 3,
show you, the visible part of the spectrum appearing continuous, but
beyond the visible part, the photograph shows a large number—
over fifty—of well-defined lines in the ultra-violet. I will show yon
these lines in another photograph taken with greater dispersion, and
on which have also been photographed the spark spectrum of nickel.
You will see that all these linos correspond absolutely to lines ap
pertaining to the spark spectrum ; in fact the greater part of the
lines in the spark spectrum are also shown in this flame spectrum.
We have here another and very striking example of the fact dis
covered on the same day by Professors Dewar and Liveing and by
Dr. Huggins, that the spectrum of luminous flames is not always con
tinuous throughout its whole range, a fact which has at one time been
much debated and discussed.
    One of the most remarkable discoveries made within the precincts
of this Institution by that illustrious man whose centenary we cele
brated last year was that of the connection between magnetism and light,
which manifests itself when a beam of polarised light is sent through a
Bubstance while it is subjected to a strong magnetic field, under whose
influence the beam of light is rotated through a certain angle. Dr.
W. H. Perkin has prosecuted this discovery of Faraday's by a long
series of most elaborate researches, and has established the fact that
this power of magnetic rotation of various bodies has a definite relation
to their chemical constitution, and enables us to gain a better insight
into the structure of chemical compounds. Dr. Perkin has been good
enough to investigate the power of magnetic rotation of the nickel
carbonyl, and has found it quite as unusual as its chemical properties,
ami to be, with the sole exception of phosphorus, greater than that of
any other substance he has yet examined.
    The power of different bodies of refracting and dispersing a ray
of light has been shown by the beautiful and elaborate researches
undertaken many years ago by Dr. Gladstone—who has given an
account of them in this theatre in 1875, and who has since continued
them with indefatigable zeal—to throw a considerable light upon the
constitution of chemical compounds.
    I have investigated the refractive and dispersive powers of nickel
carbonyl in Rome, in conjunction with Prof. NasinL We found that
the atomic refraction of nickel in the substance is nearly two and a
half times as large as it is in any other nickel compound—a difference
very much greater than had ever before been observed in the atomic
refraction of any element. To give you some idea how these figures
are obtained, Mr. Lennox will now throw on to the screen a beam of
light through a double prism, filled partly with nickel carbonyl, and
partly with alcohol. You will notice that the top spectrum is turned
much further to the left, showing the nickel carbonyl to possess a
much greater power of retraction, and you will also notice that it is
 much wider than the bottom spectrum, which shows the greater dis
 persive power of the nickel carbonyl.
     It is now generally supposed that if one clement shows different

1892.]                       on Metallic Carbonyls.                          675
atomic refractive powers in different compounds, it enters with
a larger number of valencies into the compound which shows a
higher refractive power. In accordance with this view, the very much
greater refractive power of the nickel in the carbonyl would find an
explanation in assuming that this element, which in all its other
known combinations is distinctly bivalent, exercises in the carbonyl
the limit of its valency, viz. 8, assigned to it by Mendeleeff, who
placed it into the eighth group in his Table of Elements. This would
mean that one atom of nickel contained in the nickel carbonyl is com
bined directly with each of the four bivalent atoms of carbonyl, each
of which would saturate two of the eight valencies of nickel, as is
shown by this formula—
                                          O
                                          C
                                           II
                                O : C = Hi = C : O
                                           II
                                          0
                                          b
    This view seems plausible, and in accordance with the chemical pro
perties of the substance, and I should have no hesitation in accepting it
if we had not, in the further pursuit of our work on metallic carbonyls,
met with another substance—a liquid compound of iron with carbonic
oxide—which in its properties bears so much resemblance to the nickel
compound that one cannot assign to it a different constitution, whilst
its composition makes the adoption of a similar structural formula
next to impossible. It contains, for one equivalent of iron, five equi
valents of carbonyl. To assign to it a similar constitution, one would,
therefore, have to assume that iron did exercise ten valencies, or two
more than any other known element, a view which very few chemists
would be prepared to countenance. The atomic refraction of iron in
this compound, which Dr. Gladstone has had the kindness to deter
mine, is as unusual as that of the nickel in the nickel compound, and
bears about the same ratio to the atomic refraction of iron in other
compounds. We have, therefore, to find another explanation for the
extraordinarily high atomic refraction of these metals in their com
pounds with carbon monoxide, which may possibly modify our present
view on this subject. As to the structure of these compounds them
selves, we are almost bound to assume that they contain the carbonyl
atoms in the form of a chain, as I have represented on this diagram.
               o o                op                     o o o
               C—C                C-C \             Fe—C-'c-C N
         Hi                  Fe           0:0                         C:0
      Nlckel-tstr«-c«rboDjl.  Fcrro-ptnU<arbonyl.     M-ferro-hepU-carbonyl.

676                          Mr. Ludwig Mond                    [June 3,
    The ferro-carbonyl is prepared in a similar manner to the nickel
compound. The iron nsed is obtained from the oxalate at the very
lowest temperature possible, and is in a high degree pyrophoric. It
immediately catches fire on coming into contact with air, as I will
show you.
    This carbonyl forms, however, with such great difficulty, that we
overlooked its existence for a long time, and great precautions have to
be taken to obtain even a small quantity of it. It forms an amber-
coloured liquid, of which I have a small quantity before me. It
solidifies below — 21° C. to a mass of needle-shaped crystals. It distils
completely at 102'. Its specific gravity is 1-466 at 18° C. On
heating the vapour to 180° it is completely decomposed into iron and
carbonic oxide. The iron mirrors before me have been obtained in
this way. Its chemical composition is Fe(CO)3.
    It is interesting that, within a short time after we had made known
the existence of this body, Sir Henry Eoscoe found it in carbonic oxide
gas which had stood compressed in an iron cylinder for a considerable
time, and expressed the opinion that the red deposit which sometimes
forms in ordinary steatite gas-bnrners is due to the presence of this
substance in ordinary illuminating gas. Its presence in compressed
gas used for lime-lights has been noticed by Dr. Thorne, whose
attention was called to the fact that this gas sometimes will not
give a proper light because the incandescent lime becomes covered
with oxide of iron.
     M. Gamier, in a paper communicated to the French Academy of
Science, supposes even that this gas is sometimes formed in large
quantities in blast-furnaces when they are working too cold, and
refers to some instances in which he found large deposits of oxide
of iron in the tubes leading away the gas from these furnaces ;
but I find it difficult to believe that the temperature of a blast
furnace could ever bo sufficiently reduced as to give rise to the
formation of this compound. On the other hand, it is highly pro
bable that the formation of this compound of iron and carbonic
oxide may play an important role in that mysterious process by
which we are still making, and have been making for ages, the
finest qualities of steel, called the cementation process.
     The chemical behaviour of the substance towards acids and
oxidising agents is exactly the same as that of the nickel compound,
but to alkalies it behaves differently. The liquid dissolves without
evolution of gas. After a while a greenish precipitate is formed,
which contains chiefly hydrated-ferrous oxide, aud the solution
becomes brown. On exposure to the air it takes up oxygen ; the
colour changes to a dark red, whilst hydrated-ferric oxide separates
out.
     We have so far not been able to obtain from this solution any
compound fit for analysis, and are still engaged upon unravelling
the nature of the reaction that takes place, and of the compounds
that are formed.

1892.]                    on Metallic Carbonyh.                      677
     Although the solution resembles in appearance to some extent
the solutions obtained by treating potassium carbonyl with water,
it does not give any of the characteristic reactions of the latter.
When speaking of potassium carbonyl, I mentioned that by its
treatment with water, croconate of potassium was obtained, which
has the formula K.C .().,.
     We have transformed this by double decomposition into ferrous
croconic, FeC605, a salt forming dark crystals of metallic lustre
resembling iodine, which is not volatile, and dissolves readily in
water, the solution giving all the well-known reaction of iron in
croconic acid. You will note how entirely different the properties
of this substance are from those of iron carbonyl, which I have
described to you ; yet, on reference to its composition, you will find
that it contains exactly the same number of atoms of iron, carbon,
and oxygen, as the latter. This is a very interesting case of iso-
merism, considering that both compounds contain only iron, carbon,
and oxygon. The difference in the properties of these two bodies
becomes explainable by comparing the structural formula of the two
substances.
     I would now call your attention to the great difference in the con
stitution of the potassium carbonyl and that of the nickel and ferro
carbonyl. In the former the metal potassium is combined with the
oxygen in the carbonyl ; in the latter the metals nickel and iron are
 combined with the carbon of carbonyl. In the first case we have a
benzole ring with its three single and three double bonds ; in the
second a closed chain with only single bonds. It is evident that the
chemical properties of these substances must bo widely different.
     The ferro-penta-carbonyl remains perfectly unchanged in the
dark but if it is exposed to sunlight it is transformed into a solid
body of remarkably fine appearance, of gold colour and lustre, as
shown by the sample in this tube.
     This solid body is not volatile, but on heating it in the absence of
air, iron separates out and liquid ferro-carbonyl distils over. If,
however, it is heated carefully in a current of carbonic oxide it is
reconverted into the ferro-penta-carbonyl and completely volatilised.
We have so far found no solvent for this substance, so that we have
no means as yet of obtaining it in a perfectly pure state. Several
determinations of the iron in different samples of the substance
have led to fairly concordant figures, which agree with the formula
Fea(CO)7, or di-ferro-hepta-carbonyl.
     The interesting properties of the substances described have
naturally led us " to try," as Lord Kelvin once put it to me so
 prettily, " to give wings to other heavy metals." We have tried all
the well-known and a very large number of the rarer metals; but
 with the exception of nickel and iron we have so far been entirely
 unsuccessful. Even cobalt, which is so very like nickel, has not
 yielded the smallest trace of a carbonyl. This led me to study the
 question whether, by means of the action of carbonic oxide, the separa

678                         Mr. Ludwig Mond                      [June 3,
tion on a large scale of nickel from cobalt conld not be effected,
 which has so far been a most complicated metallurgical operation ;
 and subsequently I was led to investigate whether it would not be
 possible to use carbonic oxide to extract nickel industrially direct
from its ores.
     For solving these problems within the limits of the resources of
 a laboratory, we have devised apparatus, the principles of which are
 shown on this diagram. It consists of a cylinder divided into many
compartments, through which the properly prepared ore is passed
very slowly by means of stirrers attached to a shaft. On leaving
 the bottom of this cylinder, the ore passes through a transport
 ing screw, and from this to an elevator, which returns it to the
top of the cylinder, so that it passes many times through the cylin
der, until all the nickel is volatilised. Into the bottom of this
cylinder we pass carbonic oxide, which leaves it at the top charged
 with nickel carbonyl vapour, and passes through the conduits shown
here into tubes set in a furnace and heated to 200° C. Here the nickel
separates out from the nickel carbonyl. The carbonic oxide is re
generated and taken back to the cylinder by means of a fan, so that
the same gas is made to carry fresh quantities of nickel out of the
ore in the cylinder, and to deposit it in these tubes an infinite number
of times.
    Upon these principles Dr. Langer has constructed a complete
plant on a Liliputian scale, which has been at work in my laboratory
for a considerable time, and a photograph of which we will now throw
on to the screen.
    You see here the volatilising cylinder divided into numerous com
partments, through which the ore is passing, and subjected to the
action of carbonic oxide. At the bottom the ore is delivered into the
transporting screw passing through a furnace (for the purpose of
heating the ore to about 350° C. whereby its activity is maintained).
This screw delivers into an elevator, which returns the ore to the top
of the cylinder, so that the ore constantly passes at a slow rate
through the cylinder again and again, until the nickel it contains has
been taken out. The carbonic oxide gas, prepared in any convenient
manner, enters the bottom of the cylinder and comes out again at the
top. It then passes through a filter to retain any dust it may
carry away, and thence into a series of iron tubes built into a furnace,
where they are heated to about 200° C, In these tubes the nickel
carbonyl carried off by the carbonic oxide is completely decom
posed, and the nickel deposited against the sides of the tubes is
from time to time withdrawn, and is thus obtained in the pieces
of tubing and the plates which you see on the table.
    The carbonic oxide regenerated in these tubes is passed through
another filter, thence through a lime purifier, to absorb any carbonic
acid which may have been formed through the action of the finely
divided nickel upon the carbonic oxide, and is then returned through
a small fan into tho bottom of the cylinder. The whole of this

1892.]                    on Metallic Carbonyls.                      679
plant is automatically kept in motion by means of an electric
motor, the gearing of which you Bee here.
     By means of this apparatus we have succeeded in extracting the
nickel from a great variety of ores, in a time varying, according to the
nature of the ore, between a few hours and several days.
     Before the end of this year this process is going to be established
in Birmingham on a scale that will enable me to place its industrial
capacity beyond doubt, so that I feel justified in the expectation that
in a few months nickel carbonyl, a substance quite unknown two years
ago, and to-day still a great rarity, which has not yet passed out of
the chemical laboratory, will be produced in very large quantities,
and will play an important role in metallurgy.
     The process possesses, besides its great simplicity, the additional
advantage that it is possible to immediately obtain the nickel in any
definite form. If we deposit it in tubes we obtain nickel tubes ; if we
deposit it in a globe we obtain a globe of nickel ; if we deposit
it in any heated mould we obtain copies of these moulds in
pure, firmly coherent, metallic nickel. A deposit of nickel reproduces
the most minute details of the surface of the moulds to fully the same
extent as galvanic reproductions, so that all the very numerous objects
now produced by galvanic deposition, of which Mr. Swan exhibited
here such a large and beautiful variety a fortnight ago, can be pro
duced by this process with the same perfection in pure metallic nickel.
It is equally easy to nickel-plate any surface which will withstand the
temperature of 180° C. by heating it to that temperature and exposing
it to the vapour, or even to a solution of nickel carbonyl, a process
which may in many cases have advantages over electro-plating. I
have on the table before me specimens of nickel ores we have thus
 treated, of nickel tubes and plates we have obtained from these ores,
 and a few specimens of articles of pure nickel and articles plated with
 nickel which have been prepared in my laboratery. These will give
 yon some idea of the prospects which the process I have described
 opens out to the metallurgist, upon whom, from day to day, greater
 demands are made to supply pure nickel in quantities. The most
 valuable properties of the alloy of nickel and iron, called nickel-steel,
which promises to supply us with impenetrable iron-clads, have made
an abundant and cheap supply of this metal a question of national
importance. The inspection of the few specimens of articles of pure
nickel, and of nickel-plated articles, will, I hope, suffice to show you
the great facilities the process offers for producing very fine copies,
and for making articles of such forms as cannot be produced by
hydraulic pressure, the only method hitherto available for manufac
turing articles of pure nickel.
     I have also here a small coiled pipe made by my process, and
kindly lent by Prof. Ramsay, which is interesting as being the first
article made in this way for use in a chemical laboratory.
     I began my lecture by bringing under your notice an idea of
Liebig's, which he published fifty-eight years ago. I have shown

680            Mr. Ludtaig Mond on Metallic Carbonyls.      [June 3,
you how he himself elaborated this idea, and how it developed, until
within recent years it has led to results of the highest scientific
importance, and probably of great practical utility.
     Had Liebig all these results before his " mind's eye " when he
penned those prophetic words I have quoted? This is a question
it is impossible to answer. Who will attempt to measure the range
of vision of our great men, who from their lofty pinnacle see with
eagle eye far into the Land of Science, and reveal to us wonderful
sights which we can only realise after toiling slowly along the road
they have indicated ? Whether Liebig saw all these results or not,
it is due to him, and to men like him, that science continues its
marvellous advance, dispersing the darkness around us, and ever
adding to the scope and exactness of our knowledge, that mighty
power for promoting the progress and enhancing the happiness of
humanity.
                                                           [L. M.]

1892.]                     General MonlUy Meeting.                           681
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, June 13, 1892.
  SIR JAMES CRIOHTON-BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                        Vice-President, in the Chair.
            Harry Stanley Giftard, Esq.
            William John Heath, Esq.
            Mrs. Lawson,
            Alexander Morison, M.D.
            The Hon. William Frederick Danvers Smith, M.P.
            W. Bezley Thome, M.D.
            Captain R. H. 0. Tufnell,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for tha
following Donations :—
            Mrs. Bloomfield Moore                                £80
            Sir David Salomons, Bart                               50
            Charles Hawksley, Esq                                  50
for carrying on investigations on Liquid Oxygen.
   The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
    FROM
The Secretary of State for India—Across the Border, or Pathan and Biloch. By
     E. E. Oliver. 8vo. 1890.
  The Administration of Warren Hastings, 1772-1785. By G. W. Forrest. 8vo.
     Calcutta, 1892.
Accademia dei IAncei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quintet : Rendiconti. Classe di
     Soienze Fisiche, Matematiche e Natural!. 1° Semestre, Vol. I . Fasc. 6, 7, 8.
     8vo. 1892.
  Rendiconti, Serie Quinta, Classe di Scienze Moral!, Storiche e Filologiche,
     Vol. I. Fasc. 1,2. 8vo. 1892.
Asiatic Society of Great Britain, Royal—Journal for January and April, 1892.
     8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LII. No. 6. 8vo. 1892.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XIII. Parts 5, 6. 8vo. 1892.
Sashforth, The Rev. F. B. D. (the Author)—A. Description of a Machine for Find
     ing the Numerical Roots of Equations. 8vo. 1892.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1891-2, Nos. 13-15. 4to.
Brymner, Douglas, Esq. (the Archivist)—Report on Canadian Archives, 1891. 8vo.
     1892.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XI. No. 4. 8vo. 1892.
Chemical Society—Journal for May, 1892. 8vo.
    VOL. XIII. (No. 86.)                                            2 z

682                        General Monthly Meeting,                   [Jnne 13,
Chicago Exhibition, 1893, Royal Commission—Handbook of Regulations and
      General Information. 8vo. 1892.
Civil Engineert, Institution of—Minutes of the Proceedings, Vol. CVII. 8vo.
      1892.
Cracovie, VAcademic det Seiencet—Bulletin, 1892, No. 4. 8vo.
End. India Assoeialion—Journal, Vol. XXIV. No. 3. 8vo. 1892.
Editon—American Journal of Science for Hay, 1892. 8vo.
   Analyst for May, 1892. 8vo.
   Athenamm for May, 1892. 4to.
   Brewers' Journal for May, 1892. -Ito.
   Chemical News for May, 1892. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for May, 1892. 8vo.
   Eastern and Western Review, Vol. II. No. 1. 8vo. 1892.
   Educational Review for May. 8vo. 1892.
   Electrical Engineer for May, 1892. fol.
   Electric Plant for May, 1892. 8vo.
   Electricity for May, 1892. 8vo.
   Engineer for May, 1892. fol.
   Engineering for May, 1892. fol.
   Horological Journal for May, 1892. 8vo.
    Industries for May, 1892. fol.
    Iron for May, 1892. 4to.
    Ironmongery for May, 1892. 4to.
    Lighting for May, 1892. svo.
    Nature for May, 1892. 4to.
    Open Court for May, 1892. 4to.
    Optical Magic Lantern Journal for May, 1892. 8vo.
    Photographic Work for May, 1892. 8vo.
    Surveyor for May, 1892. 8vo.
    Telegraphic Journal for May, 1892. fol.
    Zoopbilist for May, 1892. ft,..
Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, No. 98. 8vo. 1892.
 Ex Libris Society—Journal for May, 1892. 4to.
 Florence, liiblioteoa Nazionals Central*—Bolletino, NOs. 153, 154. 8vo. 1892.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 797. 8vo. 1892.
 Praser, Colonel A. T. R.E. M.R.I. (the Author)—Land Improvement in India.
       8vo. 1892.
 Geographical Society, Roi/aJ— Proceedings, Vol. XIV. No. 5. 8vo. 1892.
 Gladstone, John HaU, Esa. Ph.D. F.R.S. F.C.8. M.R.I.—Tijdschrift van bet
       Nederlandsch Aardrijkiiknndig Genootschap, Tweede Serie, Deel 1-8. 4to
       and 8vo. 1881-91.
 Harlem, Socitie Hollandaise det Science*—Verhandelingen, 34* Verz. Deel 5, 21'
       Sink. 4to. 1892.
 Jolmt Hopkins University—American Chemical Journal, Vol. XIV. No. 3. 8vo.
       1892.
 Leicester Free Libraries—Annual Report, 1891-92. 8vo.
 Lewins, R. Jlf. D.—Sadduoee and Pharisee. By G. M. McCrie. 8vo. 1892.
 Linnean Society—Journal, No. 151. 8vo. 1892.
 Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXI. Parts 14-17. 8vo. 1892.
 Manchester Liti-rary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs and Proceedings, Vol. V.
       No. 1. 8vo. 1892.
 Manchester Steam Users' Association—Boiler Explosions Act, 1882, Report, NOB.
       430-499. 8vo. 1891.
 Meteorological Society, Soyal—Quarterly Journal, No. 82. 8vo. 1892.
    Meteorological Record, No. 42. 8vo. 1892.
  Ministry of Public Works, Rome— Giornale del Genlo Civile, 1892, Fate. 2, 3. 8vo.
        AndDesigni. fol. 1892.
  National Life-Boat Instiation, Royal—Annual Report, 1892. Svo.
  New South Wales, Department of Public Initruction—Report, 1890. 8vo. 1891.

 1892.]                  '  General Monthly Meeting.                       683
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers —Transactions!
     Vol. XLl. Part 2. 8vo. 1892.
Payne, Wm. W. Eiq. and Half, Geo. K Esq. (the Editors)—Astronomy and Astro-
     Physics for May, 1892. 8v0.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for May, 1892. 8vo.
Photographic Society of Great Britain—Journal, Vol. XVI. Nos. 7, 8. 8vo. 1892.
Prince, C. Leeson, Etq. F.R.A.8. FM.Met.Soe.—Summary of a Meteorological
     Journal for 1891. fol.
Rayleigh, The Right Hon. Lord, D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I.—The Physics of Media.
     By J. J. Waterston. (Philosophical Transactions, 1892.)
Rio de Janeiro, Obsersatoire Imperial de— Bevista, 1892, No. 1. 8vo.
Roberts, Isaae, /•.»//. F.R.A.S. F.B.S.—Oelestial Photographs, with Notes, fol.
     1887-92.
Rochester Academy of Science—Proceedings, Vol. I. Part 2. 8vo. 1891.
Royal Botanic Society of London—Quarterly Record, No. 49. Svo. 1892.
Royal Institution of Cornwall—Journal, Vol. XI. Part 1. Svo. 1892.
Seismological Society of Japan—Transactions, VoL XVI. Svo. 1892.
Selborne Society -Nature Notes, Vol. III. No. 30. Svo. 1892.
Smithsonian Institution—Annual Beport, 1889-90. Svo. 1891.
   National Museum Beport, 1889. Svo. 1891.
   Contributions to North American Ethnology, Vol. VI. 4to. 1890.
   Algonquian Bibliography. Svo. 1891.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. IV. No. 11. Svo. 1892.
Society of Arts—Journal for May, 1892. Svo.
Tacchini, Profsusor P. Hon. Mem. S.I. (the Author)—Memorie della Societa degli
     Spettroscopisti Italian!, Vol. XXI. Disp. 4». 4to. 1892.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 171. Svo. 1892.
United Slates Department of Agriculture—Monthly Weather Review for January-
     February, 1892. 4to. 1892.
  Meteorological Work for Agricultural Institutions. By M. W. Harrington.
     Svo. 1892.
Upsal University—Bulletin de 1'Observatoire MSte'orologique, Vol. XXIII. 4to.
     1891-92.
Vincent, Benjamin, Esq. Hon. Lib. R.I.—Report of the Registrar-General for
     Scotland, 1891. Svo. 1892.
Zurich Naturforschenden GeselUchaft—Vierteljahrechrift, Jahrgang XXXVII.
     HeftS, 4. Svo. 1891.
                                                                 2 z 2

684                       General Monthly Meeting.                          [July 4,
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, July 4, 1892.
   SIR JAMES CRIOHTON-BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                        Vice-President, in the Chair.
                          Walter Palmer, Esq. B.Sc.
                          The Hon. Sir Alfred Wills,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
following Donation :—
        Professor Dewar (Grant from Royal Society) ..                   £300
        Ludwig Mond, Esq                                                  120
        Hugo Mttller, Esq                                                  60
for carrying on investigations on Liquid Oxygen.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1892, Part 1. 8vo.
Aceademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Classe di Soienze Fisiche, Matematiche e
     Natural!. Atti, Serie Quinta : Rendioonti. 1° Semestre, Vol. 1°. Fasc. 9, 10.
     8To. 1892.
  Memorie, Vol. X. 8vo. 1892.
   Clause di Soieuze Moral!, Btoriche,'eto. : Rendioonti, Serie Qninta,Vol. I. Fasc. 4.
     8yo. 1892.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 137. 8vo. 1892.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LII. No. 7. 8vo. 1892.
.Bavarian Academy of Sciencet—Sitzungsberichte, 1892, Heft 1. 8vo.
British Architect, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1891-2, NOs. 16, 17. 4to.
Canadian Institute—Transactions, Vol. II. Part 2, No. 4. 8vo. 1892.
  The Reatification of Parliament. By 8. Fleming, LL.D. 8vo. 1892.
  Annual Archaeological Report. 8vo. 1891.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XI. No. 5. 8vo. 1892.
Chemical Society—-Journal for June, 1892. 8vo.
CornicaU Polytechnic Society, Royal—Annual Report for 1891. 8vo.
Cracovie, VAcademie des Sciencet—Bulletin, 1892, No. 5. 8vo.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. &e. M.R.I.—Journal of the Royal Microscopical
     Society, 1892, Part 3. 8vo.
Imli.r, Col. E. C.B. (the Author}—A Natural Process of Dissolution for Smoke
     and Fogs. 8vo. 1892.
Scat India Association—Journal, Vol. XXlV. No. 4. 8vo. 1892.
Editors—American Journal of Science for June, 1892. 8To.
  Analyst for June, 1892. 8vo.
  Athensum for June, 1892. 4to.

1892.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                      685
Editars—continued.
    Brewers' Journal for June, 1892. I to.
    Chemical News for Jane, 1892. 4to.
    Chemist and Druggist for .lime. 1892. 8 TO.
    Electrical Engineer for June, 1892. fol.
    Electricity for June, 1892. 4to.
    Electric Plant for June, 1892. Ho.
    Engineer for June, 1892. fol.
    Engineering for Jane, 1892. fol.
    Engineering Review for June, 1892. 8vo.
    Horological Journal for June, 1892. 8vo.
    Industries for June, 1892. fol.
    Iron for June, 1892. 4to.
     Ironmongery for June, 1892. -I In.
     Lighting for Jane, 1892. 4to.
     Manufacturers' Engineering and Export Journal for June, 1892. 8vo.
    Nature for June, 1892. 4to.
     Open Court for June, 1892. 4to.
     Photographic News for Jane, 1892. 8vo.
     Photographic Work for June, 1892. 8vo.
    Surveyor for June, 1892. 8vo.
     Telegraphic Journal for June, 1892. fol.
     Zoophilist for June, 1892. 4to.
 Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, No. 99. 8vo. 1892.
 Ex-Libris Society—Journal for June, 1892. 4to.
 Fleming, J. A. Esq. M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Alternate Current
       Transformer, Vol. II. 8vo. 1892.
 Florenee, Biblioteco. Rasionale Centrale—Bolletino, Nos. 155, 156. 8vo. 1892.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 798. 8vo. 1892.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XIV. No. 6. 8vo. 1892.
 Harlem SocieU Hollandaise des Sciences—Archives Ne'erlandaises, Tome XXVI.
       Livraison 1. 8vo. 1892.
 Institute of Brewing—Transactions, Vol. V. No. 6. 8vo. 1892.
 Iowa, Laboratories of Natural History—Bulletin, Vol. II. No. 2. 8vo. 1892.
 Johns Hopkins University—University Circulars, Nos. 98, 99. 4to. 1892.
     American Chemical Journal, Vol. XIV. No. 4. 8vo. 1892.
  Lawee, Sir J. B. and Gilbert, Dr. J. H. (the Authors)—Field and other Experi
        ments at Rothamsted. fol. 1892.
  Linnean Society—Jouronl, No. 201. 8vo. 1892.
 Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXI. ParU 18, 19. 8vo. 1892.
  Massachusetts, State Board of Health—Report on Water Supply and Sewerage,
        Two Parts. 8vo. 1890.
  Niblett, J. T. Esq. (tlte Author)—Secondary Batteries. 8vo. 1892.
  Odontological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXIV. No. 7. 8vo. 1892.
  Payne, W. W. and Hale, G. E. (the Editors)—Astronomy and Astro-Physics for
       June, 1892. 8yo.
  Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, June, 1892. 8vo.
  Radclife Library—Catalogue of Books added to Library during 1891. 4to. 1892.
  Richardson, B. W. M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Asclepiad, Vol. IX.
        No. 2. 8vo. 1892.
  Royal Irish Academy—Proceedings, Third Series, Vol. II. No. 2. 8vo. 1892.
  Royal Society of London—Proceedings. Nos. 308, 309. 8vo. 1892.
  Royal Society of New South Wales—Journal and Proceedings. Vol. XXV. 8vo.
        1891. '
  Sanitary Institute—Transactions, Vol. XII. 8vo. 1892.
  Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Mathemutisch-phyBischen Classe, Berichte,
        1892, No. 1. 8vo. 1892.
     Abhandlungen, Band XVIII. Nos. 5, 6. 4to. 1892.
     Philologisch-historischcn Classe, Band XIII. No. 4. 8vo. 1892.

686                         General Monthly Meeting.               [July 4,
Selborne Society—Nature Notes, Vol. III. No. 31. 8vo. 1892.
Soriety of Arts—Journal for June, 1892. STO.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 172. 8vo. 1892.
United States Department of Agriculture—Monthly Weather Review for March,
     1892. 4to.
   Report of Chief of Weather Bureau, 1891. 8vo.
 Universily of London—Calendar, 1892-93. 8vo.
 Vereint mr Beforderung det Gewerbfieisses in Preussen—Yerhandlungen. 1892:
     HeftS. 4to.
 Victoria Institttte—Transactions, No. 98. 8vo. 1892.
 Zoological Society of London—FrocediDgs, 1892, Part 1. STO. 1892.

    1892.]                 General Monthly Meeting.                     687
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                        Monday, November 7, 1892.
     SIR JAMES CRIOHTON-BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                        Vice-President, in the Chair.
                 Miss Emily Drummond,
                J. J. Duveen, Esq.
                 Edward Johnson, Esq.
                 George Blundell Longstaff, M.D. P.R.C.P.
                 Robert Dobie Wilson, Esq.
  were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
       The Sincere Thanks of the Members were returned to Mr.
  Thomas G. Hodgkins, of Brambletye Farm, Setauket, Long Island,
  New York, for his munificent donation of $100,000 for "the in
  vestigation of the relations and co-relations existing between man
  and his Creator " ; and the high appreciation of the Members was
  expressed of the example that he has thus set to those possessed of
  means and interested in the promotion of scientific investigation.
       The Sincere Thanks of the Members were returned to the Gold
  smiths' Company for their liberal donation of £1000 " for the con-
  " tinnation and development of the valuable original research which the
  " Society is engaged in carrying on ; and especially for the prosecution
  " of investigations on the properties of matter at temperatures ap-
 " proaching that of the zero of absolute temperature " ; and the pecu
 liar gratification of the Members was expressed that this gift should
 have been made by a Company who, by the great share they have
 taken in the founding and development of the City and Guilds of
 London Institute for the Promotion of Technical Education, and by
 their more recent establishment and endowment of the Goldsmiths'
 Company's Technical and Recreative Institute at New Cross, have
 evinced their appreciation of the application of science to industrial
 purposes, and now by this donation to the Royal Institution show
 they recognise the value of the initiative stage—that of purely
 scientific research.
      The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the
 following Donation :—
                 Mr. F. D. Mocatta                   £50
for carrying on investigations on Liquid Oxygen.

 688                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [Nov. 7,
      The PBESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      FBOM
  The Lords nf the Admiralty—Greenwich Observations for 1889. 8vo. 1891.
  The Governor- General of India—Geological Survey of India. Records,Vol XXV
       Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1892.
    Palseontologia Indiea. Index of Genera nnd Species. 4to. 1892.
    Memoirs. Index to first 20 volumes 1859-83. 8vo. 1892.
  The Secretary of State for India—Papers relating to the Archaeology of Burma,
       by E. Forchhammer. fol. 1884-1891.
    Persia, by George N. Curzon. 2 vols. 8vo. 1892.
    Archaeological Survey of India. New Series. Vol. II. 4to. 1891.
 Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Atti, Serie Quinta : Rendiconti. Classe di
       Scienze Fisiche, Matetnatiche e Natural!. 1° Semestre, Vol. I. Fasc 11-12
       2" Semestre, Vol. I. Fasc. 1-7. 8vo. Ib92.
    Bendiconti, Serie Quinta, Classe di Scienze Morali, Btoriche e Filoloeiche,
       Vol. I. Fase. 5-7. 8vo. 1892.
    Memorie, Vol. X. 4to. 1892.
 Agricultural Society of England, Royal. Journal. 3rd Series. Vol III Parte,
       2,3. 8vo 1892.
 American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Proceedings. New Series. Vol XVIIL
      8vo. 1891.
    Memorial of Joseph Levering. 8vo. 1892.
 American Geographical Society— Bulletin. Vol. XXIV. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1892.
 American Philosophical Society—Transactions. Vol. XVII. Parts 1, 2. 4ta
       1892.
    Proceedings. No. 138. 8vo. 1892.
 Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. XIV. No. 1. 8vo. 1892.
    Archreologia. Second Series. Vol. III. 4to. 1892.
 Asiatic Society of Bengal—Proceedings. 1891, NOs. 7-10. 1892, Nos. 1-3 8vo
    Journal. Vol. XL. Part 1, Nos. 2-3. Part 2, NOs. 2-6. Vol. XLI Part 1
      No. 1. P»rt2, No. 1. 8vo. 1891-2.
 Asiatic Society of Great Britain, Royal—Journal for July and October, 1892.
      8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal— Memoirs, Vol. L. 4to. 1892.
      Monthly Notices. Vol. LII. Noa. 8-9. 8vo. 1892.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XIII. Part 7. 8vo. 1892.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Sitzungsberichte. 1892. Heft 2. 8vo.
Binnie, A. R. Esq. M.Inst.C.E. M.R.I. (tlut Author)—Average Annual Rainfall
      8vo. 1892.
Birmingham Philosophical Soeiety—Proceedings, Vol. VII. Part 2. 8vo. 1892.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings, 1891-2, Nos. 18-20. 1892-93
      No. 1. 4to.
   Calendar 1892-3. 8vo.
British Museum (Natural History). Catalogue of Birds. Vols. XVI XVII
         8vo. 1892.
California, University of—Publications, 1891-92. 8vo.
Cambridge Philosophical Soeiety—Proceedings, Vol. VII. Part 6 8vo 1892
   Transactions, Vol. XV. Part 3. 4to. 1892.
Canada, Geological and Natural History Survey of—Catalogue of Canadian Plants,
      Part IV. 8vo. 1892.
   Contributions to Canadian Micro-Palaeontology, Part IV. 8vo 1892
   Report 1889, Part D, Nos. 1-9, Part N, NOs. 1-3. fol.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XI. Nos. 6-9. 8vo. 1892.
Chemical So.:iety—Journal for July to October, 1892. 8vo.
City of London College—Calendar, 1892-3. 8vo. 1892.

1892.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                     689
Civil Engineers, Institution of—Minutes of the Proceedings, Vols. CVIH. CIX.
     CX. STO. 1892.
Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. XXV. 8vo. 1892.
Colonial InttUute, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XXIII. 8vo. 1892.
Cotgrease, A. Esq. F.RM.S. (the Compiler)—Catalogue of the Guille-Alles
     Library, Guernsey. 8vo. 1891.
Cracmie, VAcademic des Sciencet—Bulletin, 1892, Nos. 6, 7. Svo.
Crisp, Frank, Esq. LL.B. F.L.S. M.R.I.—Journal of the Royal Mierosoopical
     Society, 1892, Parts 4-5. 8vo.
VaUmeyer, Thomaz, R. Esq. F.R.A.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Telephotographic
     Lens. 8vo. 1892.
Dax, SocieTA de Borda—Bulletin, Seizieme Anne'e. 4* Trimestre. Dix-seplieme
     Anne'e. 1" 2« Trimestre. 8vo. 18IU-2.
East India Association—Journal, Vol. XXIV. Nos 5-7. 8vo. 1892.
Editors—American Journal of Science for July-Oct. 1892. 8vo.
   Analyst for July-Oct. 1892. 8vo.
   Athenasum for July-Oct. 1892. 4to.
   Brewers' Journal for July-Oct. 1892. 4to.
   Chemical News for July-Oct. 1892. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for July-Oct. 1892. STo.
   Electrical Engineer for July-Oct. 1892. fol.
   Electric Plant for July-Oct. 1892. 8vo.
   Electricity for July-Oct. 1892. 8vo.
   Engineer for July-Oct. 1892. fol.
  Engineering for July-Oct. 1892. fol.
   Horological Journal for July-Oct. 1892. 8vo.
   Industries for July-Oct. 1892. fol.
   Iron for July-Oct. 1892. 4to.
   Iron and Coal Trades Review, July. 4to.
   Ironmongery for July-Oct. 1 892. 4to.
   Lightning for July-Oct. 1892. STO.
   Monist, July-Oct. 8vo.
   Nature for July-Oct. 1892. 4to.
   Open Court for July-Oct. 1892. 4to.
   Photographic Work for July-Oct. 1892. 8vo.
   Surveyor for July-Oct. 1892. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for July-Oct. 1892. fol.
   Transport for July-Oct. fol.
   Zoophilist for July-Oct. 1892. 4to.
Electrical Engineers, Institution o/—Journal, No. 100. STO. 1892.
Ex Libra So.''iety—Journal for July to October, 1892. 4to.
Florence, Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale—Bolletino, Nos. 158-164. STo. 1892.
Franklin Institute—Journal, NOs. 799-801. 8vo. 1892.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XIV. Nos. 7. 8. 8vo. 1892.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, Band XLI. Heft 2, 3. Band
      XLU. Heft 1. 8vo. 1892.
   Abhandlungen, Band XVII. Heft 1-2. 4to. 1892.
   Verhandlungen, 1892, Nos. 6-10. 8vo.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 191, 192. 8vo. 1892.
Georgofili, Reale Accademia—Atti, Quarta Serie, Vol. XV. Disp. 2'. Svo. 1892.
Harlem, Socie'U Hollandaise des Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Tome XXV.
     LIT. 5. Tome XXVI. Liv. 2. Svo. 1892.
.Harris and Haddon, Messrs, (the Publishers)—Atomic Consciousness. By
     J. Bathurst. Svo. 1892.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XIV. Svo. 1892.
Imperial Institute—Year Book. Svo. 1892.
Institute of Brewing—Transactions, Vol. V. No. 7. Svo. 1892.
Jron and Steel Institute—Proceedings in America in 1890. Svo. 1892.
   Journal, 1892, No. 1. STO.

690                          General Monthly Meeting.                     [Nov. 7,
Johns Hopkins University—American Chemical .Journal, Vol. XIV. Nos. 5-6.
      8va. 1892.
   American Journal of Philology, Vol. XIII. NOs. 1, 2. 8vo. 1892.
   Studies in Historical and Political Science, Tenth Series, Nos. 7-9. 8vo. 1892.
   University Circular—No. 100. 4to. 1892.
Kennedy, T. 8. Esq. J.P. M.R.I.—Sucre de Betterave. By Ch. Bardy. 8vo.
      1881.
   Alcoolisme. By Ch. Bardy. 8vo. 1888.
 Lit,!*, Philosophical and Literary Society—Annual Report, 1891-2. Svo.
Lewins, R. M.D.—Miss Naden's World Scheme. By O. M'Crie. 8vo. 1892.
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 152-3. 8vo. 1892.
   Transactions. Botany. Vol. III. Parts 4-7. 4to. 1891-92.
Madras Government—Madras Meridian Circle Observations, 1874-76. 8vo.
       1892.
Madras Government Central Museum—Report, 1891-92. foL 1892.
   Geological Map of the Madras Presidency, fol. 1892.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. TEXT, Part 20. 8vo. 1892.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs and Proceedings, Vol. V.
      No. 2. 8vo. 1892.
Mechanical Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings, 1892, No. 2. 8m
Meteorological Society, Jioyal—Quarterly Journal, No. 83. 8vo. 1892.
   Meteorological Record, No. 43. 8vo. 1892.
Ministry of Public Works, Rome—Giornale del Oenio Civile, 1892, Fasc. 4-7.
      8vo. And Design!, fol. 1892.
Mitchell C. Pitfield, Esq. M.R.I. (the Author)—Enlargement of the Sphere of
      Women. 8vo. 1892.
Montpettier Academic des Sciences—Memoires, Tome XI. No. 2. 4to. 1891.
Musical Association—Proceedings, Eighteenth Session, 1891-92. 8vo. 1892.
National Life-Boat Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 165. 8vo. 1892.
 A."- South Wales, Agent-General—Annual Report of the Department of Mines
      (N.S.W.) for 1891. fol. 1892.
New York Academy of Sciences—Transactions, Vol. XI. Nos. 1-5, 7-8. 8vo.
      1891-2.
    Annals, VoL VI. Nos. 1-6. 8vo. 1891-92.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions.
      Vol. XLL Part 3. 8vo. 1892.
Nova Scotian Institute of Science— Proceedings and Transactions, 2nd Series,
      Vol. I. Part 1. 8vo. 1891.
Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1892, Part 2. 8vo.
 Odontohgical Society—Transactions, Vol. XXIV. No. 8. 8vo. 1892.
Payne, Win. W. Esy. and Hale, Geo. E. Esq. (the Editors)—Astronomy and Astro-
      Physics for July-Oct. 1892. 8vo.
Pennsylvania Geological Survey—Atlases A.A. Parts 5-6. 8vo. 1891.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for July-Oct. 1892. 8vo.
Photographic Society of Great Britain—Journal, Vol. XVI. No. 9, VoL XVIL
      No. 1. 8vo. 1892.
Physical Society of London—Proceedings, Vol. XI. Part 4. 8vo. 1892.
Pitt-Rivers, Lieut.-General D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Excavations in
      Bokerby Dyke and Wansdyke. Privately Printed. Vol. IIL 4to. 1892.
    Excavations in Cranborne Chase. Vol. II. 4to. 1888.
Powers, E. Esq. (the Author)—Should the Rainfall Experiments be Continued ?
      8vo. 1892.
Preussische Akademie 'der Wissenschaften—Sitzungsberichte, Nos. 1-40. 8vo.
      1892.
Radclife Observatory—Observations, Vol. XLV. 8vo. 1891.
Reynolds, Miss K. M.—Lantern Slides of Faraday Apparatus, 1892.
Richardson, B. W. M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I. (the Author)—The Asclepiad. Vol. IX.
      Part3. 8vo. 1892.
Royal Botanic Society of London—Quarterly Itccon' Nos. 50, 51. 8vo. 1892.

 1892.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                      691
 Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh—Reports from the Laboratory, Vol. IV.
        Svo. 1892.
 Royal College of Surgeons of England—Calendar, 1892. Svo.
 Roytil Dublin Society—Proceedings, Vol. VH. New Series, Parta 3-4. 8vo.
        1892.
    Transactions, Vol. IV. Series II. Parta 9-13. 4to. 1891.
 Jl- ij'd Historical Society—Transactions, New Series, Vol. VI. Svo. 1892.
 Royal Iriflt Academy—Cunningham Memoirs, No. 7. Svo. 1892.
    Proceedings, Series IL Vol. IV. Svo. 1884-88.
    Transactions, Vol. XXIX. Parts 18-19. Svo. 1892.
 Royal Society of Canada—Proceedings and Transactions, Vol. IX. 4to. 1892.
 Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XXXVI. Parts 2-3. Vol.
       XXXVII. Part 1. 4to. 1892.
    Proceedings, VoL XVIII. Svo. 1892.
 Royal Society of London— Proceedings, Nos. 307-315. Svo. 1892.
 Saxon Society of Sciencet, Royal—Mathematische Physiachen Clasae : Abhand-
       lungen, Band XVIII. No. 7. 4to. 1892.
    Berichte, 1892, No. 2. Svo. 1892.
 Selbome Society—Natnre Notes, Vol. III. Noa. 32-35. Svo. 1892.
 Siemens, Dr. Werner Von (the Author)—Scientific and Technical Papers, Vol. I.
       Svo. 1892.
Smith, Batil Woodd, Esq. F.S.A. Af.fi. I.— Middlesex County Becorda, VoL IV.
    Svo. 1892.
Smithsonian Institution—Contributions to Knowledge, Vol. XXVIII. fol. 1892.
Socittf Archieologique du Midi de la France—Bulletin, Nos. 8-9. Svo. 1891-92.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. IV. No. 12. Svo. 1892.
Society of Arts—Journal for July-Oct. 1892. Svo.
St. PAeribourg, Acadfmie Imperials det Sciences—Me'moires, Tome XXXVIII.
       Nos. 9-13. 4to. 1892.
Statistical Society, Royal—.Journal, Vol. LV. Parts 2-3. Svo. 1892.
Steanwick, Miss Anna, M.R.I, (the Author)— Ports, the Interpreters of their Age.
       Svo. 1892.
 Tacchini, Professor P. Hon. Mem. R.I. (the Author)—Memorie della Societa degli
       Spettroscopisti Italiani, Vol. XXI. Disp. 5«-8». 4to. 1892.
 Tasmania, Royal Society of—Proceedings for 1891. Svo. 1892.
 Toronto Meteorological Office— Report of Meteorological Service of Canada, by
       Charles Garpmael. 8vo. 1892.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, Noa. 173-176. Svo. 1892.
 United States Department of Agriculture—Monthly Weather Review for March to
       June, 1892. 4to. 1892.
   Weather Bureau, Bulletin, Nos. 1-4. Svo. 1892.
 University College, London—Report on the Bentham MSS. in the College. Svo.
       1892.
 Veneto, I'Ateneo—Reviste, Serie XV. Vol. II. Fasc. 1-6. Svo. 1891.
 Vereins sur Beforderung det Geuserbfleisies in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1892,
      Heft 6-8. 4to. 1892.
 Victoria Institute—Transactions, Nos. 99-100. Svo. 1892.
 Wright & Co. Messrs. John (the Publishers)—Golden Rules of Surgical Practice,
      by E. H. Fenwick. 12mo. 1892.
   Ptomaines and other Animal Alkaloids, by A. C. Farquharsou. Svo. 1892.
Yorkshire Philosophical Society—Annual Report for 1892. Svo.
Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1892, Parts 2, 3. Svo. 1892.
Zurich Naturforschenden Gesellschaft—Vierteljahrachrift, Jahrgang XXXVII.
      Heft 1, 2. Svo. 1892.

692                       . General Monthly Meeting.                 [Dec. 5,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, December 5, 1892.
   SIR .TAJIKS CRIOHTON-BROWNE, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                         Vice-President, in the Chair.
                  Mrs. A. E. Binnie,
                  William Scott Fox, Esq.
                  Shrimant Sampatrao Gaikwad,
                  Lieut. Edmond Herbert Hills, RE.
                  Mrs. Harry Jonas,
                  Nikola Tesla, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the fol
lowing donation :—
               Lndwig Mond, Esq                            200J.
for carrying on investigations on Liquid Oxygen.
     The decease of Mr. Thomas G. Hodgkins, of Brambletye Farm,
Setauket, Long Island, New York, was announced.
   The following Lecture Arrangements were announced :—
    SIR RORERT STAWELL BALL, M.A. LL.D. F.U.S. Lowndean Professor of
Astronomy and Geometry in the University of Cambridge. Six Lectures (adapted
to a Juvenile Auditory) on ASTRONOMY. On Dec. 27 (Tuesday), Dec. 29, 31, 1892 ;
Jan. 3, 5, 7, 1893.
    PKOFESSOR VICTOR HORSLEY, F.R.S. F.R.C.8. it. K.I. Fullerian Professor
of Physiology, R.I. Ten Lectures on THE STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE
NERVOUS SYSTEM—THE FUNCTIONS OF THE CERERELLUM, AND THE ELEMENTARY
PRINCIPLES OF PSYCHO-PHYSIOLOGY. On Tuesdays, Jan. 17, 24, 31, Feb. 7, 14, 21,
28, March 7, 14, 21.
    THE REV. CANON AINOEH, M.A. LL.D. Three Lectures on TENNYSON. On
Thundays, Jan. 19, 26, Feb. 2.
    PROFESSOR PATRICK. GEDDES. Four Lectures on THE FACTORS OF ORGANIC
EVOLUTION. On Thursdays Feb. 9, 16, 23, March 2.
    THE KEV. AUGUSTUS JESSOPP, D.D. Three Lectures on THE GREAT REVIVAL
—A STUDY IN MEDUKVAL HISTORY. On Thursdays, March 9, 16, 23.
    PROFESSOR C. HURERT H. PARRY, Mus. Doc. M.A. Professor of Musical History
and Composition at the Royal College of Music. Four Lectures on EXPRESSION
AND DESIGN IN Music (with Musical Illustrations). On Saturdays, Jan. 21, 28.
Feb. 4, 11.
    THE RIGHT HON. LORD RAYLEIGH, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.K.I. Pro
fessor of Natural Philosophy, R.I. Six Lectures on SOUND AND VIRRATIONS.
On Saturdays, Feb. 18, 25, March 4, 11, 18, 25.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The Secretary of State for India—Great Trigonometrical Survey of India, Vols.
     XXV.-XXVI. 4to. 1891-92.
TluXrit Hcaland tioccrumcnl—The New Zcalaml Official Handbook for 1892. 8vo.

1892.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                              693
Accademia dei Lincei, Keale, Roma—Cluase di Pcienze Figiche, Matematicbe e
      Natural!. Atti, Serie Quinta : Rendiconti. 2° Semestre, Vol. 1°. Fasc. 8, 9.
      8vo. 1892.
   Memoire, Vol. VI. 8vo. 1890.
   Atti, Anno 44, Sess. 7'. 4to. 1891.
   Atti, Serie Quarto, Anno CCLXXXVI.-CCLXXXVII. 4to. 1890-91.
   Classe di Scienze Moral i Storiche, etc. : Rendioonti, Serie Quinta,Vol. I. Fasc. 9.
      8vo. 1892.
American Association for the Advancement of Science.—Proceedings, 40th Meeting.
      Washington, 1891. 8vo. 1892.
Asiatic Society of Bengalr-Journal, Vol. LXI., Part 1, No. 2 ; Part 2, No. 2. 8vo,
      1892.
   Proceedings, Nos. 4-5. 8vo. 1892.
Aubvrtin, J. J. Esq. M.R.I, (pie Author)—Wanderings and Wonderings. 8vo. 1892.
Australian Museum, Sydney—Annual Report of the Trustees for 1891. 8vo. 1892.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XIII. Part 8. 8vo. 1892.
Boyle, R. Esq. (the Publisher}—A- Sanitary Crusade through the East and
      Australasia. 8vo. 1892.
British Architects, Rnyal Institute of—Proceedings, 1892-3, No. 23. 4to.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XI. No. 10. 8vo. 1892.
Chemical Society—Journal for November, 1892. 8vo.
Chicago Exhibition, 1893—World's Congress Auxiliary. Preliminary Publica
      tions. 8vo. 1892.
 Cracovie, I'Academie det Sciencet—Bulletin, 1892, No. 8. 8vo.
Devonshire Associationfor the Advancement of Science, Literature and Art—Report
     and Transactions, Vol. XXIV. 8vo. 1892.
   Devonshire Domesday, Part 9. 8vo. 1892.
Dupre, A. Esq. Ph.D. F.R.8. F.C.S. (the Author)—A. Short Manual of Inorganic
      Chemistry, by Dupre and Hake. 8vo. 1892.
Editor —American Journal of Science for November, 1892. 8vo.
   Analyst for November, 1892. 8vo.
   Athenteum for November, 1892. 4io.
   Brewers' Journal for November, 1892. 4to.
   Chemical News fur November, 1892. 4to.
   Chemist nnd Druggist for November, 1892. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for November, 1892. fol.
   Electricity for November, 1892. 4to.
   Electric Plant for November, 1892. 4to.
   Engineer for November, 1892. fol.
   Engineering for November, 1892. fol.
   Engineering Review for November, 1892. 8vo.
   Horological Journal for November, 1802. 8vo.
   Industries for November, 1892. foL
   Iron for November, 1892. 4to.
   Ironmongery for November, 1892. 4to.
   Lightning for November, 1892. 4to.
   Manufacturers' Engineering and Export Journal for November, 1892. 8voi.
   Nature for November, 1892. 4to.
   Open Court for November, 1892. 4to.
   Photographic News for November, 1892. 8vOi
   Photographic Work for November, 1892. 8vo.
   Surveyor for November, 1892. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for November, 1892. fol.
   Transport for November, 1892.
   Zoophilist for November, 1892. 4to.
Florence Biblioteca Nazionale Central*—Bolletino, Nos. 165-166. 8vo. J89B.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 803. 8vo. ^92.
GasTtwad, Shrimant Sampatrao K. (the Founder)—Catalogue of English Books in
     the Shri Sazaji Library. 8vo. 1891.
   Rules of the Shri Sazaji Library. 8vo. 1892.

694                         General Monthly Meeting.                 [Dec. 5,
Geographical Society, floyoZ—Proceedings, Vol. XIV. No. 12. 8vo. 1892.
Grant, Robert. Esq. M.A. F.R.S. (the Author)—Second Glasgow Catalogue of
     2156 Stars, for the Epoch 1890. 4to. 1892.
Harlem, Societf Hullandaise des Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Tome XXVI.
      Livraison 3. 8vo. 1892.
Institute of Brewing—Transactions, Vol. VI. No. I. 8vo. 1892.
Johns Hopkins University—University Circular, No. 101. 4to. 1891.
  American Chemical Journal, Vol. XIV. No. 7. 8vo. 1892.
  American Journal of Philology, Vol. XIII. No. 3. 8vo. 1892.
Johnston, Thomas C. Esq. (the Author)—Did the Phoenicians discover America?
     8vo. 1892.
M'Intosh, W. C. M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—A Brief History of the Scottish
     Fisheries, 1882-92. 8vo. 1892.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXII. Part 1. 8vo. 1892.
Mandtester Public Free Libraries—Annual Report, 1891-92. 8vo.
Maneiui, Prof. Diocleziano (the Author)—P. B. Shelley : Biographical Note, and
     Translations. 8vo. 1892.
Meteorological Society, Boyal—Quarterly Journal, No. 84. 8vo. 1892.
  Meteorological Record, No. 44. 8vo. 1892.
Ministry of Public Works, Some—Giornale del Genio Civile, 1892, Faso. 8, and
     Design!, fol. 1892.
North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
     Vol. XXXIX. Part 3; Vol. XL. Part 5; Vol. XLI. Part 5. 8vo. 1892.
Numismatic Society—Chronicle mid Journal, 1892, Part 3. 8vo. 1892.
Odontological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXV. No. I. 8vo. 1892.
Payne, W. W. and Hale, G. E. (the Editors)—Astronomy and Astro-Physics for
     November, 1892. 8vo.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal, November, 1892. 8vo.
Boyal Irish Academy—Transactions. Vol. XXX. Parts 1-2. 4to. 1892.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 316. 8vo. 1892.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Boyal—Mathematisch-phyaischen Classe, Berichte,
     1892. No. 3. 8vo. 1892.
  Abhandlungen, Band XVIII. No. 8. 4to. 1892.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes, No. 36. 8vo. 1892.
Sidoreaves, the Rev. W. F.R.A.S. (the Author)—The Nova of 1892. 8vo.
Society of Architects—Proceedings, Vol. V. Nos. 1-2. 8vo. 1892.
Society of Arts—Journal for November, 1892. 8vo.
Stewart, Alexander, Esq. F.R.C.S. Edin. (the Author)—Our Temperaments. 2nd
     Edition. 8vo. 1892.
Tan-l>ini, Prof. P. Bon. Mem. R.I.—Memorie della Societii degli Spcttroscoputi
     Italian!. Vol. XXI. Disp. 9". 4to. 1892.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 177. 8vo. 1892.
United States Department of Agriculture—Monthly Weather Review for August,
     1892. 4to.
United States Geological Survey—Mineral Resources of the United States,
     1889-90. 8vo. 1892.
United States Internal Revenue—Report on Glucose. 8vo. 1884.
Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preusten —Verhandlungen, 1892.
     Heft 9. 4to.
Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 101. 8vo. 1892.
Vincent, Benjamin, Esq. Hon. Lib. R.I. (the Editor)—Haydn's Dictionary of
     Dates. 20th Edition. 8vo. 1892.
Yorkshire Archaeological and Topographical Association — Journal, Part 46,
     8vo. 1892.

1892.J Prof. Dewar on Magnetic Properties of Liquid Oxygen.        695
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, June 10, 1892.
      THE EIGHT HON. LORD KELVIN, D.C.L. LL.D. Pres. E.S.
                     Vice-President, in the Chair.
            PROFEBSOR DEWAH, M.A. LL.D. F.R.S. M.B.I.
                 Magnetic Properties of Liquid Oxygen.
                              (Abstract.)
AFTER alluding to the generous aid which he had received both from
the Royal Institution and from others in connection with his
researches on the properties of liquid oxygen, and to the untiring
assistance rendered him by his co-workers in the laboratory, Prof.
Dewar said that on the occasion of the commemoration last year of
the centenary of the birth of Michael Faraday he had demonstrated
some of the properties of liquid oxygen. He hoped that evening to
go several steps further, and to show liquid air, and to render visible
some of its more extraordinary properties.
     The apparatus employed consisted of the gas-engine downstairs,
which was driving two compressors. The chamber containing the
oxygen to be liquefied was surrounded by two circuits, one traversed
by ethylene, the other by nitrous oxide. Some liquid ethylene was
admitted to the chamber belonging to its circuit, and there evapo
rated. It was then returned to the compressor as gas and liquefied,
and thence, again, into the chamber as required. A similar cycle of
operations was carried out with the nitrous oxide. There was a
hundredweight of liquid ethylene prepared for the experiment.
 Ethylene was obtained from alcohol by the action of strong sulphuric
acid. Its manufacture was exceedingly difficult, because dangerous,
and as the efficiency of the process only amounted to 15 or 20 per
cent, the preparation of 'a hundredweight of liquid was no light task.
 The cycle of operations, which, for want of time, was not fully ex
plained, was the same as that commonly employed in refrigerating
 machinery working with ether or ammonia.
     The lecturer thru exhibited to the audience a pint of liquid
oxygen, which by its cloudy appearance showed that it contained
 traces of impurity. The oxygen was filtered, and then appeared as
a clear transparent liquid with a slightly blue tinge. The density
 of oxygen gas at —182° 0. is normal, and the latent heat of vola
tilisation of the liquid is about 80 units. The capillarity of liquid
oxygen at its boiling-point was about one-sixth that of water. The
temperature of liquid oxygen at atmospheric pressure, determined by
the specific heat method, using platinum and silver, was — 180° C.
     Reference was then made to a remarkable experimental corrobo-
 ration of the correctness for exceedingly low temperatures of Lord

696                         Professor Deiear                   [June 2,
Kelvin and Prof. Tait's thermo-electric diagram. If the lines of
copper and platinum were prolonged in the direction of negative
temperature, they would intersect at — 95° 0. Similarly, the copper
and palladium lines would cut one another at — 170° C. Now, if
this diagram were correct, the E.M.F. of the thermo-electric junc
tions of these two pairs of metals should reverse at these points.
A Cu — Pt junction connected to a reflecting galvanometer was then
placed in oxygen vapour and cooled down. At — 100° C. the spot
of light stopped and reversed. A Cu — Pd junction was afterwards
placed in a tube containing liquid oxygen, and a similar reversal
took place at about -170° C.
    Liquid oxygen is a non-conductor of electricity: a spark, taken
from an induction coil, one millimetre long in the liquid requires a
potential equal to a striking distance in air of 25 millimetres. It
gave a flash now and then, when a bubble of the oxygen vapour in
the boiling liquid came between the terminals. Thus liquid oxygen
is a high insulator. When the spark is taken from a Wimshurst
machine the oxygen appears to allow the passage of a discharge to
take place with much greater ease. The spectrum of the spark taken
in the liquid is a continuous one, showing all the absorption bands.
    As to its absorption spectrum, the lines A and B of the solar
spectrum are due to oxygen, and they came out strongly when the
liquid was interposed in the path of the rays from the electric lamp.
Both the liquid and the highly compressed gas show a series of five
absorption bands, situated respectively in the orange, yellow, green
and blue of the spectrum.
    Experiments prove that gaseous and liquid oxygen have sub
stantially the same absorption spectra. This is a very noteworthy
conclusion considering that no compound of oxygen, so far as is
known, gives the absorptions of oxygen. The persistency of the absorp
tion through the stages of gaseous condensation towards complete
liquidity implies a persistency of molecular constitution which we
should hardly have expected. The absorptions of the class to which
A and B belong must be those most easily assumed by the diatomic
molecules (O2) of ordinary oxygen ; whereas the diffuse bands above
referred to, seeing they have intensities proportional to the square of
the density of the gas, must depend on a change produced by com
pression. This may be brought about in two ways, either by the
formation of more complex molecules, or by the constraint to which
the molecules are subjected during their encounters with one
another.
    When the evaporation of liquid oxygen is accelerated by the
action of a high expansion pump and an open test-tube is inserted
into it, the tube begins to fill up with liquid atmospheric air, pro
duced at the ordinary barometric pressure.
    Dr. Janssen had recently been making prolonged and careful ex
periments on Mont Blanc, and he found that these oxygen lines disap-
peared'more and more from the solar spectrum as he reached higher

1892.]           on Magnetic Properties of Liquid Oxygen.                      697
altitudes. The linos at all elevations come out more strongly when
the sun is low, because the rays then have to traverse greater thick
nesses of the earth s atmosphere.
    Michael Faraday's experiments made in 1849 on the action of
magnetism on gases opened up a new field of investigation. The
following table, in which + means " magnetic " and — means " nega
tive," summarises the results of Faraday's experiments.
                  MAGNETIC RELATIONS OF GASES (FARADAY).
                           In Air.       In Carbonic  In Hydrogen.   In Coal Oas.
                                            Acid.
 Air .. ..                    0               +         + weak            +
 Nitrogen ..                  —               —        — strong           —
 Oxygen                       +               +        + strong       -f strong
 Carbonic acid                —               0            —           — weak
 Carbonic oxide               -               —            —           — weak
 Nitric oxide             — weak              +            +              ..
 Ethylone ..                  —               —             —          — weak
 Ammonia ..                   —              —             —
 Hydrochloric acid            —               —         - weak            ''
    Becquerel was before Faraday in experimenting upon this subject.
Bocquerel allowed charcoal to absorb gases, and then examined the
properties of such charcoal in the magnetic field. He thus discovered
the magnetic properties of oxygen to be strong, even in relation to a
solution of ferrous chloride, as set forth in the following table :—
              SPECIFIC MAGNETISM, EQUAL WEIGHTS (BECQUEREL).
           Iron                                            + 1,000,000
           Oxygen                                          +       377
           Ferrous chloride solution, sp. gr. 1-4334 .. +          HO
           Air                                             +        88
           Water                                          -          3
    The lecturer took a cup made of rock salt, and put in it some
liquid oxygen. The liquid did not wet rock salt, but remained
in a spheroidal state. The cup and its contents were placed be
tween and a little below the poles of an electro-magnet. When
ever the circuit was completed, the liquid oxygen rose from the cup
and connected the two poles, as represented in the cut, which is
copied from a photograph of the phenomenon. Then it boiled away,
sometimes more on one pole than the other, and when the circuit was
broken it fell off the pole in drops back into the cup. He also
showed that the magnet would draw up liquid oxygen out of a tube.
A test-tube containing liquid oxygen when placed in the Hughes
balance produced no disturbing effect. The magnetic moment of
liquid oxygen is about 100U when the magnetic moment of iron is
taken as 1,000,000. On cooling some bodies increased in magnetic
    VOL. XIII. (No. 86.)                                             8 A

698                         Professor Detear                  [June 2,
power. Cotton wool, moistened with liquid oxygen, was strongly
attracted by the magnet, and the liquid oxygen was actually sucked
out of it on to the poles. A crystal of ferrous sulphate, similarly
cooled, stuck to one of the poles.
     The lecturer remarked that fluorine is so much like oxygen in its
properties, that he ventured to predict that it will turn out to be a
magnetic gas.
                    Magnetic Attraction of Liquid Oxygen.
    Nitrogen liquefies at a lower temperature than oxygen, and one
would expect the oxygen to come down before the nitrogen when air
is liquefied, as stated in some text-books, but unfortunately it is not
true. They liquefy together. In evaporating, however, the nitrogen
boils off before the oxygen. He poured two or three ounces of
liquid air into a large test-tube, and a smouldering splinter of wood
dipped into the mouth of the tube was not re-ignited ; the bulk of
the nitrogen was nearly five minutes in boiling off, after which a
smouldering splinter dipped into the mouth of the test-tube burst
into flame.
    Between the poles of the magnet all the liquefied air went to
the poles; there was no separation of the oxygen and nitrogen.
Liquid air has the same high insulating power as liquid oxygen.
The phenomena presented by liquefied gases present an unlimited
field for investigation. At — 200° C. the molecules of oxygen had
only one-half of their ordinary velocity and had lost three-fourths
of their energy. At such low temperatures they seemed to be
drawing near what might be called " the death of matter," so far
as chemical action was concerned ; liquid oxygen, for instance, had
no action upon a piece of phosphorus and potassium or sodium
dropped into it ; and once he thought and publicly stated, that
at such temperatures all chemical action ceased. That statement

1892.]       on Magnetic Properties of Liquid Oxygen.              699
required some qualification because a photographic plate placed in
liquid oxygen, could be acted upon by radiant energy, and at a tem
perature of — 200° C. was still sensitive to light.
    Prof. M'Kendrick had tried the effect of these low temperatures
upon the spores of microbic organisms, by submitting in sealed glass
tubes blood, milk, flesh, and such-like substances, for one hour to
a temperature of — 182° 0., and subsequently keeping them at
blood heat for some days. The tubes on being opened were all
putrid. Seeds also withstood the action of a similar amount of cold.
 He thought, therefore, that this experiment had proved the possibility
of Lord Kelvin's suggestion, that life might have been brought to the
newly-cooled earth upon a seed-bearing meteorite.
    In concluding, the lecturer heartily thanked his two assistants,
Mr. B. N. Lennox and Mr. J. W. Heath, for the arduous work they
had had in preparing such elaborate demonstrations.
                                                             [J. D.]

                                                                                      1
                                                                                   ".
                                    (   700 )
                     INDEX TO VOLUME XIII.
ABEL, Sir F., Smokeless Explosives, 7.     Bramwell, Sir F., Welding by Eke-
       presents Oertling Balance, 457.       tricity, 185.
       Donations, 342, 551.                      Donations, 342, 551.
Aberration, 56ft.                          Browne, Sir J. Crichton-, Emotional
Abney, Capt., Sensitiveness of the Eye       Expression, 653.
   to Light and Colour, 601.                     Donation, 342.
Ainger, Rev. Canon, Euphuism—past          Brunner, J. T., Donation, 551.
   and present (no abstract), 420.         Bye-Laws, repealed or altered, 97 ; ad
Air, Liquid, 696.                            ditional, 114.
Alloys, Colour of, 514, 517.
Alternate Currents, 637.
Alternating current Dynamo, 297, 315.      CAM KM UK, H. L., Pyrometers, 505.
Alternating Electro-magnet, 301.           Campbell, Sir A., Donation, 551.
Aluminium, 634.                            Carbon Conductors, 34.
Anderson, W., Donation, 498.               Carbonic Oxide, 668.
Animals and Surface-film of Water, 540.    Carbonyls, 668.
Annual Meeting (1890) 112, (1891)356,      Carter, R. B., Colour-vision and Colour
   (1892) 600.                               blindness, 116.
" Aristotle, Tomb of," 423.                Clarence, Duke of, Address to the
Art of Japan, 554.                           Queen and Prince of Wales on his
Astronomer's Work in a Modern Ob             Decease, 501.
   servatory, 402.                         Coal in S. England, 175.
Auriga, New Star in, 615 ; Spectrum,       Colour, 601 ; Colour-sensations, 607.
   618, 619.                               Colour-vision and Colour-blindness,
Austen's (R. Godwin) Inquiry on Coal          116.
   in S. England, 175.                     Common, A. A., Astronomical Tele
Ayrton, W. E., Electric Meters, Motors,      scopes, 157.
   and Money Matters, 583 (abstract de     Copper, Conductivity of, 629.
   ferred).                                      Refining, 631.
                                           Corona, Nature of, 275.
BACTEBIA of the Soil, 521.                 Cotyledons, Forma of, 105.
Baker, Sir R, Donation, 498.               Crystallization, 375.
Becquerel on Magnetism of Gases, 697.      Crystals, Form and Structure of, 375 ;
Bell, Sir L., Donation, 613.                  Rejuvenescence of, 250.
Berkley, G., Donations, 342, 551.
 Berthelot's Researches in Gases, 444.     DANTE on Heat and Cold, 509.
 Bidwell, S., Magnetic Phenomena, 50.      Darwin on Emotional Expressions, 655.
 Bowman, Sir W., Donation, 581 ;           Dawkins, W. Boyd, Coal in the S. of
    Resolution on his Decease, 581 ; Ac       England, 175.
    knowledgment, 612; his Portrait        de la Rue, Warren, portrait of, pre
    presented, 258.                           sented, 69.
 Boyle's Thermometers, 502.                      W. W., Donation, 342.
 Brain, Researches on the, 658.            Deslandres, Photographs of Spectra,
 Brain and Spinal Cord, Electrical Re         618, 620.
    lations of, 183.                       Dewar, J., Scientific Work of Joule, 1.

                                         INDEX.                                    701
Dewar, J., Chemical Work of Faraday            Fizeau's Experiments, 574, 576.
   in relation to Modern Science, 481.         Fleming, J. A., Physics of an Electric
         Magnetic Properties of Liquid            Lamp, 34.
   Oxygen, 695.                                      Electro-magnetic Repulsion, 296.
       Donations, 24, 342, 458, 551, 684.      Foam, 85.
Diseases, Infectious, 277.                     Frankland, P. F., Micro-Organisms in
Dixon, II. Li., Rate of Explosions in             their relation to Chemical Change,
   Oases, 443.                                    519.
Douglas, Sir (.:., Tales of the Scottish       French's (Dr.) Photographs of the
   Peasantry, 489.                                Larynx, 332.
Douglass, Sir J., Donation, 551.                     Speech
                                               Fry, Sir        at Faraday
                                                         E., British         Centenary
                                                                     Mosses, 237.
Doulton, Sir II., Donation, 581.
Dowson, J. E., Donation, 581.                     Lecture, 487.
Dreams, Physiology of, 584.                    Fullerian Professor of Physiology,
Drops, Photographs of, 263.                       elected (V- Horsley), 199.
Du Maurier,G., Modern Satire in Black
   and White (no abstract), 564.               GALTON, Sir D., Donation, 551.
                                               Gases, Explosions in, 443.
ECLIPSE Observations, 273.                           Liquefaction of, 482.
Electric Lamp, Physios of an, 34.                     Liquids and, 365.
         Meter for Alternate Currents,                Magnetism of, 697.
   312.                                        Geber on High Temperatures, 502.
       and Magnetic Screening, 345.            Gill, D., An Astronomer's Work in a
        Welding, 185, 626 ; machine, 193.          Modern Observatory, 402.
Electrolytic Copper Refining, 631.             Glow-lamps, 36.
Electro-magnetic Gyroscope, 308.               Glvcerio Acid, 531.
        Radiation, 77.                         Gold, Melting and Freezing Points of,
        Repulsion, 296.                           507.
Electro-Metallurgy, 625.                       Goldsmiths' Company, Donation, 687 ;
Electrostatic Screening, 345.                     Resolution, 687-
Electrotype, 628.                              Gotch, F., Electrical Relations of
Emotional Expression, 653.                        Brain and Spinal Cord, 183.
Epidemics, 277.                                Gull, Sir W. W., Decease, Resolution,
Eretria, Discoveries in, 423.                     24 ; Letter from Lady Gull, 69.
Ether, Motion of the, 5t>5.                    Gunpowder, Smoke from Explosion of,
 Evans, J., Posy-rings (no abstract), 564.        7.
Ewing, J. A., Molecular Process in             Guthrie's Experiments on Incandescent
    Magnetic Induction, 387.                      Bodies, 15.
 Explosions iu Gnses, 443.
 Explosives, Smokeless, 7.                     HADDON, A. ('., Manners and Customs
 Expression, 662.                                 of the Torres Straits Islanders, 145.
 Eye, Sensitiveness of the, 601.               Halshury, Lord, Speech at Faraday
                                                  Centenary Lecture, 485.
 FAIRY Tales, 490.                             Hand Movements in Emotional Ex
 Falconry, Art of, 357.                           pression, 663.
 Faraday Centenary—Honorary Mem                Harmony, Development of, 58.
    bers elected, 362; Lectures an                    Theory of, 206.
    nounced, 420 ; Memorials lent, 451,        Hartiug, J. E., Hawks and Hawking,
    480; Lectures—Lord Rayleigh, on               357.
    Faraday's Physical Work, 462 ; Prof.       Hawks and Hawking, 357.
    Dewar on Faraday's Chemical Work           Hawksley, C., Donation, 342, 681.
    in relation to Modern Science, 481.        Heat, Mechanical Equivalent of, 3.
 Faraday's Experiments on Magnetism            Helmholtz Theory of Harmony, 208.
    of Gases, 697.                              Hertz's Electromagnetic Experiments,
 Fischer's Researches on Sugars, 530.             77.
 Fitzgerald, G. F., Electro-magnetic            Heycock and Neville's Experiments
    Radiation, 77.                                 on Metals, 515, 517.
       P., Art of Acting (no abstract), 293. ! Highland Talcs, 490.

702                                   INDEX.
Hodgkins,T. G., Donation, 687; De          Matthey, G., Donation, 581.
  cease, 692                               Maxwell's Theory of Electro-magnetic
Hoek's Experiment on Ether Motion,           Waves, 77.
  574.                                     MeMola, 1;., The Photographic Image,
Horsley, V., elected Fullerian Pro-          134.
   feeaor of Physiology, 199.              Members, Honorary, Elected, 362;
      Hydrophobia (no abstract), 842.        Letters from, 469.
Huggins, W., The New Star in              Metallic Carbonyls, 668.
  Auriga, 615.                            Metals at High Temperatures, 502.
Hughes, D. E., Donations, 842, 551.              Spectra of Vapours of, 509.
                                          Miall, L. C., Surface Film of Water
IBIDIUM as a Thenno-junction, 509.           and ita Relation to Life of Plants
Iron at High Temperatures, 511.              and Animals, 540.
Iron Carbonyl, 676.                       Michelson's Experiments on Ether
                                             Motion, 577.
JAPANESQUE, 554.                          Microbes, Diseases due to, 278.
Jets, Photographs of, 265.                Micro-organisms and Chemical Change,
Joule's Scientific Work, 1.                  519.
Judd, J. W,, The RejuYeneseence of        Microscope Projection, 537.
   Crystals, 250.                          Mivart, St. G. J., The Implications of
                                             Science, 428.
KBMPB, A. B., Donation, 342.               Mocatta, F. D., Donation, 687.
Klein, E. E., Infectious Diseases, 277.            L., Metallic100,
                                           Mond,Donations,            342, 451,
                                                                 Carbonyls,  668.458,
Koch's DiscoTery of Tubercle Bacillus,
   280.                                      684. 692.
Koanig's Acoustical Observations,          Monthly Meetings :—
   210.                                      (1890) February, 24; March, 69;
                                                April, 97; May, 113; June, 173;
LABYNGOSCOPE described, 321.                    July, 197 ; November, 199 ; De
Larynx, Photographs of the, 332.                cember, 203.
Lawe'B and Gilbert's Researches on           (1891) February, 258; March, 293;
   Plants, 527.                                 April, 342 ; May, 362 ; June, 420 ;
Leaves, Shapes of, 102.                         July, 451 ; November, 454 ; De
Lectures :—(1890) 69 ; (1891) 203, 293 ;        cember, 458.
   (1892)458, 551; (1893) 692.               (1892) February, 498 ; March, 550;
Liebig's Remarks on Carbonic Oxide,             April, 581 ; May, 612 ; June, 681 ;
   668.                                         July, 684; November, 687; De
Light, Aberration of, 565.                      cember, 692.
      and Colour, 601.                     Moore, Mrs. B., Donation, 551.
Liquid Air, 696.                           Mosso's Researches on the Brain, 659 ;
      Films, 87 ; Photographs of, 265.    Mosses, British, 237.
      Oxygen, 695.                         Muller, Hugo, Donation, 684.
Liquids and Gases, 365.                   Munro's Researches on Nitrification.
Liveing, G. D., Crystallisation, 375.        522.
Lockyer's Investigations on Spectra of             Evolution
                                           Musie,Physical      in, 56. of, 206.
                                                           Foundation
   Vapours of Metals, 509.
Lodge, O., The Motion of the Ether
   near the Earth, 565.                    NICKEL Carbonyl, 672; Spectrum of,
Lnbbock, Sir J., Shapes of Leaves and        673; Magnetic Rotation of, 674.
   Cotyledons, 102.                        Nickel Ore, 678.
                                           Nitrate of Soda in South America, 525.
MAGNETIC Induction, 387.                   Nitrification, Process of, 521.
       Phenomena, 50.                      Nitrogen Fixation by Plants, 526.
      Rocks, 417.                          Nobbe's Experiments on Plants, 527.
Magnetism of Gases, 697.                   Nobel's Smokeless Powders, 18.
Magnetostatic Screening, 348.              Noble, Captain, Donation, 581.
Mascart's Experiment on           Ether    Northumberland, Duke of, Speech at
   Motion, 575.                               Faraday Centenary Lecture, 487.

                                        INDEX.                                 703
 OIL, Action on Waves, 91.                  Roberts-Austen, W. C., Metals at High
 Oil Films, 89.                                Temperatures, 502.
 Opera, &e., Development of, 60.                   Donation, 842.
 Optical Projection, 534.                   Rucker, A. W., Magnetic Rocks, 417.
 Optically Active Substances, 529.
 Osmond's Observations on Steel, 511.       SALOMONS, Sir D., Optical Projection,
 Oxygen, Liquid, production of, 484;           534.
    Apparatus employed in, 483, 484 ;              Donations, 551, 681.
    Magnetic Properties of, 484.            Schuster, A., Total Solar Eclipses,
                                               273.
 PALLADIUM, Melting and Freezing            Science, Implications of, 428.
    Points of, 507.                         Scottish Peasantry, Tales of the, 489.
 fany, C. H. H., Evolution in Music,        Seraon, F., Culture of the Singing
    56.                                        Voice, 317.
 Pasteur's Researches, 278, 520.            Shakespeare Cliff, Boring at, 181.
 Peasant-Tales, 489.                        Siemens on Temperature, 503, 504.
 Pechell, H., presents engraving, 199.      Silvering Glass Mirrors, 171.
 Perkin, W. H., Researches on Magnetic      Sirius, Spectrum of, 619.
    Rotation of Nickel Carbonyl, 674.       Smith, B. W., Donations, 342, 551.
 Phagocytes described, 287.                 Soil, Bacteria of the, 521.
 Phosphorus, Glow of, 72.                   Solar Eclipses, 273.
 Photographic Image, 134.                   Solidiscope, 538.
Photographs of Stars and other Spectra,     Special General Meeting, 501.
    618, 619.                               Spectra of Stars, 408, 617.
 Photography, Applications of, 261.         Stage in London in Elizabeth's Reign,
        History of, 134.                       27.
        Pin-hole, 271.                      Star in Auriga, 615.
 Pickering's Photography of Stars and       Stars, Spectra of, 408, 617.
    Spectra, 618, 622.                      Steel at High Temperatures, 511.
Piggott, F. T., Japanesque, 554.            Stocker, J. P., Bequest, 458.
Plants, Nitrogen in, 526.                   Surface-film of Water, 540.
— and the Surface-film of Water, 540.       Surface-tension of Water and Air, 87.
 Plnyfair, Sir L., Speech at Faraday        Swan, J. W., Electro-Metallurgy, 625.
   Centenary Lecture, 485.                         Honntion, 498.
Pollock,W. E.,
            H.,Donation,
                 The'ophile
                          342.Gautier (no   Symons, G. J., Rain, Snow, and Hail
                                               (no Abstract), 518.
   Abstract). 113.
Potassium Carbonyl, 669.                    TALES OF THS SCOTTISH PEASANTRY,
 Priestley, Mrs., Donation, 420.               489.
Projection, Optical, 534.                   Telephone shown by National Tele
Pyrpmeters, 504.                               phone Company, 24; Exchange-
                                               Telephone fitted, 199.
QUEEN, Address on decease of Duke of Telescopes, Astronomical, 157.
   Clarence, 501 ; Reply, 551.              Temperatures, Measurement of High,
Quincke on Magnetic Properties of             502 ; ranging from —200° to +2000°,
   Nickel Carbonyl, 674.                      509.
                                            Tesla, N., Currents of High Potential
RAMSAY, W., Liquids and Gases, 365.           and of High Frequency, 637.
Rate, L. M., Donations, 100, 342, 498. | Theatres in Elizabeth's Reign, 27.
Rayleigb, Lord, Foam, 85.                   Thermometers, 502.
       Some Applications of Photo           Thompson, S. P., Physical Foundation
   graphy, 261.                           i   of Music, 206.
       Physical Work of Faraday, 462.       Thomson, E., Electromagnetic Ex
        The Composition of Water (no          periments, 301.
   Abstract), 489.                                 presents Apparatus, 199.
Richardson, B. W., The Physiology of ' Thomson, Sir W., Electric and Mag
   Dreams, 584.                               netic Screening, 345.

704                                              INDEX.
Thorpe, T. E., The Glow of Phosphorus,               Wales, Prince of, Address on Decease
  72.                                                   of the Duke of Clarence, 501 ; Reply,
Tidy, C. M., Donation, 551.                             551 ; Speech at Faraday Centenary,
Torres Straits Islanders, 145.                          462.
Tyndall, J., Letter on Faraday Cen                   Warington's Researches on Nitrifica
  tenary, 469.                                          tion, 524.
                                                     Wave—Siren, 228.
                                                     Webster, Sir R., Speech at Faraday
VENTILATING PAN presented, 113.                         Centenary Lecture, 487.
Vision, sense of, 116.                               Wedgwood's Thermometer, 503.
Voice,Culture
       Registers
              of the
                   of the,  Singing-,
                                   329. 317.         Welding by Electricity, 185, 626.
                                                     Wheatley, H. B., London Stage in
                                                        Elizabeth/a Reign, 27.
                                                     Wiggins, F. B., Donation, 258.
WALDSTETO, C., Discovery of the" Tomb                Winogradsky'a Researches on Nitri
  of Aristotle," 423.                                   fication, 524.
                                         END OF VOL. XIII.
                 r ' . . 1,1 .;, : mlHTCD BY WILLIAM CLOWlffl AKD BOKs, LIMli tn,
                                   BTAHFUBD STHSKT ASD CBARIXO OBOM.




<

   -.
o
co :.

7

