This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

discourses
abstracts
with
Institution,
Royal
members
meetings
at
proceedings
the
of
Notices
Institution
Royal
Britain
Great
of

 £?arbartJ Collfflc iLtbrarg
         FROM THE FUND OF
CHARLES MINOT
           (Class of 1828)
     Received 1/         ('fo | - LS^uGm f)02_





                  NOTICES
                      OF THE
             PEOCEEDINGS
                      AT THR
       MEETINGS OF THE MEMBERS
                       OF THR
ftopai Xnstttution of #reat Britain
                        with
      ABSTRACTS OF THE DISCOURSES
                   DELIVERED AT
           THE EVENING MEETINGS
                          *
               VOLUME           XVI
                  1899—1901
                  LONDON
  PBINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED
                        1902

                                    patron.
                        HIS MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY
                          KING EDWARD VII.
                 Ulceration ana Jftonorarg fHember.
                              HIS BOYAL HIGHNESS
  THE PRINCE OF WALES, E.G. G.C.V.O. LL.D. F.R.S.
President—The Duke of Nobthumbebland, K.G. D.C.L. F.R.S.
Treasurer—Sib James Cbiohton- Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. — V.P.
Honorary Secretary—Sib William Cbookes, F.R.S.— V.P.
       Managers, 1902-1903.                        Visitors, 1902-1903.
The Right Hon. Lord Alverstone,            Henry E. Armstrong, Esq. Ph.D. LL D.
   G.C.M.G. M.A. LL.D.                       F.B.S.
Sir James lily th. Bart. J.P.              Charles Edward Beevor,M.D. F.R.C.P.
Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart. D.C.L.       John B. Broun-Morison, Esq. J.P. D.L.
   LL.D. F.R.S. M.Inst.C.E.                  F.S.A.
Thom.is Buzzard, M.D. F.R.C.P.
Donald William Charles Hood, C.V.O.        Francis Elgar, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S.
   M.D. F.R.C.P.                             M.Inst.C.E.
Sir Francis Henry Laking, K.C.V.O.         Francis Gaskell, Esq. M.A. F.G.S.
   M.D.                                    James Dundas Grant, M.D. F.R.C.S.
George Matthey, Esq. F.R.S.                Lord Greenock, D.L. J.P.
Ludwig Mond, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.
Hugo W. Muller, Esq. Ph.D. LL.D.           Manres Horner, Esq. J.P. F.R.A.S.
   F.R.S.                                  Sir Henry Irving, Litt.D. LL.D.
Edward Pollock, Esq. F.R.C.S.              Wilson Noble, Esq. M.A.
Sir Owen Boberts, M.A. D.C.L. F.S.A.       Winter Bandall Pidgeon, Esq. M.A.
Sir Felix Semon, M.D. F.R.C.P.             Arthur Bi^g, Esq.
The Bight Hon. Sir James Stirling,
   M.A. LL.D. F.R S.                       William Stevens Squire, Esq. Ph.D.
Jolm Isaac Thornvcroft, Esq. LL.D.           F.C.S.
   F.R.S. MJnst.C.E.                       Harold Swithinbank. Esq. J.P. F.R.G.S.
James Wimehurst, Ksq. F.R.S.               Charles Wightman, Esq.
                                  professors.
Profemor of Natural Philosophy—The Bight Hon. Lobd Rayleioh, M.A. D.C.L.
     LL.D. Sc.D. F.R.S. &c.
Fullerian Professor of Chemistry—James Dewae, Esq. M.A. LL.D. D.Sc.
     F.R.8. &o.
Fullerian Professor of Physiology—Allan Macfadyen, M.D. B.So.
Keeper of the Library and Assistant Secretary—Mr. Henry Young.
Assistant in the Library—Mr. Ralph Coby.
Aiuielants in the Laboratories—Mr. R. N. Lennox, F.C.S. ; Mr. J. W. Heath,
     F C.S. ; and Mr. G. Gordon.

                     CONTENTS.
                               1899.
                                         -              PAGE
Jan.  20.—Pbofessob Dewab—Liquid Hydrogen            ..    1
  „   27. —The Rioht Hon. Sib Mountstuabt E. Gbant
             Duff—Epitaphs ..        ..    ..   ..   ..   15
Feb.    3.—Viotob Hobsley, Esq.—The Roman Defences of
              South-East Britain     ..         „    ..   35
  „     6.—General Monthly Meeting ..      ..   ..   ..   45
  ,,  10.—Pbofebsob H. S. Hele-Shaw—The Motion of a
              Perfect Liquid    ..   ..    ..   ..   ..   49
  „   17.—Riohabd R. Holmes, Esq.—George the Third as
             a Collector..      ..   ..    ..   ..   ..   65
  „   24.—Pbofessob Oliveb Lodoe—Coherers       ..   ..   72
March 3.—Sib Fbedebiok Pollock, Bart.—King Alfred    ..   75
   „    6.—General Monthly Meeting ..      ..   ..   ..   93
    „  10.—Pbofessob H. L. Callendab—Measuring Extreme
              Temperatures      ..   ..    ..   ..   ..   97
    „  17.—Pbofessoe Fbancis Gotoh—The Electric Fish of
              the Nile                                   114
    „  24.-—The Rioht Hon. Lord Rayleioh—Transparency
              and Opacity        „    ..    ..   ..      116
April 10.—General Monthly Meeting ..        ..        ..120
   „   14.—Pbofessob A. W. Ruckeb—Earth Currents and
              Electric Traction ..    ..     ..  ..   ..124

iY                                CONTENTS.
   1899.                                                          PAGE
April 21.—Fbedebick Walkeb Mott, M.D.—Structure of the
                 Brain in Relation to its Functions    ..     .. 125
   „     28.—Pbofessob C. A. Cabus Wilson—Some Features
                 of the Electric Induction Motor ..    ..     ..   135
May        1.—Annual Meeting         ..     ..    ..   ..     ..   139
   „       5.—William James Russell, Esq.—Pictures Produced
                 on Photographic Plates in the Dark    ..     ..   140
   „       8.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..   ..     ..   147
   „      12.—Pbofessob Thomas Pbeston—Magnetic Perturba
                 tions of the Spectral Lines      ..   ..     ..   151
   „      19.—The Rioht Rev. The Lobd Bishop of Bbistol
                 —Runic and Ogam Characters and Inscriptions
                 in the British Isles       ..    ..   ..     ..164
  ,,     22.—Adjourned General Meeting            ..   ..     ..   188
   „     26.—Sib William Mabtin Conway—Climbs and Ex
                 plorations in the Andes ..       ..    ..    ..   189
June       5.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..   ..     ..   192
               Celebration of the Centenary of Foundation of the
                 Royal Institution, 1799-1899                      197
July       8.—General Monthly Meeting ..           ..  ..     ..   219
Nov.        6.—General Monthly Meeting                             223
Dec.       4.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..   ..     ..   229
                                    1900.
   1900.
Jan. 19.—The Right Hon. Lobd Rayleioh—Flight                   ..  233
   „     26.—The Hon. Chables A. Pabsons—Motive power ;
                 High-Speed Navigation ; Steam Turbines       .. 235
Feb.       2.—Sionob G. Mabconi—Wireless Telegraphy           ..   247

                               CONTENTS.                          T
  1900.                                                        FAOB
Feb. 5.—General Monthly Meeting                                 257
  „       9.—Pbofessob J. Rbtnolds Gbeen — Symbiosis and
                Symbiotic Fermentation ..     ..    ..     .. 261
  „     16.—H. Wabington Smyth, Esq.—Life in Indo-China 274
  »     33.—Pbofessob John H. Potntinq—Recent Studies in
                Gravitation       ..     ..   ..    ..     ..   278
March 2.—Majob Ronald Ross—Malaria and Mosquitoes ..            295
  n      5.—General Monthly Meeting ..        ..    ..     ..   314
  ,,     9.—Pbofessob Fbank Clowes—Bacteria and Sewage          317
  „     16.—Sib Benjamin Stone, M.P. — Pictorial Historic
                Records                                         325
   „    23.—Sib Andbew Noble, K.C.B.—Some Modern Ex
                plosives ..       ..     ..   ..    ..     ..   329
   „    30.—Pbofessob J. Abthub Thomson — Facts of In
                heritance ..      ..      ..  ..    ..     ..   346
April      2.—General Monthly Meeting ..      ..    ..     ..   360
  „        6.—Pbofessob Dewab—Solid Hydrogen        ..     ..   473
  „      27.—The Right Hon. Lobd Kelvin — Nineteenth
                 Century Clouds over the Dynamical Theory of
                 Heat and Light                                 363
May        1.—Annual Meeting      ..     ..   ..    ..     ..   398
  „        4.—Pbofessob T. E. Thobpb—Pottery and Plumbism       399
   „       7.—General Monthly Meeting ..       ..   ..      ..  412
   „     11.—Sidney Lee, Esq.—Shakespeare and True Patriotism 416
   „     18.—Pbofessob J. A. Ewnro—The Structure of Metals      419
   „     25.—Fbanois Fox, Esq.—The Great Alpine Tunnels ..      422
June       1.—Sib Henbt Roscoe—Bunsen          ..   ..      ..  437

Vi                                   CONTENTS.
   1900.                                                                       PAGE
June 8.—Allan Macfadyen, M.D.—The Effect of Physical
                   Agents on Bacterial Life ..            ..      ..      .. 448
    ,,   11.—General Monthly Meeting ..                   ..              ..    458
July       2.—General Monthly Meeting ..                  ..       ..     ..461
Nov.       5.—General Monthly Meeting ..                  ..       ..     ..    465
Dec.       8.—General Monthly Meeting ..                  ..       ..     ..    470
                                        1901.
   1901.
Jan. 18.—Pbofessok Dewab—Gases at the Beginning and
                   End of the Century                                           730
              [In oonsequence of the lamented death of Her Majesty the
                 Queen, the Patron of the Institution, there were no Evening
                 Meetings on January 25 and February 1.]
 Feb.      4.—General Monthly Meeting ..                   ..      ..      ..   481
    „       8.—Pbofessob G. H. Beyan—History and Progress of
                   Aerial Locomotion              ..       ..       ..     .. 487
    „     15.—The Rioht Rev. Monsionob Gebald Molloy—
                    Electric Waves                                              493
    „     22.— Sib W. Robebts-Austen—Metals as Fuel                        ..   496
 March 1.—Henby Habdinge Cunynghame, Esq.—Enamels ..                             510
     „     4.—General Monthly Meeting ..                   ..       ..     ..    522
     „      8.—W. A. Shenstone, Esq.—Vitrified Quartz                       ..   525
     „   16.—Majob Alfbed St. Hill Gibbons—Through the
                   Heart of Africa from South to North ..                   .. 532
     „   22.—Hobace T. Bbown, Esq.—Some Recept Work on
                    Diffusion ..          ..      ..        ..       ..     ..   547

                                   CONTENTS.                           Vll
  1901.                                                              PAGE
March29.—The Eight Hon. Lobd Rayleioh—Polish                      ..  563
April      1.— General Monthly Meeting              ..     ..     ..  571
  „       19.—Pbofebsob J. J. Thomson—The Existence of Bodies
                   Smaller than Atoms        ..     ..     ..     .. 574
   „      26.—Hans Gadow, Esq.—Colour in the Amphibia             ..  587
 May        1.—Annual Meeting         ..                   ..     ..  595
    „        3.—Chables Meboibb, Esq.—Memory..             ..     ..  596
    „        G.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..     ..     ..  613
     „      10.—Pbofessob Jagadis Chundeb Bose—Tho Response
                    of Inorganic Matter to Mechanical and Electrical
                    Stimulus ..       ..     ..     ..     ..     ..  616
             17.—Eabl Pkbct, M.P.—Turkish Kurdistan ..            ..  640
       „     24.—Riohabd T. Gi.azebbook, Esq.—The Aims of the
                    National Physical Laboratory ..        ..     ..  656
       „      31.—A. Henby Savage Landoe, Esq.—With the Allies
                    in China                                          668
     Jane      3.—General Monthly Meeting ..        ..     ..         689
        „      7.—Pbofessob Raphael Meldola—Mimetic Insects ..        693
                  Hodokins Tbust Essay, by Miss Agnes M. Clebke
                    —Low Temperature Research at the Royal Insti
                    tution, 1893-1900                                 699
     July      1.—General Monthly Meeting ..        ..     ..     ..  719
     Nov.      4.—General Monthly Meeting ..        ..     ..     ..  722
     Dec.      2.—General Monthly Meeting ..        ..     ..     ..  727
                  Index                                               739

                                viii
                         PLATES.
                                                                  PAGE
The Motion of a Perfect Fluid                                       56
Photomicrographs of Sections, showing Struoture of the
  Brain                                             126, 128, 130, 132
Apparatus used in the Liquefaction of Hydrogen 216,471,476,478,737
The Viper                                                          244
Turbine Engines of the Viper     ..      ..     ..      ..     ..  244
Microscopic Preparations, illustrating Professor Clowes' paper
  on Bacteria and Sewage—Figs. 1-8                            320, 321
Illustrations to Sir Andrew Noble's paper on Some Modern
   Explosives—Hates I, II ; figs. 1-10
                                     330, 332, 334, 336, 338, 340, 342
Simplon Tunnel—Plates I-V                                     432, 434

                      PUOCKE
      IRopal       3nstitution           of eBrcat        Britain.
si XVI. -Part I.                                                     No. 93.
        Pkofesx;b Dewab—Liquid Hydrogen           ..     ..      ..    ..     1
        The Kmjht Hon. Sib Mointstuaht E. Gbant Di fk—Epitaphs 15
         Victob Hobsi.ey, Esq.—The Ruman Defences of South-Eaat
           Biitaiu       ..    ..     .- - ,A;    ..             ..    .. 35
        Genebal Monthly Meeting                                          ..45
 10.     Pbofessob 11. 8. Hele-Shaw —The Motion of a Perfect Liquid         49
         K.chabd R. Holmes, Esq. - George the Thiril as a Collector . . 65
         Pbofessob Oliveb Lodue —Cohurers         ..     ..      ..    .. 72
  . 3. Sib Fbedebick Pollock, Babt.—King Alfred                        . . 75
        Genebal Monthly Meeting             ..    ..                   . . 93
        Pbofessob H. L. Callensab—Measuring Extreme Temperatures 97
        Pbofessob Fbancis Gotch—The Electric Fish of the Nile . . 114
        The Riout Hon. Lobd Kayleiou—Transparency and Opacity lii;
I Genebal Monthly Meeting                   ..    ..     <U+2666>^^•.&''.Vv
114. Pbofessob A. W. Kl'ckkb—Earth Currents and Electric Traction 124
        FnEDEiacK Walkeb Mott, M.D.— Structure of the Brain in
           Relation to its Functions ..     ..         l--"            -«
r Phofessob C. A. Caius Wilson— Some Features of the EUclrio
           Induction Motor                       'v^'i,^-'' ••         ••
        Amsim. Meeting                        'JxX.. ..' - ..-         . . 139
        William James Russell, Esq. Ph.D.—Pictures Produced on -
           Photogbaphic Plates in tlie Dark                                14lj
        Genebal Monthly Meeting                                            147
        rROFESSon Thomas Pbestos — Magnetic Perturbations of tho
           Spectral Lines                                                  151
        The Rioht Rev. The Lobd Bishoi' of Bbistol — Runic nud
           Ogam Characters and Inscriptions in the British Isles . .   . . 164
        Adjoubned Genebal Meeting                                          188
        Sib William Mabtin Conway—Climbs nnd Explorations in the
           Andes         ..     .. .'     .                                189
        Genebal Monthly Meeting                                            1!)2
        Celebbation of the 'Centenaby of Foundation op the
           Koyal Institution, 1799-1809 ..        ..                       197
        Genebal Monthly Meeting             ..    ..                       219
        Genebal Monthly Meeting             ..     ..                      223
        Genebal Monthly Meeting             ..                             229
                               LONDON:
      ALBEMARLE STREET, PICCADILLY.
                             Decemler 1900.


           SUnjai Institution of (0rtat Dritain.
                                            i
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, January 20, 1899.
Sib Fbedebick Bbamweli, Baet., D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S., Honorary
                Secretary and Vice-President, in the Chair.
             Pbofessob Dewab, M.A. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                              Liquid Hydrogen.
 Fbom the year 1878, when the experiments of Cailletet and Pictet
 were attracting the attention of the scientific world, it became a
 common habit in text-books to speak of all the permanent gases,
 ,without any qualification, as having been liquefied, whereas these ex
 perimentalists, by the production of an instantaneous mist in a glass
 tube of small bore, or a transitory liquid jet in a gas expanding under
 high compression into air, had only adduced evidence that sooner or
 later the static liquid form of all the known gases would be attained.
  Neither Pictet or Cailletet in their experiments ever succeeded in
  collecting any of the permanent gases in that liquid form for scientific
  examination. Yet we meet continually in scientific literature with
  expressions which lead one to believe that they did. For instance,
  the following extract from the 'Proceedings' of the Royal Society,
  independently
  1878,  illustratesand
                      thiscontemporaneously
                           point very well : "liquefied
                                               This award   whole Medul)
                                                        the (Davy  of the
  is made to these distinguished men
  gases hitherto called permanent." Many other quotations of the
  game kind may be made. As a matter of fact six years elapsed,
  during which active investigation in this department was being
  prosecuted, before Wroblewski and Olszewski succeeded in obtain
  ing oxygen as a static liquid, and to collect liquid hydrogen, which
  is a much more difficult problem, has taken just twenty years from
  the date of the Pictet and Cailletet experiments.
      Wroblewski made the first conclusive experiment on tho liquefac
  tion of hydrogen in January 1884. He found that tho gas cooled in
  a capillary glass tube to the boiling point of oxygen, and expanded
  quickly from 100 to 1 atmosphere, showed the same appearance of
  sudden ebullition lasting for a fraction of a second, as Cailletot had
  seen in his early oxygen experiments. No sooner had the announce
  ment been made, than Olszewski confirmed the result by expanding
  hydrogen from 190 atmospheres, previously cooled to the temperature
  given by liquid oxygen and nitrogen evaporating under diminished
  pressure. Olszewski, however, declared in 1881 that he saw colourless
      Vol. XVI. (No. 93.)                                        B

2                            Professor Detcar                  [Jan. 20,
drops, and by partial expansion to 40 atmospheres, the liquid hydro
gen was seen by him running down the tube. Wroblewski could
not confirm Olszewski's results, his hydrogen being always obtained
in the form of what he called a " liquide dynamique," or the appear
ance of an instantaneous froth. Olszewski himself seven years later
repeated his experiments of 1884 on a larger scale, confirming
Wroblewski's results, thereby proving that the so-called liquid
hydrogen of the earlier experiments must have been due to some
impurity. The following extract from Wroblewski's paper states very
clearly the results of his work on Hydrogen :—
     "L'hydrogene soumis a la pression de 180 atra. jusqu'a 190 atm.,
refroidi par l'azote bonillant dans la vide (a la temperature de sa
solidification) et detendu brusquement sous la pression atmospberique
presente une mousse bien visible. De la c mleur grise de cette
mousse, ou l'oeil ne peut distinguer dos gouttelettes incolores, on
ne peut pas encore deviner quelle apparence aurait l'hydrogene a
l'etat de liquide statique et Ton est encore raoins autorise a preciser
s'il a ou non une apparence metallique. J'ai pn placer dans cette
mousse ma pile thermo-electrique, et j'ai obtenu suivant les pressions
employees des temperatures de —208° jusqu'a -211° C. Je ne peux
pas encore dire dans quelle relation se trouvent ces nombres avec la
temperature reelle de la mousse ou avec la temperature d'ebullition de
l'hydrogene sous la pression atmospberique, puisque je n'ai pas encore
la certitude que la faible dur£e de ce phenomena ait permis a la
pile de se rei'roidir completement. Neanmoins, je crois aujourd'hui
de moil devoir de publier ces resultats, afin de preciser l'6tat actuel
de la question de la liquefaction de l'hydrogene." *
     It is well to note that the lowest thermo-electric temperature
recorded by Wroblewski during the adiabatio expansion of the hy
drogen (namely, - 211°) is really equivalent to a much lower tempera
ture on the gas-thermometer scale. The most probable value is
- 230°, and this must be regarded as the highest temperature of the
liquid state, or the critical point of hydrogen, according to his obser
vations. Iu a posthumous paper of Wroblewski's on ' The Compression
of Hydrogen,' published in 1889, an account appears of further
attempts which he had made to liquefy hydrogen. The gas com
pressed to 110 atmospheres, was cooled by means of liquid nitrogen
under exhaustion to — 218' 8°. By suddenly reducing the pressure,
as low a temperature as — 223° on his scale was recorded, but with
out any signs of liquefaction. This expansion gives a theoretical
temperatuie of about 15° absolute in the gas particles. The above
methods having failed to produce static hydrogen, Wroblewski sug
gested that the result might be attained by the use of hydrogen gas
as a cooling agent. From this time until his death in the year 1888,
 Wroblewski devoted his time to a laborious research on the iso-
                        * Compt. Rend. 1885, 100, !)81.

 1899.]                       on Liquid Hydrogen.                         nO
 thermals of hydrogen at low temperatures. The data thus arrived at
 enabled him, by the use of Van der VVaal's formulae, to calculate the
 critical constants, and also the boiling point of liquid hydrogen.
     Olszewski returned to the subject in 1891, repeating and correct
 ing his old experiments of 1884, which VVroblewski had failed to
 confirm, using now a glass tube 7 mm. in diameter instead of one
 of 2 mm. as in the early trials. He says : " On repeating my former
 experiments, I had no hope of obtaining a lower temperature by
 means of any cooling agent, but I hoped that the expausion of
 hydrogen would be more efficacious, on account of the larger scale
 on which the experiments were made." The results of these experi
 ments Olszewski describes as follows : " The phenomenon of hydrogen
 ebullition, which was then observed, was much more marked aud
 much longer than during my former investigations in the same direc
tion. But oven then I could not perceive any meniscus of liquid
hydrogen." Further, " The reason for which it has not hitherto hern
possible to liquefy hydrogen in a static state, is that there exists no gas
having a density between those of hydrogen and of nitrogen, and which
might be for insPince 7-10 (H = 1). Such a gas could be liquefied
 by means of liquid oxygen or air as cooling agent, and be afterwards
used as a frigorific meustruum in the liquefaction of hydrogen."
     Professor Olszewski, in 1895, determined the temperature reached
in the momentary adiabatic expansion of hydrogen at low tempera
tures, just as Wroblewski had done in 1885, only he employed a
platinum-resistance thermometer instead of a thermo-junction. For
this purpose he used a small steel bottle of 20 or 30 cc. capacity,
containing a platinum-resistance thermometer ; in this way, the tem
peratures registered were regarded as those of the critical and boiling
points of liquid hydrogen, a substance which could not be seen under
the circumstances and was only assumed to exist for a seoond or two
during the expansion of the gaseous hydrogen in the small steel
bottle.
     The results arrived at by Wroblewski and Olzewski are given in
the following table, and it will be shown later on that VVrob-
lewski's constants arc nearest the truth.
                                                 Wroblowaki, Olszewski,
                                                    1885.      1895.
           Critical temperature                  —240°       -234°
           B.iilinjr point                        -250°      -243°
           Critical pressure                        13 atm.     20 atm.
      The accuracy of Wroblewski's deductions regarding the chiof
constants of liquid hydrogen following from a study of the iso-
theruials of the gas is a signal triumph for the theory of Van der
 Waals and a monument to the genius of the Cracow physicist.
 From these results we may safely infer that supposing a gas is
hereafter discovered in small quantity four times more volatile than
 liquid hydrogen, having a boiling point of about 5° absolute, and
                                                                   b 2

                                 Professor Dewar                        [Jan. 20,
  therefore incapablo of direct liquefaction by the use of liquid hydro
  gen, yet by a study of its isothennals we shall succeed in finding
  out its most important liquid constants, although the isolation of the
  real liquid may for the time be impossible.
      In a paper published in the ' Philosophical Magazine,' September
  1884, " On the Liquefaction of Oxygen and the Critical Volumes of
 Fluids," the suggestion was made that the critical pressure of
  hydrogen was wrong, and that instead of being 99 atmospheres (as
 deduced by Sarrau from Amagat's isothermals) the gas had probably
 an abnormally
 stantially         low value
             confirmed    by Wroblewski
                                  for this constant.
                                             finding theThis      viewpressure
                                                            critical           of
                                                                        was sub-•
  13*3 atmospheres, or about one-fourth of that of oxygen. The
 ' Chemical News,' September 7, 1894, contains an account of tho
 stage the author's hydrogen experiments had reached at that date.
 The object was to collect liquid hydrogen at its boiling point, in an
 open vacuum vessel, which is a much more difficult problem than
 seeing it in a glass tube under pressure and at a higher temperature.
 In order to raise the critical point of hydrogen to about —210°,
 from 2 to 5 per cent, of nitrogen or air was mixed with it. This is
 simply making an artificial gas containing a large proportion of
 hydrogen which is capable of liquefaction by the use of liquid air.
 The results are summed up in the following extract from the paper :
" One thing can, however, be proved by the use of the gaseous
mixture of hydrogen and nitrogen, namely that by subjecting it to a
high compression at a temperature of —200° and expanding the
 resulting liquid into air, a much lower temperature than anything
 that has been recorded up to the present time can be reached. This
 is proved by the fact that such a mixed gas gives, under the condi
 tions, a paste or jelly of solid nitrogen, evidently giving off hydrogen,
because the gas coming off burns fiercely. Even when hydrogen
containing only some 2 to 5 per cent, of air is similarly treated, the
result is a white solid matter (solid air) along with a clear liquid of
low density, which is so exceedingly volatile that no known device
for collecting it has been successful." This was in all probability the
first liquid hydrogen obtained, and the method is applicable to other
difficultly liquefactible gases.
     Continuing the investigations during the winter of 1894, and the
greater part of 1895, the author read a paper before the Chemical
Society in December of that year entitled, " The Liquefaction of Air
and Research at Low Temperatures," * in which occasion was taken to
describe for tho first time the mode of production and use of a Liquid
Hydrogen Jet, At the same meeting Professor William Ramsay made
au announcement of a sensational character, which amounted to stating
that my hydrogen results had been not only anticipated but bettered.
The statement made to the Society by Professor Ramsay, reads as
            * ' Proceedings ' of the Chemical Society, No. 1;>S. 18!)5.

1899.]                         on Liquid Hydrogen.                          5
follows : " Professor Olszewski had succeeded in liquefying hydrogen, and
from unpublished information received from Cracow, he (Ramsay) was
able to state that a fair amount of liquid had been obtained, not as a froth,
but in a state of quiet ebullition, by surrounding a tube containing com
pressed hydrogen by another tube also containing compressed hydrogen at
the temperature of oxygen boiling at a very low pressure. On allowing
the hydrogen in the middle jacket suddenly to expand, the hydrogen in the
innermost tube liquefied, and was seen to have a meniscus. Its critical
point and its boiling point, under atmospheric pressure, were determined
by means of a resistance thermometer." *
     This announcement of Professor Ramsay's had from its very
specific and detailed experimental character the merit of the appear
ance of being genuine, although it was never substantiated, either
by the production of the Cracow document, or by any subsequent
publication of such important results by Professor Olszewski himself.
My observation at the time on Professor Ramsay's communication
 was that quotations had been made in my paper from the most
 recent publications of Professor Olszewski in which he made rto
mention of getting " Static Hydrogen or of seeing a meniscus " or of
getting as Professor Ramsay alleged " a fair amount of liquid, not as a
froth, but in a state of quiet ebullition.'' To achieve such a result would
 require a very different scale of experiment from anything Professor
 Olszewski had so far described. Naturally an early Corroboration of
 the startling statement made by Professor Ramsay as to this alleged
 anticipation was expected, but strange to say Professor Olszewski
 published no confirmation of the experiments detailed by Professor
 Ramsay in scientific journals of date immediately preceding my paper
 or daring the following years 1896, 1897 or up to May 1898. The
 moment the announcement was made by me to the Royal Society
 in May 1898 that, after years of labour, hydrogen had at last been
 obtained as a static liquid, Professor Ramsay repeated the story to
 the Royal Society that Olszewski had anticipated my results (basing
 the assertion solely on the contents of the old letter received some
 two and a half years before), in spite of the fact that during the
 interval he, Professor Ramsay, must have known that Professor
  Olszewski had never corroborated in any publication either the form
  of the experiments he had so minutely described or the results which
 were said to follow* Challenged by me at the Royal Society Meeting
  on May 12, 1898, to produce Olszewski's letter of 1895, he did not
  do so, but at the next meeting of the Society, Professor Ramsay read
  a letter he had received during the interval from Professor. Olszewski,
  denying that he had ever stated that he had succeeded in producing
  static liquid hydrogen. This oral communication of the contents of
  the new Olszewski letter (of which it is to be regretted there is no
  record in the published proceedings of the Royal Society) is the only
  kind of retraction Professor Ramsay has thought fit to make of his
           * ' Proceedinga ' of Ihe Chemical Society, No. 195, 1897-1898.

G                            Professor Dewar                          [Jan. 20,
published mis-statements of fact. No satisfactory exphcation has yet
been givon by Professor Ramsay of his twice-repeated categorical state
ments made before scientific bodies of the results of experiments
which, in fact, had nover been made by their alleged author. The
publicity that has been given to this controversy makes it imperative
     the report
thatThe             a Friday
          matterofshould  not be
                               Evening
                                   passed Discourse     on " for
                                           over, but once            recorded.
                                                              NewallResearches
on Liquid Air " * contains a drawing of the apparatus employed
                                     Fio. 1.
for the production of a jet of hydrogen containing visible liquid.
This is reproduced in Fig. 1. A represents one of the hydrogen
cylinders; B and C, vacuum vessels containing carbonic acid under
exhaustion and liquid air respectively ; P is the coil, G the pin-hole
nozzle, and F the valve. By means of this hydrogen jet, liquid air
can be quickly transformed into a hard solid. It was shown that
               * ' Proceedings ' of the Koyal Institution, 1896.

 1899.]                       on Liquid Hydrogen.                               7
 such a jet could bo used to cool bodies below the temperature that it
 is possible to reach by the use of liquid air, but all attempts to collect
 the liquid hydrogen from the jet in vacuum vessels failed. No other
 investigator improved on my results,* or has indeed touched the
 subject during the last three years. The type of apparatus used in
 these experiments worked well, so it was resolved to construct a much
larger liquid-air plant, and to combine with it circuits and arrange
ments for the liquefaction of hydrogen. This apparatus took a year to
bnild, aud many months have been occupied in the testing and pre
     On May
liminary        10, 1898,
           trials.        starting
                     The many    failures
                                    with aud
                                          hydrogen     need not
                                               defeatscooled           detailed.
                                                               to -be 205°, and
under a pressure of 180 atmospheres, escaping continuously from the
nozzle of a coil of pipe at the rate of about 10 to 15 cubic feet per
minute, in a vacuum vessel doubly silvered and of special construc
tion, all surrounded with a space kept below - 200°, liquid hydrogen
commenced to drop from this vacuum vessel into another doubly
isolated by being surrounded with a third vacuum vessel. In about
 five minutes, 20 cc. of liquid hydrogen were collected, when the
 hydrogen jet froze up, from the accumulation of air in the pipes
frozen out from the impure hydrogen. The yield of liquid was
 about 1 per cent, of the gas. The hydrogen in the liquid condition is
clear and colourless, showing no absorption spectrum, and the menis
 cus is as well defined as in the case of liquid air. The liquid must
 have a relatively high refractive index and dispersion, and the density
 appears at first sight to l>e in excess of the theoretical density,
 namely 0-18 to 0'12, which we deduce respectively from the atomic
 volume of organic compounds, and the limiting density found by
 Amagat for hydrogen gas under infinite compression. A preliminary
 attempt, however, to weigh a small glass bulb in the liquid made
 the density only about 0*08, or half the theoretical. My old experi
 ments on the density of hydrogen in palladium gave a value for the
 combined element of 0*62. Not having arrangements at hand to
 determine the boiling point other than a thermo-junction which gave
entirely fallacious results, experiments were made to prove the ex
cessively low temperature of the boiling fluid. In the first place
if a long piece of glass tubing, scaled at one end and open to the air
at the other, is cooled by immersing the closed end in the liquid
 hydrogen, the tube immediately fills where it is cooled with solid air.
A small glass tube filled with liquid oxygen when cooled in liquid ny-
drogen is transformed into a bluish white solid. This is a proof that
the boiling point of hydrogen is much lower than any temperature pre
viously reached by the use of liquid nitrogen evaporating in vacuo,
seeing oxygen always remains liquid under such conditions. A first
trial of putting liquid hydrogen under exhaustion gave no appearance
of transition into the solid state. When the vacuum tube containing
liquid hydrogen is immersed in liquid air so that the external wall
           * * Proceedings of the Chemical Society' (No. 158), 1895.

8                              Professor Dewar                  [Jan. 20,
of the vacuum vessel is maintained at about — 190°, the hydrogen
is found to evaporate at a rato not far removed from that of liquid
 air from a similar vacuum vessel under the ordinary conditions of
 temperature. This leads me to the conclusion that, with proper
 isolation, it will bo possible to manipulate liquid hydrogen as easily as
 liquid air.
     The boiling point of liquid hydrogen at atmospheric pressure in
 the first instance was determined by a platinum-resistance thermometer.
 This was constructed of pure metal and had a resistance of 5 ' 3 ohms
 at 0° C., which fell to about 0-1 ohm when the thermometer was
 immersed in liquid hydrogen. The reduction of this resistance to
 normal air thermometer degrees gave the boiling points — 238-2°
 and — 238 ' 9° respectively by two extrapolation methods, and — 237°
 by a Dickson formula.* The boiling point of the liquid seems
therefore to be — 238° C. or 35° absolute, and is thus about 5° higher
 than that obtained by Olszewski by the adiabatic expansion of the com
pressed gas, and about 8° higher than that deduced by Wroblewski
from Van der Waal's equation. From these results it may be inferred
that the critical point of hydrogen is about 50° absolute, and that
the critical pressure will probably not exceed 15 atmospheres.
     If we assume the resistance reduced to zero, then tho temperature
registered by the electric thermometer ought to be — 244° C. At
the boiling point of hydrogen, registered by the electric-resistance
thermomoter, if tho law correlating resistance and temperature can be
pressed to its limits, a lowering of the boiling point of hydrogen by 5°
or 6° C. would therefore produce a condition of affairs in which the
platinum would have no resistance, or would become a perfect con
ductor. Now we have every reason to bolieve that hydrogen, like
 other liquids, will boil at a lower temperature the lower the pres
 sure under which it is volatilised. The question arises, how much
lowering of the temperature can we practically anticipate ? For
this purpose we have the boiling point given by the hydrogen gas thermo
meter, and critical data available, from which wo can calculate an
approximate vapour pressure formula, accepting 22° absolute as about
the boiling point, 33° absolute as the critical temperature, and 15*4
atmospheres as the critical pressure ; then, as a first approximation—
                                            77-62
                        log. p = 6-410 -            mm.
                                               T
     If, instead of using the critical pressure in the calculation, we
assume the molecular latent heat of hydrogen to be proportional to the
absolute boiling point, then from a comparison with an expression of
the same kind, which gives accurate results for oxygen tensions below
one atmosphere, we can derive another expression for hydrogen vapour
                      t See Phil. Mag, 45, 525, 1898.

                            on Liquid Hydrogen.                           9
  pressures, which ought to bo applicable to boiling points under
 reduced pressure.
      The resulting formula f~
                       log.* = 7-0808 -J mm.                         (2).
      Now formula (1) gives a boiling point of 14*2° absolute under a
 pressure of 25 mm., whereas the second equation (2) gives for the
 same pressure 15*4° absolute. As the absolute boiling point under
 atmospheric pressure is about 22°, both expressions lead to the con
 clusion that ebullition under
 25 mm. pressure ought to re
 duce the boiling point some
 7° C. For some time experi
 ments have been in progress
 with the object of determining
 the temperature of hydrogen
 boiling under about 25 mm.
 pressure, by the use of the
 platinum thermometer ; but
 the difficulties encountered
 have been great, and repeated
 failures very exasperating.
 The troubles arise from the
 conduction of heat by the
 leads ; the small latent heat of
 hydrogen volume for volume
 as compared with liquid air;
 the inefficiency of heat isola
 tion ; and the strain on the
 thermometer brought about by
 solid air freezing on it and
 distorting the coil of wire.
 In many experiments, the re
 sult has been that all the
 liquid hydrogen has evaporated
 before the pressure was re
 duced to 25 mm., or the ther
 mometer was left imperfectly
 covered. The apparatus em
 ployed will be understood from
 Fig. 2. The liquid hydrogen
collected
A          in the vacuum
    was suspended          vessel
                   in a larger vessel of the same kind B, which is so con
structed that a spiral tube joins the inner and outer test-tubes of which
B is made, thereby making an opening into the interior at C. The
resistance thermometer D and leads E pass through a rubber cork F,
and the exhaustion takes place through G. In this way the cold

10                          Profeseor De.war                    [Jan. 20,
vapours are drawn over the outside of the hydrogen vacuum vessel,
and this helps to isolate the liquid from the convective currents of gas.
To effect proper isolation, the whole apparatus ought to be immersed
in liquid air under exhaustion. Arrangements of this kind add to the
complication, so in the first instance the liquid was used as described.
The liquid hydrogen evaporated quietly and steadily under a di
minished pressure of about 25 mm. Naturally the liquid does not
last long, so the resistance has to be taken quickly. Just before the
reduction of pressure began, the resistance of the thermometer was
0-131 ohm. This result compares iavourably with the former obser
vation on the boiling point, which gave a resistance of 0 ' 129 ohm. Ou
reducing the pressure,the resistance diminished to 0* 114 ohm, and kept
steady for some time. The lowest reading of resistance was 0 ' 112 ohm.
This value corresponds to — 289*1°C, or only one degree lower on
its own scale, than the boiling point at atmospheric pressure, whereaa
the temperature ought to have been reduced at least 5° under the
assumed exhaustion according to the gas thermometer scale. The
position of the observation on the curve of the relation of tempera
ture and resistance for No. 7 thermometer is shown on the accom
panying diagram (Fig. 3). As a matter of fact. however, this platinum
thermometer was, when placed in liquid hydrogen, cooled at starting
below its own temperature of perfect conductivity, so that no exhaus
tion was needed to bring it to this point. The question arises then
as to what is the explanation of this result? Has the platinum resist
ance thermometer arrived at a limiting resistance about the boiling
point of hydrogen, so that at a lower temperature its changes in re
sistance become relatively small— the curve having become practically
asymptotic to the axis of temperature ? That is the most probable
supposition, and it further explains the fact that the temperature of
boiling hydrogen obtained by the linear extrapolation of the resistance
temperature results in values that are not low enough.
     As the molecular latent heats of liquids are proportional to their
absolute boiling points, the latent heat of liquid hydrogen will be
about two-fifths that of liquid oxygen. It will be shown later,
however, that we can reach from 14° to 15° absolute by the evapo
ration of liquid hydrogen under exhaustion. From analogy, it is
probable that the practicable lowering of temperature to be obtained
by evaporating liquid hydrogen under pressures of a few mm. cannot
amount to more than 10° to 12° G, and it may be said with cer
tainty that, assuming the boiling point 35° absolute to be correct, no
means are at present known for approaching nearer than 20° to 25°
to the absolute zero of temperature. The true boiling point is in
reality about — 252° C, in terms of the gas-thermometer scale, and the
latent heat of the liquid is therefore about two-ninths that of an equal
volume of oxygen, or one-fourth that of liquid nitrogen. The
platinum-resistance thermometer had a zero point of —263 '2 platinum
degrees, and when immersed in boiling liquid hydrogen, indicated a
temperature of — 256 ' 8° on the same scale, or 6 ' 4 platinum degrees

     1899.]                         on Liquid Hydrogen.                                     11
           the point at which the metal would theoretically become a
    perfect conductor. The effect of cooling platinum from the boiling
    point of liquid oxygen to that of liquid hydrogen is to diminish its
    resistance to one-eleventh.
         The difficulties in liquefying hydrogen caused by the presence of
    air in the gas have been referred to,* and later experiments had for
    their object the removal of this fruitful source of trouble. This is
    by no means an easy ta*k, as quantities amounting to only a fraction
    of one per cent, accumulate in the solid state, and eventually choke the
    nozzle of the apparatus, necessitating the abandonment of the opera-
  , Mil            I 1 I I I I LL 1          1 1 1 ' 1 1 H 1 .
                   iiii r                                                                   -
                                                                          /
                                                                         'L at A ir
                                                                             u i C* W
•
                                                     ti At.,_ y
                                                          ut
r
t                                                  31 1 1 1 1 1 1
                            /r
                         /t                                                        er P7.
                                                                   ur hirmon
  *                    /                                               I 7-Md—' / I63t -
                /        Wui
  1          /, '31>,/       9'
                                                                                          I
                                              Fio. 3.
    tion. Later experiments enabled me to procure a larger supply of
    liquid hydrogen with which the determination of certain physical con
    stants has been continued. The first observations made with a pure
    platinum-resistance thermometer had given — 238° as the boiling
   point. A new thermometer, constructed of platinum from a different
   source, gave practically the same value. As these results might bo
   affected by some constant error, the determination was checked by
   employing a thermometer constructed from an alloy of rhodium and
                                * ' Proeeedin','s,' 1898. 14, 130.

12                          Professor Dewar                      [Jan. 20,
platinum, containing 10 per cent, of the former. Alloys had been
shown by Professor Fleming and the author to diffor from pure
metals in showing no sign of becoming perfect conductors at the
absolute zero of temperature, and a study of the rhodium-platinum
alloy had shown that the change in conductivity produced by cooling
from 0° to the boiling point of liquid air is regular and may be
represented by a straight line. As determined by the rhodium*
platinum thermometer, the boiling point of hydrogen was found to
be — 246° or some 8° lower than the platinum thermometer gave.
Two ways of explaining the discrepancy between the two values
suggested thomselves. Pure platinum, although its resistance may
be represented by a straight line almost down to the solidifying
point of air, shows signs of a departure from regularity at about
this point, and the curve may become asymptotic at lower tempera
tures. On the other hand, the resistance of the rhodium-platinum
alloy diminishes less rapidly at these lower temperatures and is much
higher than that of pure platinum under similar conditions. It
follows that its resistance curve, in all probability, deviates lesS from
a straight line than is the case with platinum. Either cause would
explain the differences observed, but the lower boiling point ( — 240°
or 27° absolute) seemed to be the more probable as it agreed very
fairly with the value for the boiling point calculated by the author
from Wroblewski's results. As the use of other pure metals or
alloys was not likely to lead to more satisfactory results, the problem
had to be attacked in a different way, namely, by means of an " air
thermometer containing hydrogen under diminished pressure.
     A first attempt has been made at determining the boiling-point by
a constant-volume hydrogen thermometer working under diminished
pressure. This thermometer, which gave the boiling point of oxygen
as 90 ' 5° absolute or — 182 '6°, gave for hydrogen 21° absolute of
 — 252'. The three determinations that have been mado are then as
follows : (1) pure platinum resistance thermometer, 35° absolute ;
(2) rhodium-platinum resistance thermometer 27° absolute ; (3)
hydrogen thermometer, 21° absolute. From this it appears that the
boiling point of hydrogen is really lower than was anticipated, and
 must range betwten 20° and 22 absolute. Further experiments
 will be made with thermometers filled with hydrogen prepared from
 different sources. A hydrogen thermometer filled with tho gas ob
 tained from the evaporation of the liquid hydrogen itself must be
 employed.
     The approximate density of liquid hydrogen at its boiling point
was found by measuring the volume of the gas obtained by evapo
rating 10 cc. of the liquid, and is slightly less than 0-07, or about
 one-sixth that of liquid marsh-gas, which is the lightest liquid
 known. It is remarkable that, with so low a density, liquid hydrogen
is so easily seen, has so well defined a meniscus, and can be so
readily collected and manipulated in vacuum vessels. As hydrogen
occluded in palladium has a density of 0 ' 62, it follows that it must

1899.]                       on Liquid Hydrogen.                         13
be associated with the metal in some other state than that of lique
faction.
     The atomic volnme of liquid hydrogen at its boiling point is
about 11*3, the atomic volumes of liquid oxygen and nitrogen being
13- 7 and 16-6 respectively at their boiling points. The weight of a
litre of hydrogen gas at the boiling point of the liquid is about the
same as that of air, at the ordinary temperature. The ratio of the
density of hydrogen gas at the boiling point to that of the liquid is
approximately 1 : 60, as compared with a ratio of 1 : 255 in the case
of oxygen under similar conditions.
     The specific heat of hydrogen in the gaseous state and in
hydrogenised palladium is 3*4, but may very probably be 6*4 in
the liquid substance. Such a liquid would be unique in its pro
perties ; but as the volume of one gramme of liquid hydrogen is about
14-15 cc, the specific heat per unit volume must be nearly 0 ' 5,
which is about that of liquid air. It is highly probable, therefore,
that the remarkable properties of liquid hydrogen predicted by theory
will prove to be less astonishing when they are compared with thoso
of liquid air, volume for volume, at corresponding temperatures.
     With hydrogen as a cooling agent we shall get to from 13° to 15°
of the zero of absolute temperature, and its use will open up an
entirely new field of scientific inquiry. Even so great a man as
James Clerk Maxwell had doubts as to the possibility of ever liquefy
ing hydrogen.* Ho says: "Similar phenomena occur in all the
liquefiable gases. In other gases we are able to trace the existence
 of attractive force at ordinary pressures, though the compression has
 not yet been carried so far as to show any repulsive force. In
 hydrogen the repulsive force seems to prevail even at ordinary
 pressures. This gas has never been liquefied, and it is probable
 that it never will be liquefied, as the attractive force is so weak." In
 concluding his lectures on the non-metallic elements delivered at the
 Royal Institution in 1852, and published the following year, Faraday
 said f : " There is reason to believe we should derive much informa
 tion as to the intimate nature of these non-metallic elements, if we
 could succeed in obtaining hydrogen and nitrogen in the liquid and
 solid form. Many gases have been liquefied : the carbonic acid gas
 has been solidified, but hydrogen and nitrogen have resisted all our
 efforts of the kind. Hydrogen in many of its relations acts as
 though it were a metal : could it be obtained in a liquid or a solid
condition, the doubt might be settled. This great problem, however,
has yet to be solved, nor should wo look with hopelessness on this
solution when we reflect with wonder—and as I do almost with fear
and trembling—on the powers of investigating the hidden qualities
of these elements—of questioning them, making them disclose their
secrets and tell their tales—given by the Almighty to mau."
       * Soe Scientific Papers, 2, 412.
       t See Faraday's Lectures on the Non-Metallic Elements, pp. 292-3.

11            Professor Dewar on Liquid Hydrogen.                [Jan. 20,
    Faraday's expressed faith in the potentialities of experimental
inquiry in 1852 has been justified forty-six years afterwards by the
production of liquid hydrogen in the very laboratory in which all his
epoch-making researches were executed. The " doubt " has now been
settled ; hydrogen does not possess in the liquid state the character
istics of a metal. No one can predict the properties of matter near
the zero of temperature. Faraday liquefied chlorine in the year
1823. Sixty years afterwards Wroblewski and Olszewski produced
liquid air, and now, after a fifteen years' interval, the last of the old
permanent gases, hydrogen, appears as a static liquid. Considering
that the step from the liquefaction of air to that of hydrogen is
relatively as great in the thermodynamic sense as that from liquid
chlorine to liquid air, the fact that the former result has been achieved
in one-fourth the time needed to accomplish the latter proves the-
greatly accelerated pace of scientific progress in our time.
    The efficient cultivation of this field of research depends on com
bination and assistance of an exceptional kind ; but in the first instance
money must be available, and the members of the Royal Institution
deserve my especial gratitude for their handsome donations to the
conduct of this research. Unfortunately its prosecution will demand
a further large expenditure. It is my duty to acknowledge that at
an early stage of the inquiry the Hon. Company of Goldsmiths helped
low-temperature investigation by a generous donation to the Research.
Fund.
    During the whole course of the low-temperature work, carried out
at the Royal Institution, the invaluable aid of Mr. Robert Lennox
has been at my disposal, and it is not too much to say that, but for
his engineering skill, manipulative ability and loyal perseverance, thu
present successful issuo might have been indefinitely delayed. My
thanks are also duo to Mr. J . W. Heath for valuable assistance in the
conduct of the experiments.
                                                                [J. D.]

 1899.]       Bight Hon. Sir M. E. Grant Duff on Epitaphs.              15
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, January 27, 1899.
      Sib James Ciuohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer
                      and Vice-President, in the Chair.
  The Right Hon. Sib Moontstuaut E. Gbant Duff, G.C.S.I. F.R.S.
                                     Epitaphs.
  When we remember that nearly all churches and churchyards contain
  a great variety of epitaphs and that they were in use long before
  churches or churchyards existed, wo may well feel some surprise that
  so extensive a department of literature has received such scant
  atteution from competent critics. It is true that there are mauy
  collections of epitaphs, but the most uncritical spirit has almost
  always guided those who have collected them. Mow and then a great
  writer has produced an essay on the subject. Samuel J ohnson, for
  instance, contributed one to the ' Gentleman's Magazine,' which will
  be found in his collected works ; but it is far indeed from being one
  of its author's more felicitous compositions, and is, sooth to say, a
  singularly poor piece of work, only redeemed from insignificance by
  the praise wliieh it gives to the memorable epitaph of Zosime, then
 less known, I presume, than it is now : —
                  Zosime, ne'er save in her flesh a slave,
                  E'en for her flesh finds freevlom in the grave.
      Wordsworth, too, wrote a paper upon epitaphs in the ' Friend,'
 but it is a very unsatisfying performance. The philosophical and
 critical part of it, indeed, is exceedingly jejune, although when the
 author forgets that he is a philosopher, and remembers only that ho
 is a poet, he rises very high. The following is surely a noblo
 paragraph :—
     " As in sailing upon the orb of this planet, a voyage towards tho
 regions where the sun sets, conducts gradually to the quarter where
 we have been accustomed to behold it come forth at its rising; and in
 like manner a voyage towards the East, the birth -place in our imagina
 tion of the morning, leads finally to the quarter where the sun is last
 seen when he departs from our eyes ; so the contemplative soul,
travelling in the direction of mortality, advances to the country of
everlasting life ; and, in like manner, may she continue to explore
those cheerful tracts, till she is brought back, for her advantage and
benefit, to the laud of transitory thiugs—of sorrow and of tears."

16                 Right Eon. Sir M. E. Grant Duff            [Jan. 27,
     I need not say that I am not going to attempt a dissertation upon
epitaphs when two such eminent men have failed. All I shall
attempt to do is to bring together as many quite first-rate epitaphs
as time will permit, avoiding some of those which are best known,
and connecting those I shall cite with each other as well as I can.
It' by that means I can give, to those who have honoured me by their
presence, an agreeable hour, my highest ambition will be satisfied.
     In most collections of epitaphs a great many pages are given to
comic ones. Such things are quite harmless when they are merely
writton to pass from mouth to mouth and with no intention of
engraving them on a tomb, but those persons who spend their time
in painfully collecting and carefully publishing in books the rubbish
which is often to be found in country churchyards do a serious
disservice to such of their fellow-creatures as have the misfortune to
read them. They should be condemned to employ a sort of Old
Mortality Reversed to go through the land chipping off the stones
the trash which they have copied, paying all the fines their agent
incurs in the process.
     Perhaps the most amusing of comic epitaphs is ono which cir
culates as that of Lady O'Looney, and is commonly said to have
been copied from a tomb in Pewsey churchyard. That, however, is
not the case, for in a work on epitaphs by Mr. Ravenshaw, who dates
from Pewsey Rectory, l find that it is a version, mutilated for
conversational purposes, of a long epitaph from St. George's burying
ground in London on a certain Mrs. Jane Molony. The original is,
Heaven knows, sufficiently absurd, and nearly all the current version
has been picked out of it, but it contains a great deal of additional
matter chiefly of a genealogical character.
     Lord Holland said to Mr. Charles Grcville in 1830, that " there
is hardly such a thing in the world as a good house or a good epitaph,
and yet mankind have been employed in building the former and
writing the latter since the beginning almost."
     I propose to deal exclusively with thoso epitaphs which deserve
to bo covered by the word " hardly " in this judgment.
     When I determined to address you on this subject, my first
 endeavour was to find out whether the great ancient civilisations of
 Assyria, Babylonia or Egypt had bequeathed anything to us in the
shape of epitaphs. After applying to the best authority I have not
been able to find that the two first mentioned have done so. From
a paper, however, published under the title of ' Egyptian Stelae
 principally of the Eighteenth Dynasty,' by Mr. Budge of the British
 Museum, aud kindly lont to me by him, I gather that " the custom of
 the Ancient Egyptians of erecting sepulchral stelae in honour of their
 deceased kings, nobles, porsons of rank, relatives and friends, has
 proved a most valuable aid to tho modern student of the Egyptian
 language, and has enabled him to learn much of the social life of
 the Egyptian which would otherwiso havo passed away in oblivion."
     No doubt this is so, and the specimens which Mr. Budge gives arc

1899.]                            on Epitaphs.                                   17
very curious ; but although a striking expression occurs here and
there, much of their language is, to the ear of a modern, in the
highest degree grotesque. Such phrases as " May his memorial abide
 in the seat of Eternity," or " May he be granted the breath of the
 North wind," seem appropriate enough on a funeral monument, but
 aspirations like those to be found in the ninth and tenth paragraphs
 of the first inscription quoted, " May I attain the field of peace,
may one come with jugs of beer and cakes, the cakes of the Lords
 of Eternity," " May I receive many slices from the joint upon the
 table of the great God," are less attractive.
     I do not remember that the Old Testament, filled though it is
 with passages which have been and will be used as epitaphs, contains
 anything that was intended as such. I have met, however, with one
 exceedingly fine Phoenician epitaph which makes me doubt whether
 there were none amongst the inhabitants of Southern Palestine. It is
 on a sarcophagus in the Louvre, brought from Sidon, a place which, if
 it was as beautiful in early days as it is now, might well have made
 poets of its rulers.
    In the month of Bui, the fourteenth year of my reign, I, King Ashmanezer,
King of the Sidonians, son of King Tabnith, King of the Sidonians, spake King
Ashmanezer. King of the Sidonians, saying : " I have been stolen away before my
time—a son of tlie flood of days. The whilom Great is dumb ; the son of Gods
U dead. And I rest in this grave, even in this tomb, in the place which I have
built. My adIuration to all the Ruling Powers and all men : Let no one open
this resting place, nor search for treasure, for there is no treasure with Us ; and
let him not bear away the couch of my Best, and not trouble Us in this resting
place by disturbing the couch of my slumbers. . . . For all men who should open
the tomb of My rest, or any man who should carry away the couch of My rest, or
anyone who trouble me on this conch : Unto them there shall be no rest with tbo
departed ; they shall not be buried in a grave, and there shall be to them neither
eon nor seed. . . . There shall be to them neither root below nor fruit above, nor
honour among the living under the sun. . . .
i " To find many examples of anything really good done by the early
world in this department, we must, as is so often the case, turn to
 Greece. There we shall find a rich harvest from which, however,
the limit wisely set to your lectures will allow me only to glean a
very few specimens. Most of these have been treasured up for the
 world by the admirable persons who compiled the various editions of
 the ' Anthologia,' a work to which this century has done more justice
 than its predecessor. Chesterfield's judgment of it is, next to his low
standard in one branch of morality, the greatest blot on the fame of
that wise man.
     The briefest of selections from the epitaphs of which we have the
good fortune to have excellent translations in English verse, is all I
can attempt. First then may come the immortal distich on Leonidas
and his three hundred :—
                   Go Stranger and to Lacedaemon tell
                   That here, obeying her commands we fell.
    Vol. XVI. (No. 98.)                                                  o

18                     Eight Hon. Sir M. E. Grant Duff                  [Jan. 27,
    We may next take that upon Aster, ascribed (scholars, I believe,
think rightly) to Plato : —
                    Thou wert the morning Star among the living
                      Ere thy fair light had fled ;
                    Now having died, thou art as Hesperus giving
                      New splendour to the dead.
    To Plato likewise is attributed the wonderfully touching epitaph
on the Eretrians who were transported to Ecbatana and died there.
I have never seen a metrical translation of this which succeeds in
rendering the concentrated pathos of the original. Mr. Symonds'
version runs :—
                 We who once left the -33gean's deep-voiced shore,
                    Lie 'neath
                  Farewell      Ecbatana's
                            Eretria,       champaign,
                                     thou famed         yore, we fell.
                                                land ofwhere
                    And neighbour Athens, and loved sea, farewell.
    There is nothing to be said against this save that the gifted writer
has not succeeded in performing an impossibilty. " Loved sea fare
well ! " is of course perfectly literal, but the last three words of the
original x>upe SaAoo-o-a <f}ikrI fall on the ear like a sigh, and those of the
translation do not.
    We may pass to the epitaph on Plato himself, of which, as of his
lines on Aster, we have a translation by no less a personage than
Shelley :—
                    Eagle ! why soarest thou above that tomb ?
                    To what sublime and star-y-paven home
                              Floatest thou ?
                    I am the image of swift Plato's spirit,
                    Ascending heaven : Athens does inherit
                              His corse below.
    The next I shall cite is by Callimachus, supremely translated by
the late Mr. Cory :—
           They told me, Heracleitus, they told me you were dead ;
            They brought me bitter news to hear and bitter tears to shed.
            I wept, as I remembered, how often you and I
            Had tired the sun with talking and sent him down the sky.
            And now that thou art lying, ray dear old Carian guest,
            A handful of grey ashes, long, long ago at rest,
            Still are thv pleasant voices, thy nightingales, awake.
           For death, he taketh all away, but them he cannot take.
    A very large number of the Greek epitaphs which have been pre
served deal, as might be expected, with the innumerable accidents
incident to a seafaring life. Here, for instance, is one :—
                    Ask not, Oh Sailor, what my name might bo,
                    But may Heaven >rraut to you a kinder Sea.

1899.]                           on Epitaphs.                           19
    The following is said to have been taken from the tomb of an
Athenian at Merde on the Upper Nile :—
                  Fear not in death far from thy home to be,
                  'Tia one—all one—Athens or Meroe.
                  Since from each country whatsoe'er its name
                  The wind that blows to Hades is the same.
     Although it is upon a city, and not upon an individual, I must not
pass by the epitaph on Corinth bo happily translated by Goldwin
Smith :—
                       Where Corinth, are thy glories now.
                       Thy ancient wealth, thy castled brow,
                       Thy solemn fanes, thy halls of state,
                       Thy high-bom dames, thy crowded gate ?
                       There's not a ruin left to tell
                       Where Corinth stood, how Corinth fell.
                       The Nereids of thy double sea
                       Alone remain to wail for thee.
     No one disapproves more strongly than I do of the monstrous
 loss of time involved in setting boys and young men, most of whom
 are absolutely destitute of the slightest poetical talent, to write Latin
 and Greek verses ; but every now and then this atrocious custom leads
 to the production of something of value, and I have always thought
 that the Greek epitaph on the Admirable Crichton, written by the late
 Mr. George Butler, elder brother of the Master of Trinity, and pub
 lished in the ' Anthologia Oxoniensis,' deserved a place amongst the
  beet inscriptions of a similar kind by the writers of Ancient Greece.
      I am addressing, no doubt, a good many people who know vastly
  more about Greek epigrams in general and Greek epitaphs in par
  ticular, than I can pretend to do. To those, however, who do not
  chance to have given attention to these subjects, and have a mind
  to do so, I should like to recommend an excellent chapter in the
  volume on the Greek Poets by the late Mr. Symonds, and the not
  less delightful book, by Mr. Mackail, published under the name of
  ' Select Epigrams from the Greek Anthology.' It is high time, how
  ever, to pass from what is, after all, only a section of my subject, and
  to turn from Greek to Latin.
      Although the language of Rome was destined to be pre-eminently
  that of epitaphs, and to supply the wants of the speakers of other
  tongues, in that behalf, for many generations, the earlier Latin
  epitaphs had no alliance with any of the muses save that of history.
  Gradually they became a little more copious, and we find such ex
  pressions as : " Eogo ut disoedens terrain mihi dicas levem "—" I ask
  thee as thou departest to pray that the earth may lie lightly upon
 me." The four most remarkable early Roman epitaphs, in verse,
 are, I think, well known, but I am not aware that any of them was
 ever inscribed upon a monument. They are those of Naevius,
 Pacuvius, Ennius and Plautus. The first three are said to have
                                                                o 2

20                     Right Eon. Sir M. E. Grant Duff                   [Jan. 27,
been written by the poets themselves, the fourth apparently not by
the great comedian but by an admirer : —
              Mortalis iramortalis flere si foret fas,
              Flereut divas Cnmoonru Nacvium poetam.
              Itaque postqunm est Orcino traditus thesauro
              Obhtei sunt Romae loquier Latina lingua.
              If it were fitting that immortals should weep for mortals,
              The Muses themselves would weep for Nsevius.
              For since he has gone to the Treasure House of Orcus
              Men have forgotten at Bome to speak the Latin tongue.
              Adolescetis, tamen etsi propebas. hoc te snxum rogat,
              Utui ad se aspicias : deinde quod scriptu'st legas :
              Hie sunt poetm Pacuvei Marcei sita
              Ossa, hoc volebam nescius ne cs.-e.-i, vale.
              Youth, albeit thou art in haste, this stone entreats thee
              To look upon it and to read the words with which it is inscribed :
              Here lie the bones of Marcus Pacuvius the poet,
              I wished thee to know this, and so farewell.               ,
    That of Ennius is finer, especially the two last lines :—
              Nemo me lacrumis decoret nec funera fletu
              Faxit, cur, volito vivu per ora virum.
              Let no one weep or raise funeral lamentations for me.
              Why ? Because still alive I flit from mouth to mouth of men.
    The fourth, that on Plautus, regrets that after hip. death Comely
mourns, the stage is deserted, while Laughter, Jest and Verse all weep
together.
              Postquam morte datu'st Plautus, comoedia luget ;
              Et  numeri
              Scena        innumeri
                      est deserta, dein
                                     simul
                                        Bisus, Ludu',
                                           omues        Jocusque !
                                                   cullacrumarunt.
    Goldwin Smith mentions a suggestion that the famous elegy of
Propertius upon Cornelia was intended to be inscribed upon her
tomb. I should much doubt this, but if it had been it certainly
would have been amongst the most remarkable epitaphs of tho world.
He has translated it very well in his ' Bay Leaves,' and there is another
version even more beautiful in a small volume of poems by the late
Sir Edmund Head. This last is indeed one of the best translations
or paraphrases in English of a Latin poem to be found anywhere.
     Morcelli cites two lines from another poem by Propertius which
is, in effect, an epitaph and a very graceful one.
              Hie Tiburtina jacet aurea Cynthia terra ;
              Acccssit ripae laui Aniens hue.
              Here in the soil of Tibur lies the golden Cynthia ;
              Anio 1 a new honour has been added to thy banks.
     The oldest Christian epitaphs in the Catacombs are of the greatest
simplicity, bearing no trace of the definite dogmatic beliefs which
were later imported into inscriptions of this kind. They are chiefly
brief outpourings of natural affection or such expressions of non

1899.]                             on Epitaphs.                                 21
dogmatic devotion as : "In Pace," or " Vivas in Deo," or '' Vivas in
pace et pete pro nobis " ; or in Greek, " Mayest thou live in the Lord,
and Pray for us."
      Dean Stanley, in his excellent ' Christian Institutions,' remarks—
" In a well-known work of Strauss, entitled ' The Old and New Belief,'
there is an elaborate attack on what the writer calls ' The Old Belief.'
Of the various articles of that 'Old Belief which he enumerates,
hardly one appears conspicuously in the Catacomb!1. Of the special
forms of belief which appear in the Catacombs, hardly one is men
tioned in the catalogue of doctrines so vehemently assailed in that
work."
     We may be permitted then to feel ourselves, if we so please, in
full communion with the Christians of at least the first two centuries
—with the " Church in Cascilia's House " as it is described in an ex-
jiuVite chapter of Mr. Pater's book, ' Marius the Epicurean,' and
nevertheless fully to admit that Strauss was a very great man. We may
igree, without receding from our position, that he did a notable piece
>f work for the world, although that work was diametrically opposite
n its tendency to the equally valuable work for England which began
it Oxford, just about the time when he first appeared upon the scene.
     I would almost venture to assert that more really fine epitaphs
lave been produced in Latin since it became the language only of the
.'hurch and of the learned than was the case while it was still the
angnage of the civilised Western World.
     Assuredly in modern times Latin has been constantly used as the
anguage of epitaphs with the most brilliant success in every part of
Europe, and in commemoration of the most diverse characters. I may
ite first the epitaph of St. Benedict and his sister Santa Scholastica
.t Monte Cassino.
               Benedictum et Scholnaticam
               Uno in terria partu editoa,
               Dn& in Deum pietate coelo redditos
               Unas hie excipit tumulus
               Mortalia depositi pro immortalitate custos !
               Benedict and Scholaatica
               Bom into this world at the game birth
               Restored to Heaven by the same piety towards God
               This same tomb receives
               The Guardian for immortality of a mortal deposit.
     Then we may take one from Southern Spain which has a certain
 Hnily resemblance to the last, though in honour of a very different
 ersonage—Gonzalez of Cordova, the Great Captain.
   Gonzali Fernandez de Cordova, qui propria virtute Magni Dacis nomen pro-
 rium bibi fecit, oesa perpetuas tandem luei restitnenda hniointerea loculo credits
 ant, gloria minime consepulta.
    The bones of Fernandez of Cordova, who by his valour won for himself the
 istinctive name of the Great Captain, bones to be one day restored to perpetual
 ight, are in the meantime entrusted to this little niche—his glory being by no
 leans buried with them.

23                   Right Eon. Sir M. E. Grant Duff                 [Jan. 27,
    Excellent is the epitaph on Trivulzio, Goneral of Francis I., and,
for that matter, of many other lords :—
       Johannes Trivulzius, qui nunquam quievit, hie quiescit. Tace.
       Johannes Trivulzius, who never rested, rests here. Be silent.
    Hardly less good is the epitaph on Mercy :—
                    Sta viator heroem calcas.
                    Stop, traveller, thou treadest on a hero.
    The modern Florentines missed their mark, by altogether over
shooting it, when they put on the tomb of Machiavelli,
                  Tanto nomini nullum par elogium.
                  No eulogiuin is sufficient for so great a name.
    But the epitaph, if better deserved, would have been a grand one.
    Admirable is the epitaph on Sheffield, Duke of the County of
Buckingham, written by himself, and to be found in Westminster Abbey.
The stone originally bore twoadditional words " Christum adveneror,"
but the foolish bigotry of Atterbury suppressed them.
                 Dubius sed non improbus vixi ;
                 Incertus morior, non perturbatus.
                 Humanum est nescire et errabe.
                                              Deo conndo
                 Omnipotenti benevolentissimo :
                 Ens cntium, miserere mei.
                 I lived a doubtful but not an evil life ;
                 I die uncertain, but not dismayed.
                 It is the lot of man to be ignorant and to err.
                 I trust in God the Omnipotent, the moat Benevolent.
                 Being of Beings, have mercy upon me.
    Tho magnificent epitaph on Colin Maclaurin, Professor of Mathe
matics in Edinburgh, can be read at length in Boswell's ' Johnson.'
It was placed on the tomb by his son, not, as he says, to provide for his
father's fame, for it wants no such assistance, but in order that in this
unhappy field where fear and sorrow reign, mortals should not be left
absolutely without consolation, for turn over his writings and be sure
that a mind capable of such things must outlast the perishable
body :—
                    Non ut nomini paterno consulat,
                           Nam tali auxilio nil eget ;
                           Sed ut in hoc infelici campo,
                           Ubi luctus regnant et pavor,
                    Mortalibus prorsus non absit solatium.
                      Hujus enim scripta evolve,
                    Mentemque tantarum rerum capacera,
                      Corpori caduco superatitem crede.

  1899.]                               on Epitaphs.                              23
      The same modesty led Buffon's son to describe himself on his
  monument to his father as the hnmble column of a lofty tower:
  " ExoelssB turris humilis columna."
       So graceful a turn of phrase ought by itself to have prevented his
  having been described as " le plus mauvais chapitre de l'histoire
 naturelie de son pere ! "
       One of the most delightful of all epitaphs, to my thinking, is in a
  place very familiar to me, the grey City of Aberdeen, but I learnt it
  tirst from Pennant, who, in his tour last century, was fortunate enough
 to observe it.
                            Si fides, Si humanitas
                            Multoque gbatua lepore candor
                            Si suorum amor amicorum caritus
                            Omniamque beuevolentia
                            Spiritum reducere possent
                            Non hie situs esset
                            Johannes Burnet a Elrick.
      If fidelity, if humanity and candour, made pleasant by an abundance of wit,
 if the love of his kindred, the affectionate regard of his friends, and the kindly
 feeling of all could bring back the breath—John Burnet of Elrick would not lie
 here.
       There are two good epitaphs on dogs by Lord Grenville in the
 ' Anthologia Oxoniensis '—one of them extremely beautiful. Its last
 two lines are :—
                         Jamque vale I Elysii snbco loca laeta piorum
                         Quae dat Persephone manibus esse canum.
     And now ! Farewell. I depart to those happy seats of the good which
 Persephone reserves for the manes of dogs.
      I may refer those who would like to see a reasoned defonce of the
dog's view of his future, to a very remarkable passage in a most in
teresting book, the late Mr. Greg's ' Enigmas of Life.'
      One of the most happily conceived of epitaphs is the line of Ovid
inscribed over the gate of the cemetery at Richmond, where so many
of those who fell on the southern side in the American Civil War are
buried :—
         Qui bene pro patria cum patriaque jacent.
         Those who lie here in honour having died for and with their country.
      They were more fortunate than the noble of the Eastern Empire,
who died shortly before the capture of Constantinople by the Turks,
and whose epitaph is thus translated by Bland. I do not know the
original.
                    Oh thou who sleep'st in brazen slumber, tell,
                    —(Thy high descent and noble name full well
                    I know—Byzantium claims ttiy birth—) but say !
                    " A death, unworthy of my high estate—
                    This thought is keener than the stroke of fate,
                    I bled not in the ranks of those who fell
                    For glorious, falling Greece—no more—Farewell ! "

24                 Right Hon. Sir M. E. Grant Duff                   [Jan. 27,
    An epitaph was repeated to mo once by the late Mr. Charles
Pearson, the author of ' National Life and Character,' as having been
placod or proposed to be placed on the tomb of one who was like
himself a Fellow of Oriel, Mr. Charles Marriott, so well known in
connection with the earlier part of the Oxford Movement. It soomed
to mo very striking in spite of its peculiar Latinity : —
                          Exutus morte
                          Hio licet in oooiduo cinere
                          Aepicit eum
                          Cujus nomen est Oriens.
                       Freed from death
                       Tho' in ashes that vanish away,
                       He looketh upon him
                       Whose name is " the Rising."
    Very beautiful and very characteristic of the man at his best, is
the epitaph which Newman composed for himself :—
                   Ex umbria et imaginibns in veritatem.
                   Out of shadows and images into the Truth.
    Dr. Johnson, as is well known, had the most rooted objection to
English epitaphs, and insisted, in spite of the respectful remonstrances
of a most distinguished group of friends, in writing the epitaph upon
Goldsmith in Latin. His obstinacy in a bad cause had, however, the
incidental effect of giving us the happy phrase which many suppose
to havo come down from classical antiquity :—
                   Nihil tetigit quod non ornavit.
                   Ho touched nothing which he did not adorn.
    To another writer of the last century, to Shenstone, we owe the
equally famous words which formed part of the epitaph of a young
lady :—
                             O quanto minus est
                             Cum aliis versari
                             Quain tui meminisse.
        O how much less it is to live with others than to remember thee.
    Again, however, tho clock warns me to pass to another branch of
my subject, but before doing so I should like to say that I wish
some one who had eyes, leisure and enthusiasm would go through
Mommsen's inscriptions and the far less gigantic but still huge work
of Morcelli, and Murray's handbooks (which have swept into their
 pages so much that is interesting and that cannot easily be found
elsewhere), with a view to giving us a small volume containing only
 the most beautiful Latin epitaphs.
    We may turn now to our own language. The last Lord de Tabley,
 one of the most accomplished of men, used to remark on the extra
ordinary difficulty of writing an epitaph in English about a common
place life," like those touching ones of commonplace life which, as he
said, draw one's very heart out in Latin in the first few centuries."

1899.]                           on Epitaphs.                                25
There are many volumes containing hundreds of epitaphs which seem
     Yet been
to have        collected
         English,   when chiefly
                           the lifetoyou
                                      prove
                                          have      deal with isofnot
                                              thetocorrectness          remark.
                                                                   thiscommon
place, is far from being a bad language for epitaphs either in prose or
rerse. I am indeed not at all sure that there is any poetical epitaph
n any language superior to that wonderful " amende honorable " of
tfacanlay's, the Epitaph on a Jacobite :—
             To my true kins; I offered, free from stain,
             Courage and faith—vain faith and courage vain.
             For him I threw lands, honours, wealth away,
             And one dear hope that was more prized than they ;
             For him I languished in a foreign clime.
             Grey-haired with sorrow in my manhood's prime ;
             Heard in Lavemia Scargill's whispering trees,
             And pined by Arno for my lovelier Tees ;
             Beheld each night my home, in fevered sleep,
             Each morning started from that dream to weep,
             Till God, who saw me tried too sorely, gave
             The resting-place I asked—an early grave.
             O thou whom chance leads to this nameless stone,
             From that proud country which was once mine own,
             By those white cliffs I never more must see,
             By that dear language which I spake like thee :
             Forget all feuds, and shed one English tear
             O'er English dust—a broken heart lies here.
    Some of the best of English epitaphs are so well known, as not to
e worth quoting : such, for instance, as Shakespeare's, said to have
een written by himself, and much in the spirit of that of King
tshmanezer, already mentioned, which assuredly he never saw ; or
Elton's upon his great predecessor ; or Pope's upon Sir Isaac Newton ;
r, far superior to all of them put together, the lines usually attributed
> Ben Jonson, but probably written by William Browne, lines which
  is impossible to avoid repeating whenever one thinks of them:—
                      Underneath this marble hearse
                      Lies the subject of all verse,
                      Sydney's sister, Pembroke's mother.
                      Death t ere thou hast slain another
                      Fair and learned and good as she
                      Time shall throw a dart at thee.
    One of the finest of English epitaphs is undoubtedly the famous
ne at Melrose, which is rarely quite correctly quoted, but of which
le correct version runs as follows. Correct, I say, for I copied it from
le stone :—
                           The Earth goes on the Earth,
                              Glist'ning like Gold,
                           The Earth goes to the Earth
                              Sooner than it wold ;
                           The Earth builds on the Earth
                              Castles and towers;
                              AllEarth
                            The         be ours.
                                  shall says to the Earth

26                  Right Hon. Sir M. E. Grant Duff                [Jan. 27,
    There is an exceedingly beautiful Greek version of this in tho
1 Anthologia Oxoniensis ' from the pen of Mr. James Riddell, the same
who is described in Principal Shairp's far too-litttle-known poem on
"Tho Balliol Scholars from 1840 to 1843," which contains such
admirable sketches of Clough, Matthew Arnold and Coleridge.
    This noble epitaph, or variants of it, are found in several places,
but, so far as I know, its original author has not been discovered. He
was surely no mean poet.
    Herrick's epitaph is characteristically graceful :—
               Weep for the dead, for they have lost this light,
               And weep for mc, lost in an endless night,
               Or mourn, or make a marble verso for me
               Who writ for many, Benedicite.
    On Shelley's grave in the new Protestant cemetery near the pyramid
of Gains Cestius at Rome, Trelawney put the lines from Shake
speare :—
                        Nothing of him that doth fade
                        But doth suffer a sea-change
                        Into something rich and strange.
    On his monument at Christchurch, in Hampshire, they have very
appropriately put his own lines :—
                 He hath outaoarM the shadow of our night ;
                   Envy and calumny, and hate and pain,
                 And that unrest which men miscall delight,
                   Cun touch him not, and torture not again,
                   From the contagion of the world's slow stain
                 He is secure, and now can never mourn
                   A heart grown cold, a head grown grey in vain ;
                 Nor, when tho spirit's self has ceased to bum
                 Witii sparkless ashes load an unlumentod urn.
    On the monument of the Wesleys in Westminster Abbey, Dean
Stanley placed not less appropriately the words " God buries his
workmen but carries on his work."
    Excellent too is a sort of general epitaph which he hung up in
the Great Abbey :—
                      Here's an acre sown indeed,
                      With the richest royallest seed,
                      Which the earth did e'er suck in,
                      Since the first man died for sin.
    Very good is the epitaph by Lord Houghton, in the same place,
upon Charles Buller :—
               Here, amidst the memorials of maturer greatness
               This tribute of private affection and public honour
               Records the talents, virtues, and early death of
               The Right Honourable Charles Buller;
               Who, as an independent Member of Parliament
               And iu tho discharge of important offices of State,

 1899.]                          on Epitaphs.                         27
           United the deepest human sympathies,
         With wide and philosophies views of government and mankind,
           And pursued the noblest political and social objects,
           Above party spirit and without an enemy.
        His character was distinguished by sincerity and resolution.
           His mind by vivacity and clearness of comprehension ;
           While the vigour of expression and singular wit,
         That made him eminent in debate and delightful in society,
           Were tempered by a most gentle and generous disposition,
           Earnest in friendship and benevolent to all.
           The British Colonies will not forget the statesman
           Who so well appreciated their desires and their destinies,
             And his country, recalling what he was, deplores
             The vanished hope of all he might have become.
           He was born August 1806. He died November 29, 1848.
    I think that this is far the best long epitaph in the Abbey. Dean
Stanley said to me, with much truth, that there were very few good
ones there, either long or short.
    Two of the best English epitaphs which I have come across,
written in our times, are from the hand of the Archbishop of Armagh.
The first, which is in Derry Cathedral, is good throughout, and con
tains two specially good lines :—
                  'Twas but one step for those victorious feet
                  From their days' walk into the golden Street.
    Excellent, too, is the other on a lady of the Nathalie Narischkin
type:—
                  Proudly as men heroic ashes claim
                  We asked to have thy fever-stricken frame
                  And lay it in our grass beside our foam
                  Till Christ the Healer call his Healers home.
    An epitaph on Lord Hugh Seymour and his wife, quoted by
Pettigrew (whose collection of English epitaphs, though containing
many hundreds of no value, is much the best I have seen), is little
known and worth quoting. He died on the Jamaica Station ; she in
England, but they were buried together :—
                       Parted once—the fair and brave,
                       Meet again—but in their grave.
                       She, was Nature's brightest flower,
                       Struck before its drooping hour :—
                       He, was Britain's Naval pride ;
                       Young—but old in fame, he died.
                       Love, but with a Patriot's tear
                       Mourns, and consecrates them here.
    On the same page, and by the same author, is to be found a long
but rather feeble epitaph on Lord Cornwallis. It would have been
better to have placed on his monument the very striking paragraph
by Sir James Mackintosh.
    " He expired at Gazeepore, in the province of Benares, on tho 5th

28                    Right Hon. Sir M. E. Grant Duff               [Jan. 27,
of October, 1805, supported by the remembrance of his virtue, and
by the sentiments of piety which had actuated his whole life. His
remains are interred on the spot where he died, on the banks of that
famous river, which washes no country not either blessed by his
Government, or visited by his renown ; and in the heart of that
province so long the chosen scat of religion and learning in India,
which under the influence of his beneficial system, and under the
administration of good men whom he had chosen, had risen from a
state of decline and confusion to one of prosperity probably unrivalled
in the happiest times of its ancient princes. His body is buried in
peace, and his name liveth for evermore."
    When I was passing through Bombay in the autumn of 1874 an
epitaph was repeated to me which I thought extremely good. It
was on Major D'Oyley, an artillery officer who died in the Mutiny,
and ran as follows :—
        Here lies the body of Major D'Oyley of The Bengal Artillery
         Whose last wish : " When I am dead, put
         A stone over me and write upon it that
         I died bighting my guns," is thus fulfilled.
    Later the exact words were sent to me, but they were not quite so
few nor so good.
    Over Campbell in Westminster Abbey they put—they could not
have done otherwise, his own fine lines :—
                       This spirit shall return to Him
                         Who gave its heavenly spark ;
                       Yet, think not, sun, it shall be dim
                         When thou thyself art dark !
                       No ! it shall live again and shine
                         In bliss unknown to beams of thine,
                       By Him recall'd to breath,
                         Who captive led captivity,
                       Who robb'd the grave of victory
                         And took the sting from death.
    Not less happily inspired were those who wrote on tho tomb of
Mrs. Hemans in St. Ann's, Dublin.
                     Calm in the bosom of thy God,
                       Fair spirit rest thee now ;
                     E'en while with us thy footsteps trod,
                       His seal was on thy brow.
                     Dust to its narrow house beneath,
                       Sonl to its place on high !
                     They that have seen thy look in death,
                       No more may fear to die.
    They might have added the lines in which Wordsworth described
the poetess who, somewhat overrated in her own time, has been quite
absurdly underrated in ours, but who will probably have a return of
fame when people get tired of the clotted nonsense or the harmonious

199.]                        on Epitaphs.                               29
 : is without any thought at all, which at present divide into two
ually deluded schools of poetry a large section of our contem-
 raries :—
                  Mourn rather for that holy Spirit
                  For Her
                  Sweet     the Spring,
                         as who,           Ocean deep
                                 ere herasSummer   faded,;
                  Has sunk into a breathless sleep.
  Mrs. Hemans was only forty when she died.
  Among English epitaphs expressing nothing but tender domestic
 ling, one of the best I have met with is in St. Giles's, Cripplegate,
 memory of a young lady belonging to the Lucy family. I will
t quote it because by not doing so, I may conceivably lead some one
 my audience to visit that most interesting church in which Cromwell
s married and Milton buried.
  There is a very pretty epitaph, a little too long to quote, in
  a child of
epperton      Mr. Peacock,
           churchyard,    whichof has
                                   Crochet
                                       been Castle    celebrity—a
                                              published            man of
                                                           by Dr. Garnett,
,ny and strangely diverse gifts, novelist and naval constructor,
iminer of correspondence at the India Office and operatic critic,
st in the most approved manner of the later eighteenth century,
1 in the most approved manner of the earlier nineteenth century—
aally successful in such compositions as hi3 very beautiful ' Love
& Age,' and in describing a whitebait dinner at Blackwall in
imeric Greek. I remember his once presenting me with such a
rious tour-de-force.
  Very striking, and in the highest degree characteristic, is the
 taph to be read at Mentone on the grave of Mr. Green the his-
i&n :—
                            He died learning.
  It carries one's thoughts to the admirable motto cited, amongst
 ny not less good, by a man who, whatever we may think of his
 itical activity, certainly lived up to it— the Prussian General
dowitz :—
                   Disce nt semper victurus
                   Vive nt eras moriturus.
                   Learn as if you were to live for ever,
                   Live us if you were to die to-morrow.
  One of the best epitaphs of the perfectly simple kind which I
 r chanced to light upon is, or was a generation ago, in a church-
'd adjoining the ruined church of Gamrie in the extreme north-east
Scotland. It was on one of those large slabs which were once much
  cted by the wealthier peasantry in that district and consisted of
iply two lines. At the top of the stone were the words :—
 d at the bottom :— The night is far spent,
                         The day is at hand.

so                    Righi Eon. Sir M. E. Grant Duff                [Jan. 27,
     Highly characteristic of a quite different frame of mind from that
which inscribed the stone I have mentioned, was another, placed
over some rough-handed, but faithful vassal, which was repeated to
me many years ago :—
                                I11 to his freen
                                Waur to his foe
                                True to his Hacker *
                                In weal or in woe.
     To the Jews we owe at least one epitaph, the " In Pace " of the
Catacombs already alluded to, which was obviously suggested by the
word Shallum " or " Peace," which seems to have been frequently
placed on the graves of the early Jewish settlers in Rome. I do not
know whether there are many remarkable modern ones. I have only
chanced to meet with one. This was inscribed in memory of a man
whom many I am addressing must have known, Mr. Deutsch of the
British Museum. It seems to me extremoly fine :—
    " Here is entombed the well-beloved whose heart was burning with good
things, and whose pen was the pen of a ready writer. Menahem, Son of Abraham
Deutfch, whom the Lord preserve ! He was born at Neisse on the 1st Mashesh-
wan 5590 A.M., and departed from this world in Alexandria on Monday the 9th
Iyar in the year ' Arise, shine, for thy light is come.' May his soul be bound
up in the bond of life."
     Punning epitaphs, so common in English churchyards, are usually
beneath contempt, but one is very nearly good—that proposed by
Douglas Jerrold for the publisher Charles Enight—" Good Night."
     An epitaph on a dog by the first Lord Lytton, may be remembered
with Lord Grenville's, and with a very beautiful Greek one quoted
in Mr. Mackail's book already mentioned :—
                           Alas, poor Benu,
                           Died February 28th, 1852.
                                It is but to a dog
                                That this stone is inscribed
                         Yet what now remains
                         In the House of thy Fathers,
                         Oh ! solitary Master,
                         Which will sigh for thy departure,
                         Or rejoice at thy return ?
     Some other rather striking English epitaphs, hardly, however ,
striking enough to quote, may be read in Pettigrew, such as that on the
great musician Purcell in Westminster Abbey, or one on Atterbury
by Pope in the form of a conversation between the Bishop and his
daughter, who died suddenly in the arms of her father, whom she had
gone to visit in his exile.
     I might add those on Prior and Gay, which are, however, familiar
to every one.
                                 * i.e. his feudal lord.

1899.]                              on Epitaphs.                          31
    I have only time to cite two or three striking French epitaphs.
One of these reached me from Rhodes and belongs to the twelfth
century :—
                     Ci-git tres-haut et tres-pnissant Seigneur
                     Baudoin de Flundre, Cumte de Courtenay.
                      J'ai aimc, j'ai peché, j'ai souffert.
                      Ayez pitie de moi, 6 mon Dieu.
     " Does n't it," said the gifted friend who found and who sent it to
me, " resTime all the anguish of mankind ? "
     The following was written for himself by the first husband of
 Madame de Maintenon :—
                         Passants, ne faites pas de bruit,
                         De crainte que je ne m'eveille
                         Car voila la premiere nuit
                         Que le pauvre Scarron sommeille.
     Another of which I am fond is :—
                                Seule a mon Aurore
                                Seule a mon couohant
                                Je suis seule encore ici.
     It may be remembered with the enigmatic ' Miserrimus ' of Wor
cester Cathedral.
     Every one knows the epitaph which Piron, disgusted at his exclu
sion from the Academic Francaise, wrote for his own monument :—
                         Ci-git Piron qui ne fut rien
                         Pas meme Académioien.
 But not so many have met with the incomparably superior epitaph
 which he suggested for the Marshal de Belleisle when that commander,
 taking a far too favourable view of his own merits, desired to
 he buried close to Turenne :—
                         Ci-git le glorieux a coté de la gloire I
     I must spare five minutes for one or two German epitaphs. I re
member having been particularly struck with one in the military
Friedhof at Berlin. Over the entrance of a tomb, which when I saw
it forty-five years ago looked appropriately forlorn, were the simple
words :—
     Here is extinguished the old line of the House of Arnim Frederwalde.
     Hier erliscbt die aJte Linie des Hauses Arnim Frederwalde.
    On the tomb of the great Alexander von Humboldt, they havo
placed an inscription to the effect that as he had learnt and compre
hended all that is to be seen in our upper air he had descended also
into the night to continue his researches :—
         Da er alles umfasst nnd erkannt was in Licht sich bcwegt hier,
         Stieg er nun auch in die Nacht weiter zn forschen hinab.

32                    Right Hon. Sir M. E. Grant Duff                [Jan. 27,
    Very different in character but extremely beautiful in its simpli
city is one which was found by Mr. Hughes, an English clergyman
and yachtsman, in the Aland Isles and reproduced in a book which he
published under the title of ' The Log of the Pet.' The epitaph pro
per consisted of seven words only :—
                  Gott sei dir gnadig, O meine Wonne.
                  God be gracious to thee, oh my delight !
but under it were some verses which if they are as good in the ori
ginal as they are in Mr. Hughes' translation, must be well worth
recovering :—
                  Bright, bright was the soft and tender light
                            Of her eye,
                       And her smile's vanesccnt play
                       Like some truant sunbeam's ray,
                            Flitting by.
                  Clear, clear and passing sweet to hear
                            Was the sound
                     When her laugh's light melody
                     With quiet sparkling glee,
                               Rang around.
                  Fleet, fleet and oh ! too deadly sweet
                            Sped the hour,
                     When those locks I loved to twine,
                     Flowed interlaced with mine
                             In her bower.
                  Fold, fold her tenderly around
                            Thou tomb!
                  Cold, cold lies the dank and sodden ground
                            In the gloom.
                  Roll, roll thy deep and solemn swell
                            Thou wave 1
                  Toll, toll thy sad and endless knell      ,
                            O'er her grave.
    Admirably good was the epitaph by Ferdinand Gregorovius upon
a German historian who died in Home :—
                       Hier ruht der Geschichtschreiber,
                       Im Staube der Geschichte.
               Here rests the Historian amid the dust of History.
     Longfellow's charming ' Hyperion ' has introduced to innumerable
English and Americana the striking epitaph at St. Gilgen :—
   Look not mournfully into the Past ; it comes not back again. Wisely improve
the present. It is thine. Go forth to meet the shadowy future. Without fear
and with a manly heart.
             Blicke nicht traurend auf die Vergangenheit,
             Sie kommt nicht wieder : niitze weise die Gegenwnrt ;
             Sie ist dein : der luftigen Zukunft
             Geh' olme Furcht mit mannlicher Sinne enlgegen.

 1899.]                          on Epitaphs.                          33
     It would be hard to beat an epitaph in the great cemetery at
Delhi, belonging to a religion which wc do not generally associate
with the gentler virtues :—
                    Let no rich marble cover my grave
                    This grass is sufficient covering
                    For the tomb of the poor in spiritl
                    The humble, the transitory Jehanara
                    The disciple of the holy men of Cheest
                    The daughter of the Emperor Shah Jehan.
    Many of my hearers will remember that the Emperor Shah Jehan
was the builder of the Taj, beyond all comparison the most beautiful
monument ever raised by the hand of the architect in memory of the
departed. The thought of it takes me to Boury in Normandy, where
most of those lie interred whose lives formed the subject of the ' Recit
d'une Soenr,' the only literary monument to those who have passed
away which quite deserves to rank with the marvellous creation of the
Mogul. The epitaphs on those graves are not particularly striking,
mostly texts from the Vulgate. Over all of them stands up the great
marble crofts, erected by Princess Lapoukyn, who, strange to say, sur
vived her daughter by about a quarter of a century. It bears the
inscription :—
                        Jenseits ist meine Hofihung.
    I do not know what epitaph they have put in Paris over the
grave of Ernest Renan, but they certainly could not have put a more
appropriat.e one than that which he suggested for himself in the noble
passage ixi which he expressed the wish that he could be buried in
the cloisters of the Cathedral of Treguier : —
                               Veritatem dilexi.
    I wonder whether before the year 2000 the Great Church will have
come to the conclusion that he was not so far wrong when he said,
" that his criticism had done more to support religion than all the
Apologists." If such ideas are dreams, they are at least agreeable
ones.
    I see, however, that the sands of my hour are nearly run out, and
I will conclude with two epitaphs, the one concentrating the deepest
religions feeling, the other expressing the most legitimate pride in
unequalled earthly achievement.
    Chiabrera, after publishing many volumes of poems, summed up
the experience of his long life, for he lived I think to over eighty, in
his epitaph, still to be read in S. Giacomo at Savona. This was the
epitaph which so much struck Frederick Faber, who saw in it, I
apprehend, a prophecy of his own later years, for when he determined
to devote himself to the Church, Wordsworth wrote to him : " I cannot
say that you are wrong, but England loses a poet." It runs as
follows :—
     Vol. XVI. (No. 93.)                                       d

34          Rt. Hon. Sir M. E. Grant Duff on Epitaphs.       [Jan. 27,
                    Amioo, io vivemlo cercava conforto
                    Nel Monte Parnaso ;
                    Tn meglio consigliato, cercalo
                    Nel Calvario.
                    Friend, I when living sought for comfort
                    On Mount Parnassus ;
                    Do you, better counselled, seek for it
                    On Calvary.
    The other is in Spanish, the grand words on the tomb of tho sou
of Columbus in the Cathedral of Seville :—
                    A Castilla y a Leon
                    Mundo nuevo did Colon !
                    To Castile and to Leon
                    Columbus gave a new world !

1899.]            Mr. Victor Horsley on Roman Defences.                 35
                   WEEKLY         February 3,MEETING,
                         Friday,EVENING       1899.
 Sb Henby Thompson, Babt., F.K.C.S. F.R.A.S., Vice-President,
                                in the Cbair.
      Victob Hoesley, Esq., M.B. B.S. F.R.S. F.R.C.S. M.R.I.
                 Soman Defences of South-East Britain.
It is stated, on the authority of Dickens, that at Dr. Blimber's
academy for young gentlemen, which was an establishment upon
the south coast, where, as Mrs. Pipchin said, " there was nothing
but learning going on from morning to night," the Doctor, at the
end of dinner, " Having taken a glass of port and hemmed twice or
thrice, said : ' It is remarkable, Mr. Feeder, that the Romaas— ' At
the mention of this terrible people, their implacable enemies, every
young gentleman fastened his gaze upon the Doctor with an assump
tion of the deepest interest." It is of these terrible people that I
desire to speak to you to-night, and especially with reference to their
defences—the Roman camps on the south-east coast of Britain—
 against the continual piratical attacks of their implacable enemies, the
 Scandinavian and Germanic tribes living on the shores of the North
 Sea. The number of these sea-coast camps is considerable, and pos
 sesses not only an archaeological interest, but is a practical example of
 general political science ; and owing to their being naval headquarters,
 they are actually illustrative of the present position of Continental
 politics so far as they affect this country. For to use what is perhaps
 now a hackneyed phrase, the interest of these camps lies in the
 tenure of sea power and the command of the English Channel, as I
 hope to show later in discussing the historical aspect of the subject.
     As regards the occupation of Britain by the .Romans, it is now of
 course well understood that Caesar's invasions had no lasting effects—
 that in fact his two expeditions were little more than reconnaissances
in force. The permanent occupation of Britain was only effected by
Agricola, the able general of the Emperor Claudius, and his campaign
was fortunately recorded for us by his son-in-law Tacitus. There
is nothing to show that at that time the Scandinavian and North
German tribes who ultimately invaded England were causing any
appreciable trouble to the Romans, who had command of the sea, and
who had conquered the Continental coast as far as Friesland.
     During the campaigns of Hadrian and Severus, walled towns had
been constructed all over the country ; but about 230 A.D. it became
necessary to re-organise the defence of the south-eastern coast against
the aggression of the Baltic tribes, and this the authorities proceeded
to effect by enlarging and reconstructing the wallod defences of the

 36                         Mr. Victor Horsley                 [Feb. 3,
 camps and towns of the south-eastern third of England. At this date
 (about 230 a.d.) our present subject therefore practically commences,
 and only finishes with the exodus of the Roman garrison in the year
 404 A.D., in the time of the Emperor Honorius.
     We shall see how during this period of about 200 years, which
 corresponds to the second half of the Soman occupation of Great
 Britain, the fate of the kingdom entirely depended upon him who
 held the command of the sea.
     There is no doubt from evidence which I have not time to lay
 before you, but which is quite conclusive in several of the instances,
 that each of the great walled camps that I am about to describe to
 you had as a precursor a Roman station of smaller dimensions. This
 is an entirely historical fact, and it is also reasonable that those
 towns on the coast which afforded the best harbours for the navigation
 of that period, of necessity became the chief channels of trade, and
 being consequently the chief centres for the mercantile population,
 called for an expansion of their boundaries and re-fortification.
     The outlines of the plan of the existing camps is worth noting,
 being for the most part square, but the conformation was occasionally
 altered to suit the ground. This is well shown at Lympne and Pevensey,
 and is indicated in the very early drawings which accompany the
 well-known texts of the Roman land surveyor Hyginus, which I here
 reproduce.
     Further, the masonry points to the present camps having been
 built in the third century, and it is of course certain that none of
the original stationary camps (caslra stativa) were built before the
 end of the first century, because there was no occupation of the
country worthy of the name until the first campaign of the Emperor
 Claudius.
     The earliest thorough establishment of Roman walled fortifications
in Britain, like so much of the organisation of the Roman Empire, was
 accomplished by the Emperor Hadrian about the year 120 a.d. It is,
by the way, universally agreed that it is to Hadrian we are indebted
for muoh of the construction of the great Northumbrian wall.
     The fortification of the sites of our south-eastern camps at this
time was evidently effected by the sailors or marines of the British
squadron of the Roman Navy, for the tiles of the walls at Dover, of
the original walls at Lympne and at Boulogne and Staples are
marked with the stamp C L B R, which stands for either Classis
Britannica or Classiarii Britannici : the former of course indicating
the Fleet, the latter the men who manned it, but the first is doubtless
the right reading, and harmonises with the military title in which
the inscription is always of the legion itself, and not of the men
composing it.
     This question of the foundation of the camps has a special in
terest to me, because, like Mr. Roach Smith, I found in the area of
the castrum, at Lympne, yellow tiles marked C L B R, but the tiles
in the wall are red, or even darkly burnt, and are not stamped at
all. Further, in tho foundation of the chief gate an altar, erected

  1899.]          on Roman Defences of South- East Britain.            37
  by an Admiral of the name of Aufidius Fantera, was found built in,
  and, as can also be seen in the examination of the original at the
  British Museum, it is marked with barnacles, having been clearly
  at one time under the sea, the suggestion being that the original
  camp ( ? Hadrian's) was overwhelmed by an incursion of the sea over
  Romney level.
      All this points to the fact, that the original station—at any rate,
  as far as Lemanus was concerned—was destroyed early in the Soman
 occupation of Kent, and that the present existing castrum was built
 later, when it became necessary, in the third century, to provide a
 series of forts to protect the coast from the Saxons. During the
 course of some excavations I carried out in 1893 at the Portus
 Lemanus, I obtained new confirmation of this fact and of the rela
 tively late foundation of the present castrum. This consisted in the
 evidence of the coins discovered. I found in the concrete-boulder
foundation of the south wall of Lympne a coin of Maximinus, who
flourished 237 aj>. This was the earliest coin I discovered, and the
only one actually in intimate relation with the foundation. Situated,
as it were, in chronological order, I found at the foot of the wall, on
the inner side, a Gaulish coin of Tetricus the elder, of a date about
260, and finally in the black soil of the camp, i.e. in the most recent
and superficial layers, numerous coins of the Constantino family were
brought to light. Thus we have a distinct series of dates which
harmonise entirely with the previous conclusion.
      The state of things at the opening of our story was as follows :—
Walled towns or camps were established by the Roman Imperial
Government holding the sea at the following places along the coast,
beginning with the harbour creeks of Southampton, and following the
line of Sussex, Kent, Essex, Suffolk and Norfolk, round to the Wash.
     Of these originally, Richborough was the chief, but on the French
coast Gessoriacum, which, just at the period under discussion, was
rechristened Bononia, and is now called Boulogne, was, together with
the Sambrican port (probably the modern Etaples), the headquarters
of the fleet, according to M. Vaillant, our guide in the localisation
of the squadrons of the Roman fleet The following is a resume of
the fortifications :—
          Clausentum                    . Bittern-Southampton.
          Portus Magnus                 . Portchester.
                                        . Rowlands Castle-Stanstoad.
          Regnum .                      . Chichester.
          Portus Adurni .                      ?
          Anderida .                    . Pevensey.
             ?       ...                   Newenden.
          Portna Lemanus (Portus No- ua) Lympne.
          Dubris                         . Dover
          Rutapis                        . Richborough.
          Regulbium                      . Reculver.
          Othona                         . (Ithan) Chester.
          Camulodunum .                 . Colchester.
          (Jarriononura                 . Burgh Cnstle (Yarmouth).
          Brunadunum                       Brancaster.

38                         Mr. Victor Eoraley                     [Feb. 3,
    We must now consider the fleet which occupied these fortified
harbours. The British squadron was probably established by the
Emperor Claudius, and was mentioned definitely in the year 70
expedition. We know that it formed part of Agricola's expedition,
and at that time made a circular tour of the British Isles, in the
year 83. It is not mentioned again until towards the end of tho
third century. The British fleet, however, does not actually appear
prominently in history until it was re-organised by Caurausius, to
wards the end of the third century.
    Squadrons of the Roman Navy and their Stations : —
    C'lassis Aegeutensium.
        „ Anderetianorum.
        „ Britannica       .... Boulogne and South-Eiist
                                                Coast of Britain.
        „ Samarica ..... Mouths of Somme.
        „ Gcrmanica        .... Frieslnnd Coast.
        „ Moonica ..... Danubian Mouths.
        „ Pannonica ..... North Adriatic.
    When the Roman document, the ' notitia dignitatorum ' was com
piled, which is the Whitaker of the Roman Empire towards the end
of the fourth century, it shows that during that century a further
re-organisation of the fleet had occurred, and that it was divided into
squadrons which, for the most part, consisted of what we should
now call coast-defence vessels, and these were stationed in the great
estuaries evidently to stop the special methods of attack adopted by
the Vikings and the Baltic tribes, who penetrated the country, especi
ally the North of France, by ascending the rivers.
    The fleet was officered just as ours is with admirals, or, as they
were called, prefects, and captains of the triremic battleships, who
were called trierarchs. Of these officers, the Museum at Boulogne
contains several epigraphs. The admirals seem to have been of much
the same status as the admirals of our seventeenth century Common
wealth, for they were military as well as naval officers, and the whole
force was under the command of an officer called the Comes or
Count of the Saxon shore, whose head-quarters wero at Boulogne or
Bononia.
    Each of the walled castra stands at the head of a harbour creek.
They are most of them of a quadrilateral figure, two being an excep
tion, viz. Anderida and Lemanus, in which instances the outline of
the camp was traced so as to accommodate itself to the contour of the
ground. Their foundation and general details of structure are re
markably alike in each case, and these we will now consider.
    Structure.—These walled towns were almost all built close to the
water, and in one case at least (Porchester) the sea washes the wall.
The foundations were dug deeply, and were composed of solid concrete
made of flints and cement, upon which, at the level of the ground, was
laid the first set of masonry, consisting, as a rule, of a course of large,
 rough, flattened stones. On these were erectod concrete walls, faced

 1899.]         on Roman Defences of South-East Britain.                 39
with square stones, and containing bonding courses of tiles. In the
best built camps, e.g. Richborough, these bonding courses occurred at
frequent intervals—e.g. in a wall 30 feet high there would be fuur or
five, in the others there would be fewer. The tops of the walls all
terminated in the same way, yiz. by a flat platform and a crenellated
parapet.
     The facing stones are smaller as we ascend the wall, and the
parapets are constructed of quite small stones. Roman parapets are,
of course, rare, because of the subsequent mediaeval occupation of these
castra, nor do the remarkable parapets at Pompeii, each wiih its little
traverse, help to make us better acquainted with their aspect, because
they are more of a modi6ed Greek pattern ; but on Trajan's column,
in which, of course, a style of architecture 100 years earlier is depicted,
the battlements of a walled camp under construction are represented
as being square, and somewhat mediasval in appearance. I would
suggest that the crenellated intervals on the parapet at Portchester
are the structural bases of the Roman battlement. The walls were
supported at intervals by towers, which are in many respects inter
esting. Thus in the majority of the cases of the camps now under
consideration the towers were solid—at any rate, they are solid in the
portions which still exist. In the case of Anderida and Richborougl',
they were solid throughout, and fulfilled the function of buttresses,
but where this cannot be absolutely established, as in the camps men
tioned, it is possible that the plan frequently adopted by the Roman
may have been executed, viz. that the tower was solid up to the plat
form of the wall, and then had a chamber at the top, such as is seen
at present in the main walls of Rome, which were built by Aurelian
about 270 a.d., i.e. shortly after ours. In cross-section the towers
are, as a rule, round, but may also be strongly U-shaped ; this is
particularly the case at Anderida and at Portchester. The Romans
employed such (J-sbape'l towers for the purpose of better flanking the
walls, and on the solid platforms on the tops of the towers they placed
catapults and scorpions.
     Apropos of the artillery just referred to, it is worth noting that
the Romans had both fortress artillery and field artillery, the latter
consisting of small balistas, or catapults and scorpions, for firing large
daits, mounted on small carts and drawn by mules. As to the efficacy
of their weapons, you may remember the tragic fate of an officer of the
Goths, who at the siege of Rome, when that city was defended by
Belisarius. climbed a tree opposite the gate to reconnoitre, but was
transfixed by a dart fired from a catapult on one of the towers, and
nailed to the tree thereby.
     The round towers which are so remarkable at Anderida and Port
chester, are similar to those found in many Continental Roman castra.
For instance, in France the towers of the outer wall of Carcassonne arc
of the U-shaped variety, even if perhaps but Visigothic copies of tne
original ; those of Dax and of Bourges, are round, and so, too, those of
Jublains, which last named castrum is in many particulars identical

 40                        Mr. Victor Horsley                  [Feb. 3,
 with our south-coast examples. In the remarkable town of Troesmis,
 founded in the third century, near Trajan's wall at the mouth of the
 Danube, these U-shaped towers are particularly well seen.
     The arrangements within the walls.—These fortified towns, of
 course, enclose an area with numerous buildings, but so far very little
 systematic excavation has been made. I have found myself that the
 arrangement depended very much on the condition of the outside
 wall ; and I may here digress for a moment to take up the question of
 apparent deficiencies in the outside wall, which have always excited
 much controversy among antiquarians. Thus at Ruttipius, Lemanus,
 Regulbium, Anderida, and Gavriononum, one wall is wanting, but as
 regards Regulbium, there is extant a seventeenth century map, which
 I now show you, exhibiting the fact that the castrum in question was
 a perfect quadrangle, and the missing north wall has simply been
 washed away by the sea. At Rutupia ruins of the wall have been
 found on the cliff. At Anderida the missing part is obviously just
 beneath the turf and has been proved to be there by excavation ; it
 may have been thrown down by the undermining processes of the
 mediaeval siege which the place underwent. At Garriononum also
 the foundations have been traced. We como then to tho single in
 stance of Lemanus. This castrum, the walls of which it is admitted
 on all hands have been dislocated and ruined by a landslip, stands
 on the slope of a hill, and at its lower border, i.e. the south side,
 there is a slightly elevated piece of ground which was taken by
 Mr. Roach Smith, who made the first excavation here, to be a portion
 of the landslip. Thinking one day that I could detect in the bank
 some of the flat foundation cross stones of an ordinary wall, I insti
 tuted a systematic excavation of this portion of the circumference of
 the camp, and found that so far from its being an elevation merely
 due to landslip, it was really a remarkably interesting example of a
 revetted harbour wall. It consisted of a mass of layers of boulders
embedded in concrete, on the top of which the ordinary wall was
built. At this particular point the concrete was carried backwards
over the area of the camp for forty feet, so as to form a large and
immovable platform. It seems to me that this was possibly the
platform of a battery for defending the ships moored by the wall, as
represented on one of Trajan's coins.
    To return to the question of the buildings within these castra;
as is shown in Trajan's column, there were numorous houses covered
with pent-house roofs and the well-known roofing tiles with imbri
cated edges, such as are seen to be extensively used in many parts of
this country, especially in East Anglia, and which we certainly owe
to the Romans, as our Belgic and Celtic forefathers roofed their huts
with straw and thatch, such as may be also seen in many parts of the
country, especially well exemplified again in East Anglia.
    There were, of course, a forum and pretorian building, the
residence of the Governor, and barracks for the troops, basilica for
the Court of Justice, and private houses, markets, baths, etc. All

1899.]            on Roman Defences of South-EaH Britain.                   41
these are shown on excavation of the areas of these walled towns and
castra, and are well exhibited in the plan (Daremberg's Encyclopaedia)
of the town of Troesmis.
    The buildings in the castra now under consideration have only
to a slight degree been ascertained, and have moreover in three
striking cases been confused by the erection of mediaeval buildings
within them, such as the Norman and later works in Portchester,
including not only the keep and allied buildings, but also, in
the further corner of the castrum, a Norman church, at Pevensey
again a Norman keep, and buildings including a chapel. At Rich-
borongh there is the most remarkable formation in the centre, an
enormous platform of concrete, 30 feet thick, with a cruciform block
of masonry in the middle, which was occupied by a chapel in mediieval
times. This may have been preceded by an early Roman British
church, or the platform may have formed the base of a lighthouse
tower, analogous to the two which stood on each side of the valley at
Dover, only one of which now remains next the church within the
accessory * Roman Camp now included in the enceinte of the mediaeval
castle.
    You may remark that the Church of Reculver stands within the
castrum, and that the construction of its chancel arch with two
Koman pillars shows the very early origin at least of tho Augustinian
epoch, if not earlier.
    At Lympne I found that the site of what apparently was the
Governor's house, which had already been discovered by Mr. Boach
Smith, exhibited round the outside wall an original cobble stone
paving, which we may conclude was generally employed for tho side
streets in such walled castra.
    The same camp Lympne also shows the foundations of some large
buildings, which may be taken to have been store-houses, and have
been termed barracks, but do not resemble the barracks, gladiatorial
or otherwise, at Pompeii at all, where a large number of rooms opened
on to a court-yard. The windows of such buildings are extant at
Lympne, being built into the wall of an out-house there. As Mr.
Boach Smith has shown, and other archasologists have shown, such
openings were rounded at the top, with embrasured sides, and the
window sill bevelled outwards as a rain drip. The walls were
plastered, and then painted in distemper. These buildings were
warmed by the usual hypocausts.
    Besides these official buildings, there were, of course, numerous
small houses and shops, which are set forth in the Troesmis plan,
and are analogous to the buildings now being so carefully explored
at Silchester.
    We now come to the historical stories, which, so far as we know,
are closely associated with these fortified stations, and, as I have
already suggested, the interest really begins towards tho end of tho
     * Accessory because the walled town of Dubris lay below in the valley.

42                         Mr. Victor Horsley                    [Feb. 3,
third century, viz. 286 A.d. It will be remembered that the then
Emperor Diocletian (who like Hadrian was a great administrator)
found that the size of the Empire, and the very personal system of
government of the Romans, rendered it necessary to subdivide the
imperial power, and he therefore constituted a government of himself
and Maximianus. The latter, having command of Gaul and Britain,
appointed over the British fleet a Belgian named Carausius, who was
already in the Roman Navy as a pilot or Gubernator, a position which
was analogous to the Master in a man-of-war in our own navy in the
beginning of this century—an officer on whom great responsibility in
navigation devolved.
    This man Canrausius seems to have been a porson of great indi
vidual energy and ability ; his headquarters were at Houlogne, the
ancient Gessoriacum, but which we must now call Bononia. Finding
that his reputation and influence were greatly increasing, he began to
pave the way for seizing power over the fleet and Britain.
    For this purpose, he evidently sent over agents into Britain to
work public feeling in his favour, and, to support it further, had
coins struck with a portrait of himself on one side, and an inscription
which said, " Come, oh expected one." Having thus cleared the ground,
he duly came, and apparently made his headquarters for a time at
Rutupia, and then at Clausentum. Having done this, he next inti
mated to Diocletian and Maximinius that he had assumed the imperial
status, and the title of Augustus. Maximinius, upon whom the re
sponsibility of dealing with this insurrection devolved, found his
hands were too full in Gaul and North Africa, and consequently with
Diocletian, made a virtue of necessity and recognised him, upon which
Caurausius, with a certain sense of humour, struck coins in which he
represented himself with a diadem and his colleagues without, and
put an inscription, " Caurausius and his two brothers." When, how
ever, his hands were less hampered, his nearest brother Maximinius
despatched a very able general named Constantino Chlorus, who
forthwith opened the campaign against Caurausius by laying siege to
Bononia, and ultimately capturing it. Caurausius had withdrawn
into Britain, and there was murdered, at one of these camps we are
now discussing, by his chief subordinate in command, Alectus, who
also set up a claim for imperial rank, and commenced a coinage, of
which numerous examples are to be found in the south-eastern camps.
Constantius sent against Alectus a general named Ascupuladorius,
who secured the province to Rome by taking his attacking fleet over
in two divisions, crossing under shelter of a fog, and defeating Alectus
who was waiting to receive him.
    At this time the Saxons and North Germanic tribes increased
their piratical incursions on both sides of the Channel, and tho re
moval of Caurausius no doubt rendered their attacks much safer to
them and more profitable. From this time, at any rate to the begin
ning of the fifth contury, there can be little doubt that the Saxons
steadily increased in force, and the Picts and Scots combined to render

 1S99.]          on Roman Defences of South-Eaet Britain.                  43
 the existence of the Romano-British people very hard. The best
 evidence of this state of things is really given by the manuscript list
of officers tinder the empire which is known as the Notitia dignato-
torum. This accompanying reproduction of the map of the Notitia,
from Horsley's * Britannia Romnna,' shows that the defences of the
country had been gradually re-organised, and the troops concentrated
along the line of the Roman wall and the camps in relation to it, and
the remainder along the south-cast and south coast. The second
legion, for instance, which had been in the north 150 years, was
brought down and posted in Richborough. The sixth legion, which
had been in England for 200 years, was taken to Rutupia and then
 removed altogether. The Notitia is an extremely valuable document,
 because it gives all the details of the staff-command of the South
 Eastern coast. The composition of the staff is very interesting, and
 the Count, as he was called, of the Saxon shore, seems to have always
 held a very prominent position. The last matter of interest and im
  portance on this subject is the question of the fate of those fortifica
 tions and, concurrently, the explanation why, as in some places,
  e.g. London, they remain as they are. All the southern part of
  England was studded over with Roman villas, and these always seem
  on excavation to have been burnt down and not inhabited afterwards,
  and woodland allowed to spring up around the ruins, in many cases
  burying them. The reason for this given by some is, that for
   a certain time the villas, having been inhabited by large families and
   resident subordinates, were built for comfort but not for defence, and
   after their destruction by the piratical and the superstitious Saxons,
   were believed to be occupied by the ghosts of their former owners.
   Terrible for this cause, and useless to a people needing fortresses
   rather than homes, they were left in undisturbed ruin. This does not
  appear to have been the case with walled towns, for obvious reasons :
   these camps remained inhabited to a certain extent during the
   mediaeval period, but not for long, except in the case of Porchester,
   Richborougb, and the large towns like Dover, &c., which have been
   continuously inhabited since their Roman construction.
       I should like to finish this sketch by showing you two examples
   illustrative of the period of which it treats : one of the fate of a large
   walled station such as we have been considering, and of which we
   have an actual record in a Saxon chronicle still existing ; the other of
   the destruction of a Roman dwelling house.
       The first example is the stormiug of Anderida (Pevensey). Here
   we are told in the Saxon chronicle that the Saxons, who had landed in
  Portsmouth harbour, and who no doubt had already taken Portus
  Magnus (Porchester) and Clausentum, marched eastward along the
  Roman Road until they ultimately came to Anderida, which they
  besieged for a long time without any success. The Saxons were not
 skilled in sieges, and it is especially noted that during the attack
 their lines of circumvallation were continually being assailed by the
 Britons moving out from the forest and falling upon the rear of the

44             Mr. Victor Hordey on Roman Defences.             [Feb. 3,
Saxon forces. Ultimately the place was carried by storm, and all
its inhabitants massacred.
    The second example, that of the destruction of a villa, is remark
ably shown by the following instance, for which I have to thank
Mr. Storry, the curator of the Cardiff Museum.          This gentleman
had observed in a field which was known in the neighbourhood as
" the battlefield," that there was some indication of a 1toman founda
tion in its centre, and on examining this found the customary rough
masonry upon which the timber and plaster walls of a Roman villa
were erected. On following up the passage, which was the first part
of the villa opened into, he found it led into a large room with a good
pavement, the tesserae of which were broken and the surface indented
with horses' hoofs. The floor was covered by numerous human
skeletons and those of horses, while in the corner of the room were
the skeletons of two children, and across, in front of them, that of a
woman. Further, in three graves dug in the floor, were found the
skeletons of men of a larger and more powerful build than those
whose romains were left unburied where they fell. The evidence is
circumstantial but complete. The whole story is told. The unfortified
dwelling house, the attack by the stronger invaders, the retreat of the
household along the passage to its inmost room, the last stand of the
little garrison, the slaughter of the men, the murder of the woman,
and last of all the massacre of the children, in front of whom she
had thrown herself in a final desperate effort to save them from the
inevitable destruction. There are those who find the study of old
walls dull, and wonder that some can pore for hours over a jaw from
a cave, a flint from a field, or a bit of Roman mortar, but these things
are the keys to the unwritten history of man, and when we find how
vivid a page can be restored to us from the floor of a single house,
one's wonder should rather be that so much still remains uncared-for
and unread.
                                                              [V. H.]

1899.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                             45
                   GENERAL            February 6, MEETING,
                           Monday,MONTHLY             1899.
  Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer and
                          Vice-President, in the Cbair.
                 George C. Cathcart, Esq. M.A. M.B. CM.
                 Hon. Alan de Tatton Egerton, M.P.
                 Sir Francis Henry Evans, K.C.MG. M.P.
                 John George Glover, Esq.
                 John William Gordon, Esq.
                 John Gretton, Esq.
                 John Gretton, Esq., Jun. M.P.
                 Charles Edward Groves, Esq. F.R.S. F.C.S.
                 Alexander Ritchie, Esq. J. P.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the follow
ing Donation to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental Research
at Low Temperatures :—
             Professor Dewar           ..       ..       ..    £100
             Professor Frank Clowes              ..      ..    £10 10«.
     The following resolution was proposed from the chair by Sir
James Crichton-Browne, M.D. F.R.S. the Treasurer, seconded by
 Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart. F.R.S. the Honorary Secretary, and
unanimously adopted :—
    "The Members of the Royal Institution of Great Britain in General Meeting
assembled desire to express to his Grace the Duke of Northumberland their
 sympathy with him and his family in the loss which they, as well as the Royal
 Institution and the country at large, have sustained by the death of his father,
 the late Duke. They desire also to record their grateful sense of the invaluable
 services rendered to the Royal Institution by the late Duke during his member
 ship of 48 years' duration ; during seven terms of office as Visitor and Manager,
 and as President for 26 years; by his active and unfailing interest in its affairs,
 and in the progress of science, which it is its object to promote ; by his generous
 benefactions to its funds; and by the true nobility of his character, which has
 lent distinction to its proceedings during an eventful period of its history."
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to C. E.
 Melchers, Esq. for his donation of £50 for alterations in the Lecture
 Theatre.

4G                                General Monthly Meeting.                         [Feb. 6,
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The Secretary of State for India—Annual Progress Report of the Archaeological
     Survey Circle, N.W. Provinces and Oudh, for year ending June 1898. foL
  Archaeological Survey of India :
     The Mogul Architecture of Fathpur-Sikri. By E. W. Smith. Part 3. 4to.
        1897.
     Monograph      on Buddha Sakyamuni's Birthplace in the Nepalese Terai. By
        A. Fuhrer. 4to. 1897.
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Boma—Classe di Scienze Morali, Storiche e Filo-
     logiche: Rendiconti. Serie Quinta, Vol. VII. Fasc. 7-11. 8vo. 1899.
   Atti, Serie Quinta : Rendicnnti. Classe di Scienze Fisische, &o. 2° Semestre,
     Vol. VII. Faso. 10-12; 1j Semestre, Vol. VIII. Fasc. 1. 8vo. 1899.
Agricultural Society of England—Journal, Vol. IX. Part 4. 8vo. 1898.
American Geographical Society—Bulletin, Vol. XXX. No. 5. 8vo. 1898.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal for Jan. 1899. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LIX. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1898.
Bankert, Institute o/-^Journal, Vol. XIX. Part 9; Vol. XX. Part 1. 8vo.
     1898-99.
Boston. U.S.A. Public Library—Monthly Bulletin of Books added to the Librarv,
     Vol. III. No. 12. 8vo. 1898.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, Vol. VI. Nos. 3-6. 8vo. 1898.
British Astronomical Association—Journal, Vol. IX. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1898.
Browne, W. A. Esq. M.A. Lit.D. (the Author)—The Money, Weights and Measures
     of the Chief Commercial Nations in the World, with the British Equivalents.
      8th edition. 8vo. 1899.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. X. Part 1. 8vo. 1899.
   Transactions, Vol. XVII. Part 2. 4to. 1899.
Camera Club—Journal for Dec. 1898 and Jan. 1899. 8vo.
Canada, Geological Survey—Aunual Report, Vol. IX. 8vo. 1898.
Canadian Institute—Proceedings, Vol. I. Part 6. 8vo. 1898.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XVII. Nos 11, 12. 8vo. 1898.
Chemical Society—Proceedings, Nos. 200-202. 8vo. 1898.
  Journal for Dec. 1898 and Jan. 1899. 8vo.
Cracovie, Academic des Sciences—Bulletin International, 1898, Nos. 9, 10. 8vo.
Duka, Dr. Theodore, M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Kossuth and GSrgei. 8vo.
     1898.
Editors—Aeronautical Journal for Jan. 1899. 8vo.
  American Journal of Science for Deo. 1898 and Jan. 1899. 8vo.
  Analyst for Dec. 1898 and Jan. 1899. 8vo.
  Astrophysical
  Anthony's          Journal forBulletin
                Photographio          Dec. 1898.      8vo.1898 and Jan. 1899. 8vo.
                                                for Dec.
  Brewers'
  Author
  Electrical
  Education
  Engineer
  Chemist
  Chemical
  Athenasum
  Engineering
  Bimetallist
  Homoeopathic
  Horological
            for
             Journal
              for
              News
             and
               Engineer
               Engineering
               Review
                for
                 Dec.
                 for
                  Journal
                   for
                   Druggist
                   Dec.
                    Dec.
                     Review
                      Dec.
                      Oct.
                       for
                       Dec.
                        1898
                          for
                         for
                          1898
                           1898
                            Deo.
                             1898
                             for
                             1898
                              for
                              Dec.
                               1898
                               and
                                Dec.
                                for
                                 for
                                  for
                                  and
                                  Deo.
                                   Doc
                                   and
                                    1898
                                    toand
                                      1898
                                      Jan.
                                      Dec.
                                       Dec.
                                        Dec.
                                        and
                                        1898
                                         Jan.
                                          Jan.
                                          1898
                                           and
                                           Jan.
                                             and
                                             Jan.
                                             1898
                                             1899.
                                              and
                                              189H
                                               1899.
                                                1899.
                                                 Jan.
                                                 and
                                                  1899.
                                                  Jan.
                                                   1899.
                                                   and
                                                    Jan.
                                                     and
                                                       1899.
                                                        fol.
                                                        1899.
                                                        Jan.
                                                         8vo.
                                                      Jan.Jan.
                                                          1899.
                                                           4to.
                                                             fol.
                                                              1899.
                                                                1899.
                                                                  1899.
                                                                   8vo.
                                                                     8vo.
                                                                  4to. 8vo.
                                                                          8vo.
                                                                       fol.

 1899.J                           General Monthly Meeting.                                    47
   Invention
   Journal
   Industriesoffor
                and
                 Physical
Editors—continued.   Iron 1898
                    Doc.     for
                              Chemistry
                                  Bee.
                                   and 1898
                                         Jan.   1899.
                                                  Nov.-Dec.
                                             forand         1899.
                                                      Jan.8vo. 1898.fol.8vo.
   Journal of State Medicine for Dec. 189S and Jhq. 1899. 8vo.
   Law Journal for Dec. 1898 and Jan. 1899. 8vo.
   Machinery Market for Dec. 1898 and Jan. 1899. 8to.
   Nature for Deo. 1898 and Jan. 1899. 4to.
   New Church Magazine for Dec. 1898 and Jan. 1899. 8vo.
   Nuovo Cimento for Sept .-Oct. 1898. 8vo.
   Public
   Science
   PhysicalHealth
             of
   Terrestrial
             Sittings
             Abstracts.
               Review
                Man
                  Magnetism
                     Engineer
                        for
                         for
                          forVol.
                              Dec.
                               Nov.-Deo.
                             Noy. for
                                   I.for
                                     1898.
                                     1898
                                       Part
                                       Dec. and
                                         Dec. 1898.
                                              1898
                                             12. Jan.
                                                1898
                                                   8vo.
                                                    and
                                                      and
                                                       8vo.
                                                        1899.
                                                            1898.
                                                            Jan.1899.
                                                          Jan.    1899. 8vo.
                                                                8vo.      8vo.
   Travel
   Zoophilist
   Tropical     Dec.
                 for Dec.
                        18981898
            forAgriculturist    and
                                 forand
                                      Jan.  1899.
                                             1898
                                       Dec.Jan.     and
                                                     8vo.Jan.
                                                 1899.    4to. 1899. 8vo.
Emigrant? Information Office—Circulars on Canada, the Australasian and South
     African Colonies, Jan. 1899. 8vo.
Florence, Biblioteca Nazionale Central*—Bolletino, Nos. 311-313. 8vo. 1898.
FrasHtn Institute—Journal for Dec. 1898 and Jan. 1899. 8vo.
Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for Dec. 1898 and Jan. 1899.
     8vo.
      Vol.
      PartsXXX.
Harvard       2, 4, 5 ;Parts
              College     Vol. XLI.
                         Astronomical
                                2, 4 ; Parts
                                         Vol.
                                            Observatory—Annals,
                                                XXXII. Part 1 ; Vol.
                                                3-5.                          XXVIII.; Vol.
                                                                       Vol. XXXIV.            1;
                                                                                         PartXL.
 Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XXII. Part 3. 8vo. 1898.
 Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for Dec. 1898 and Jan. 1899.
 Japan,
 Iron        Steel Institute—Journal,
       andCollege   of Science of the Imperial 1898, No.   2. 8vo. of Tokyo—Journal, Vol. IX.
                                                        University
       Part 2 ; Vol. XI. Part 1 ; Vol. Xli. Parts 1, 2. 8vo. 1898.
    American
 Jains   Hopkins
       1899.    8vo.
                 Journal
                    University—American              XIX. No.Journal
                             of Philology, Vol.Chemical                      Dec. 1898 and Jan.
                                                                 3. 8vo.for 1898.
    University Circulars, Nos. 137, 138. 4to. 1898.
  Limean Society—Journal, No. 172. 8vo. 1898.
  l.ondon County Council Technical Education Board—London Technical Educa
       tion Gazette
  Manchester     Literary
                        for Nov.-Dec.
                               and Philosophical
                                            1898 and Jan.     1899. 8vo.
                                                         Society—Memoirs       and Proceedings,
        Vol.and
  Medical    XLIL     Part 5. Society,
                  Chirurgical     8vo. 1898.  Royal—Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol.
  Meteorological
       LXXXI.
  Mexico,   SodedadSociety,
                     8vo.
                        Cientifica
                              1898.
                               Royal—Meteorological          Record, No. y71.Revistas,
                                      "Antonio Alzate"—Memorias                        1898. XI.
                                                                                 8vo. Tomo
  Microscopical
       Nos. AcacUmy
  National   9-12.Society,
                       8vo.
                          of Sciences,
                              Royal—Journal,
                                1898. Washington—Memoirs,             8vo. VII. 4to. 1895.
                                                     1898, Part 6. Vol.
  Nan/ l.eague—Navy League Journal for Dec. 1898 and Jan. 1899. 4to.
  Seism, S. C. Esq. (the Author)—The Latest Literary Boycott. A Booksellers'
       Censorship. 8vo. 189ri.
  .Vew York Academy of Sciences—Annals, Vol. X. Parts 1-12. 8vo. 1898.
  Sea Zealand, Registrar-General of—The New Zealand Official Year Book, 1898.
       8vo.
  Soman, J. E. Esq. (the Author)—The World's Exchanges in 1898. 8vo. 1898.
  Sorth of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transaction)!,
        Vol. XLVII. Parts 6,7: Vol. XLVIII. Part. 1. 8vo. 1898.
  Sumumatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1898, Part 4. 8vo.

                           >
 Odontnlogical Society of Great
 18                               Britain—Transactions,
                              General                     . XXXI. Noa. 1-3.
                                         Monthly Meetii,Vol.              [Feb.8vo.
       1898.
 Par/s, Socie'U Francaiae de Physique—Stances, 1898, Fasc. 2. 8vo.
    Bulletin, Nos. 123-126. 8vo. l>-98.
 Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for Dec. 1898 and Jan. 1899. 8vo.
    Calendar, for 1899. 8vo.                                                "
 Philadelphia, Academy of Natural Sciences—Proceedings, 1898, Part 2. 8vo.
 Photoiiraphic Society of Great Britain. Royal—.The Photogbaphic) Journal for
       Nov. -Dec. 1898. 8vo.
 Physical Society of London—Proceedings, Vol. XVI. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. 1898-99.
 Pierce, Robert M. Esq. (the Author )—Problems of Number and Measure. 8vo. 1 898.
 Radcliffe Library Trustees—Catalogue of Books added to the Radcliffe Library
       during 1898. 8vo. 1898
 Rome, Ministry of Public Works—Giornnlo del Genio Civile, 1893, Fasc. 8, 9.
Royal8vo.      Academy—Proceedings, 3rd Series, Vol. V. No 1. 8vo. 1898.
         Irish1898.
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CXCI. A, Nos. 228, 229 ;
      Vol. CXC. B, No. 167; Vol. OXUII. A, Nos. 230, 231. 4to. 1898.
   Proceedings, Nos. 404-406. 8vo. 1898.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Statistical Tables for 1897. 8vo. 1898.
Salford Free Libraries Committee— Fifteenth Annual Report, 1897-98. 8vo.
Sanitary Institute—Journal, Vol. XIX. Part 4. 8vo. 1899.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—
   Philologisch-Historische Classe—
       Berichto, 1898, No. 4. 8vo.
   Mathcmatisch-Physische Classe—
       Berichte, 1898, No. 5. 8vo.
Scottish Society of Arts, Royal—Transactions, Vol. XrV. Part 4. 8vo. 1898.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes for Dec. 1898 and Jan. 1899. 8vo.
Society of Arts—Journal for Dec. 1898 and Jan. 1899. 8vo.
Statistical Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. LXI. Part 4. 8vo. 189S.
Stevens, J. A. Esq. (the Author)—A Memoir of William Kelly, Librarian of the
      New York Historical Society. 8vo. 1898.
Tacchini, Prof. P. Hon.Mcm.R.l. (the Author)—Mcmorie del la Societa degli Spet-
      troscopiati Italiani, Vol. XXVII. Diap. 9, 1". 4to. 1898.
Teyler, Mmee, Haarlem—Archives, Série II. Vol. VI. Part 2 8vo. 1898.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for Dec. 1898 und Jan. 1899. 8vo.
United Slates Army, Surgeon General's Office—Index Catalogue, Second Series,
      Vol. III. 4to. 1898.
United States Department of Agriculture—Eeport of Secretary of Agriculture,
      1898. 8vo.Station Record, Vol. X. No. 4. 8vo. 1898.
   Experiment
United States Geological Surbey—Bulletins, Nos. 88, 89, 1 19. 8vo. 1897-98.
   Monographs, No. XXX. 4to. 1898.
United Stales Patent Office—Official Gazette, Vol. LXXXV. Nos. 9-12 ; Vol.
      LXXXVI. Nos. 1, 2, 3. 8vo. 1898.
Univei sity of Toronto—Studies: Biological Series, No. 1; Psychological Series,
      No. 1. 8vo. 1898.
Verein zur Befordtrung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandluiigen, 1898,
      HeftImperial
Vienna,              Geological Institute—Verlmndlungen, 1898, Nos. 14, 15. 8vo.
            9, 10. 4to.
Wagner Free Institute of Science of Philadelphia—Transactions, Vol. III. Part 4.
      8vo. Geological
Wisconsin    1898.       and Natural History Survey—On the Instincts and Habits
      of the Solitary Wasps. By G. W. Peckhabu and S. G. Peckham. 8vo. 1898.
   On tlie Forestry Conditions of Northern Wisconsin. By F. Roth. 8vo. 1898.
Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. XIV. Part 8; Vol. XV. Part 1.

 1899.]               The Motion of a Perfect Liquid.                 49
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 10, 1893.
    The Hofc. Sib James Btikuno, M.A. LL.D., Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
          Ph'Flssob II. S. Hkt.e-Shaw, LL.D. M. Inst. C.E.
                      The Motion of a Perfect Liquid.
Ir wc look ncross the surface of a river, we cannot fail to obscrvo
the difference of the movemout at various points. Near one bank
the velocity may be much less than near the other, and generally,
though not always, it is greater in the middle than near either bank.
If we could look beneath the surface and seo what was going on
there, we should find that the velocity was not so great near the
bottom as at the top, and was scarcely the same at any two points of
the depth. The more we study the matter, the more complex the
motion appears to be; small floating bodies are not only carried
down at different speeds and across each other's paths, but arc
whirled round and round in small whirlpools, sometimes even disap
pearing for a time beneath the surface. By watching floating bodies
we can sometimes realise these complex movements, but they may
take place without giving the i-lightest evidence of their existence.
    You are now looking at water flowing through a channel of
varying cross section, but there is very little evidence of any dis
turbance taking place. By admitting colour, although its effect is at
once visible on the water, it does not help us much to understand the
character of the flow. If, however, fine bubbles of air are admitted,
we at once perceive (Fig. 1) tho tumultuous conditions under which
the water is moving and that there is a strong whirlpool action.
This may be intensified by closing in two sides (Fig. 2), so as to
imitate the action of a sluice pate, through the narrow opening of
which the water has all to pass, the presence of air making the dis
turbed behaviour of the water very evident.
    Now you will readily admit that it is hopeless to begin to study
the flow of the water under such conditions, and we naturally ask, aro
there not cases in which the action is more simple ? Such would be
the case if the water flowed very slowly in a perfectly smooth and
parallel river bed, when the particles would follow one another in
lines called '' stream-lines," and the flow w' uld be like the march of
a disciplined army, instead of liko the movement of a disorderly
crowd, in which, free fights taking place at various points may be
supposed to resemble the local disturbances of whirlpools or vortices.
    Vol. XVr. (No. 93.)                                         ¦

50                     Professor H. S. Hcle-Shaw            [Feb. 10,
    The model (Fig. 3) represents on a large scale a section of tho
channel already shown, in which groups of particles of the water aro
indicated by round balls, lines in the direction of flow of these
groups (which for convenience we may call particles) being coloured
alternately. "When I move these so that the lines are maintained,
we imitate " stream-line " motion, and when, at any given point of
the pipe, the succeeding particles always move at exactly the same
velocity, we have what is understood as " steady motion."
               Fio. 1.                             Fin. 2.
    As long as all the particles move in the straight portion of the
channel, their behaviour is easy enough to understand. But as the
channel widens out, it is clear that this model does not give us the
proper distribution. In tho model, the wider portions are not filled
up, as they would be, with tho natural fluid ; fur it must bo clearly
understood that the stream-lines do not flow on as tho balls along
these wires, passing through a mass of dead water, but redistribute
themselves so that every particle of water takes part in the flow.

 1899.]             on the Motion of a Per/eel Liquid.                   51
Perhaps you may think that if these wires were removed, and the
wooden balls allowed to find their own positions, they would group
themselves as with an actual liquid. This is not the case ; and, for
reasons that you will see presently, no model of this kind would give
ns the real conditions of actual flow. By means of a model, however,
 we may be ablo to understand why it is so absolutely cs-ent ;al we
should realise the correct naturo of the grouping which occurs.
     First look at the two diagrams on the wall (Figs. 4 and 5), which
you will see represent channels of similar form to the experimental
one. The same number of particles
enter and leave in each under ap
parently the same conditions, so that
the idea may naturally arise in your
minds, that if the particles ulti
mately flow with the same speed
whatever their grouping in the larger
portion of the channel, it cannot
much matter in what particular
kind of formation thoy actually pass
through that wider portion. To
understand that is really very im
portant. Let us consider a model
C Fig. 6) specially made for the
purpose. You will see that we have
two lines of particles which wo may
consider stream-lines, those on the
left coloured white, and those on tho
right coloured red. The first and
hist are now exactly 18 inches apart,
there being eighteen balls of 1 inch
diameter in the row. If I move the
red ones upwaid, I ca'iso them to
enter a wider portion of the channel,
where they will have to arrange
themselves so as to be three abreast
(Fig. 7). It is quite clear to you,
that as I do this their speed in tho
wider portion of the channel is only
one-third of that in the narrow portion, as you will see from tho
relative positions of the marked particles. Now, directly tho first
particle entered tho wider channel, it commenced to move nt a re
duced speed, with the result that the particles immediately behind
it mnst have run up against it, exactly in the samo way that you havo
often heard the trucks in a goods train run in succession upon tho
ones in front, when tho speed of tho engine is reduced ; and you will
ally to stop
donbtless    in order
           have          thatthisit might
                noticedthat         was not
                                          take
                                            necessary  Moreover,
                                               place. for         the nctu-
                                                          tho engine  force
of the impact depended largely upon the suddenness with which tho
                                                                £ 2

52                    Professor B. S. Hele-Shaw                  [Feb. 10,
speed of those in front was reduced. Applying this illustration to
the model, you will see that the impact of these particles in the
wider portion would necessarily involve a greater pressure in that
part. Turning next to the white halls, I imitate, by means of the
left-hand portion, the flow which will occur in a channel six times as
large as the original one, and you now see (Fig. 7) that as the par
ticles have placed themselves six abreast, and the first and last tow nre
3 inches apart instead of 18 inches, the speed in the wider portion
of the channel must have been one-sixth of that in the narrow portion.
Evidently, therefore, the velocity of the particles has been reduced
more rapidly than in the previous case, and the pressure must con
sequently be correspondingly greater.
                  Fio. 4.                             Fio. 5.
     Wo may now take it as perfectly clear and evident, that the pres
 sure is greater in tho wider portion and less in the narrower portion
 of the channel. Turning now to the two diagrams, wo see that the
 pressure is in each case greater in every row of particles as in the
 wider portions of the channel, but that instead of being suddenly
 increased, as in the model, it is gradually increased. The width of
 the coloured bands, that is, roa>s of particles, or width apart of stream
 lines, is a measure of the increased pressure. Thus you will now re
 gard the width of the bands, or what is tho same thing, the distance
 apart of the stream-lines, as a direct indication of pressure, and the
 narrowness or closeness of the stream-lines as a diroct indication of
 velocity.
      Next notice the great difference between tho two diagrams. In
 one diagram (Fig. 4), the change of width is uniform across the entire

 1899.]               on the Motion of a Perfect Liquid.                 53
 section. In diagram (Fig. 5), however, this is not the case. In tho
 narrowest portion of the channel in each diagram, there are seven
 odour bands "f little balls each containing three abreast, but we find
 that in one diagram (Fig. 4) they are equally spaced in the wider part
 six abreast throughout. In the other diagram (Fig. 5), the outer
 row is spaced eight abreast, the second row rather more than six, and
 the inner rows rather more than four abreast, and the middle row
 less than fonr abreast, making in all forty-two in a row, as in the
 previons case. One diagram (Fig. 5), therefore, will represent an
 entirely different condition to the state represented by the other
diagram (Fig. 4), the pressure in the wide part of the latter varying
from a maximum at the outside to a minimum in the middle, while
the corresponding velocity is greatest in the middle and least at the
outside or borders.
     Now, when we know the pressure at every point of a liquid, and
                      Fio. 6.                    Fio. 7.
also the direction in which the particles are moving, together with
their velocity at every point, we really know all about its motion,
and yon will see how important the question of grouping is, and
that, in fact, it really constitutes the whole point of my lecture to
night. How then shall we ascertain which of the two groupings
(Fig. 4 or 5) is correct, or whether possibly some grouping totally
different from either does not represent the real conditions of flow ?
     Sow, the model does not help us very far, because there seems to
be no means of making the grouping follow any regular law which
might agree with fluid motion. In whatever way we improve such a
model, we can scarcely hope to imitate by merely mechanical means
the motion of an actual liquid, for reasons which I will now try to
explain.
     In the first place, apart from tho particles having no distinguishing
characteristics, cither when the liquid is opaque or transparent, they
are so small and their number is so great as to be almost beyond our

54                     rrofessor H. S. Hele-Shaw                 [Feb. 10,
powers of comprehension. Let mo try, by means of a simple illustra
tion, to give some idea of their number, as arrived at by perfectly well
recognised mothods of physical computation. Lord Kelvin has used
the illustration that, supposing a drop of water wero magnified to the
size of the earth, the ultimate particles would appear to us between
the size of cricket balls and foothalls. I venture to put the same
fact, iu another way, that may perhaps strike you more forcibly.
This tumbler contains half a pint of water. I now close the top.
Suppose that, by means of a fine hole, I allow one and a half billion
particles to flow out per second—that is to say, an exodus equal to
about one thousand times the population of the world in each second,
—the timo required to ompty tho glass would bo between (for of course
wo can only give certain limits) seven million and forty-seven million
years.
    In the next place, we have the particles interfering with each other's
movements by what we call " viscosity."
    Of course, the genoral idea of what is meant by a " viscous " fluid is
familiar to everybody, as that quality which treacle and tar possess
in a marked degree, glycerine to a less extent, water to a less extent
than glycerine, and alcohol and spirits least of nil. In liquids, tho
property of viscosity resembles a certain positive "stickiness" of
the particles to themselves and to other bodies; and would be well
represented in our model by coating over tho various balls with soma
viscous material, or by tho clinging together, which might take place
by the individuals of a crowd, as contrasted with the absence of this
in tho case of no viscosity as represented by tho evolutions of a body
of soldiers. It maybe accounted for, to a certain extent, by supposing
the particles to possess an irregular shape, or to constantly move across
each other's paths, causing groups of particles to bo whirled round
together.
    Whatever tho real nature of viscosity is, it results in producing
in water the eddying motion which would be perfectly impossible
if viscosity were absent, and which makes tho problem of the motion
of an imperfect liquid so difficult and perplexing.
    Now, all scientific advance in discovering the laws of nature has
been made by first simplifying the problem and reducing it to certain
ideal conditions, and this is what mathematicians have dono in study-
the motion of a liquid.
    We have already seen what almost countless millions of particles
must exist in a very small space, and it does require a much greater
stretch of the imagination to consider their number altogether without
limit. If wo then assume that a liquid has no viscosity, and that it
is incompressible, and that tho number of particles is infinite, we
arrive at a st;ito of things which would be represented in the case of
the model or the dingram on tho wall, when tho little globes wero
porfectly smooth, perfectly round and perfectly hard, nil of them in
contact with each other, and with an unlimited number occupying the
smallest part of one of the coloured or clear bunds. This agrees with

1899.]               on the Motion of a Perfect Liquid.                 55
the mathematical conception of a perfect liquid, although the mathema
tician has in his mind the idea of something of the nature of a jelly
consisting of such small particles, rather than of the separate parti
cles themselves. The solution of the problem of the grouping of the
little particles, upon which so much depends, and which may have at
first seemed so simple a matter, really represents, though as yet applied
to only a few simple cases, one of the most remarkable instances of
the power of higher mathematics, and one of the greatest achieve
ments of mathematical genius.
     Yon will be as glad as I am that it is not my business to-night to
explain the mathematical processos by which the behaviour of a
perfect liquid has been to a certain extent investigated. You will
also understand why such models as we could actually make, or any
analogy with the things with which we are familiar, would not help
ns very much in obtaining a mental picture of the behaviour of a
perfect liquid. If, for instance, we try to make use of the idea of
drilled soldiers, and move the lines with that object in view, we tee
that instead of the ordinary methods of drill, the middle rank soon
gains on the others, and enters again the parallel portion of the
channel in a very different relative position to the opposite lines,
although the stream-lines would all have the same actual velocity
when once again in the parallel poition. Since, then, we cannot use
models or any simplo analogy with familiar things, or follow—at any
rate this evening—the mathematical methods of dealing with the
problem, what way of understanding the subject is left to us ?
     If we take two sheets of glass, and bring them nearly close
 together, leaving only a space the thickness of a thin card or piece of
 paper, and then by suitable means cause liquid to flow under pressure
 between them, the very property of viscosity, which as before noted,
 is the cause of the eddying motion in large bodies of water, in the
 present case greatly limits the freedom of motion of the fluid between
 the two sheets of glass, and thus prevents not only eddying or whirl
 ing motion, but also counteracts the effect of inertia. Every particle
 is then compelled by the pressuro behind and around it to movo
 onwards without whirling motion, following the path which corre
 sponds exactly with the stream-lines in a perfect' liquid.
     If we now, by a suitable means, allow distinguishing bands of
 coloured liquid to take part in the general flow, we are able to imitate
 exactly the conditions represented in the diagrams (Figs. 4 and 5).
 You are now looking at a projection on the screen (Fig. 8, Plate I.)
 of liquid, which, in flowing through the gradually enlarging and con
 tracting channel, is obeying the conditions I have described. Such is
 the steadiness of its motion, that it is scarcely possible to believe at
 first that the figure does not consist of fixed bands of colour painted in
 perfectly smooth curves. By varying the flow of the coloured liquid
 however, you will realise at once that the painting is done by nature
 and not by the bond of a human artist.
      Now you will notice that the bands widen out as they approach the

56                    Professor H. S. Hcle-Shaw                  [Feb. 10,
wiiler portion of the channel, afterwards contracting to their original
width ; but I havo already prepared you for the fact that they do not
 do this uniformly, and, in spite of the fact that they were all equally
 sjaced in the narrower portion of the pipe, they are very unequally
 spaced in the wider portion—in this you will see the resemblance to
 the model, Fig. 3, and the case given in Fig. 5.
     You will not, I trust, now fall into the very natural nr stake of
 thinking that the nature of the substance is more attenuated because
 the band has become wider, but will realise that the particles are in
 the wider portion just as close together ns in the narrower. I have
already explained that as more particles are required to fill the greater
 width, and can only be supplied from the snmc band behind, the band
 at that part cannot possibly be moving as fast as the narrow bands at
 the same cross-section, that is, on the line drawn across at right angles
to the central line of the stream.
     This I will now prove to you by a very simplo but conclusive ex
periment, for by opening and closing the tap regulating the colour
bunds, wo can start a fro.-h supply exactly at the same instant in each
of the bands— in the same way as the starter attempts, though usually
net with the siime success, to carry out his duties on the racecourse.
(Fig. 9, Plate I.) shows the different position of various colour band
fronts which were nil started in line, and gives a good idea of the
relative changes of velocity. You will seo that the stia'ght formation
of the row is not maintained, even in the parallel portion of the
channel, the middle row gaining on tho sides, which is not becauso
of any resistance on the sides, but because the influence of the enlarge
ment is felt before that is actually reached. Then, you see, the middle
portion slows down considerably, and, for an instant, of course, the
portions which lag behind on the sides appear to be overtaking it ;
they in turn, however, have to occupy so much more space on tho
sides, that they fall rapidly hehind and the once straight row of par
ticles becomes, in leaving, more and more curved. This curve is so
drawn out as to leave no doubt in your minds as to which band of
particles wins the race; and, although ultimately theso particles are
again flowing along the narrow channel at the same velocity, whether
in the middle or at the sides, the particles which started at the
middle, at the same time as the particles at the sides, have obtained
the lead in finally entering the channel again. This lead they
will continue to maintain, unless they should encounter an obstacle
in tho middle of tho channel, when, as I shall be able to show you
in a subsequent experiment, their positioi s may possibly be reversed.
     By now gradually closing in the slides, so as to reproduce conditions
of a narrow diaphragm or channel with ordinary flow, instead of the
turbulent or whirlpool motion which then resulted, the colour bands
at once respond to the altered conditions (Fig. 10), and, like a perfectly
drilled body of troops, perform the required evolutions immediately,
even though tho defile through which they are compelled to pass in
volves almost incredibly rapid change of speed. So great, indeed, is





1899]              on the Motion of a Perfect Liquid.                    67
tho confidence which we may place upon their behaviour, that the en
largement from the original channel, Figs. 1 and 2, as you see, Las
been much exaggerated in ordtr to make the conditions as severe as
possible, and intensify tho effect. The greater pressure in the wider
portion may be illustrated by the fact, that while tho plugs remain at
rest in the middle, where the narrow hands are, they are forced out,
when removed to the sides, by the greater pressure, which there acts on
the ends. This is where the bands were widest and the velocity slowest.
This is quite contrary to what might have been expected, seeing that tho
liquid was forced so rapidly through the narrower channel, but it needs
many illustrations to bring home to us this apparent contradiction of
our ordinary experience. Fig. 11 shows the liquid now flowing out
through the new channel thus made, as well as through the original
place of exit.
     But at this stage you may reasonably enquire how it is that we are
able to state, with so much certainty, that the artificial conditions of
flow with a viscous liquid are really giving us the stream-line motion
of a perfect one ; and this brings me to the results which mathema
ticians havo obtained.
     The view now shown represents a body of circular cross-section,
 past which a fluid of infinite extent is moving, and tho lines are plotted
from mathematical investigation and represent the flow of particles.
 This particular case gives us the means of most elaborate comparison ;
although we cannot employ a fluid of infinite extent, we can prepare
the border of tho channel to correspond with any one of the particular
 stream-lines, and measure tho exact positions of the lines inside.
     By means of a second lantern, the real flo.v of a viscous liquid for
 this case is shown npon the second screen, and you will see that it
 agrees with the calculated flow round a similar obstacle of a perfect
 liquid. The diagram shown on the wall is the actual figure employed
 for comparison, and upon which the experimental case was projected.
 By this means, it was proved that tho two were in absolute agreement.
 If we start the impulses, as before, in a row, wo at once see how the
 middle particles lag behind the outer ones, as indicated by the width of
 tho bands, showing that it is not necessarily the side stream-lines that
 move moro slowly. It may be more interesting to you to see, in addi
 tion to the foregoing case —in which for convenience, and as quite
 sufficient for measurement only, a semi-cylinder was employed—tho
 case of a complete cylinder, and this is now shown (Fig. 12, Plate I.).
 In this case two different colours are used in alternate bands, and these
 bands are sent in, not steadily but impulsively, in order to illustrate
 what I have just pointed out. You will see how the greater width of
 the colour bands before and behind the cylinder indicates an increase
 of pressure in those regions. This in a ship-shape form accounts for
 the standing bow and stern waves, whereas the narrowing of the bands
 at the sides indicates an increase of velocity and reduction of pressure,
 and accounts for the depression of water level, with which you are
 doubtless familiar at the corresponding part of a ship.

58                   Pr fcssor H. S. Eele-Shaw                 [Feb. 10,
    I will now tnkc a more striking case. If, instead of a circular
body, we bad a flat plate, tho turbulent nature of the flow is evidently
very great, as you will see from the view (Fig. 13), which is a photo
graph of the actual flow under these conditions, made visible by very
                                Fio. 13.
fine air bubbles, and showing water at rest in the clear space behind
the obstacle.
    We can, however, take steps to reduce this turbulence, and you now
see on the second screen tho flow by means of apparatus which timo

1899.]             on the Motion of a Ptr/ect Liquid.                  59
does not permit me to describe, but which gives a slow and steady
motion that it would be impossible to improve upon in actual con
ditions of practice, or even, 1 am inclined to think, by any experimental
method. Instead of using air to make this flow clear, we now allow
odour to stream behind the plate, and you will see (Fig 14, Pinto IT.)
that the water still refuses to flow round to the bai-k, and spreads on
either side. We have so slow a velocity as not to induce vortex
motion, but the inertia of tho particles which strike the flat plato
causes them to be deflected to either side, exactly as tennis balls in
striking against a wall obliquely. The sheet of wator is so thick,
that is to say, the parallel glass plates are so far apart, that they do
not enable the viscosity of the water to act as a sufficient drag to
prevent this taking place.
     To make the action of the water in front of the plate more visible,
a different coloured liquid is allowed to enter from orifices in a small
pipe placed across the slide in the thick sheet. You will now s. o
that the general motion is steady enough to give a very clear idea of
the deflecting action of the plate, and streaks of colour set themselves
in such a way as to indicate the behaviour of tho individual particles.
This effect is practically what is called " discontinuity," for, although
perfectly discontinuous motion can only take place when there is no
viscosity, the effect of the general flow upon the nearly quiescent
mass behind the plate is vory slight.
     If we send the flow in impulses, we produce vortex motion at the
edge, due to viscosity, as shown in Fig. 15. This takes placo in tho
 thick sheet directly the velocity is sufficiently increased, though only
at the edges of the plate, the motion being otherwise the same.
     Mathematicians, however, predicted with absolute certainty, that
with strenm-liue motion the water should flow round and meet at tho
 back, a state of things that, however slow we make the motion in the
 present case, docs not occur owing to the effect of inertia. They have
 drawn with equal confidence tho lines along which this should take
 place. We could either effect this result with the experiment you
 have just seen, by using a much more viscous liquid, such as treacle,
 or, what comes to the same thing, bringing the two sheets of glass
 nearly close together ; and the flow which you are now witnessing
 (Fig. 16, Plate II.) shows the result of doing this. The colour bands
 in front of the plato no longer mix at all with the general body of
 flow, or are unsteady, as was the case in the last experiment, but flow
 round the plate and flow so steadily, that, unless we jerk the flow of
 the colour bands, it is impossible to tell in which direction they are
actually moving.
     A still more extraordinary case is that of a plate at au anglo of
 45 degrees, the central line no longer striking tho plate at the centre,
 but at a certain point whwu, together with the actual curves of flow,
 has been calculated and plotted by Professor Lamb. The calcula
 tions being made for an infinite fluid, we require tho artificial border
 to be prepared, corresponding to tho different stream-lines, and when

GO                    Professor H. S. Hele-Shaw                 [Feb. 10,
that is done, we find that the flow absolutely agrees with that pre
dicted by Professor Lamb, the central lino which meets the plate,
leaving it exactly with the same form at a corresponding point on
the back, the curves of each being hyperbolas. This effect is, of
course, produced by the central line dividing on the plate, a portion
flowing upwards and a portion downwards, reuniting at a correspond
ing point behind, from whence it flows away.
    Such a state of thing} would be absolutely impossible to conce:ve
by most of us, but by turning the plate at an angle in the lantern, we
are able to approximately represent, even without artificial border lines,
this condition of flow. You are thus able to see a striking example
of the absolute accuracy of mathematical prediction, and to feel every
confidence, that the original experiment in the channol, or indeed any
others with thin viscous films, should give us indeed a correct picture
of what we can never hope to see, viz. the motion of a perfect liquid.
    It is satisfactory to know that the principle of the thin films has
been examined by probably the greatest authority on the subject, and
as a result, Professor Sir G. Gabriel Stokes states, that " they afford a
complete graphical solution, experimentally obtained, of a problem
which, from its complexity, baffles the mathematician except in a few
simple cases."
    Whilst I have been dealing with the stream-lines of a perfect
liquid, your minds will doubtless have turned to the lines along
which magnetic and electrical forces appear to act. Wo are possibly
further from realising the actual nature of these forces, than from a
correct conception of the real nature of a liquid. We have long
agreed to abandon the old ideas of the electrical and magnetic fluids
flowing along these linos, and to substitute instead the idea, that these
lines represent merely the directions in which the forces act. Now
we can easily see that this conception is quite a reasonable one, for in
the case of the model it is not necessary to have the row of balls
actually moving, in order that the effect may be transmitted along
the different lines they occupy. If I attempt to raise the plate upon
which they rest, the pressure is instantly transmitted through the
whole row to the top ball along each line, whatever curve the line may
take. In the same way, you will remember that it was not necessary
to have the colour bands actually in motion, for, though apparently
free to move in any direction, thoy retain their form for a considerable
time, and the path along which they would influence each other as soon
as the tap is opened, would be along those lines in which the liquid was
flowing beforo it was brought to rest. Hence it is possible, with some
suitable means, to cause a viscous liquid to reproduce exactly the lines
of magnetic and electrical induction. In the case of magnetism and
electricity, it is of course possible, by means of a small magnetic
needle or a galvanometer, by exploring the whole surface through
which magnetic induction or electrical flow is acting, to plot the lines
of force for innumerable cases, where we can work in air or on the
surface of the solid conductor.

  1599.]            on the Motion of a Perfect Liquid.                  61
     Bnt in this building it sjems natural to take as an example the
 case first used by the great man to whom the conception of lines of
 magnetic force is due, for the first reference I have been able to find
 to such lines is in one of Faraday's earliest papers on the induction of
 electric currents,* in which he says, " By magnetic curves I mean the
 lines of magnetic forces, however modified by the juxtaposition of
 poles, which would be depicted by irou filings, or those to which a
 very small magnetic needlo would form a tangent."
      Yon are all familiar with the way in which iron filings set them
selves, when shaken over the North and South poles of a magnet.
The magnetic lines are then nearly, but not quite, circular curves
between the two poles Now, the mathematics of the subject tells ns
that if the poles could be regarded as points, the lines of force between
them would be perfect circles.
     You are now looking (Fig. 17, Plate II.), at the colour bands, the
edges—or indeed any portion—of which represent lines obtained by
admitting coloured liquid from a series of small holes round a central
small orifice, which admits clear liquid, and allows them to escape
through another small orifice (called respectively in hydromechanics
a tource and sink), and I leave it to you to judge how far these curves
deviate from the ideal form.
     My assistant is now allowing the colour to flow, first steadily and
then in a series of impulses, and the latter gives us the conception
of waves or impulses of magnetic force, though of course tiie mag
netic transmission force would be instantaneous. Regarded as a
liquid, it is here again clear how absolutely the truth of our views
concerning the slower movement in the wider portion is verified by
this experiment.
     A last experiment (Fig. 18) shows the streams admitted, not from
a source but from a row of orifices in what corresponds to the slowest
moving portion of the flow. The result is, that the colour bands are
much narrower, and although the circular forms of the curves are, as
iu the previous experiment, preserved, the lines are so tine at the
point of exit, which, as before, corresponds to the South Pole, as to
really approximate to ideal stream-lines.
     The same method enables us to trace the lines of force through
solid conductor*, for, as long as we confine ourselves to two dimen
sions of space, we may have flat conductors of any shape whatever,
liut it does something more, for by making the film rather deeper in
some places than others, more particles arrange themselves there,
and the lines of fl.iw will naturally tend in the direction of the
deeper p >rtion. This will give the stream lines identically the
same shape ns the magnetic or electrical curves which encounter in
their paths a body of less resistance, for instance, a para-magnctic
body.
     If, on the other hand, at these points tho film is made rather
             * 'Experimental Researches in Kleotricity,' vol. i. p. 32.

62                    Professor H. S. Htle-Shaw                [Feb. ltf.
thinner, less particles will be able to dispose of themselves in the
shallow portion of the film, and hence the lines of flow will be
pushed away from this portion, giving us exactly the samo forms
as magnetic lines of force in a magnetic field in proximity to a dia-
magnetic body.
    Here, again, mathematical methods have enabled lines of actual
flow to be predicted, and you may compare the actual flow for the
case of a cylindrical para-magnetic body, which was worked out some
years ago.
    You will doubtless not be inclined to question the practical vnlud
of stream-lines in the subject which we have just been considering,
because, unlike the flow of an actual liquid, magnetic lines of force
can never be themselves seen, and because there is no doubt ns to
tho correspondence of the directions to the lines of a perfect I quid.
It was the conception of these lines in the mind of Faraday, and mora
particularly their being cut by a moving wire, that enabled him to
realise tho nature of tho subject more clearly than any other man at
the time, and to do so much towaids the rapid development of electrical
science and its practical applications.
    When we come to consider tho relation of the study of the motion
of a perfect liquid with hydromechanics and naval architecture, it
must be a lmitted that the matter is a difficult one. I'r ibably one of
tho most perplexing things in engineering science is the absence of
all apparent connection between bigher treatises on hydrodynamics
and tho vast array of works on practical hydraulics. The natural
connection between the treatises of mathematicians and experimental
researches of engineers would appear to be obvious, but very little, if
any such connection exists in reality, and while at overy step electrical
applications owe much to tho theories which are conrmon to electricity
and hydromechanics, wo look in vain for such applications in con
nection with the actual flow of water.
    Now the reason for this appears to be the immense difference
between the flow of an actual liquid and that of a perfect one owing
to the property of viscosity. A comparison of the various experiments
which you have seen to some extent indicates this.
    In the first place let us consider for a moment some of the things
which would happen if water were a perfect liquid. In such a case,
a ship would experience a very different amount of resistance, because,
although waves would be raisud, owing to the reasons which we have
already seen, tho ch ef causes of resistance, viz. skin friction and
eddying motion, would he entirely absent, and of courso a submarine
b >at at a certain depth would experience no resistance at all, since
tho pressures fore and aft would be equal. On the other hand,
there would be no waves raised by the action of tho wind, and there
would be no tidal flow, but to make up for this rivers would flow with
incredible velocity, since there would bo no retarding forces owing to
tho friction of the banks. But the rivers themselves would soon
cjaso to flow because there would be no rainfall such as exists at

1899.]              on the Motion of a Perfect Liquid.                   68
present, since it is due to viscosity that the rain is distributed, instead
of foiling npon the earth in a solid mass when condensed. In a word,
it may be said that the absence of viscosity in water would result in
changes which it is impossible to realise.
     We may now briefly try to consiler the difference between
practical hydraulics and the mathematical treatment of a perfect
liquid. The earliest attempts to investigate in a scientific way the
flow of water appears to have been made by a Roman engineer about
1800 years ago, an effort being made to find the law for the flow of
water from an orifice. For moro than 1500 years, however, even the
simple principle of flow according to which the velocity of efflux varies
as the square of the head, or what is the same thing, the height of
surface above the orifice varies as tho square of tho velocity, remained
unknown. Torricelli, who discovered this, did so as the result of
observing that a jet of water rose nearly to the height of the surface
of the body of water fr>m which it issued, and concluded therefore
that it obeyed the then recently discovered law of all falling bodies.
     Though it was obvious that this law did not exactly hold, it wns a
long time before it was realised that it was the friction or viscosity of
liquids that caused so marked a deviation from the simple theory.
Since then problems in practical hydraulics, whether in connection
with the flow in rivers or pipes, or the resistance of ships, have largely
consisted in the determination of the amount of deviation from tho
 foregoing simple law.
     About 100 years ago it was discovered that the res:stancc of
friction varies nearly in accordance with the simple law of Torricelli
 and also—although for a totally different reason —the resistances due
 to a sudden contraction or enlargment of cross section of channel or
to any sudden obstructions appear to follow nearly the same law.
 Now it is extremely convenient for reasons which will be understood
 by students of hydraulics, to treat all kinds of resistance as following
 the same law, viz square of velocity which the variation of head or
height of surface has shown to do. But this is far from being exact,
and an enormous amount of labour has conroquently been expended
in finding for all conceivable conditions in actual work tables of
co-efficients or empirical expressions which arc required for calcula
tions of various practical questions. Such dat j are continually boing
accumulated in connection with the flow of water in rivers and pipes,
for hydraulic motors and naval architecture. This is the practical
side of the question.
     On the other hand, eminent mathematicians since the days of
Newton and the discovery of the method of the calculus, have been
pursuing the investigation of the behaviour of a perfect liquid. The
mathematical methods which I have already alluded t > as being so
wonderful, have however scircely been brought to bear with any
apparent result upon tho behaviour of a viscous fluid. Indeed, the
 mathematician has not been really able to adopt the method of tho
 practical investigator, and deal with useful forms of bodies such as

64                 The Motion of a Perfect Liquid.              [Feb. 10,
those of actual ships, or of liquid moving through ordinary channels
of varying section, even for the case of a perfect liquid, but he has
had to take those cases, and they arc very few indeed, that he has
been ablo to discover wheh fit in with his mathematical powers of
treatment.
    This brief summary may possibly serve to indicate the nature of
the difficulties which I have pointed out, and will show you the vast
field there yet lies open for research in connection with the subject of
hydromechanics, and the groat reception which awaits the discovery
of a theoretical method of completely dealing with viscous liquids,
instead of having recourse as at present principally to empirical
formula based on the simple law already alluded to.
    We may, however, console ourselves with the thought, that in the
application of the laws of motion themselvi s to any terrestrial matters;
the friction of bodies must always bo taken into account, and ronders it
necessary, that we should commence by studying the ideal conditions*
In this as in other matters the naval architect and engineer must always
endeavour as fur as possible to base their considerations and work upon
the secure foundation of scientific knowledge, making allowances for
disturbing causes, which then cease to bo the sourco of perplexity and
confusion. From this point of view, the stuily of the behaviour of a
perfect liquid, even when no such foim of matter appears to exist, has
an interest for the practical man in spite of the deviation of actual
liquids from such ideal conditions. If the truth must be told, it is
such a deviation from the simple and ideal conditions that really con
stitute the work of a professional man, and it is only practical expe
rience which, based upon sound technical knowledge, enables 50,000
tons of steel to be made to span the Firth of Forth, Niagara to be
harnessed to do the work of 100.C00 horses, or an ' Oceanic ' to be slid
into the sea with as little misgiving as the launch of a fishing boat.
     I have, I am afraid, brought you only to the threshold of a vast
subject, and in doing so, have possibly employed reasoning of too
elementary a kind. After all, I may plead that I have followed the
dictum of Faraday, who said, " If assumptions must be made, it is
better to assumo as little as possible." It I have assumed too little
knowledge on your part, it is because of the difificultias I have found
in the subject myself. If I have left more obscure than I have been
able to make clear, it is consoling to think how many centuries were
required to discover even what is known at the present time, and we
may well be forgiven if we cannot grasp at once results which repre
sent the life-work of some of the greatest men.

1899.]                Qeorge the Third as a Collector.               65
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 17, 1899.
Sib Fkedkbick Bbamwell, Babt., D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S., Honorary
               Secretary and Vice-President, in the Chair.
               Riohabd R. Holmes, Esq., M.V.O. F.8.A.
                     Qeorge the Third as a Collector.
Thk subject of this discourse I have chosen particularly because
it is one which has in most histories either been passed over entirely,
or treated with indifference. It is generally disposed of in a few curt
phrases taken from the pages of contemporary diarists, repeated by
every subsequent writer as containing everything necessary to be
recorded of the King's tastes and epitomising his character with
epigrammatic smartness, but seldom verified by examination or research.
The stormy political quarrels at home and the complication of events
abroad have combined to cast into oblivion the early cultivated tastes
and pursuits of the King, as in later years the dark clouds of disease
obscured the finer workings of his brain.
     To appreciate fully the extent and value of the collections by
 which George III. has permanently enriched the possessions of the
 Crown, it is as well to consider briefly the condition in which His
 Majesty found the ancestral treasure of his Royal house when he
 succeeded his grandfather on the throne. Spoliation and robbery
 had played sad havoc among them, and it is only wonderful that
 anything of value was left at all. The nation perhaps may be con
 gratulated that, on the foundation of the British Museum, the ancient
 library of the Kings of England was transferred there by George II.,
 and so escaped the fate of many of the treasures of the Crown. In a
 note prefixed to a MS. catalogue of the pictures of Queen Anne by
 Horace Walpole, who once owned the volume, he says : —
     M As several pictures mentioned in the following catalogue have
 not appeared in any of the palaces within my memory I imagine
 many were taken away by different persons between the death of
 Queen Anne and the arrival of George I. Henrietta Lady Suffolk
 told me that Queen Caroline never had any of Qneen Anne's jewels
 tint one pearl necklace. George I., who hated her and his son, might
 give what he found to the Duchess of Kendal. Her niece, Lady
 Chesterfield, certainly had several large diamonds. Catherine of
 Braganza, widow of Charles II., carried away several of the pictures
 of the Crown of Portugal. A Lord Chamberlain pawned the Vandyke
 hangings at Houghton to a banker, who, many years after, thoy not
      Vol. XVI. (No. 93.)                                      f

 60                      Mr. Richard R. Holmes                  [Feb. 17,
 being redeemed, sold them to my father. . . . When all the stores at
 Somerset House were brought by order of George III. to Kensington
 that His Majesty might chooso some to replace what he had taken
 from Windsor and Hampton Court for the Queen's house in St. James's
 Park, he gave the residue, as they said, to Earl Gower, Lord Chamber
 lain, and his deputy, Sir Robert Wilmot, and tho refuse they gave to
 Mr. Town, under-housekeeper at Kensington ; but as he was servant
 to my sister, Lady Mary Churchill, then housekeeper, and as I had the
 care of that palace during her absence in France, I said, ' Mr. Town,
 the Lord Chamberlain may take or give what he pleases, but you are
 under my sister, take none, leave them here,' and they were left."
     In another note Walpole goes on to say of one who has not
 generally been credited with much taste for art, " Frederick, Prince
 of Wales, was very desirous of reassembling all he could of the collec
 tion of Charles I. He bought many fine pictures, particularly the
 principal, of Mr. Humphry Edwin's collection ; " and in mentioning
 the collections of George III. he proceeds to say, " he inherited from
 his father Prince Frederick's collection of miniatures, among which
 were Dr. Mead's admirable works of fraac Oliver, namely, the whole-
 length of Sir Philip Sydney, and the heads of Queen Elizabeth, the
 Queen of Scots, Ben Jonson, and Oliver himself."
     This gossip of Horace Walpole's, which is dated from 1783, 1 have
 quoted as an introduction to my subject, and to give an idea of the
 chaotic condition in which the collections were at the beginning of
 the reign.
     When George III. succeeded to the throne he was still young, and
 had been brought up in comparative seclusion by his mother, the
 widowed Princess of Wales. He was then entirely under her influence
and that of Lord Bute, who, whatever may be said of his political
conduct, was a man of no mean intellect or culture, being devoted to
literature and the fine arts, and passionately fond of botany. He
 was the constant friend and companion of the young Prince of Wales,
and by him the tastes of tho future king were in a great measure
formed.
     The dominant fashion of the time at the King's accession was the
study of classical antiquity, led by the Society of Dilettanti, which
had then been formed about a quarter of a century. George III. did not
follow in the footsteps of this convivial club, though his agents secured
for him a very important collection of works relating to antiquity,
which will be mentioned later. His first thought was to form a
library, which should replace the collection which, as I have already
mentioned, his predecessor had given to the British Museum. But
even before he had formulated this project, he had enriched the
National Museum by the gift of the Thomason Collection—a curious
and unique assemblage of English literature printed during the period
of the Civil War—containing about 33,000 separate articles published
between 1640 and 1662, and bound in over 2000 volumes. The col
lection had been valued at some thousands, and after having been for

1899.]              on George the Third as a Collector.               67
sale for many years, was bought by the King for the trifling sum of
300i. and given to the British Museum, where its contents are known
as " the King's Tracts or Pamphlets." This seems to have been the
first purchase made by the King, who now began to form that splendid
collection which has ultimately found its own resting place side by
side with the earlier Royal Library in the great storehouse in Great
Kussell Street.
     In 1762 the fine library of Consul Smith was bought for the King.
Joseph Smith had settled in early life at Venice, as a merchant, but
he was principally a buyer and seller of works of art. He was
omnivorous in his tastes, and his library was a mass of bibliograph
ical treasures, which he had obtained by scouring all Italy in search
of the rarest specimens of the early printers. For the collection
George III. gave about lO.OOOZ., and he then proceeded to build upon
this foundation that collection which has hitherto remained as the
finest private library ever brought together.
      In the preface to the Catalogue of the King's Library, my prede
 cessor, Sir Frederick Barnard, gives an account of the manner in
 which its increase was developed, and the sage advice which con
 tributed to its welfare. " Dr. Samuel Johnson was one of the earliest
 and most zealous promoters of its success ; his visits to the library
 were frequent, during which he appeared to take pleasure in instruct
 ing youth and inexperience by friendly advice and useful information.
 At one of these visits he was surprised by the sudden and unexpected
 appearance of the King, and His Majesty was pleased to enter into a
 long conversation with him upon the library and various other sub
 jects, which from recollection has been so frequently and minutely
  detailed that it is only necessary to add that the forcible impression
  which such a distinguished attention left upon his mind disposed him
  readily to embrace an opportunity of manifesting his zeal for the
  accomplishment of the plan upon which His Majesty had done him
  the honour to consult him." A part of this plan was the despatch of
  Mr. Barnard to the Continent to acquire further books, and he re
  ceived from Dr. Johnson an admirable letter, also printed in the same
  preface, which may be read with advantage by every librarian.
       In the half century which passed between the date of this letter
  and the death of the King, unremitting attention was paid to the in
  crease of the library. Nor did the long indisposition of His Majesty
  suspend its progress ; many large and choice acquisitions were made
  for it abroad, but perhaps the most valuable was that of the superb
   series of examples of the press of Caxton, which was added to the
   shelves by gift, bequest, or purchase. They numbered in all thirty-
   nine, including one ' 'J 'he Doctrinal of Sapience,' at that time, and
   for many years after, the only book known printed by Caxton on
   vellum. This and some other volumes, personal gifts to the King,
   such as the sumptuous copy of the Mainz Psalter of 1437, the earliest
   printed book with a date, are still preserved in the Royal Library at
   Windsor.
                                                               r 2

  68                       Mr. Richard 12. Holmes                [Feb. 17,
      The total number of volumes in the library at the time of the
 King's decease was between eighty and ninety thousand, all fine, in
 good condition, and splendidly bound. It was feared at one time that
 the whole might leave the country, as overtures for its acquisition
 wore made by a great foreign potentate ; but the wise counsels of the
 Ministry of the new Sovereign had their weight, and this noble col
 lection is now worthily housed in the National Museum, where it is
 kept apart as the " King's Library."
     Under the same roof is also preserved the great Numismatic Cabinet
 formed by the King, and presented to the nation in 1823 by George IV.
 It contained specimens of Greek, Roman, English and foreign coins
 and medals, many of singular beauty, and of the greatest rarity. These
 are no longer kept by themselves in one collection, as in the case of
 the books, but have been dispersed through the various cabinets of
 the Museum, according to their proper classification, but each one
 has a special ticket with it, showing the source from which it came.
 The value of the whole must have been very great, amounting to at
 least sixty thousand pounds.
     At the same time that the King was laying the foundation of his
 library, he was making other and no less important additions to his
 treasures. In 1762, a gentleman writing from Rome says, " Nothing
 gives me more satisfaction than to find so many fine things purchased
 for His Majosty the King of Great Britain lately in Italy. He is
 now master of the best collection of drawings in the world, having
 purchased two or three capital collections in Rome, the last belong
 ing to Cardinal Albani, for 14,000 crowns, consisting of S00 large
 volumes, one-third of which are original drawings by the first Masters,
 the others, collections of the most capital engravings ; and lately there
 has been purchased for His Majesty all the museum of Mr. Smith,
 consisting of his library, prints, drawings, designs, &c. I think it is
 highly probable that the Arts and Sciences will flourish in Great
 Britain under the protection and encouragement of a monarch who is
 himself an excellent judge of merit and taste in the vertu." Sir
 Horace Mann tells the same tale in one of his letters from Florence
to Horace Walpole. " Have you heard what a quantity of things have
been bought and are buying for the King ? Cardinal Albani's col
lection of drawings and prints were paid 14,000 crowns (about three
thousand guineas). Mr. Smith's whole collection and library has
been purchased at the price of 20,0001. sterling, and Mr. Dalton is
now in Venice packing it up. Many expensive things of that sort
were lost in a ship that took fire at sea some months ago, the crew of
which saved their lives by becoming prisoners to the Spaniards at
Carthagena. In short, I believe that there is no ship departs from
any port in Italy that has not something for the King." It was at
that time a splendid opportunity for a collector ; the artistic treasures
amassed in the seventeenth century by Princes and Cardinal nephews,
by the Barberini, Giustiniani, Odescalchi, and others, were, owing to
the increasing pecuniary embarrassments of the great families, being
dispersed in overy direction, though much, particularly of sculpture,

1899.]                on George the Third as a Collector.             69
was secured by the Papal agents for the museums of Rome. Many
marbles belonging to Cardinal Albani had gone to Dresden, but his
collection of drawings was, by the agency of James Adam, one of the
well-known brothers, secured for George EEL The collection had
been started in the previous century by the Commendatore Cassiano
del Pozzo, and among its treasures was a series of volumes of par
ticular value, as preserving at least, in the form of copies, many works
of classic art which have since disappeared. Nine large volumes con
tain elaborate drawings of ancient bas-reliefs, and besides these are
several volumes filled with the careful studies of Francesco and Pietro
Santa BartolL Two volumes, also, are filled with drawings of the
Christian Antiquities of Rome, including remains of mural paintings,
and, what is of very much more value, careful drawings of the great
mosaics of the churches, drawn with infinite elaboration before the
time when these most valuable works were almost entirely ruined by
neglect or restoration.
      Valuable as these volumes are, the series of original drawings by
old masters is far more precious, and with those which were already
in the possession of the Crown, makes the Royal Collection at Windsor
one of the most important in Europe. In number they amount to
considerably over 20,000, and comprise many of the finest works of
 the greatest men.
      Holbein was here already represented by the unique series of over
 eighty heads drawn by him from the life while he was painting at the
 Court of Henry VIII. ; but these must be passed over, as they form
 no part of the collection of George III. The same also may be said in
 part of the drawings and MSS. of Leonazdi da Vinci, which are the
  greatest pride of the Windsor Library, as these with the Holbeins
 had been unearthed from a closet at Kensington by Queen Caroline,
  wife of George IL, and by her were well-known and appreciated.
  These precious works of Leonardo were largely increased by George
  IH., whether from the Albani Collection just mentioned, or from
  the Bonfigoli Collection, which formed part of that of Consul Smith,
  or from one of the numerous additions made from time to time by
  Dalton, there is no means of ascertaining. Thus augmented, the
  Eoyal Library now contains far more of the work of the great master
   than the contents of all other collections put together. It is here a
  pleasure to note that these MSS. are now being published in facsimile,
  though some time must elapse before the work is completed.
       The original number of volumes in which the mass of drawings
  of Old Masters was bound was about 250. Unfortuna*-jglifor the
  present generation, whose taste is formed on different models from
  those of a century ago, thirty-four of these volumes are filled by
  the studies of Domenichino, a highly respectable craftsman, some
  scores more contain an interminable series of Masters of the
  Bolognese School, Caraccis, Guido, Guercino and the like, but of
   these it is useless to enter into particulars. Of the earlier and of
   the more important masters, the drawings have been removed from
   the volumes in which they were exposed to much injury by rubbing,

  70                      Mr. Richard R. Holmes                   [Feb. 17,
  and by order of the late Prince Consort have been mounted so as to
  ensure their safety, and are kept in portfolios. Among these are
  drawings by Angelico, Perugino, Pinturicchio, Signorelli, Mantegna,
  and Fra Bartolommeo. The drawings by Eaphael are numerous, and
  some may be classed among the finest specimens of his work now
  extant.
       Second only in importance to the unique collection of drawings
  by Leonardo comes the series by Michael Angelo. In fact it is no
  exaggeration to declare that until the student has seen these purchases
  of George III. he can have no proper insight into the marvellous
  power of that extraordinary man, for in no other collection are to bo
  found specimens so complete in design and of such minute and elaborate
  finish.
      Great artists of other countries such as Durer, Claude, Poussin,
  with many of the Dutch School, are also represented by choice
  examples.
      Of the pictures collected by or paintod by order of the King, a
  large number remain in the Royal Palaces ; the historical pictures
  painted by West for His Majesty commended themselves at the time
  to a few, but are now forgotten. The King's best bestowal of his
  patronage was upon the portrait painters who flourished during his
  reign, and were tho money value of the portraits as they exist to be
  computed, the amount would be fabulous. The full-length portraits
  by Beechey and Reynolds are of great importance, supplemented by
  those by Romney and Hoppner ; but the principal treasures are tho
  portraits by Gainsborough, which are of exquisite purity and freshness,
  the series of ovals of the King and Queen, and their children in a
  series, being almost matchless in charm of execution.
      Whilst encouraging the painters of his own day, George III., by
  his purchase from Consul Smith, enriched the galleries of the Crown
  by a number of the works of the Venetian painter Antonio Canal,
  commonly known as Canaletto. Those who only know this Master
  by his smaller works, have very little idea of the magnificent qualities
  which he could develop. Smith was the possessor of most of his
  finest pictures ; he bought everything which came from the Master's
  easel. For the smaller works he seems to have had a ready sale, but
  the greater and finer pictures remained on his hands, and these came
  all into the possession of George III. Of the fifty pictures thus
  added, all are fine, but some twenty are of exceptional size, and of
  equal power and beauty. With the pictures came also a volume of
  drawings, 150 in number, many of them studies for these pictures.
      The King was also a great admirer of miniatures, and added to
  his collection many of the works of Cosway and Ozias Humphry, to
  whom he gave many commissions, and their works are not an un
  worthy supplement to the great historical series which is one of the
  treasures of the library at Windsor. In the same room where these
  exquisite specimens of a lost art are preserved, is stored the vast group
  of engravings also collected by tho King. Few public museums, and
  perhaps no private cabinet, can rival this in the number and value
\

1899.]                 on George III. as a Collector.                    71
of its engraved portraits. In its portfolios the Kings and Queens of
the Empire, with their families, are represented by every known engrav
ing which could be acquired, many of the utmost rarity and value,
gome perhaps unique, and all specially selected for beauty of im
pression. After these come in due order the Sovereigns of other
Boyal houses ; nobles, statesmen and warriors, and others, all com
bine to swell this wonderful gallery, which embraces, or attempts to
include, the likeness of every one of every country whose features
were considered worthy to be handed down to posterity.
     In addition to the engraved portraits, there was collected by His
Majesty a vast number of engravings, which are arranged under the
different schools of painters whose works they represent. Of these
the most complete and important are the engravings by Hogarth, and
those after Sir Joshua Reynolds. There is also a nearly complete
collection of the 3000 plates engraved by Hollar.
     This is a very hasty and imperfect list of the works of art which
George III. collected, and has left behind him among the treasures of
the Crown, bat it by no means exhausts the subjects in which he took
a keen and practical interest ; such as his love of Botany, and the
encouragement he gave to Sir Joseph Banks ; his studies in scientific
agriculture ; and the introduction to this country of the breed of
merino sheep. The foundation by him of the Royal Academy must
on no account be omitted, nor the gift to it of over 5000Z. from his
privy purse, besides other grants and privileges.
     From what has been said it must be acknowledged that the man
who could devote so much attention and energy to the collection of
 so vast an accumulation of worthy objects, had tastes and aims of a
 high character ; and here it may be mentioned that that generally
 admirable work the Dictionary of National Biography has in its notice
 of the King made a notable departure from its usual accuracy and
 impartiality in recording that "his taste was execrable." This
 sweeping condemnation is founded entirely on the report given by
 Miss Burney of one of the earliest conversations which she held
 with the King, who was then, as it seems, endeavouring to draw out a
 lady who was shortly to be introduced into the personal household of
 his Queen. It must be said here that a better and more appreciative
 opinion is given of the King by an authority far higher, Dr. Johnson,
 who, after has first interview, said to Mr. Barnard, " Sir, they may talk
 of the King as they will, but he is the finest gentleman I have ever
 •sen." He reiterated to his friends his admiration of the King's
 Ulents and charms, and his testimony is more worthy of respect than
 the hastily jotted down notes of an exceedingly self-conscious and
 somewhat spiteful spinster. It is only bare justice to the memory of
  George III. that the facts which have been thus enumerated and not
  always remembered to his credit, should be even imperfectly put on
  record.                                                     [R. R. H.]

72                       Professor Oliver Lodge                 [Feb. 24,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 24, 1899.
      Sib William Cbookes, F.R.S., Vice-President, in the Chair.
             Pbofessob Oliveb Lodge, D.Sc. LL.D. F.R.S.
                                 Coherers.
A cohebeb is an instrument which responds to electric waves
somewhat in the samo manner as a microphonia responds to sound
waves.
     A coherer is a light metallic contact or series of contacts
introduced into an electric circuit of low voltage containing also a
galvanometer or other signalling instrument. A steady current is
 normally unable to pass, or only very feebly, by reason of the high
resistance of the bad joint, but under the influence of a sudden change
 of potential, or an electric jerk, the resistance of the joint suddenly
 diminishes, transmitting a considerable current, and signalling the
 arrival of tho electric wave which may have caused the jerk. A
 slight shako or tap is sufficient to reduce the coherer to its former
high resistance.
     All metals do not behave in the same way, but the majority thus
 show an increase of coherence under electric influence, and a sudden
 decrease under mechanical influence. A few metals (e.g. silver)
 appear to behave in an opposite direction.
      The earliest instances of electrical cohesion exhibited by the
 lecturer was the small vertical fountain issuing from a smooth
 orifice, which was found by Lord Kayleigh to scatter its drops by
 mutual collision except when they were under the influence of an
 electric field such as that due to a piece of sealing-wax held within a
 yard or two of the place where the jet breaks into drops. Another
 variety was the pair of horizontal jets, which, when they impinge,
 unite or rebound according as there is or is not a difference of
 potential between them of one or two volts. A pair of soap bubbles
 in contact were also shown by Mr. Boys to cohere and become one
 directly a stick of sealing-wax was produced in their neighbourhood.
      The two halves of a mercury globule on a flat surface, cut into
 two with a greasy knife, and the parts connected to the poles of a
  battery, were found by Lord Rayleigh and by Mr. Appleyard to
  re-unite directly they were connected to the terminals of one or two
 Grove cells ; a slight delay in the union suggesting that a film of
  foreign matter was being squeezed out from between the globules
  under the force of electrostatic attraction.

1899.]                         on Coherers.                            73
     The electrified dust and smoke experiment, whereby a thick fog
in a chamber can be cleared by the discharge from a point, as
observed by Lodge and Clark in 1883, was also shown ; and the
lightning guard experiment with a conple of Leyden jars and a
galvanometer and two surfaces in light contact, by which the lecturer
observed electrical cohesion of metals in 1888, was exhibited,
together with a couple of resonant Leyden jars, one of them charged
and sparking, the other responding by closing the circuit of a local
battery and ringing a bell ; which bell, by its vibration, could effect
the tapping back.
     The discovery that this property of metals served as the best
detector for Hertz waves was made by Monsieur Edouard Branly,
Professor of Physics in the Catholic Institute of Paris ; and some of
Monsieur Branly's original apparatus was exhibited, especially a
piece of ebonite smeared over with porphyrised copper so as to form
a high resistance, which fluctuated in value between certain limits
under the influence of alternate electric sparks and tapping. A
Branly filings-tube connected to a speaking galvanometer was shown
receiving signals from a Hertz emitter at a distance, the coherer being
tapped back automatically in one of many alternative ways. A
recent experiment of Signor Tomasina, displaying the effect of
electric cohesion was projected on the screen :—A vertical wire about
nine inches long had its end immersed in filings and was slowly
 raised. If a sphere of suitable size were sparking in the neighbour
 hood, between polished knobs, the electric jerks collected by the
 vertical wire would give, as Hertz showed, minute perhaps ultra-
 microscopic sparks to anything brought close to its end. The filings
 subjected to this action are found to cohere, and can be pulled up
 in a narrow string, of length depending on the steadiness of the
 movement.
      (M. Tomasina has recently ropeated this experiment under liquid,
  and obtained chains of filings several inches long.)
       Another variety of the cohesion experiment under electrical in
  fluence, was shown by the lecturer in a form which suggested that
  electrostatic attraction played a considerable part. A very fine
  platinum wire was suspended in a glass box, with its lower end close
  to a flat and highly polished facet of a brass knob. On looking at
  this wire under a microscope, it and its image in the polished faco
  could both be seen, a slight distance apart ; or they could be projected
  with a strong lens upon a screen. Under the action of electric waves,
  the gap between the wire and its image sharply disappeared, and the
  wire was seen clinging to the knob until tapped back. A wire of
  this kind constitutes an extremely sensitive electroscope, but for this
  purpose the coherence which sets in (unless silver or some such non-
  cohering metal is employed) is inconvenient.
      Finally a layer of filings on a horizontal glass surface, with tin
  foil electrodes, was projected on the screen, and subjected to strong
  electric influence, under which they were seen to movo so as to close

74                Professor Oliver Lodge on Coherers.         [Fob. 24,
up gaps, and were then found to have cohered ; for if the superfluous
filings were then gently removed, a continuous chain of irregular
shape remained reaching from one terminal to the other.               By
suitably choosing the filings their motion when subjected to very
slight electric sparks can readily thus be seen, and if subsequently a
point be used to sweep them sideways, they are found to be quite in
a different condition to ordinary unelectrified filings, for they are
matted together into a sort of coherent mass just like the dust
particles in a bell-jar under the influence of an electrified point, or
somewhat like iron filings in a magnetic field. A stronger spark often
destroys this cohesion, scattering the particles asunder, and produc
ing somewhat the same effect as a mechanical tap, though for a
different reason. Filings thus electrically disorganised are not
usually in a sensitive condition. A set of large brass shavings on a
flat surface, with sparks sent through them, at first show lines of
spark in all directions, but gradually under the cohering influence
are able to close up and presently conduct the discharge without
visible manifestation.
    Thus the process going on more or less in coherers, either the
single-point or the multiple point kind, can be made to some extent
apparent to the eye.
     Some of the old apparatus used by the lecturer to send signals by
Hertz waves and coherers over small distances (the now so-called
wireless telegraphy) which had been exhibited to the Institution on
Friday evening, June 1st, 1894, were once more exhibited, the re
ceiver being carried about into different parts of the room : but this
method of signallmg has become well known and developed under
the auspices of Signor Marconi, who has succeeded in telegraphing
by its means across the sea over distances up to twenty or thirty
miles.
                                                              [O. L.]

 1899.]              Sir Frederick Pollock on King Alfred.                        75
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, March 3, 1899.
   Sib Hsxby Thompson, Babt., F.R.C.S. F.R.A.S., Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
        Sie Fbkdmuck Polloce, Bart., M.A. LL.D. F.S.A. M.R.I.
                                    King Alfred.
Thi position of King Alfred * in English history—one might almost
say in European history—is unique. He is the first commanding
figure in the roll of English princes after the Saxon conquest of
South Britain, and after a thousand years there is still none greater.
Other kings and statesmen have worked on a larger scale, with moro
powerful instruments, and for more brilliant immediate results. But
none has wrought more strenuously or more successfully with the
means at his command. Others, such as Henry II., have left tho
record of lives as full of activity and public zeal ; others, again, like
Simon de Montfort and Edward L, have worked long and valiantly for
aims which on the whole were noble, with judgment which on the
whole was wise, and by means which, if not always or altogether
laudable in themselves, were no worse, or indeed better, than those in
common use and allowance at the time. But very few, if any, have
remained so free as Alfred from any kind of censure, or have actually
stood higher and not lower in the esteem of later generations as their
circumstances came to be more fully understood. This can be said of
Alfred, and said without reserve. A blameless life, if we mean there
by a life not chargeable with definite wrongs or vices, or with culpable
 incompetence, is not necessarily a matter for great praise in a private
citizen. Often it imports little more than the absence of temptation ;
 sometimes nothing better than other men's usual ignorance of his
intimate character and relations. It may even be tho result of an
 unworthy shrinking from difficult or dangerous tasks which might have
 brought great temptations, but also great occasions, and in this case it
 may deserve only the faintest degree of external approbation, or rather
 should be ranked with the deceitful, so-called good works which have
     * The contemporary form " Alfred " is preserved even in Asser's Latin. Our
  modern literary form gives the correct pronunciation to modern readers, and I see
  no reason for departing from it ; though, if English spelling is ever reformed, wo
  certainly ought to restore the Anglo-Saxon notation ' ae ' for our peculiar short
  vowel, and also p and % for the two distinct sounds expressed by ' th' (I am
  aware that they are used indiscriminately in A.-S. writings). On the other hand,
  I preserve zblthelwulf, ic., because those names have no accepted forms in
  modem English.

76                        Sir Frederick Pollock                 [March 3,
the nature of sin. But to live, work, and fight in the full light of day,
a ruler and leader of men ; to dare greatly for great ends, and accom
plish them ; and with all this to leave a fame so clear that no man
dares lift a voice against it ; this is not only good and of laudable
example, but an evident mark of greatness. And this is how it stands
with our King Alfred. He was tried in many ways and failed in none.
He was neither a mere exemplar of negative virtues like Edward the
Confessor, nor a speculative reformer with inopportune good intentions.
Many things came to his hand to do, and every one of them was well
done. He is not chargeable, so far as we know, with any one serious
error of judgment. It is true that both the military and the ] olitical
details of the time are in many ways obscure to us ; and it is certain
that Alfred had to suffer one great reverse. But if there had been
any ground for supposing that want of any possible precaution on the
 King's part contributed to it, we may be sure that some record or
tradition of it would be preserved. Even the best of rulers must
make some enemies if he does his duty without fear. Alfred's
enemies could find nothing to say against him, or, at the very least,
nothing that was plausible enough to be remembered. We can have
no stronger proof that there was really nothing of the kind to be
said.
     The bare chronicle and abridgment of King Alfred's deeds is much,
 but to see them in their full greatness we must try to realise in what
 manner of world a King of the West-Saxons had to reign in the ninth
 century. It was a world of hardship and peril ; not occasional, but
 constant, such as had not been known in a great part of Europe within
 historical times. The old order of the Roman Empire had broken up.
 The new order of mediaeval Christendom—itself to be swept away in
 the convulsions of religious wars when its work was done —was not
 yet come to the birth, and the new invasions of the heathen North
 men threatened to bring a worse chaos than the first. Only the Church,
 with such remnants of Roman political and official tradition as it had
 been able to preserve, was a stable power making for civilisation, and
 saving learning from total extinction. Hobbes's great epigram on the
 Papacy—" the ghost of the deceased Roman Empire sitting crowned
 upon the grave thereof "—is not fairly applicable to the early mediaeval
 Church, which was really preserving the remnant of life till better
 times. The best that can be said on the whole for the dark ages, as
 they are commonly and justly called, is that there was still some light
 in lie Church. But Hobbes's equally well-known description of what
 " is consequent to a time of war, where every man is enemy to every
 man," might be taken for a not highly exaggerated description of the
 dark ages at their worst :—
      " In such condition, there is no place for industry, because the fruit
 thereof is uncertain, and consequently no culture of the earth ; no
 navigation, nor use of the commodities that may be imported by sea ;
 no commodious building ; no instruments of moving, and removing,
 such things as require much force ; no knowlodge of the face of the

  1899.]                         on King Alfred.                        T7
 earth ; no account of time ; no arts ; no letters ; no society ; and
 which is worst of all, continual fear and danger of violent death ; and
 the life of man solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short."
      England was still parcelled out into several kingdoms, whose
 dynastic intrigues and mutual jealousies blinded their rulers to the
 common danger already growing upon them from the Northmen.
 Some of these kingdoms had come out of heathendom at a time not
 very far back. Two hundred years before Alfred's birth the most
 powerful prince in Britain was a heathen, Penda of Mercia. This
 was, indeed, half a century after Augustine's mission to Kent. But
Augustine's work had not run smooth, and the final triumph of
 Christianity came from the North. It was late in the seventh century
 when the Church was definitely established in England, mainly by the
work of Theodore of Tarsus, under the supremacy of Rome.
     Little more than a hundred years passed when the' new civilisation
 of England was surrounded by fresh heathen enemies. In the second
quarter of the ninth century a great Viking expedition, which had been
preceded by sundry smaller and inconclusive raids, conquered all the
northern part of Ireland. The Northmen could not, indeed, retain a
permanent hold on more than the maritime stations of Dublin, Water-
ford and Limerick. But their power resting on these bases of opera
tion was formidable for more than two centuries.* About the middle
of the same century—soon after King Alfred's birth—there began
systematic attacks on the coasts of Western Europe, which continued
through a generation of alarm and disaster. The Vikings were
settled at the mouths of the Rhine and the Scheldt ; they harried the
lands of the Seine and the Loire, and—until Alfred ordered things
better—had full command of the Channel and the North Sea. Warn
ing had not been wanting, for successive raids, apparently in consider
able force (834-837), were repulsed by Alfred's grandfather, Egberht
of Wessex. But, in Alfred's infancy, the Danes began to settle down
for winter quarters in England. In 851 London was ruined ; in 860
—when Alfred was old enough to hear and understand the tale—
Winchester was plundered. iEthelwulf, Alfred's father, was a well-
meaning but feeble prince, it seems, a kind of pious founder born out
of due time. He gave his thoughts to enlarging his offerings to the
Church when the question was whether the Danes would leave any
gifts for the King to offer, or any churches to receive them, and he
talked of remitting dues when the kingdom needed all its resources
in men and wealth. At best those resources were barely adequato
for the need. Population was scattered ; great parts of the country
were still covered with uncleared forests; communication by land
wag so slow and precarious that the rude navigation of those days
was better wherever it was possible ; the warlike habits of the old
    * Keary, 'The Vikings in Western Christendom,' c. vi. Even after the
Norman Couqaest, a Danish fleet from Ireland did much damage on the South
Devon coast, which is not only recorded bnt estimated in Doomsday Book.

78                               Sir Frederick Pollock                    [March 3,
English invaders were forgotten ; there was little skill and less disci
pline, and every kind of authority was weak. The Danish foemen,
compact, mobile, seafaring, expert in the wars by which they lived,
and trained by necessity to obey their chiefs at least in the day of
battle, had the advantage at all points. It was Alfred's task to redress
the balance—a task demanding both genius and perseverance.
      In such a world, in the year 849, as we are told,* Alfred was
born, the youngest son of his father .ffithelwulf. In his boyhood
he was sent to Rome in great state, and some ceremony took place
which was afterwards magnified into the Pope having anointed
him as king. As Alfred's claim to succeed his father in Wessex
was then quite remote according to any known rule or custom, this
cannot be accepted in its obvious meaning. Perhaps ^Ethelwnlf
meant him to be an under-king. The official Roman account was
that Alfred was invested with the marks of consular rank.                           He
may have been confirmed by the Pope at the same time. However
this may be, Alfred was at Rome in 853, and again, this time with
his father, in 855. iEthelwulf's choice of a season when the Danes
had been wintering in force at Sheppey to make a pilgrimage to
home seems to do more credit to his piety than to his judgment.f
      The incident, many times retold, which illustrates Alfred's early
love of learning, seems to come between these two journeys ; there
is some mistake or confusion J which prevents us from being sure
of the date, but the tale can hardly be a fiction. Alfred's memory
was good, and he was fond of getting English ballads by heart,
but he had no regular lessons in his early youth, as indeed few
     * The difficulties arising from Alfred's mission to Rome as a young child, and
from the apparent want of a suitable date for the circumstantial story of his
learning to read, are well known to students of the period. They have led, on the
one hand, to doubts as to the life by Asser being genuine. The text as we have
it is certainly not in the best condition, and there may be dislocations as well aa
corruptions ; but the objections to any hypothesis of forgery are greater than any
relief that it would give. On the other hand, there is a strong temptation to
suppose a mistake of seven years in the date of Alfred's birth. If he were born
in 842, the incidents would Ml in very well. The Bishop of Oxford felt the
temptation   some years
                    it; SiragoJames    to William
                                (Pref.Ramsay       of Malmesbury's ' Gesta Regum,'   ii.
xli.), but resisted                            (• Foundations of England,'  i. 247) bag
yielded to it. Asser's existing text makes various inconsistent statements, and so
far we might pick and choose. But the Parker MS. of the Chronicle—represent
ing a statement probably authorised by Alfred himself—gays that Alfred was
twenty-three years old when he came to the throne, thus confirming the date
given at the opening of Asser's narrative. The same reading is found in another
early fragment. I do not see how this can be got over without suppositions
which, as much as that of forgery, would be a remedy more violent than the
disease.
     t Sir James Ramsay, i. 234.
     % Asser, or an early copyist, is more likely to have blundered in dates than to
have spoken of Judith, -flSthelwulPs second wife, who was hardly older than
Alfred's elder brothers, as Alfred's mother. Mater sua does not mean stepmother
iu Latin of any age. Neither cun we, in my opinion, believe tbatOsburh, Alfred'!
own mother, was repudiated : seo below, p. 80.

1899.]                             on King Alfred.                                 79
laymen then had. One day his mother was showing her sons a
book of English verse—a MS. probably containing only a few
short poems, or even one—add offered the book as a gift to the
boy who would first learn its contents. Alfred was attracted by
the ornamented initial letter of the MS., and though the youngest,
was the first to say, " Do you really mean that the book is for the
one who can soonest understand and repeat it to you ? " On being
assured it was so, Alfred carried off the book to a teacher, learnt
the poem —perhaps also learnt to read the words, but this is uncer
tain *—and could say it to his mother when he brought the book to
her again. It is a pretty story, but tells us nothing about the later
progress or extent of Alfred's learning. The many duties and
distractions of the king's office left him but little time to pursue
letters for himself, though he did much to make them accessible
to others ; much less, certainly, than he wished for. He preferred,
it seems, to have some one to read to him if possible ; but this may
be intended only of Latin, t There is nothing, so far as I know, to
show that he could write with ease, or wrote much. He may have
been but little better as a penman than Charles the Great. He
learnt Latin, probably from Asser, in the later and more settled
part of his reign ; but he cannot have known it like a trained clerk.
Our present Sovereign Lady, acting quite in the spirit of her great
ancestor, is said to have attained a competent mastery of Hindustani.
But Latin, apart from the difference of alphabet, is a mnch harder
language than Hindustani, and the Queen, though her life is busy
enough, is not called upon to administer all her departments and
command her frontier expeditions in person.                      Let us imagine
what chance a modern Prime Minister would have of learning Arabic or
 Bnssian during his tenure of office. In the translations of Latin books
 which bear Alfred's name, the English was, no doubt, largely dictated
 by him ; but, as I read his preface to the earliest of them, J he did not
 trust himself alone with the Latin. He got the sense—a " construe,"
 in fact—from his learned men, and then put it into such English as he
 chose himself. Even if his own knowledge could have sufficed for
 the whole of the translator's business, his leisure would not. We
 may believe that the king could follow the work of his bishops and
 priests with intelligence; but it would be absurd to think of him
     * Magittrum adiit el legit does not, in the Latin of the time, necessarily imply
 that the learner read the text himself. Or he may have learnt to follow those
 particular words as one learns to recognise a few words in a foreign tongue or
 character.
     t Agger's statements are quite inconsistent with Alfred having ever been a
 perfect or ready scholar. Unluckily the passage which ought to contain the most
 decisive information is so corrupt as to give no certain sense. It tells us that
  Alfrsd was always sorry for not being able to do more, but it is mere guesswork
  whether the point of his grievance was never having had time to learn to read
  properly, or only not having enough time for reading.
      X Gregory's ' Cura Pastoralis.

80                            Sir Frederick Pollock                     [March 3,
as a scholar like Henry II., who could not only read but criticise
Latin charters. On the other hand, the copious English additions,
often characteristic, were beyond question made by Alfred's personal
direction, and they may well be in his very words.*
      These details make no difference whatever to the greatness of the
man. It matters comparatively little whether Alfred knew more or
less Latin, or recovered more or fewer square miles of territory in
his lifetime. What does matter is that he rescued the very existence
of English civilisation from imminent danger, that he left after his
day an England in which learning could take firm root, and an
English nation so knit together that when, only a few generations
later, Danish kings did come to reign here, they had to reign and
govern not as Danes but as Englishmen. It is hardly needful to
add that a mere cloistered scholar could not have done Alfred's
work. His campaigns are evidence enough that he could be a
man of his hands ; but we are expressly told that he was a great
hunter.
      On the way back from Rome, in the summer of 856, Alfred and
his father spent some time at Worms at the court of the Frankish
King Charles the Bald. Ever since Charles the Great's time there
had been friendly relations between the Frankish court, the most
polished f in Western Europe, so that this was quite a natural stage
in Alfred's education. Here he saw the leading statesmen and
scholars of the day, such as Grimbald of Old Saxony and John the
Scot, the most brilliant of the early schoolmen and first in the line
of illustrious Irish divines and philosophers. Grimbald certainly,
John the Scot probably,J came to Alfred in England later. JEthel-
wulf took this occasion to marry as his second wife§ Charles'
daughter Judith, a girl only twelve years old. Historians have
spoken harshly of her, forgetting, I think, that at this time and for
several years afterwards she can have had no free choice of her own.
Charles the Bald was an arbitrary father even according to mediaeval
notions of parental power. || When Judith did ultimately get a
husband of her own choice, Baldwin of Flanders, she seems to have
had no more adventures. Her son married a daughter of Alfred's,
and was an ancestor of William the Conqueror's wife, and thus
     * Tho translation of Bede's ' Ecclesiastical History ' is now ascertained to be
Anglian, not West-Saxon, in its language. This appears to exclude, as to that
work, Alfred's personal authorship.
    f Such terms are, of course, relative as applied to the Dark Ages.
     i See Mr. Poole's article "Scotus" in ' Diet. Nat. Biog.'
    § jEthelwulf was not, as sometimes represented, an old man ; he was probably
between forty and fifty. Some historians suppose that Alfred's mother Osburn
must have been alive, and therefore that ^thelwulf repudiated her : see Free
man's article " jElfred " in ' Diet, Nat. Biog.' As a conjectural remedy for
chronological confusion, this seems much too desperate. The thing is not im
possible, but it seems incredible, if it wore so, that neither Asser nor any other
chronicler should mention it.
    | Koary, ' Vikings.' p. 3G8.

1899.]                            on King Alfred.                             81
Alfred is among tho lineal ancestors of the kings of England since
the Conquest It would be curious to know how Alfred liked finding
so young a stepmother crowned as his father's queen, but we have no
information whatever about their personal relations. There is no
doubt that Alfred's elder brothers did not like it at all. After
iEthelwulfs death Judith married—to the scandal of all good
Christian men, and according to the ancient custom of the heathen
Saxons *—his eldest surviving son iEthclbald, whether willingly or not
we do not know. She left England at his death in 860.
      There mnst have been supposed grounds of policy for iEthelwulfs
marriage with Judith, but tie immediate effect was a risk of oivil
war at home, which JSthelwulf avoided only by subordinating himself
to his son iEthelbald. This /Ethelbald, seemingly a masterful and
violent man, continued to reign over Wessex for two years after his
father's death ; he died in 860, and was succeeded by his brother
 5hhelberht, who had already been under-king of Kent. In Mthel-
 berht's time the Danes took Winchester. The next brother, iEthulreil,
 followed him as king in 866.
      Alfred was now a man, and fit to take his part in war and counsel.
 The course of events had brought him very near the throne. Just
 at this time tho Danes—men of Denmark, not merely Northmen-
 established themselves in East Anglia, and made themselves masters
 of Northumbria. In 868 iEthelred and Alfred helped tho Mercians
 to drive an invading Danish host back upon its base at Nottingham.
 There the Danes could defy an enemy who knew nothing of fortifica
 tion or siege works. Englishmen had—not for the last time—failed
  to follow the progress made in the art of war on the Continent.
  Peace was made, apparently without any terms of indemnity or
  security. In that same year Alfred married ; we have no particular
  account of his wife, Ealhswith, but we know that she was the mother
  of wise and valiant children. Meanwhile, we read of famine and
  sickness in Wessex. Next year the Danes rode— for great part
  of them were now mounted—to York ; the year after they were at
   Thetford and overcame and slew Edmund, King of the East Angles,
   whose death won him a long posthumous life of glory as a martyr
   and saint.t Another movable army made spoil of Croyland, Peter
   borough and Ely.
       In 871 came the attack on Wessex, which JSthelred and Alfred
   must have been expecting. Early in the yoar the Danes seized tho
   stronghold of Reading, sent out plundering parties, and fortified
   themselves by running an earthwork across from the Thames to tho
   Kennet A foraging detachment was defeated at Englefield, a few
   miles to the south-west. A few days afterwards .lEthelrod and
       * Kemble, • Saxons in England,' ii. 40".
       t What was it that made St. Edmund a popular hero, demanding, so to speak,
    prompt beatification ? One suspects something amounting to deliberate self-
   iacrifiee, for what immediate purpose is unknown.
        Vol. XVI. (No. 93.)                                            o

 82                           Sir Frederick Pollock                      [March 3,
 Alfred came up with tho full muster of Wessex, and prepared to sit
 down before the Danish fort. They cut off or drove in any stragglers
 left in the open, but had no other success. A furious sortie of the
 Danes drove back the English after a hard-fought combat. iEthel-
 wulf, the earldorman of Berkshire, who had won the little fight of a
 few days before, was among the slain.
     The events of the next few days are obscure.* But, whatever had
 been happening in the meantime, after those days we find both sides
 apparently in something like equal force, and tho English in good
 order, on the part of the Berkshire Downs called Ashdown, over
 looking Wantage or perhaps Moulsford. The Danes, under two
 leaders of kingly rank and many earls, were on higher ground ; they
 formed in two divisions, the kings leading one half f and the carls
 the other. The English made their dispositions to meet them with
 a similar front, ^thelred against the kings and Alfred against the
 earls. It was to be a battle of hand-to-hand shock, the shield-wall
 of either line backed by a dense mass of men. Standing still on lower
 ground to receive the enemy's charge was an obvious disadvantage.
 The heathen were moving, but King ^thelred was hearing mass in
 his tent, and would not let the office be interrupted. Alfred was at
 his post, and took upon himself to order a counter-attack by the whole
 English power,* without waiting for his brother. He led his men
 " as it were a wild boar," says Asser, perhaps echoing some song made
in the camp. There was a stubborn fight, which raged mainly round
a certain stunted thorn tree : the tree was shown to Asser when ho
visited the ground. The Danes gave way at last, and fled with heavy
losses, a king and five earls, and an unknown number of lesser men ;
and the English pursued through the night and all the next day.
What was left of the Danish host took refuge in the fort at Reading.
Tradition preserved the memory of the fight as the greatest slaughter
known since the Saxon invasion of Britain. Yet the power of the
Danes was checked, not broken. Fighting went on all the year,
once as far to the west as Wilton,§ and Asser counts eight battles in
the year besides untold skirmishes and onfalls. When the English
had the better, which they had not always, they still lost more than
they could afford. The Danes had, no doubt, as many losses, or more ;
    * The earliest authorities give no details, and those given by later writers are
improbable. If tho English had retreated upon Windsor, they could surely not
have been in force at Ashdown within four days. The battle was somewhere
on the Ridgeway, but the spot cannot be fixed. Probably it was towards the
eastern end. The White Horse proves nothing.
    t Asser's " mediam partem " — " dimidiam," like Fr. mi; It. mezzo.
    t So I read Asse r. There would be nothing so remarkablo if he had moved
only his own division. I am glad to learn that Mr. Oman, in his chapter on
"Alfred as Warrior," contributed to the volume published by the King Alfred
Committee, takes the same view. Asser ascribes the victory as much to
iEthelred's piety as to Alfred's valour.
    § It is said that Alfred could not be at this battle, where the English were
defeated.

1899.]                             on King Alfred.                             S3
bat they were reinforced from oversea. Meanwhile, iEthelred had
died soon after Eastertide—possibly of wounds, possibly of sickness
contracted in the campaign, bnt we know nothing of the cause.
Alfred reigned alone oyer the whole of the southern kingdom. Long
recognised, it is said, as the ablest of .33thelwulfs sons, he now came
to the height of opportunity, responsibility, and—as no distant time
was to show—of trial.
      His first act of policy was to make peace with the Danes, on the
terms of Wessex being evacuated. We do not know whether money
passed or not ; it may be that these Danes already found, as their
successors did some years later, that there were more hard knocks
than shillings to be got from Alfred's men.* But I fear the proba
bility is the other way.
      Wessex was not attacked again for a few years. The Danes
completed at leisure their work of mining the northern and eastern
counties, formerly the centre of Anglo-Saxon civilisation. In 872
their headquarters were at London. After being bought off by the
Mercians for two years they subdued Mercia in 874. Leicester,
Nottingham, Derby, Stamford, Lincoln—afterwards known as the
Five Boroughs—were now Danish towns. In 875, starting from
Repton, which had been their winter quarters, one column marched
upon Northumbria, while another, with Guthrum—a name to be
remembered—as one of their kings, mode for Cambridge. From this
 time dates the Danish settlement in North-Eastern England, marked
 by the Scandinavian ending of place-names in by, and others as
 characteristic, though less frequent. Meanwhile Alfred had put same
 ships in fighting order, met six or seven heathen ships,j and took one
 of them.
      In 876 the host from Cambridge gained the coast, it seems un
 observed, and sailed round into the Channel and to Poole. Thence
 they established themselves at Warebam in Dorsetshire, in an almost
 impregnable position. But Alfred was soon on the spot in such force
 as to be able to treat on better terms than beforo. This time the
 Danes undertook to quit Wessex forthwith, gave hostages at Alfred's
 discretion, and swore by their most binding oath, the holy bracelet,
 as well as on Christian relics. But the treaty was never kept, for a
 Urge part of the army made a dash for Exeter, and wintered there,
 and sent out an expedition to Mercia the next summer.}
      * Keary, ' Vikings,' p. 414. Neither Mr. Keary nor Sir James Ramsay doubts
  that Alfred had to pay the Danes this time.
      t This squadron may or may not have belonged to the Danes in England,
  and may or may not have been acting in concert with the land army. It may
  well haje come from Ireland. Asser's way of talking about seafaring matters
  reminds one of Munro's humorous vituperation of Lachmann as a Berliner
  landlnbber on a question about Catullus's yacht. The good Welsh bishop meant
  well, but he does write like a landlubber—entirely suppressing the voyago round
  to Poole, foT instance, in the next following incident.
      X It is not clear whether this was downright perfidy or only sharp practice.
   Eieter might still seem West-Welsh rather than West-Saxon to those whose
                                                                      o 2

84                         Sir Frederick Pollock                [March 3,
     In the course of 877 Alfred raised a fleet, and manned it with
foreign adventurers, to stop the constant reinforcements which came
to the Danes. At the same time be sat down before Exeter. A great
Danish fleet, a hundred and twenty sail, weakened by storms and foul
weather, fell in with Alfred's ships and was destroyed off Swanage.
But such were the enemy's numbers on land that this had no general
effect. The Danes left Exeter for Gloucester, and then seized
Chippenham in Wiltshire by surprise, having made a forced march
in mid-winter, soon after Christmas, Here they may have been
reinforced from Mercia, now in complete subjection to them. About
this time an independent expedition was completely routed on the
North Devon coast ; the place is supposed to be Kenwith, near Bide-
ford. This victory, again, though to all seeming brilliant, was merely
local. The main army of the heathen was in as great strength as ever,
and met with no serious resistance inland. Apparently the English
power in the heart of Wessex was exhausted for the time. This
collapse after a campaign in which the English on the whole had
the best of it remains somewhat obscure ; but there is no doubt that
it was so.
     Whatever the exact course of events may have been, the Danes
were masters of the best part of Wessex in the early part of 878.
Alfred was driven to abandon open war for a season, and fall back
with a small personal following into the marshes of Somersetshire.
To this time belongs the famous tale of Alfred burning the loaves in
the neatherd's cottage. It does not rest on the best authority, but
there is nothing incredible in it, and there is no obvious motive for
invention. It does not require us to suppose that Alfred was in
hiding, or flying for his life ; only that he was for a short time alone
in a house where the goodwife did not know him by sight. This
might bo accounted for in various ways—a surprise visit to outposts,
for example. But the story of the king going to the Danish camp
disguised as a harper is absurd. In the genuine account, as Freeman
well says, there " is no forsaking and no hiding ; Alfred is reduced to
extreme distress, but he never lays down his arms." After Easter,
however, Alfred entrenched himself at Athelney, an eyot (as the
name denotes) in the fenland at the junction of the Parret and the
Tono. Here the well-known " Alfred jewel," now in the Ashmolean
Museum at Oxford, was found ; but perhaps it is due to Alfred's later
establishment of a monastery, of which we have not room to speak,
rather than to his encampment. In May the king was able to
summon the levies of Somerset, Wilts and Hampshire—these last a
mere remnant—to meet him on the eastern border of Selwood Forest,
near Warminster. Within three days the English had occupied the
interest it was to think bo. The whole story of these two years is meagre
unci confused. Asser stems to say that there was a treacherous slaughter at
Woreham.

1899.]                              on King Alfred.                             85
hills above Ethandun, now called Heddington,* on the downs towards
Chippenham, there faced the Danes, completely defeated them, and
shut them up in their entrenched camp. After being beleaguered a
fortnight, the Danes, cut off from all help of their kinsfolk, and
 pressed by cold and hunger, came to terms. At last the terms give
 clear evidence of an English victory. Not only the Danes were to
 retire to their possessions in East Anglia—for there was no chance
 of reconquest in that quarter—but Guthrum, their king, and his
  followers were to receive baptism. That is, they pledged themselves
  to live side by side with the English as peaceable and law-abiding
  neighbours. It was as if in India, nine centuries later, a Mahratta
  horde, after a series of battles with the Mogul power, should have
   submitted to become Moslems. The treaty was not a surrender to
   Alfred on the Danish part, but it was a frank recognition that they
  could not deal with Wesscx as they had dealt with Mercia. Nay,
  more, a good part of Mercia itself was won back. The boundary
   between the English laud and that of the Danes, the " Danelaw," as
  it was afterwards called, was drawn up the Thames, up the Lea
  from its junction with the Thames, then to Bedford, then up tho
  Ouse to Watling Street (the great Roman road), by Watling Street
  to Chester.'}' English and Danish men of corresponding rank were
  to be counted of equal worth for the purposes of wergild and com
  pensations.
       This time tho covenant was well kept. Guthrum and thirty of
  his chief men duly came to be baptised, and ho took the nainu of
  /Ethelstan. The ceremony of " chrism-loosing " and the attendant
  festivities were completed at Wedmore. Still it was two years before
  the Danes were fairly back in East Anglia. It was no longer the march
  of a flying column, but a deliberate migration of settlers, carried out
  with only such delays as were natural. At length it was all done,
  and men could now, for the first time for many years, honestly say
  that there was good peace in Wessex.
       Not that Alfred had done with wars. More fighting was to coino
  in later years, even hard fighting, and at least one breach of the treaty
  of Wedmore. But these were no longer fights for the life of tho
  kingdom. That was assured when the East Anglian Danes became a
  defined and recognised State, owning that the king of the West-Saxons
  wielded, in some sort, a paramount power. I purposely use vague
  terms ; there could be no talk in England, at this time, of definite
  feudal relations or commendation ; nor is it clear that Alfred could
  have enforced any formal submission. Tho later campaigns of
  Alfred's reign wero not critical ; they arc interesting partly as
      * I take it ms the more likely view that Alfred seized a commanding petition,
  and forced the Danes to attack at a disadvantage. Details are wholly wanting:
  ad lo the identification of the place, see the note at the end of this paper.
      t The text we have represents a later confirmation. It is possible that tho
  terms of 878 were not so fuvourablo to tho English. Green, ' Conquest of
  KngJand,' 151.

 86                           Sir Frederick Pollock                     [March 3,
 showing how ranch he had improved his military dispositions, partly
 as indications of tho still unabated power of the Northmen on the
 Continent. These renewed incursions were really in the nature of
 overflows to the English coast from far greater storm-waves, the last
 of the plundering and desolating raids of the old Viking type, which
 now had their centres in Northern France and the Rhmeland. So
 far as the present sketch is concerned, these episodes may be passed
 over with a rapid survey.
     In 884 a division from the Danish host in France besieged
 Rochester, but was driven off, leaving many slaves and horses ; they
had brought their own horses from the mainland. They must have
received aid from East Anglia, for Alfred sent a fleet to make re
prisals on the cast coast ; his sailors captured thirteen Danish ships
at the mouth of the Stour (that is, hard by the modern Harwich),*
but were afterwards beaten by a fresh squadron. On the whole,
Alfred was able to reassert his supremacy, as wc shall presently see.
In 892 the Vikings, who had been signally defeated in Flanders,
turned to England ; one fleet fell on the south and made Appledore
their quarters,f another went up the Thames under Haestcn or Hasting,
a renowned freebooter, and held Milton, near Sheppey. Now foUowed
three seasons of fighting up and down the country ; but this time
Alfred commanded the powers not only of Wessex, but of Mercia
outside the Danelaw, and even a North Welsh contingent Joined him.
Alfred's son, Edward, afterwards his worthy successor, won his spurs
(to use the phrase of chivalry before its due time) by checking the
host from Appledore at Farnham in Surrey. Then the East Anglian
Danes became involved in the strife ; a Northumbrian fleet came
against Exeter ; there were many fights and a leaguer on the Severn.
We hear of Hasting after this at Chester,}: in Wales and on the
Lea. In 896 both sides had suffered much, but the Danes more.
They found that on the whole nothing was to be gained in England,
and dispersed. Some of them remained as settlers in the Danelaw,
while others sought adventures in France. Nothing is recorded of
any formal peace-making ; probably there was no permanent ruler to
make a treaty with. Meanwhile, Alfred had built ships of a now
design, and larger than the Danish galleys, to keop the peace of the
southern coast. Their power was gained at tho expense of handiness,
at least it seems so from the only account we have of their behaviour
    * Assuming tbat the East Anglian and nut tho Kentish Stour is meant by the
chronicler, which seems on the whole the more likely view.
    t This Appledore lies in Kent to the west of Bomney Marsh, not far from tho
borders of Sussex.
    J The details are to be elucidated, if at all, only by a special student of tho
mediaeval art of war ; and I collect from Mr. Oman's essay, already mentioned,
that he too has found them obscure. The chronicles expect us to believe that
Hasting made his way across from the Severn Valley to his ships in Essex, and
thcn back again across Mercia to Chester. For tho dates I follow the received
correction of the chronicle years.

 1899.]                             on King Alfred.                            87
in action, when the king's new ships grounded with the ebb tide and
could not get off with the flood in time to pursue the lighter and
nimbler Danes. Two Danish vessels, however, were cast ashore and
their crews sent to Alfred. He had them hanged as pirates, which,
no doubt, they were. We may assume that all pretence of regular
warfare was at an end, even if these rovers had been under any com
mand at all. This is the only act of severity recorded of Alfred in
the whole of his reign, and it appears to have been justified both in
strict right and in policy.
       The vastly increased efficiency of Alfred's forces in these latter
campaigns is our best measure of his military reforms. Our direct
accounts of them are not so clear as might be desired. But this
much is certain, that he found mere tribal levies, which could be
kept together only for a short time, and were useless for distant or
prolonged operations, and left a system in which there were distinct
provisions for a field army, garrisons and reserve. His personal
staff and retinue (in which military and civil functions were, no
doubt, combined) were also divided into three sections, which took
the duty in turns, month by month.*
       We now return to a memorable deed of Alfred's, which we passed
over in its order of time rather than interpolate it among purely
 military incidents. London, it will be remembered, had been plun
 dered and wasted by the Danes in the middle of the century. In
 886, the year in which Paris was besieged and nearly taken by the
 Vikings, and they departed at last rather as victors than as van
 quished, Alfred, now free for works of peace, turned his thoughts to
 London. " He restored it with all honour, and caused men to dwell
 therein, and gave it in charge to his son-in-law, iEthelred, Earl of
 Mercia ; and to him as their king all the Angles and Saxons who
 had been scattered abroad, or had been led captive by the heathen,
 freely betook themselves and put themselves under his lordship " ; f
  that is, the scattered English of the northern and eastern parts came
 and settled in London, now sure of Alfred's protection. Alfred could
  have no conception of what London was to be even in later mediaeval
  times. None the less this was a master-stroke of policy. London,
  the first of Mercian cities, thus restored to her old estate, was a sign
  for all men of the new power of Wessex, a bulwark of Mercia, and a
  sure warden of the Thames valley against any future Danish invasions.
  Next after Winchester, London ought of right to honour Alfred as
  her second and greatest founder. This must have been very soon
  after the time when the Treaty of Wedmore, perhaps with some
      * Chron. s.a. 894 ; Asser, p. 65, eii. Wise. There is an extremely obscure
  document, now known to scholars as the ' Tribal Hidnge,' which muy possibly
  tateto do with a military census of Alfred's time. The suggestion that this is
  its real significance comes from my friend Prof. F. York Powell.
      t Asser, tub anno. The incongruous Roman dominium—fbr the languago
  jin>a at being classical—makes one feci the misfortuno of Asser having written
  in l.atin.

  88                          Sir Frederick Pollock                  [March 3,
  revision, was finally put on record.* Within six years events proved
  Alfred's wisdom. In 893 the Danes had a camp where Westminster
  now stands, but were kept in check by iEthclred and the garrison of
  London. In 894-5 Hasting was on the Lea, and held out against
  the men of London till Alfred came in person and baffled the Danes
  by diverting the course of the stream below their camp, and so cutting
  off their communications. But the old pirate had failed to gain any
  ground, whereas, if things had been as they were twenty years before,
  he might have worked his will far up the river. Alfred took care in
  other ways that good witness should not be lacking to the restoration
  of English power in Mercia. He put in exercise there an ancient
 and eminent attribute of sovereignty. We have coins of Alfred's
 bearing the name of Oxford, then a Mercian town. At this time of
 day one need hardly repeat that this is the only authentic connection
 of his name with Oxford. The story that he founded the University,
 or schools of any kind, at Oxford is a late and gross fiction, which it
 would' be too polite to call a legend ; in its developed form it cannot
 boast even mediaeval antiquity.
      To return to Alfred's improvements, it is more pardonaMe to
 speak of him as the founder, or one of the founders, of the English
 navy than as the founder of a university. But here (while we rejoice
 that the Admiralty has decided to name a first-class cruiser the " King
 Alfred ") we must beware of exaggeration. I do not mean merely that
 Alfred's ships were singly and collectively inferior to those of the
 smallest modern navy. They were as good as he could make theiu
 then, and it is quite possible that the warships of a century hence
 may be as superior to ours as one of Nelson's frigates to the vessels
 of an Anglo-Saxon or Danish flotilla. Such comparisons are of no
 historical value. It might be more useful to consider how little the
 art of war on land had improved (if it had not gone back) since
 Agricola commanded in Britain. Probably one of his legions was
 more formidable in evory way than the whole muster of Christian
 and heathen men who fought at Ashdown. As to naval matters, what
 really has to be said is that Alfred had not, for aught that appears,
nor can we see how he could have had, any conception of what wu
 now mean by the command of the sea. Within two centuries
William the Conqueror landed his army without opposition of any
kind. One such fact is conclusivo to show that, even if wo could
supposo Alfred to have had somo inkling of a real naval policy, he
did not succeed in leaving any sound doctrine on tho subject after his
own day. The importance of sea power to England did not begin to
be realised till tho time of Elizabeth, and it has been strangely
possible to forget it even within living memory. Tho Anglo-Saxon
and medifflval plan of a navy was merely to keep the narrow seas
    * Green, ' Conquest of England,' ] 50 (but the mentiou of a "war of 88iJ'
is nn obvious slip : thcro was no such war iu England); Bauisay, ' Foundations
of England,' i. 2d5.

 1899.]                            on King Alfred.                            89
against freebooters, so that trade might be tolerably safe in time of
peace. As Chancer says of his Merchant :
     It was to be a long time before Sir Walter Raleigh made his
magnificent and wholly justified boast that the Invincible Armada
of Spain bad not burnt so much as one sheepcote of this land ; and
longer still before we ourselves were to learn the' secret of England's
greatness over again, not from an Englishman born, but from one
of our kin beyond the sea—Captain Mahan, of the United States
Navy.
     Great reformers hardly ever find their work run smooth, and we
know that Alfred did not. Incompetence, jealousy, local and
personal, self-seeking, and—perhaps worst of all—the complacent
inertness of honest but stupid men who think what was good
enough for their fathers good enough for them, had to be reckoned
with then as now. Bishops, ealdormen, king's thanes, and sheriffs,
even the best of them, had to be taught their duty, lectured, ordered
about, rebuked, in the last resort punished. The King wore himself
out in well-doing, and after all could not get many of his plans exe
cuted. Forts designed by him were never built, or were not finished
in time, and those who had been in fault lamented too late that tho
Danes had taken their wives and kindred captives, harried their land,
and spoiled their goods.* Bismarck is a far less noble and dignified
figure than Alfred, though he wrought on a greater scale ; but tho
picture now fresh before us of Bismarck striving for tho union of
 Germany, and fretting under the pretensions of absurd princelets and
the pedantries of shallow politicians, will help us to realise Alfred's
troubles. If Alfred found a helper after his own heart it was his son-
 in-law, iEthelred of Mercia, whose wife iEthelflasd, the lady of the
 Mercians as she came to be called, stands out as the most brilliant
 and heroic woman in our early history.
     Justice was among the first of Alfred's cares when there was peace
 in the land. Here, too, the difficulties were immense. An Anglo-
 Saxon county or hundred court must have been more like a disorderly
 public meetmg than a modern court of any kind ; there was no
 security for any one being learned, or knowing how to conduct busi
 ness, unless the bishop was present; and there were no effectual
 means of putting judgments in force.f The king and his Witan
 could set an example : when the ordinary methods, cumbrous and
 slow as they were, had been exhausted, tho king could at need
 compel an obstinate wrongdoer to submit ; but tho king's wise men
 were not a court of appeal. Indeed, there was no such thing as
    * Asi-er, ed. Wise, pp. 53, 60.
    t In the county courts of the 131 h century, as we learn from Braeton, thero
 aere certain notables who practically controlled the proceedings. This may havo
been so from a much earlier time ; we ilo nut know that it was.

90                            Sir Frederick Pollock                    [March 3,
appeal from a final judgment in the modern senso. Alfred informed
himself how justice was administered ; he could require his officers to
give an account of the proceedings, and put pressure on them, by the
threat of dismissal, to qualify themselves for their duties and redeem
themselves from the too common reproach of being quite illiterate.
Many of them set to work to learn to read, or at least get by heart,
the rules recorded in the king's and his ancestors' dooms. Bat the
time for direct over-riding royal interference, for the establishment of
new courts and new procedure, was not yet. Alfred could not do the
work of Henry II. or Edward I.* There is a later legend to the
effect that Alfred was not swift enough to restrain the oppressions of
his great men in the early part of his reign, and that his reverses
were a punishment for this fault.f A likely time, indeed, for judicial
reform, with the Danes holding Mercia and barely out of Wessex,
and the local magnates chafing under the most obviously needful
measures taken to strengthen the king's authority, and lessen the evils
of divided command ! But no twelfth-century chronicler could be
happy without a moral.
      King Alfred's laws are extant, the ' dooms ' which were set before
his Witan and approved by them towards the end of his reign.
Anglo-Saxon law is a technical and thorny subject, and most of its
actual contents are extremely remote from anything that is now
administered as law in England, though the spirit of publicity and
fairness, rough as were its forms in early times, is not. % Enough to
say that Alfred, as a good son of the Church, prefixed to his dooms
considerable extracts from the Book of Exodus—it is conceived as an
edifying specimen of " written reason " rather than as rules to bo
actually followed by Englishmen. When he comes to practical busi
ness he consolidates and amends, as we should now say, the customs
recorded in various earlier dooms of West-Saxon, Kentish, and
Mercian kings, and annexes a revised version of the laws of his
ancestor, Ine of Wessox. There is a humano provision for securing
a certain number of holidays to hired labourers, which we may well
believe to be Alfred's own. His modest and sensible statement of his
policy has been often quoted, but must be quoted again : —
      " Now I, King Alfred, gathered all this together and bade write
it down : much of the dooms that our forerunners held by, such as
     * Asser, ed. Wise, pp. 09, 72, at the end of the Lifo. These rhetorical com
ments of a Welshman writing Ltitin about English customs which he probably
did not more than half understand are confused, and to a lawyer exasperating.
 But real facts must underlie them. After some doubt, I think the passage
genuine. A later addition would have been fuller and would have ascribed more
power to the king.
     t In the interpolation from the St. Neota Chronicle. Asser, ed. Wise, p. 31.
     X See more in an article of mine on "English Law before the Norman Con
quest." ' Law Quart. Rev.,' July 1898. A critical toxt of the Anglo-Saxon laws
is being edited by Dr. F. Liebermann, of Berlin, for the Savigny-Stiftuug : the
 first part (Halle a. S., Max Niemeyer, 1898) comes down to Endmunci's time, and
 therefore includes the whole of Alfred's and Ine's dooms.

1899.]                             on King Alfred.                            91
liked me well ; and many of those which misliked me I put away with
my Witan's advice, and bade men observe them in other manner. For
I dared not pnt much of my own in writing, for it was unknown
to me how much of that would be to the liking of those who camo
after us."
      Later stories which ascribe the invention of modern legal institu
tions to Alfred.—including trial by jury, which is distinctly of
Anglo-Norman and not Anglo-Saxon origin—are merely fictitious.
      Alfred's love of learning and encouragement of letters and re
search have been more fully and more often described than any other
part of his work. We see his court at Winchester frequented by
clerks, nobles, and travellers of all nations, including those very Danes
who had been fighting him a few years before. So in our own time the
chiefs of wild frontier tribes throng to the durbar of a strong and
popular political officer on the north-west marches of India. We can
almost hear Ohthere, who dwelt northmost of all the Northmen, telling
his adventures in pursuit of the horse-whales (walruses), who have
right goodly bones in their teeth fit to bring to a king—yes, such as
this which he offers his lord Alfred for a token—and Alfred bidding
Plegmund the Mercian, or John the Monk of Old Saxony, set down
the tale and work it into the English translation of Orosius' uni
versal history. We may note Alfred economising time, measuring his
honrs by four-hour candles of standard weight, and guarding them in
horn lanterns from the draughts that ranged as they listed in the
ninth-century palace. We see him investing his grandson, iEthelstan,
the future victor in the great fight at Brunanburh, with the weapons
and garb of a man of war. We catch him walking with Asser, the
Welshman invited from the uttermost west of Britain to be his
secretary, learning what Latin ho can from him, and delighting his
teacher with a proposal to keep a note-book—(what would we give
 now for that note-book?).* And with all this the king is still a
 sportsman, and looks with a master's eye to his hawks and his kennel.
 Strangest of all, this man of boundless and yet ordered activities has
 borne up from his youth against a mysterious and harassing sickness
 —according to modern conjecture, some form of epilepsy—from which
 Asser tries to extract edifying reflections. But these things, as I
said, are familiar.
      Alfred enjoyed some years of peace before the end of his reign.
 He died, according to the common reckoning, in the autumn of 901,
 bnt it seems really in 900 f or 899 } ; by no means an old man as wo
 think of statesmen nowadays, but having done enough to fill a long
 life. Is this all? No, not even for the immediate future. The
     * Asser makes a far-fetched and not over-courtly comparison of the king to
 the penitent thief, as a late enterer into the kingdom by good will rather than
 works, and apologises for it in the next paragraph.
     t Ramsay, ' Foundations of England,' i. 267.
     t W. H. Stevenson in ' Athenaeum,' July and August, 1898. The choice turns
 on points too minute to discuss here, but 901 is wrong in any case.

 92                            Sir Frederick Pollock                     [March 3,
king had lived to see his son Edward a warrior, and his grandson
jSIthelstan a promising boy. Right well they both followed in
 Alfred's path as just and valiant kings, Edward in alliance with his
no less valiant sister iEthelflaed. Glorious among the women of
our race, the Lady of the Mercians drove back the Dane step by
stop for eighteen years more. Tamworth, Stafford, and Warwick are
her work ; Derby and Leicester wero her conquests. Alfred and
Ealhswith might well be proud of their children.
      The English kingdom might not last, indeed, in such manner and
form as Alfred established it. The Anglo-Saxon polity bore in it the
seeds of decay. Danish conquest—but not heathen— was to come
only a century after the great king's death ; Norman conquest —
 which may be called Danish at one remove— after that. Euglish
was transformed with travail and violence, but, in the long run, for
the better. Alfred's work also was transformed, but never broken.
It lives still in his old England ; it lives and waxes in the growth of
new English commonwealths round the world.
     Note on Elhandun (p. 85 above).—The opinion represented in the text, namely
that the Danish head-quarters were still at Chippenham when Alfred marched
from Selwood Forest, is that of almost all recent writers. On this assumption,
Heddington (as it is now written), almost due south of Calne, not the Edington
also in Wiltshire, seems the likeliest representative of Ethandun. But there is
another Edington in quite another direction, at the foot of the Polden Hill, mar
Bridgwater. The late Bishop Clifford, of Clifton, maintained in 1875 ('Pro
ceedings of Somersetshire Archaeological and Natural History Society,' xxi. 1),
that this Edington of Somerset is the real Ethandun, taking a quite differe nt
view of the campaign as a whole. His points, briefly summarised, are to this
effect.
     1. The Danish land army was acting in concert with the fleet commanded
by Ubbo or Hubba. The fleet landed at the mouth of the Parret; Asser's
 " Cynwit " is the modern Combwich. Anything south of the Parret might then be
called Devon. Guthrum's army from Chippenham joined these invaders.
     2. Alfrfd watched the Danes from Athelney, and by feints and skirmishes led
 them to believe that he was collecting his strength on the left bank of the Parret,
 while he was really doing so on the far side of Selwood, beyond the Danish means
of observation.
     3. From Egbert's Stone (somewhere among the Brixtons, qu. Whit-Street-
 Castle ?) Alfred and his host doubled back upon Polden Hill, and succeeded in
capturing the key of the Danish position.
     4. The fort to which the Danes fled was not Chippenham, but probably
 Bridgwater. If it was at or near Chippenham, why did not relief come to the
Danes from Mercia ?
     5. As a minor point, ^c^lea or Iglen, the place of Alfred's halt on the march
from Egbert's Stone to Ethandun, is identified with Edgarlea, formerly Egerly, a
hamlet of Ghistonbury close under Glastonbury Tor. The distances are about
 right, and there is no other plausible identification of the name.
     This theory is worked out with great ingenuity—an ingenuity which is ex
 cessive in trying to fix definite interpretations on the language, not only of Asscr
 and the English Chronicle, but of later writers who probably knew nothing of
 the country, and very little of war, and were quite indifferent to topographical
 accuracy. I am informed that some competent students, with opportunities of
 examining the ground, are convinced that Bishop Clifford was ri«ht, but I am
 not acquainted with any published criticism of his hypothesis, favourable or un
 favourable, and it has certainly not found any genoral acceptance ; whether

1899.]                              on King Alfred.                                  93
became it baa been considered and rejected, or because it has remained unknown ,
I tm not able to say. The broad and obvious objection to it is that it attributes
 an improbable amount of skill in strategical combination to both parties at a time
 ,when the Roman art of war was forgotten in Wostern Europe, and the mediaeval
 art of war was in its first infancy. The truth is that we have to deal with hope
  lessly uucritical and unmilitary narratives, written by men who not only had not
  our modem apparatus of maps, gazetteers, and so forth, but cared for none of these
   things, and were chiefly intent on edification, rhetoric, or personal anecdote ; and
   we cannot even assume that chroniclers not known to have been familiar with the
   places mentioned had endeavoured to form any clear notion of their situation or
   relative distances and bearings. If there was a genuine local tradition it is long
   since lost ; and, as we are reduced to guess-work, the simplest guess consistent
   with such facts as wo have appeabs to be the safest. On the whole I do not feel
   justified in departing from the received account, though it is by no means freo
   from difficulty.
       Another possible view of the earlier part of this campaign is that the main
   tmdy of the Danes who seized Chippenham came not from Exeter but from Mercia,
   where they had spent the first half of the winter season.
                                                                            [F. P.]
                      GENERAL Monday,     March 6, 1899,
                                     MONTHLY           MEETING,
      Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer and
                            Vice-President, in the Chair.
                W. Bruce Bannerman, Esq. F.G.8. F.R.G.S.
                Arthur Bellin, Esq. F.R.G.S.
                Lady Currie,
                Charles Henry Gatty, Esq. LL.D. F.RS.E. F.L.S.
                Arthur Christian Gibbons, Esq. B.A.
                Edward James Gibbons, Esq. M.A.
                Mrs. J. E. Home,
                Mrs. Edward Kraftmeier,
                Sir George Henry Lewis,
                Mrs. John List,
                Frederick James Longton, Esq.
                Oswell S. Macleay, Esq.
                Mrs. Parker,
                Herbert Pulford, Esq. M.A. M.B.
                Colonel Euston Sartorius, V.C. C.B.
     were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
        The Special Thanks of the Members wore returned to Sir Androw
    Noble, K.C.B. for his donation of £100, and to Mr. Edward Kraft
    meier for his donation of £52 10s., to the Fund for the Promotion of
    Experimental Research at Low Tomperatures.
        His Grace The Duke of Northumberland was elected President
    of the Royal Institution in the place of the late Duke his fathor.

 91                             General Monthly Meeting.                        [March 6,
      The following letter from the Duke of Northumberland was read
   Dearthe
"from         Chair :—Bramwell,
          Sir Frederick                              " Aikwick Castle, 16!A February, 199j.
         " I am deeply touched by the Resolution adopted by the Members of the
 Royal Institution which you have been so good as to forward to me. The appre
 ciation exhibited by it of the late Duke of Northumberland's services to the
 Institution, and the kindly sympathy expressed for me and for my family in the
 heavy bereavement we have sustained, have afforded me great gratification, more
 especially because I know how highly my father valued the work of the Institu
 tion, and his connection with it as its President.
                                           I am, dear Sir Frederick,
 The Honorary Secretary,                                       Yours truly,
                 Royal Institution.                       (Signed) Nobtbtjmbkblasd "
      The Pbesents received sinco the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      FROM
 The Secretary of State for India—A Manual of the Geology of India, 2nd ed.
      Part 1, Corundum. By T. H. Holland. 8vo. 1898.
    Pahcontologia Indica : Ser. XV. Himalayan Fossils, Vol. I. Part 3. 4to. 1897.
 Accademia dei Lincei, Reale. Boma—Clause di Scienze Fisiche, Matematiche e
      Naturali. Atti, Serie Quinta: Rendiconti. 1° Semestre, Vol. VIII. Fasc.
      2, 3. 8vo. 1899.
 American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XXXIV. Noe, 2-5.
      8vo. Association—Proceedings,
 American     1898.                           Forty-seventh Meeting at Boston. 8vo.
       1898.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LIX. No. 3. 8vo. 1899.
 Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XX. Part 2. 8vo. 1899.
 Berlin, Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences—Sitzungsberichte, 1898, Nos. 40-54.
         W. A.1898.
 Bion,8vo.      Esq. (the Author)—Notes on the Meteorology of Vizagapatam, Part 1.
       Rainfall. 8vo. 1898.
 Birmingham and Midland Institute—Report for 1898. 8vo.
 Birt, Sir William—On the Broads. By A B. Dodd. 8vo. 1896.
    Selections from " Sisters by the Sea.'' By C. Scott 16mo. 1898.
 Boston Public Library—Annual List of Books added to Library, 1897-98. 8vo.
       1899. Bulletin, Vol. IV. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1899.
    Monthly
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, 3rd Series, Vol. VI. Nos. 7, 8.
      4to.Association—Beport
  British     1899.                for 1898. 8vo. 1899.
 British Astronomical Association—Memoirs, Vol. VIL Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1899.
    Journal, Vol. IX. No. 4. 8vo. 1899.
 Buenos Aires, Museo Nacional—Comunicaciones, Tomo I. No. 2. 8vo. 1898.
 Camera Club—Journal for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
 Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XVIII. No. 1. 8vo. 1899.
 Chemical Society—Journal for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
    Proceedings,
    Collective      Noe. to
                 Index          204. 8vo. Proceedings
                          203,Transactions,   1899.        and Abstracts, 1883-92. 8vo.
       1898.
 Cracovie, VAcademie des Sciences—Bulletin International, 1899, No. 1. 8vo.
 Dax, SociiU de Borda—Bulletin, 1898, Troisieme Trimestre. 8vo. 1898.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
    Analyst for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
    Anthony's Photographio Bulletin for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
    Athenasum for Feb. 1899. 4to.

1899]                           General Monthly Meeting.                                  95
Editor*—continual.
   Author for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
   Aeronautical Journal for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
   Astrophysical Journal for Jan. 1899.
   Bimetallist for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
   Brewers' Journal for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
   Chemical News for Feb. 1899. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
   Education for Feb. 1899.
   Electrical Engineer for Feb. 1899. fol.
   Electrical Engineering for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
   Electrical Review for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
   Electricity for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
   Engineer for Feb. 1899. fol.
   Engineering for Feb. 1899. fol.
   Homoeopathic Review for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
   Horological Journal for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
   Industries and Iron for Feb. 1899. fol.
   Invention for Feb. 1899.
   Journal of Physical Chemistry for Jan. 1899. 8vo.
   Journal of State Me-licine for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
    Law Journal for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
    Life-Boat Journal for Feb. 1899.
    Lightning for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
   Machinery Market for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
    Nature for Feb. 1899. 4to.
    New Church Magazine for Feb. 1899. 8vn.
    Nuovo Cimento for Nov. and Dec. 1898. 8vo.
    Photographic News for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
    Physical Review for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
    Public Health Engineer for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
    Science Abstracts, Vol. II. Part 1. 8vo. 1899.
    Science of Man for Deo. 1898. 8vo.
    Science Sittings for Feb. 1899.
    Travel for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
    Tropical Agriculturist for Feb. 1899.
    Zoophilist for Feb. 1899. 4to.
 EauTton, P. H. E&{. (the Author)—Marsh Leaves from the Norfolk Brood Land.
      8to. 1898.
 Fkrence, Biblioteea Kazionale Centrale—Bolletino, Nos. 314, 315. 8vo. 1899.
  Forbes, J. Stoats, Esq. M.R.I.—The National Telephone Company, Ltd. (Reprint
       of Articles in 'Times,' Jan. 1899). 8vo.
 Frauklin Institute—JonniaX for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
  Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
  Harlem, Soeiete
 GfJtogical            Hollandaise Journal,
              Sodety—Qv&Tterty                   No. 217. 8vo. Neerlandaises,
                                       des Sciences—Archives       1899.         Sene II.
      Tome II. Liv. 2-4. 4to. 1899.
  Bomiman, F. J. Esq. M.P. MM.I.—Eighth Annual Report of the Horniman
       Museum, 1898. 8vo.
  Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for Feb. 1899.
       PartCollege
  Japan,                Science
             3 ; Vol.of X. Part of
                                 3 ; the
                                      Vol.Imperial
                                            XI. PartUniversity of Tokyo—Journal,
                                                      1 ; Vol. XII.                      IX.
                                                                    Parts 1-3. 8vo.Vol.1898.
  Johns Hopkins University—American Chemical Journal for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
  Manchester Museum, Owens College—Publications, No. 24. 8vo. 1899.
  Massachusetts Institute of Technology—Technology Quarterly for Deo. 1898. 8vo.
  Mtehanical Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings, 1898, No. 3. 8vo.
  Mm, l.ady—The Lives of Maba' SSyon and Gabra Krestos. The Ethiopio
       (Printed
       teits      for Private
              edited,             English translation, by E. A. W. Budge. 4to. 1898.
                        with anCirculation.)

96                            General Monthly Meeting.                      [March C,
Microscopical Society, Royal—Journal, 1899, Part 1. 8vo.
Mitchell & Co. Messrs.—Newspaper Press Directory, 1899. 8vo.
Munich, Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Sitzungsbcrichte, 1898, Heft 4.
     8vo.
Navy League—Navy League Journal for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
Paris, Societe Franeaise de Physique—Bulletin, No. 127. 8vo. 1899.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for Jan. 1899. Svo.
   List of Members, 1899. 8vo.
Rochechouart, La Societe let Amis des Sciences et Arts—Bulletin, Tome VIII.
          3. 8vo.of Public
Rome,No.Ministry       1898. Works—Giornale del Genio Civile, 1898, Fasc. 10°, IP.
     8vo. Ana P/esigni. fol.
Royal Engineers, Corps of—Professional Papers. Vol. XXIV. 8vo. 1898.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 407, 408. 8vo. 1899.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Reports, Vol. XXXIV. 8vo. 189!).
Saxon Society of Sciences, Boyal—
   Mathematisch-Physische Classe—
     Berichte, 1898, No. 1. 8vo.
     Abhandlungen, Band XXIV. No. 6. 8vo. 1899.
   Philaiogisch-Historische Classe—
     Berichte, 1898, No. 5. 8vo.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
Smithsonian Institution—Smithsonian Report for 1896. 8vo. 1898.
   An Account of the U.S. National Museum. By F. W. True. 8vo. 1898.
   Report upon the Museum for 1896. By E. B. Goodo. 8vo. 1898.
Society of Antiquaries—Proceedings, Vol. XVII. No. I. 8vo. 1898.
   Arcbasologia, Second Series, Vol. VI. 4to. 1898.
Society of Arts—Journal for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
Tacchini, Prof. P. Hon. Mem. R.I. (the Author)—Memorie della Societi dtgli
     Spettroscopisti
Toulouse,               Italiani, Vol.duXXVII.
            Societi Archeologique                   la France—Bulletin,
                                          Midi deDisp. IP. 4to. 1899. No. 22. 8vo.
     1898.
     Nos.Service
United   States
           4, 5. Department
                  Institution,
                   8vo. 1898.of    Agriculture—Experiment
                                Royal—Journal                     8vo. Record, Vol. X.
                                                 for Feb. 1899.Station
   Experiment Station Bulletin, No. 45. 8vo. 1898.
United States Patent Office—Official Gazette, Vol. LXXXVI. Nos. 5-7. 8vo.
     1899.
Verein zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1899,
     Heft 1. 8vo.
Vienna, Geological Institute, Imperial—Verhandlungen, 1898, Nos. 16-18. Svo.
 Wimshurst, James, Esq.W.R.S. AI.R.I. (the Compiler)—Rules for the Construction
     of Steamers of all olasses. 16mo. 1899.
 Wisconsin Academy—Transactions, Vol. XI. 8vo. 1898.

1899.J             On Measuring Extreme Temperatures.                 97
                  WEEKLY Friday,   March 10, MEETING,
                                EVENING       1899.
    Th« Hon. Sib James Sttbltng, M.A. LL.D., Vioe-President,
                                in the Chair.
               Pbofbbsob H. L. G&llendae, M.A. F.R.S.
                     Measuring Extreme Temperatures.
The measurement of extreme temperatures is a subject of great
theoretical interest, especially in connection with the determination
of the laws of radiation and of chemical dissociation and combination.
The temperature in each case is the factor of paramount importance,
and without means of measuring the temperature there is no pos
sibility of formulating any rational theories. The subject possesses,
in addition, a powerful fascination for the experimentalist, on account
of the difficulty of the observations involved, and of the extremely
conflicting nature of the results obtained by different observers and
different methods of research.
     Attempts have frequently been made to estimate the temperatures
of the electric arc and of the sun, which may be taken as examples of
 the most extreme temperatures known to science, and afford an
 illustration of the difficulties to be encountered, and of the methods
 available for attacking these problems. A brief consideration and
 comparison of the results will also serve to explain the causes of the
 remarkable discrepancies existing in the estimates of such temperatures
 by different observers and different methods.
     In the case of the sun it is at once obvious that no terrestrial
 thermometer can possibly be directly applied. The only available
 method is (1) to measure the intensity of the solar radiation, and
 (2) to endeavour to deduce the temperature by determining the law of
 radiation at high temperatures. The measurement of the intensity
 of the solar radiation is in itself a sufficiently intricate problem,
 containing many elements of doubt and difficulty ; but by far the
 greatest source of uncertainty lies in the solution of the second part
 of the investigation, the determination of the law of radiation. The
 origin of the discrepancies thus imported into the results may be
 summed up in the word " Extrapolation."
     The method of investigation necessarily consists in taking a series
 of observations at temperatures within the laboratory range of ther
 mometry, from which to calculate an empirical formula representing
 m closely as possible the results of experiment. It is then assumed
 that the formula may be " extrapolated," or used to estimate the
 temperature of a radiating source of known intensity beyond the range
 of the observations on which it was founded. This is a perfectly
     Vol XVI. (No. 93.)                                         h

98                       Professor H. L. Callendar               [March 10,
justifiable method, and may lead to very good results if the empirical
law happens to be correct; but if the formula happens to be unsuit
able, it may lead to the most remarkable conclusions.
    The curves shown in Fig. 1 illustrate some of the typical formnlse
which have either been proposed for the law of radiation, or been
                    LAW Or RADIATION          Bottomless 7 Fw;cj
           0-      ZOOscau:400* or 60<W800cent.1000" ,200-
              Fiq. 1.—Formula of Radiation. Experimental range.
 deduced from the results of modern experiments over the experi
 mental range of the gas-thermometer, extending to 1200° 0., to which
 trustworthy determinations of temperature on the theoretical scale are
 at present restricted. In order to obtain a comparison of the formuhB
 themselves, apart from other issues, the results of different observers
 are reduced to a common hypothetical value, 10 watts per square
 centimetre, for the radiation from a black body at 1000° C.
     Excluding the law of Newton, which applies only to small
 differences of temperature, and also the law of Dulong and Petit,
 which was founded on observations over a very limited range with
 mercury thermometers, and is obviously inapplicable at high tempe
 ratures, there is a certain family resemblance between the remaining
 curves ; but the differences between them are still so considerable that,
 if sufficiently accurate measurements of temperature were available,
 it should be possible to decide with certainty which of the formulae
 was the most correct. A fairly close agreement is seen to obtain
 between the formula proposed by Weber and the curves represent
 ing the results of the recent experiments of Bottomley, Paschen and
 Petavel. But, on the other hand, there is strong evidence, both
 experimental and theoretical, in favour of the fourth power law
 proposed by Stefan, which differs materially from that of Weber ; and
 many supporters may be found, especially among astronomers, for the
 very different formula of Rosetti.

1899.]             on Measuring Extreme Temperatures.                  99
      The importance of choosing a correct formula is most easily
realised by reference to Fig. 2, which represents the results of
extrapolation as applied to deducing the probable temperature of the
son. On the scale of Fig. 2, the dimensions of the experimental
range of Fig. 1 are reduced to the thickness of the line at the lower
left-hand corner of the diagram. The line at the top represents the
intensity of solar radiation, which is taken at 10,000 watts per square
centimetre in round numbers. The points at which the various
curves meet this line show the corresponding values of the solar
temperature.
              Fio. 2.—Temperature of the Sun by Extrapolation.
     The estimates of one million degrees and upwards, which were
current in many of the older books on astronomy, were deduced from
the law of Newton, and are obviously out of the question. The
celebrated formula of Dulong and Petit gives results between 1500°
and 2000° C, according to the data assumed, and evidently errs too
much in the other direction. At the same time, it must be observed
that the recent formula of Weber gives a result which is very little
higher. Paschen considered that his results lent support to Weber's
formnla, and disagreed entirely with Bottomley's. But, according to
the writer's reductions, they agree very closely with Bottomley's, and
are beet represented by the formula ET". The experiments of
Petavel agree most nearly with a fifth power law. On the other
hand, the experiments of Wilson and Gray, in which the temperature
 was measured by the expansion of a platinum strip, instead of by the
increase of its electrical resistance, appear to be in exact confirmation
 of the fourth power law of Stefan, and give a much higher result for
the solar temperature. The formula of Rosetti is approximately a

100                           Profestor H. L. Callendar              [March 10,
third power law at high temperatures, and would not be admitted aa
probable, at least by physicists, at the present time.
     The various formulae above mentioned, together with the methods
employed and the results deduced, are summarised in the following
table:—
                          Table I.—Law of Radiation.
   Observers and date.     Temperature      Radiation     Formula
                                   Iby             Iby                 deduced.
                                                                         °c.
Dulong and Petit/ Mercury                Bate-of cool- E, 1- 00771      1900
        (1817)          \ thermometer ing in vac.
                             Mercury
Eosetti (1878) ../ thermometer Thermopile   Bb-Bi      E,T' (nearly)  12,700
Stefan (1878)                No  experiments  made.        E.T*         6900
Bchleiennacher / Platinnm I Heat loss                      E/T'         6900
     (1885)             \ resistance 1 C2B in vac.
Weber (1888)                  No experiments made.     E,T1-00O43t       2450
Bottomley(1888)..{ Platinum                Heat loss
                            resistance C'B in vac.       E.T*-' *        4000
                         Thermo-couplel
Paschen (1893) ..{ Pt-Pt Bh J Bolometer                  E.T'-' *       4000
Wilson and Gray/ Platinum                    Radio-                     6900
        (1897)          \ expansion       micromoter
Petavel (1898)              Platinum 1 Bolometer                         4800
                       '{ resistance :
              * Formulae deduced by the writer from the observations.
     The foregoing table is not intended to be exhaustive, but merely
as a comparison of typical formulae, reduced to a common standard.
It does not contain the results of photometric investigations.
     The conclusion to be derived from the above illustrations appears
to be, that in order to arrive at any certain knowledge with regard to
the law of radiation, and the measurement of such extreme tempera
tures as those of the arc, and of the sun, the first step must be to
secure a higher order of accuracy in the determination of the highest
temperatures which can be observed and measured in the laboratory
with material thermometers. There are other difficulties which are
peculiar to the determination of the law of radiation, but we are at
present concerned primarily with those relating to the measurement
of temperature.
     There are two comparatively independent lines along which
research may proceed with advantage at the present time: (1) The
direct comparison of different arbitrary methods ; (2) the extension of
the range of the gas-thermometer.
     In order to secure consistency of statement and the reduction of the
results of different observers to a common standard, it is in the first
place desirable that the various methods available at the present time
for the measurement of high temperatures in the laboratory should be
directly compared inter se, through the greatest possible range. It is

1899.]             on Measuring Extreme Temperatures.                 101
the cnstom at present for different observers to reduce their results
 indirectly to the scale of the gas-thermometer by reference to certain
 assumed values of the boiling and freezing points of various substances.
 They generally assume different values for these fixed points, and
 adopt different methods of calibration, which are undoubtedly respon
 sible for many of the discrepancies at present existing.
     To take an illustration from the experiments already quoted, the re
 markable discrepancy between the experiments of Bottomley, Paschen
 and Petavel, on the one hand, and those of Wilson and Gray and
 Schleiermacher, on the other, in the determination of the intensity
 of radiation from polished platinum, may be traced primarily to
 differences in the methods of measurement adopted. Bottomley and
 Petavel measured the electrical resistance of the radiating wire itself,
and deduced the temperature by the usual formula for the platinum
scale. Paschen calibrated his thermo-couple by reference to numerous
fusing and boiling points. Wilson and Gray adopted the meldometer
methods based on the expansion of platinum, which they found to be
uniform. The vacuum in Schleiermacher's experiments could not be
measured, and was probably vitiated by gas evolved from the heated
platinum.
     These and similar discrepancies might be in a great measure
removed, so far as they depend on the measurement of temperature,
by the direct comparison of the various methods of measurement.
The " platinum " methods are among the most important and the most
easily comparable by direct experiment. These methods are founded
on the characteristic stability and infusibility of the metals of the
platinum group, properties which are accompanied by an even more
remarkable degree of constancy in their less obvious electrical
attributes. The two older methods, based on (1) the expansion and
(2) the specific heat of platinum, are of comparatively limited appli
cation, but have given very good results in the able hands of Joly
and Violle. The more modern electrical methods have the advantage
of much wider applicability and convenience. They are of two
distinct kinds : (3) the thermo-electric method, represented by the
Pt-Pd thermo-couple of Becquerel the Pt-Ir thermo-couple of Barns,
and the Pt-Rh thermo-couple of Le Chatelier, and (4) the platinum
resistance pyrometer of Siemens. The third method has been natu
ralised in this country, and brought to great perfection by the work
of Sir William Roberts-Austen. The fourth method was that adopted
by Bottomley, Schleiermacher, and Petavel in the experiments above
mentioned, and has been applied with great success by Heycock ard
Neville at high temperatures, and by Dewar and Fleming at the
other extremity of the scale.
    The usual or indirect comparison of the foregoing methods by
means of the fusing points of various metals is illustrated in the
annexed table, which contains several of the most recent results.
The numbers given in brackets are now published for the first time,
and should be regarded as preliminary.

102                     Professor E. L. Callendar                  [March 10,
         Table II.—Fcsinq Points by " Platinum " Methods.
         Method.            Observers.     Silver. Gold. Copper. Palla   PUU-
                                                                  dium.
     Resistance
(4) Expansion
(1)     couples .. ..{ C. 4E. (1899) ..     961° (1061)   1082° (1640) (1980)°
                                                   1061° (1085)
(2) Spec, beat .. .. Violle(1879) ..        957° 1045° 1054° 1500° 1775°
                       Beoquerel (1863)     960° 1092° 1224°
(3) Thermo             Barus (1892) ..      985° 1093° 1097° 1643° 1855°
                          „ (1894) ..       986° 1091° 1096° 1585° 1757°
                          (1895) & ..Wien
                       Holborn          ..
                                            968° 1072° 1082° 1587° 1780°
                       H. & N. (1895) ..
                       C. & E. (1899) .. (945)                   (1550) (1820)
     The results above given for the expansion method (1) were
 obtained by assuming the expansion to be uniform, and taking the
 F.P. of gold as 1061°. The results of Violle by the specific heat
 method (2) were deduced by assuming a linear formula for the
 specific heat of platinum. The discrepancies of the various results
 obtained by the thermo-electric method (3) are partly due to errors
 of observation, and partly to extrapolation, i.e. to differences in tho
 formulae of reduction. The high value found by Becquerel for the
 F.P. of copper as compared with gold and silver is probably to be
 explained by the use of a much thicker wire in the case of copper.
 The very accurate and consistent experiments of Heycock and
 Neville leave little doubt that the F.P. of pure copper is at least 20°
 above that of gold. The much smaller difference of 4° to 5°, given
 by Barus, may possibly be explained by contamination with oxygen
  or other impurity. In the case of silver and gold, Messrs. Holborn
  and Wien adopted the Becquerel method of observing the fusion of
  fino wires. In the case of copper, they adopted the much moro
  accurate method of observing the freezing point of a large mass of
  metal in a crucible, which had been employed by the writer in 1892,
  and was used by Heycock and Neville throughout their researches.
  The Becquerel method is very liable to give results which are too
      The determination of the higher fusing points of palladium and
  platinum is necessarily attended with greater uncertainty because it
  involves extrapolation, and is therefore more dependent on the
  particular formula of reduction assumed, in addition to the experi
   mental difficulties of the higher temperatures. Considering all the
  obstacles to bo encountered, it would be unreasonable to expect such
  different methods to give any closer agreement at these points.
       Whatever the origin of these discrepancies, there can be no
   question that they greatly retard the progress of research and dis
   covery at high temperatures. With the objoct of helping to remove
  these obstacles, the writer has recently boon engaged, in conjunction

  1899.]           on Measuring Extreme Temperatures.                103
  with Mr. Eumorfopoulos, in a direct comparison of methods (1), (3)
 and (4), which are simplest and most generally applicable. The ad
 vantages of the direct method of comparison are very great. (1) The
 comparison may be extended continuously throughout the scale, and
  is not confined to a few arbitrary selected points. (2) It is easy
  to apply the electric method of heating, which is of all methods the
 most easily regulated. (3) It is easy to arrange the experiments in
 each a way that there can be no question of difference of temperature
 between the thermometers under comparison, which is the most
 insidious source of error in high temperature measurement.
      In the comparison of the scale of the expansion of platinum (1),
 with that of the platinum resistance thermometer (4), it is simply
necessary to observe simultaneously the expansion and the electric
resistance of a platinum strip, tube or wire maintained at a steady
temperature by means of an electric current. The expansion may bo
measured, as in the meldometer of Joly, by means of a micrometer
screw ; but for lecture purposes it is preferable to adopt the method
of the optical lever employed by Laplace in his experiments on
expansion a century ago. By employing a direct-reading ohmmeter
to indicate the changes of electrical resistanco, it is thus possible to
exhibit the difference between the two methods by the simultaneous
advance of two spots of light on a single scale. If the two instru
ments are adjusted to read correctly at 0° and 1000° C., the resistance
thermometer will be in advance at temperatures below 1000°, but
will lag behind at higher temperatures, because the rate of expansion
increases as the temperature rises, whereas the rate of chango of
resistance diminishes. As the result of these experiments, it appears
that the two scales (1) and (4) differ from that of the gas-thermometer
to a nearly equal extent, but in opposite directions.
     The resistance of platinum at its melting point is more than six
tunes as great as at 0° C, whereas the whole expansion amounts to
only one-fiftieth part of the length. The electrical method is for
this reason by far the most accurate and sensitive. It also possesses
in a very striking degree the merit of pliability and adaptability to
the needs of each particular problem. For this reason the scale of
the platinum resistance thermometer has como to be regarded as the
platinum scale par excellence, and has been adopted as the standard of
reference in many recent researches.
     As an illustration of the facility of applying this method, the
determination of the fusing point of platinum on the platinum scale
may be taken. This is a difficult experiment to perform by any
other method. In performing the experiment by the measurement of
the electrical resistance, it suffices to take a fine wire of which the
electrical constants are accurately known, and to raise it gradually to
its melting point by steadily increasing the current. The observation
of the resistance of the central portions of the wire at the moment of
 fusion gives directly the temperature required on the platinum scale.
 In attempting to perform the same experiment by the expansion

104                     Professor H. L. Callendar             [March 10,
method, we are met by the difficulty that the platinum begins to
soften and stretch at a temperature considerably below its melting
point. Owing to the smallness of the expansion, a very slight viscous
extension produces a relatively large error. In the resistance method
it is not necessary to subject the wire to tension, and a small strain
would in any case produce an inappreciable error on account of the
very large increase of resistance with temperature. To obtain an
equal degree of accuracy by the calorimetric method (2), or the
thermo-electric method (3), it is necessary to use a furnace in which
relatively large quantities of platinum can be melted. This has been
done by Viofle for method (2), and by Barus and Holborn and Wien
for method (3). The latter used a linear formula for extrapolation,
although their gas-thermometer experiments appeared to indicate a
cubic formula for temperatures below 1200° C.
    The temperature of the melting point of platinum on the platinum
scale by the resistance method (4) is approximately ft = 1350°, and
varies but slightly for different specimens of platinum. The result,
when reduced to the scale of the gas-thermometer by assuming that
the rate of increase of resistance diminishes uniformly with rise of
temperature (according to the usual formula of platinum thermometry,
which has been verified with great care at moderate temperatures),
gives a temperature of 1820° 0. on the scale of the gas-thermometer.
It is not improbable that platinum may deviate slightly from this
formula at the extreme limit of the scale in the close neighbourhood
of its melting point, but the evidence for this result is at least as
good as that obtainable by any of the other methods. The observa
tions are very easy and accurate as compared with the calorimetric
method, and it is not necessary to make any arbitrary assumptions
with regard to the formula of reduction, as in the case of the thermo
electric method.
    As the accuracy of this formula has recently been called in ques
tion, on what appears to be insufficient grounds, by certain German
and French observers, it is the more interesting at the present time
to show that it leads to a result which cannot be regarded as
improbable at the extreme limit of the scale. A different formula
has recently been employed by Holborn and Wien, and supported by
Dickson (Phil. Mag., December 1897). The writer has already given
reasons (Phil. Mag., February 1899) for regarding this formula as
inferior to the original, of which, however, it is a very close imitation.
The above observations on the melting point of platinum, if reduced
by Dickson's formula, would give a result <=1636° C, which appears
to be undoubtedly too low as compared with the results of other
methods, however great the margin of uncertainty we are prepared
to admit in these difficult and debatable regions of temperature
measurement.
    It should be observed that the results of Violle by method (2)
are consistently lower than those given by the resistance method in
the case of silver, gold and copper. We should, therefore, expect a

 1899.]            on Measuring Extreme Temperatures.                105
difference in the same direction at the F.P. of Pt as found by method
(4), and not a difference in the opposite direction as given by the
thermo-electric method, on the arbitrary assumption of a different
type of formula for extrapolation at high temperatures. It is a
matter of some interest that the assumption of linear formulae for
both the specific heat and the rate of change of resistance, should lead
to results so nearly consistent over so wide a range of temperature in
the case of platinum.
    The chief difficulty and uncertainty encountered by Paschen in
his experiments on radiation, was that of arranging the thermo-couple
so as to be at the same temperature as the radiating strip of platinum.
It is better for this reason to measure the temperature of the strip
itself by means of its electrical resistance, the method adopted by
Schleiennacher, Bottomley and Petavel. The same difficulty occurs
in the direct comparison of the scales of the thermo-couple and the
platinum-resistance thermometer. The simplest method of avoiding
this objection appears to be that recently adopted by the writer, of
enclosing the thermo-couple completely in a thin tube of platinum,
which itself forms the resistance thermometer. There can be no
question of difference of temperature between the two, and the same
tube may serve simultaneously for the expansion method and as a
radiating source for bolometric investigation of the law of radiation.
The uniformity of temperature throughout the length of the tube
can be tested at any time by means of potential leads, or by shifting
the thermo-couple to different positions along its length. The method
of electric heating is employed, and the central portion only of the
tnbe is utilised in the comparison.
    The methods of measurement, so far as considered, are in a certain
sense arbitrary in so far as they depend on extrapolation of empirical
formula. If all these methods could be reduced by direct comparison
to perfect agreement with each other, a definite scale of temperature
would be attained to which all measurements could be referred, and
which would leave nothing to be desired from a purely practical
point of view. It is probable that this scale would not differ much
from the theoretical or absolute scale of temperature. For theoretical
investigations, however— without which no true scientific advance can
be made—it is a matter of such fundamental importance to refer every
measurement to the absolute scale, that no opportunity should be
neglected of extending the possible range of accurate observation
with the gas-thermometer, because this instrument affords at presout
the closest approximation to the absolute or theoretical scale. A
consideration of the difficulties of the methods of gas-thermometry at
present in use will lead naturally to the best methods of extending
the range and accuracy of the instrument.
    In the ordinary method of gas-thermometry a bulb containing the
gas is exposed to the temperature to be measured, and the observation
consists in determining either the oxpansion of volume or the increaso
>jf pressure of the gas. The principlo is very similar to that of the

106                   Professor H. L. Callendar            [March 10,
ordinary liquid in glass thermometers, but the apparatus is more
cumbrous and difficult to use on account of the necessity of observing
both the volume and the pressure of the gas. This method is very
accurate at moderate temperatures, but the difficulties increase very
rapidly above 1000° O. Above 1200° C, it is doubtful whether such
measurements are of any greater value than those obtained by extra
polation. Apart from the difficulty (which is common to nearly all
methods at high temperatures) of maintaining a uniform and steady
temperature, the bulb-method of gas-thermometry is liable to the
following special sources of error :—
              (1 ) Changes in volume of the bulb.
              (2) Leakage and porosity.
              (3) Occlusion or dissociation.
    In order to investigate these sources of error a special form of
porcelain air-thermometer (Fig. 3) was designed by the writer, and
was constructed in Paris, in December 1886, under the supervision of
               Porcelain                 Pyrometer
                        3                      C
                         Platinum. Wires inside,
                                 Fiq. 3.
W. N. Shaw, F.R.S., of Emmanuel College, Cambridge. A figure
and description of this instrument were published in the Phil. Trans.
A., 1887. The same form has since been adopted by MM. Holborn
and Wien in their experiments on the measurement of high tempera
tures at the Beichsanstalt. Thick tubes of 3 sq. mm. cross section,
marked AO, dd in Fig. 3, were connected at each end of the cylindrical
bulb ba. The length CD could be directly observed at any time with
reading microscopes, and the linear expansion of the bulb could be
deduced. The volume of the bulb could also bo gauged at any time
with air, and the mean temperatures of the separate portions ae, ao,
bd, could be determined by means of platinum wires extending along
the axis of the instrument. This was a more essential part of the
apparatus, as the wires afforded a means of accurately reproducing
any given set of conditions, and of testing the performance of the

1899.]              on Measuring Extreme Temperatures.                 107
gas-thermometer at high temperatures in respect of all the various
sources of error above mentioned. (1) It was observed that the
volume of the bulb underwent continuous changes, chiefly in tho
direction of contraction, and that the shrinkage was not symmetrical,
being apparently greater in the circumference than in the length of
the cylinder. (2) To prevent leakage, and to close the pores of the
material, it is necessary to have the porcelain bnlb glazed both inside
and out The glaze becomes sticky, and begins to run at a tempera
ture below 1200° C, and the bulb begins to yield slightly and con
tinuously to pressure above this point. (3) With some gases there
appear to be slight traces of chemical action or occlusion of the gas
by the walls of the bulb at high temperatures. It is for this reason
preferable to use the inert gases nitrogeu or argon as the thermometric
material. In any case, the limit of high temperature measurement
would be reached when either the gas, or the material of the bulb,
began to dissociate or decompose. Deville and Troost, employing
GOj for filling the porcelain bulb, found the temperature of the B.P.
of zinc nearly 150° higher than with air or hydrogen. This they
attributed to a partial dissociation of the C02 at the temperature as
low as 930° C. Some experiments made by the writer appeared, how
ever, to indicate that the effect was due to chemical action between
the gas and the porcelain.
      For these and other reasons it appears very doubtful whether any
improvement or extension of range can be expected from the use of
 glazed porcelain. If an attempt is made to employ any of the moro
 refractory kinds of fire-clay, there is the difficulty of finding a suit
 able glaze, and of eliminating leakage and porosity. Tho writer
 suggested the use of bulbs of fused silica some years ago (Proc. Iron
 aud Steel Institute, 1892), and endeavoured to get such bulbs con
 structed, but without success. This material possesses many of the
 requisite qualities, but is for this very reason extremely difficult to
 work. Metallic bulbs of platinum or platinum-iridium are by far
 the most perfect in respect of constancy of volume, regularity of
  expansion, and facility of accurate construction ; but unfortunately,
  as Deville and Troost showed, they have such an inveterate tendency
  for occluding or dissolving gases at high temperatures, that the use
  of metallic bulbs has been practically discontinued, in spite of their
  obvious advantages in other respects.
       After making many vain experiments, the writer was forced to
  the conclusion that the ordinary bulb-methods did not promise any
  satisfactory solution of the problem of extending the range of the
  gas-thermometer, and that it was necessary to attempt a radically new
  departure. The optical method, depending on the measurement of
  the refractivity of a gas at high temperatures, and tho acoustical
  method, depending on the observation of the wave-length of sound,
  although of great theoretical interest, did not appear to promise
   sufficient delicacy of measurement or facility of practical application.
   Experiments were therefore made on the methods of effusion and

108                    Professor H. L. Callendar             [March 10,
transpiration, which had been occasionally suggested by previous
writers, but have not as yet (so far as the author is aware) been
practically investigated as a means of measuring temperature on the
absolute scale. The method of effusion consists in observing the
resistance to the efflux of gas through a small hole or orifice in a
thin plate. In the method of transpiration the gas is made to pass
through a fine tube instead of a small orifice, and the resistance to its
passage is observed in a similar manner. These methods may be
called "resistance-methods" to distinguish them from the ordinary or
" bulb-methods " of pyrometry. They are closely analogous to the
now familar resistance-method of electrical pyrometry, and possess
many of the advantages of that method in point of delicacy and
facility of application. One very obvious and material advantage,
especially for high temperature work, is the smallness and sensitive
ness of the instrument as compared with the bulb of an ordinary gas-
thermometer. But the most important point of difference, which led
the writer to the adoption of these methods, is that the measurements
are practically unaffected by occlusion or evolution of gas by the
material of the tubes. There is a continuous flow of gas through the
apparatus. This flow is very large in proportion to any possible
leakage, and it is therefore possible to employ platinum tubes with
perfect safety.
    The method of effusion may be very simply illustrated by means
of a fine hole in the side of a large and thin platinum tube which is
heated by an electric current. The current of air is heated in its
passage through the tube before it effuses through the orifice. The
heated air expands in volume, and the resistance to effusion is
increased in proportion to the temperature to which the air is heated.
The increase of resistance may be shown by means of a gas-current
indicator or " rheoscope," which consists of a delicately suspended
vane deflected by a current of gas. A mirror is attached to the vane,
and the deflection is measured by the motion of a spot of light reflected
on to a scale, exactly as in the case of the mirror galvanometer when
used for indicating changes of electrical resistance. As a standard
of comparison, to show the changes of temperature of the tube, the
changes of electrical resistance of the same tube are simultaneously
shown by means of a suitable ohmmeter.
    The method of effusion is a beautifully simple method, and gives
a nearly uniform scale ; but it has two disadvantages, which it shares
with the thermo-electric method of measurement. (1) It necessarily
measures temperature at a point, namely at the point of effusion, and
cannot be easily arranged to give the mean temperature throughout a
space. (2) It is difiScult to make the effusion resistance sufficiently
large for purposes of accurate measurement. A large resistance
moans a very fine hole, and it is not easy to satisfy the theoretical
conditions of the problem with sufficient accuracy and eliminate the
effects of viscosity.
    The method of transpiration is more complicated, and does not

 1899.]             on Measuring Extreme Temperatures.                        109
give so uniform a scale, or so simple a formula. It has the great
advantage, however, that the theoretical conditions of flow may bo
realised with unlimited accuracy, and that the transpiration resistance
can be measured with a degree of precision very little, if at all,
inferior to the corresponding electrical measurement.
    The complication of the transpiration problem arises from the
fact that the flow depends on the increase of the viscosity of the gas,
as well as on its expansion. The viscosity of liquids in general
decreases very considerably with rise of temperature. That of water,
for instance, is six times less at the boiling point than at the freezing
point. If the viscosity of gases diminished in a similar manner, it
might happen that the transpiration resistance would decrease with
rise of temperature. Maxwell was the first to give a theoretical
explanation of the behaviour of gases in this respect. On certain
simple kinetic assumptions, he showed that the viscosity should
increase in direct proportion to the absolute temperature. Since the
expansion follows the same law, the transpiration resistance on
Maxwell's hypothesis should increase in proportion to the square of
the temperature. This would give a fairly simple formula, and would
make the transpiration thermometer a very sensitive instrument, but
the scale would be very far from uniform. Maxwell made some
experiments on the temperature variation of the viscosity between 0°
and 100° C, which appeared to give support to his mathematical
assumptions ; bat his apparatus did not happen to be of a very suitable
type for temperature measurement, and it is clear that he did not
regard this part of his experimental work with great confidence.
    The question of the viscosity of gases was next attacked with
great vigour in Germany by a number of different physicists. They
ultimately succeeded in proving that the law was not quite so simple
as Maxwell had supposed, and that the rate of increase of viscosity
was less than that of volume. A summary of some of the principal
results obtained, over the range 0° to 100° C, is given in the following
   Table III.—Vabiation of Viscosity v with Tbmpkbatube T.
                         Fobmuxa, vjv0 = (T/r0)\
                                             Values of Index n (0° to 100° C)
              Observers.            Datee
                                              Air.         02.               co2.
                                    1866     1-000
                                    1873   '61 - -83       —         —        —
                                    1874   -47 - -65       —         —        —
                                    1875       -76         '80 -70 '94
                                    1876       -73         —         —       '93
                                    1876   -74 - -77       —         '63      —
                                    1876       -72         —         ,69      —
                                     1876  -74 - -80       —                  —
                                                                                  *

110                    Professor H. L. Callendar             [March 10,
table, in which the rate of increase is expressed by finding the power
n of the absolute temperature T to which the viscosity is most nearly
proportional. The most concordant results were obtained by the
method of transpiration, and gave an average of - 76 for the index n
in the case of air. The more condensible gases gave larger values
for the rate of increase, but the value for hydrogen appeared to be
smaller.
    It will be observed that the results are not very concordant, but
the experiments are much more difnoult and liable to error than might
be supposed. The most accurate method was that employed by
Holman, but even in this case the margin of uncertainty is considerable.
It would evidently be impossible to employ the method of transpira
tion to any advantage for the determination of temperature, unless a
far higher order of accuracy could be easily attained. After repeat
ing the majority of the more promising methods in detail, including
the original method of Maxwell, the writer came to the conclusion
that they were entirely unsuitable for the purposes of thermometry,
and would have abandoned the attempt entirely if he had not fortu
nately succeeded in finding a more perfect way.
    In studying the flow of electricity through conductors, which is
in many respects analogous to that of a fluid through a fine tube,
electricians have been compelled, from the intangible nature of the
fluid with which they work, to elaborate the most delicate and power
ful methods of investigation. One of the most useful of these methods
is generally known as the Wheatstone-bridge method, and is used for
measuring the resistance of a conductor to the passage of an electric
current. The method is equally applicable and equally exact for
determining the resistance of a fine tube to the passage of a gas.
The writer was already very familiar with the application of this
method in all its refinement of detail to electrical resistance thermo
metry. The suggestion for applying it to the closely analogous pro
blem of transpiration was supplied by the researches of W. N. Shaw,
F.R.S., who had already applied it, in connection with certain experi
ments on ventilation, to the effusion of air through large orifices at
ordinary temperatures.
    The apparatus used by Shaw (described in the Proc. Roy. Soc.,
vol. xlvii., 1890) consisted of boxes to represent rooms, with apertures
about half a square inch in area to represent ventilators. Two of
these apertures were made in the form of adjustable slits. The
circulation of air through two rooms in parallel was maintained by a
gas burner, and the slits were adjusted to make the pressure in the
two rooms the same, as indicated by the absence of flow in a connect
ing tube, containing a pivoted needle and vane as a current detector.
The balance was shown to be independent of the air-current when
that was varied from one to four cubic feet per minute. The effusion
resistance of an aperture was also verified to be approximately
proportional to the square of the reciprocal of the area, with apertures
of similar shape. This method of investigation was admirably adapted

1899.]              on Measuring Extreme Temperatures.                    Ill
to problems in ventilation, in which the phenomena depend mainly on
effusion through relatively large apertures. It would, however, be
difficult to adapt to the problem of temperature measurement. It
would not be easy to make an aperture which could be continuously
varied without changing its shape, and at the same time to measure
the change of area with sufficient accuracy, if the area were small
enough to prevent appreciable cooling of the thermometer by the
current of air flowing through it. There is also the disadvantage
that the pressure-difference varies as the square of the current ; so
that, if very small currents are used, the effects of viscosity become
 more important, and the balance ceases to be independent of the
current, unless everything is symmetrical and at the same temperature
 in corresponding parts.
      For these reasons it seems preferable, in applying the Wheatstone-
 bridge method to air-currents, to employ fine tubes as resistances,
 and to eliminate the effects of effusion as completely as possible, at
 least in the resistance-measuring part of the apparatus. With trans
 piration resistances the current is directly proportional to the pressuro
 difference, the electrical analogy is much closer, and the theoretical
 conditions can be very accurately realised.
      The Wheatstone-bridge method of measurement proved to bo so
 exact, and so perfectly adapted to the problem of transpiration ther
 mometry, that, after some preliminary experiments, the writer hod a
 very elaborate apparatus constructed, in the year 1893, which was in
 every detail the exact analogue of an electrical resistance thermometer.
  The fine wire resistances of the electrical apparatus, in terms of
  which the change of resistance of the thermometer is measured, arc
  replaced in the transpiration box by a graduated series of fine tubes,
  which can be short-circuited by means of taps of relatively large bore,
  corresponding to the plugs of negligible resistance in the electrical
  resistance box. The galvanometer is replaced by a rheoscope, con
  structed after a pattern devised by Joule for a different purpose,
  which can be made to rival in delicacy the best modern electrical
  instruments. The pyrometer itself consists of a fine tube of platinum
  instead of a wire, and is fitted with " compensating leads " to corre
  spond with those of the electrical instrument. All the detail of the
  methods of observation and calibration are faithfully copied from the
  electrical apparatus, and the results, so far as the measurement of
  transpiration resistance is concerned, are equally satisfactory.
       Fig. 4 is a diagram of a working model of the transpiration
  balance, which was exhibited at the lecture. This model has a ver
   tical needle for index, and a pivoted mica vane, which is deflected
   when a current flows through the bridge piece. It is constructed to
   work on the ordinary lighting-gas pressure, and to give its maximum
   deflection for a 10 per cent, change of resistance with the gas about
    half off. With all the taps off, the resistances on either side are equal,
    and there is no deflection. In the diagram the balance is supposed
    to have been disturbed by opening one of the taps. The apparatus

 112                    Professor H. L. Callendar             [March 10,
 actually used for temperature measurement has sixteen taps and a
 mirror rheoscope, and is a thousand times more sensitive.
     In order to apply the method to the measurement of extreme
 temperatures, it is not sufficient to be able to measure resistance. It
 is also necessary to determine the law of the variation of viscosity
 with temperature. Here, again, recourse must be had to the method
 of extrapolation. Fortunately, in the present instance, the tempera
 ture can be measured through a very wide range, and the range of
extrapolation, being limited by the melting point of platinum, is not
                      RATIO                 COILS.
                 Fra. 4.—Diagram of Transpiration Balance.
very great in comparison. It should be possible, therefore, by suffi
ciently varying the conditions of the experiments, and by comparing
the behaviour of different gases throughout the whole range of tem
perature, to arrive at a very fair degree of certainty with regard to
the essential nature of the phenomenon. Owing to want of leisure
for the work, the author's experiments have not as yet extended over a
sufficient range of temperature, except in the case of air, to warrant
the publication of any general conclusions with regard to the law of
variation of viscosity, or of any results at high temperatures obtained
by the method of extrapolation. It may be stated, however, that the
formula above quoted, according to which the viscosity varies as some

1899.J             on Measuring Extreme Temperatures.                113
power a of the temperature, though fairly exact over a moderate range
of temperature, fails entirely when tested at higher points. The
results of Obermayer appear to be the most accurate for the different
gases between 0° and 100° C, but if the same formula is retained, the
value of the index n diminishes as the temperature is raised. Taking
the average value between 0° and 100° for air as being 0 - 76, the value
Mis to 0-70 between 100° and 450°. A result of this nature was
found by Wiedemann, but the rate of diminution which he gives
 appears to be far too great. He gives, for instance, the value n = 0 • 67
 for air between 0° and 184°, which implies a rate of diminution of the
 index many times greater than that which actually occurs. It would
 be very difficult by the method which he employed to make sure of
 any deviation whatever from the formula over so small a range, and
 since the error of his determination is much greater than that of the
 formula, he can hardly be said to have disproved the index law.
      The problem is seriously complicated by the failure of the simple
 formula ; but since the measurements are capable of great exactitude,
 and since it is possible to obtain many independent checks by com
 paring the results of the two methods of effusion and transpiration,
  and also by examining the behaviour of different gases, the author
  is confident of ultimate success. The method of experiment here
  described has already led to many promising and interesting results,
  and it is probable that the complete solution of the problem when
  attained, besides leading to more accurate determinations of extreme
   temperatures, may also throw light on dissociation and on many other
   points which are at present obscure in the theory of gases.
                                                            [H. L. C]
        Vol XVI. (No. 93.)                                       I

114                     Professor Francis Gotch                [March 17,
                 WEEKLY       EVENING
                        Friday,             1899.
                                March 17, MEETING,
Sib James Obiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
               Pkofessob Fbancis Gotoh, M.A. F.R.S.
                      The Electric Fish of the Nile.
The lecture dealt almost exclusively with the formidable fish found
in the rivers of North and of West Africa, Malapterurus electricus.
    Photographs were shown of the drawings upon the interior of the
tomb of Ti, showing that the fish was recognised as remarkable by the
Egyptians five thousand years before the Christian era. Living
specimens of the fish were also displayed, these having been given to
the lecturer, for the purpose of illustrating the lecture, by the authori
ties of the Liverpool Corporation Museum.
    The structure of the electrical organ was then described. It is
situated in the skin enclosing the whole body of the fish, and has •
beautiful and characteristic appearance when seen in microscopic
seotions. Each organ consists of rows of compartments, and each
compartment has slung athwart it a peculiar protoplasmic disc
shaped like a peltate leaf, with a projecting stalk on its caudal side.
Nerves enter each compartment, and end, according to the recent work
of Ballowitz, in the stalk of each disc. By these nerves nervous
impulses can reach the organ ; the arrival of such impulses at the
nerve terminations evokes a state of activity which is associated with
the development of electromotive charges of considerable intensity
constituting the organ shock. The shock is an intense current travers
 ing the whole organ from head to tail and returning through the sur
 roundings ; it stuns small fish in the neighbourhood and can be felt
 by man when the hand is placed near the fish, as a smart shock reaching
 up the arms to the shoulders.
     Recent investigations made by the lecturer at Oxford in conjunc
 tion with Mr. G. J. Burch were next described. Those comprised
 a large series of photographic records of the displacement of the
 mercury of a capillary electrometer in consequence of the electrical
 disturbance in the organ which is " the organ shock." A number of
 these records were exhibited ; they showed the time relations, mode
 of commencement and manner of subsidence of the shock, and demon
 strated its similarity to the electrical changes ' known to exist in
 nervous tissue during the passage of a nervous impulse. A remark
able feature of the organ shock as distinct from the phenomena of

1899.]                on the Electric Fish of the Nile.               115
nerve was then brought forward. The shock even when evoked by a
single stimulus was shown to be rarely if ever a single one. Each
effect consists of a rhythmical series of electrical changes occurring
one after another in a perfectly regular manner at intervals of TJ^" to
yJV, 'he rate depending upon the temperature. By special experiments
it was shown that this rhythmical series is due to self excitation,
each change producing an electrical current of sufficient intensity to
excite the nerves of the tissue in which it was generated. It follows
that only the initial member of the series need be evoked by nervous
impulses descending the nerves, since the others must then ensue.
The potency of the organ as a weapon to be wielded by the fish is
thus enormously increased by its resemblance to a self-loading and
self-discharging automatic gun. The total electromotive-force of the
whole organ in a fish only eight inches long can reach the surprising
maximum of 200 volts, at any rate in the case of the initial shock.
The attainment of this maximum is due to the simultaneous develop
 ment of perfectly similar electromotive changes in each of the two
million discs of which the organ is composed. In a single disc the
 maximal electromotive-force only amounts to from -04 to '05 volt,
 and since in a small nerve an electrical change of '03 to '04 volt
 has been observed, the large total effect is not due to any extra
ordinarily intense electrical disturbance in each tissue element, but
to the tissue elements being so arranged that the effect in one
 augments those simultaneously produced in its neighbours.
     Finally, the remarkable characters of the nervous connections of
 the organ were described. Each lateral half of the organ, although
 it has a million plates receiving nerve branches, is innervated by
 one single nerve fibre and this is the offshoot of a single giant nerve-
 cell situated at the cephalic end of the spinal cord. The structure
 of this nerve-cell was displayed by means of microscopic sections
 and by wax models made by G. Mann, of Oxford. As regards the
 uerrous impulses which the fish can discharge through this nerve-
 ceu, experimental results were described which show that the fish
  is incapable of sending a second nervous impulse after a preceding
 one until a period of ^ second has elapsed, and that this interval is
 rapidly lengthened by fatigue to as much as several seconds. Tho
 inability of the central nervous system to repeat the activity of the
 organ obviously presents disadvantages to the use of the shock as a
 weapon for attack or defence, but such disadvantage is more than
 counterbalanced by the property of the organ alluded to in tho
 earlier part of the lecture, viz. that of self-excitation, since a whole
  wries of shocks continue to occur automatically in rapid succession
  provided that an initial one has been started by the arrival at the
  organ of a nervous impulse sent out from the central norvo-cell.
                                                                [P. O.]

  116                          Lord Rayleigh                   [March 24,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 24, 1899.
        Sib Fbedebick Bbamwell, Babt., D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.,
           Honorary Secretary and Vice-President, in the Chair.
  The Right Hon. Lobd Rayleigh, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.,
                  Professor of Natural Philosophy, R.I.
                        Transparency and Opacity.
 One kind of opacity is due to absorption ; bnt the lecture dealt
 rather with that deficiency of transparency which depends upon
 irregular reflections and refractions. One of the best examples is
 that met with in Christiansen's experiment. Powdered glass, all
 from one piece and free from dirt, is placed in a bottle with parallel
 flat sides. In this state it is quite opaque ; but if the interstices
 between the fragments are filled up with a liquid mixture of bisulphide
 of carbon and benzole, carefully adjusted so as to be of equal refrac-
 tivity with the glass, the mass becomes optically homogeneous, and
 therefore transparent. In consequence, however, of the different
 dispersive powers of the two substances, the adjustment is good for
 one part only of the spectrum, other parts being scattered in trans
mission much as if no liquid were employed, though, of course, in a
less degree. The consequence is that a small source of light, backed
preferably by a dark ground, is seen in its natural outlines but strongly
coloured. The colour depends upon the precise composition of the
liquid, and further varieswith the temperature, a few degrees of warmth
sufficing to cause a transition from red through yellow to green.
     The lecturer had long been aware that the light regularly trans
 mitted through a stratum from 15 to 20 mm. thick was of a high
degree of purity, but it was only recently that he found to his
astonishment, as the result of a more particular observation, that the
 range of refrangibility included was but two and a half times that
embraced by the two D-lines. The poverty of general effect, when
the darkness of the background is not attended to, was thus explained ;
for the highly monochromatic and accordingly attenuated light from
the special source is then overlaid by diffused light of other colours.
     More precise determinations of the range of light transmitted
were subsequently effected with thinner strata of glass powder con
tained in cells formed of parallel glass. The cell may be placed
between the prisms of the spectroscope and the object-glass of the
collimator. With the above mentioned liquids a stratum 5 mm. thick
transmitted, without appreciable disturbance, a range of the spectrum
pleasured by 11 "3 times the interval of tho D's. In another cell of

1899.]                  on Transparency and Opacity.                        117
the same thickness an effort was made to reduce the difference of
dispersive powers. To this end the powder was of plate glass and
the liquid oil of cedar-wood adjusted with a little bisulphide of carbon.
The general transparency of this cell was the highest yet observed.
When it was tested upon the spectrum, the range of refrangibility
transmitted was estimated at 34 times the interval of the D's.
     As regards the substitution of other transparent solid material
for glass, the choice is restricted by the presumed necessity of avoiding
appreciable donble refraction. Common salt is singly refracting,
bat attempts to use it were not successful. Opaque patches always
interfered. With the idea that these might be due to included mother
 liquor, the salt was heated to incipient redness, but with little advan
 tage. Transparent rock-salt artificially broken may, however, be used
 with good effect, but there is some difficulty in preventing the approxi
 mately rectangular fragments from arranging themselves too closely.
     The principle of evanescent refraction may also be applied to the
 spectroscope. Some twenty years ago, an instrument had been con
 structed upon this plan. Twelve 90° prisms of Chance's " dense
 flint" were cemented in a row upon a strip of glass (Fig. 1), and the
 whole was immersed in a liquid mixture of bisulphide of carbon with
 a little benzole. The dispersive power of the liquid exceeds that of
 the solid, and the difference amounts to about three-quarters of the
                                     Pio. I.
  dispersive power of Chance's " extra dense flint." The resolving
  power of the latter glass is measured by the number of centimetres of
  available thickness, if we take the power required to resolve tho
  D-lines as unity. The compound spectroscope had an available
  thickness of 12 inches or 30 cm., so that its theoretical resolving
  power (in the yellow region of the spectrum) would be about 22.
  With the aid of a reflector the prism could be used twice over, and
  then the resolving power is doubled.
      One of the objections to a spectroscope depending upon bi
  sulphide of carbon is the sensitiveness to temperature In tho
  ordinary arrangement of prisms the refracting edges are vertical. If,
  as often happens, the upper part of a fluid prism is warmer than tho
  lower, the definition is ruined, one degree (Centigrade) of temperature
  making nine times as great a difference of refraction as a passage
  from D, to D2. The objection is to a great extent obviated by so
  mounting the compound prism that the refracting edges are horizontal,
   which of course entails a horizontal slit. The disturbance due to a
      In thetemperature
  Stratified instrument isabove
                            then described
                                  largely compensated
                                             the disporsive  changeisofgreat—
                                                        by apowor        focus.

118                           Lord Rayleigh                  [March 24,
the D-lines are seen widely separated with the naked eye—but the
aperture is inconveniently small (£-inch). In the new instrument
exhibited the prisms (supplied by Messrs. Watson) are larger, so that
a line of ten prisms occupies 20 inches. Thus, while the resolving
power is much greater, the dispersion is less than before
     In the course of the lecture the instrument was applied to show
the duplicity of the reversed soda lines. The interval on the screen
between the centres of the dark lines was about half an inch.
     It is instructive to compare the action of the glass powder with
that of the spectroscope. In the latter the disposition of the prisms
is regular, and in passing from one edge of the beam to the other
there is complete substitution of liquid for glass over the whole
length. For one kind of light there is no relative retardation ; and
the resolving power depends upon the question of what change of
wave length is required in order that its relative retardation may be
altered from zero to the quarter wave length. All kinds of light for
which the relative retardation is less than this remain mixed. In
the case of the powder we have similar questions to consider. For
one kind of light the medium is optically homogeneous, i.e. the re
tardation is the same along all rays. If we now suppose the quality
of the light slightly varied, the retardation is no longer precisely the
same along all rays ; but if the variation from the mean falls short of
the quarter wave length it is without importance, and the medium
still behaves practically as if it were homogeneous. The difference
between the action of the powder and that of the regular prisms in
the spectroscope depends upon this, that in the latter there is com
plete substitution of glass for liquid along the extreme rays, while in
the former the paths of all the rays lie partly through glass and
partly through liquid in nearly the same proportions. The difference
of retardations along various rays is thus a quostion of a deviation
from an average.
     It is true that we may imagine a relative distribution of glass and
liquid that would more nearly assimilate the two cases. If, for
example, the glass consisted of equal spheres resting against one
another in cubic order, some rays might pass entirely through glass
and others entirely through liquid, and then the quarter wave length
of relative retardation would enter at the same total thickness in both
cases. But such an arrangement would be highly unstable ; and, if
the spheres be packed in close order, the extreme relative retardation
would be much less. The latter arrangement, for which exact results
could readily be calculated, represents the glass powder more nearly
than does the cubic order.
     A simplified problem, in which the element of chance is retained,
may be constructed by supposing the particles of glass replaced by
thin parallel discs which are distributed entirely at random over a
certain stratum. Wo may go further and imagine the discs limited to
a particular plane. Each disc is supposed to exercise a minute re
tarding influenco on the light which traverses it, and they are snp

1899.]                   on Transparency and Opacity.                            119
posed to be so numerous that it is improbable that a ray can pass the
plane without encountering a large number. A certain number (m) of
encounters is more probable than any other, but if every ray on-
countered the same number of discs, the retardation would be uniform
and lead to no disturbance.
      It is a question of Probabilities to determine the chance of a pro
scribed number of encounters, or of a prescribed deviation from the
mean. In the notation of the integral calculus the chance of the
deviation from m lying between + r is *
                                 V* Jo
where t = r I V(2m).              This is equal to -84 when t = 1-0, or
r = J (2 ¦) ; so that the chance is comparatively small of a deviation
from m exceeding ± V(2 j»).
      To represent the glass powder occupying a stratum of 2 cm,
thick, we may perhaps suppose that m = 72. There would thus be a
moderate chance of a difference of retardations equal to, say, one-fifth
 of the extreme difference corresponding to a substitution of glass for
 liquid throughout the whole thickness. The range of wave lengths in
 the light regularly transmitted by the powder would thus be about
 five times the range of wave lengths still unseparated in a spectroscope
 of equal (2 cm.) thickness. Of course, no calculation of this kind can
 give more than a rough idea of the action of the powder, whose dis
 position, though partly a matter of chance, is also influenced by me
  chanical considerations ; but it appears, at any rate, that the character
  of the light regularly transmitted by the powder is such as may reason
  ably be explained.
       As regards the size of the grains of glass, it will be seen that as
  great or a greater degree of purity may be obtained in a given thick
  ness from coarse grains as from fine ones, but the light not regularly
  transmitted is dispersed through smaller angles. Here again the
  comparison with the regularly disposed prisms of an actual spectro
  scope is useful.
       At the close of the lecture the failure of transparency which arises
   from the presence of particles small compared to the wave length of
   light was discussed. The tints of the setting sun were illustrated
   by passing the light from the electric lamp through a liquid in which
   a precipitate of sulphur was slowly forming. J The lecturer gavo
   Masons for his opinion that the blue of the sky is not wholly, or evon
   principally, due to particles of foreign matter. The molecules of
   air themselves are competent to disperse a light not greatly inferior
    in brightness to that which we receive from the sky.
                                                                              [E.]
        * See Phil. Mag. 1899, vol. xlvii. p. 251. t Op. cit. 1881, vol. xii. p. 90,

120                         General Monthly Meeting.                [April 10,
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, April 10, 1899.
 His Grace the Dukb of Nobthumbebland, President, in the Chair.
                        Mrs. Aston,
                       Thomas Oswald Belshaw, Esq.
                       Wilfred Hall, Esq.
were elected Members                Royal Institution.
                       Mrs.ofF.theMcClean,
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the follow
ing Donations to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental Research
at Low Temperatures :—
             Sir Benjamin Baker, K.C.M.G                         £60
             Nobel's Explosives Company           ..      . . £105
     His Grace the Duke of Northumberland announced that the
Hodgkins Medal, which was the first gold medal for scientific work
ever given by the Smithsonian Institution, had been awarded to
Professor Dewar in recognition of his discoveries in the liquefaction
of air. Iu making the announcement His Grace congratulated Pro
fessor Dewar on the honour conferred on him, and also on the Royal
Institution, which he regarded as specially gratifying as a sympathetic
recognition of scientific work and discovery in this country, coming
from the great nation of our own blood on the other side of the
Atlantic.
     The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. : —
     FROM
 The Secretary of State for India—Progress Report of the Archasological Surrey
     of Western India for the year ending June 1898. fol.
 The Iiords of the Admiralty—-The Nautical Almanac for 1902. 8vo. 1899.
 The British Museum (Natural History)—Catalogue of the Lepidoptera Phalrenie,
      Vol. I. Text and Plates. 8vo. 1898.
   Catalogue of Welwitsch's African Plante, Parts 2, 3. By W. P. Hiera.
   List of the Types and figured Specimens of Fossil Cephalopoda. 8vo. 1898.
 The Meteorological Office—Report of the Meteorological Council to Royal Society
      for year ending March 31, 1898. 8vo. 1898.
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Clause di Scienze Morali, Storiche e Filo-
      logiche: Rendiconti. Serie Quinta, Vol. VII. Fasc. 12. 8vo. 1899.
   Atti, Serie Quinta : Rendiconti. Classe di Scienze Fisiche, &c. 1" Semestre,
      Vol. VIII. Fasc. 4, 5. 8vo. 1899.

1899.]                        Otneral Monthly Meeting.                         121
AfrrieuUural Society of England—Journal, Vol. X. Part 1. 8vo. 1899.
American Geographical Society—Bulletin. Vol. XXXI. No. 1. 8vo. 1899.
       on Electric
Armstrong,             C.B. F.RJs.
                Lord,Movement  in AirMM.
                                      andI.—Supplement
                                           Water. By LordtoArmstrong and H. Stroud.
                                                            Lord Armstrong's  work
        fol. 1899.
Asiatic Society, Royal (.Bombay Branch)—Journal, Vol. XX. No. 54. 8vo. 1898.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LIX. No. 5. 8vo. 1899.
 Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XX. Part 3. 8vo. 1899.
 Boston, USA., Public Library—Monthly Bulletin of Books added to the Library,
         Vot IV. No. 3. 8vo. 1899.
 Boston Society of Medical Sciences -Journal, Vol. III. Nos. 2-7. 8va 1898-99.
 Bristol Museum and Reference Library—Report of the Museum Committee,
          1896-98. 8vo. 1899.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, Vol. VI. Nos. 9, 10. 8vo. 1899.
 British Astronomical Association—Journal, Vol. IX. No. 5. 8vo. 1899.
  Camera C?u6—Journal for March, 1899. 8vo.
  Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XVIII. No. 2. 8vo. 1899.
  Chemical Society—Proceedings, Nos. 205, 206. 8vo. 1899.
      Journal for March, 1899. 8vo.
  Chicago. Field Columbian Museum -Annual Report, 1897-98. 8vo. 1898.
  Cracoeie, VAcademic des Sciences—Bulletin International, 1899, No. 2. 8vo.
  Cutter, E. MJ).—Phonation. 8vo. 1899.
  Editors—American Journal of Science for March, 1899. 8vo.
      Analyst for March, 1899. 8vo.
      Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for March, 1899. 8vo.
     Astrophysics! Journal for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
     Athenssum for March, 1899. 4to.
     Author for March, 1899.
     Bimetallic for March, 1899.
     Brewers' Journal for March, 1899. 8vo.
     Chemical News for March, 1899. 4to.
     Chemist and Druggist for March, 1899. 8vo.
     Education for March, 1899. 8vo.
     Electrical Engineer for March, 1899. foL
     Electrical Engineering for March, 1899. 8m
     Electrical Review for March, 1899. 8vo.
     Engineer for March, 1899. fol.
     Engineering for March, 1899. fol.
     Homoeopathic Review for March, 1899.
     Harological Journal for March, 1899. 8vo.
     Industries and Iron for March, 1899. fol.
     Invention for March, 1899. 8vo.
     Journal of Physical Chemistry for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
     Journal of State Medicine for March, 1899. 8vo.
     Law Journal for March, 1899. 8vo.
     Machinery Market for March, 1899. 8vo.
     Nature for March, 1899. 4to.
     New Church Maguzine for March, 1899. 8vo.
      Physical Review for Feb. 1899. 8vo.
      Pnblic Health Engineer for March, 1899. 8vo.
      Science Abstracts, Vol. II. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1899.
      Science Sittings for March, 1899. 8vo.
      Science of Man for Feb. 1899.
      Terrestrial Magnetism for March, 1899. 8vo.
      Travel for March, 1899. 8vo.
      Tropical Agriculturist for March, 1899. 8vo.
      Zoophilist for March, 1899. 4to.
   Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, VoL XXVII. Nos. 137, 138. 8vo.
         1899.

122                             General Monthly Meeting.                              [April 10,
Florence, Biblioteca Nationale Centrale—Bollettino, No. 316. 8to. 1898.
Florence, Reale Accademia dei Georgofili—Atti, Vol. XXI. Disp. 3, 4. 8vo. 1899.
Geographical
Franklin        Society, Royal—Geographical
            Institute—Journal        for March, 1899.      8vo. for March, 1899. 8vo.
                                                      Journal
   Year Book and Record, 1899. 8vo.
Gheie, A. B. Esq.(the Author)—Real Municipal Government for London. 8vo. 1899.
Gladstone, Dr. J. H. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Tijdschrift van het Kon. Nederlandsch
     Aardrijkskundig Genootschap. Tweede Serie, Deel XIV. 8vo. 1897.
Gôteborgs Hogskola—Gôteborgs Hbgskolas Arsskrift, Band IV. 8vo. 1898.
Harvard College—Annual Reports of the President and the Treasurer, 1897-98.
     8vo. 1899.
Horticultural    Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XXII. Part 4. 8vo. 1899.
Imperial Institute— Imperial Institute Journal for March, 1899.
Jahr, Emit, Esq. (the Author)—Die Urkraft. 8vo. 1899.
   Bcitrag zur chemischen Wirkung des Mugnetismus. 4to. 1898.
   tJber die Gleichartigkeit gewisser chemischer Wirkungen des olektrischen
     Stromes und des Magnetismus auf Bromsilber-Gelatine-Trockeuplatten.
      4to. 1899.
Johns Hopkins University—American Chemical Journal for March, 1899. 8vo.
   University
London              Council Technical
           CountyCirculars,                4to. 1899.Board—London Technical Educa
                              No. 139. Education
Massachusetts
      tion Real
Madrid,          Academia
                 State
            Gazette   forBoard
                          Feb.-March, Health—Twenty-ninth
                                           1899. 8vo. 1899. Annual
                              deofCiencias—Annario,                  24mo. Report. 8vo. 1898.
Mensbrugghe, G. Van der, Esq. (the Author)—Étude sur l'influence exercée par
      un champ électrique sur un mince jet d'eau. 8vo. 1899.
   L'air atmospherique exerce-t-il une influence sur la hauteur d'un mince jet
      d'eau?
   Principes
   Sur         généraux d'une
         l'interprétation   du principe
                                    nouvelle
                                           d'Archim&de     fondée sur8vo.
                                               théorie capillaire.              1899. élasticité des
                                                                          la parfaite
      liquides. 8vo. 1898.
   Le principe d'Archimède et l'égalité de l'action et de la réaction. 8vo. 1898.
   Sur une résistance spéciale constaté a la surface des grands cours d'eau. 8vo.
   Quelques
   Conservation
   Sur1898.
         les nombreux
             propriétés
               remarques
                    des toiles
                          effets
                          fondamentales
                             surpeintes.
                                  de
                                   unel'élasticité
                                             des
                                             8vo.liquides.
                                        expérience descurieuse
                                                        liquides.
                                                               8vo.
                                                                de J.8vo.Plateau.
                                                                        1898. 1898. 8vo. 1898.
 National Academy of Sciences, Washington—Memoirs, Vol. VIII. 4to. 1898.
   Report for 1898. 8vo. 1899.
 Navy League—Navy League Journal for March, 1899. 4to.
 Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1 899, Part 1 . 8vo.
 Odontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXXI. No. 4. 8vo.
       1899.
 Onnes, Prof. H. K.—Communications from the Physical Laboratory at the
       University of Leiden, Nos. 45, 46 and Supplement No. 1. 8vo. 1898-99.
 Pharmaceutical
 Paris, Société Society
 Photographic        Societyofofde
                  Française       Great
                                Great
                                    Physique—Bulletin,
                                         Britain,
                                          Britain—Journal
                                                    Royal—The        Photographic
                                                                     March,
                                                             No.for129.            1899.Journal
                                                                           8vo.1899.    8vo.      for
       Feb. 1899. 8vo.
 Queen's College, Galway—Calendar, 1898-99. 8vo. 1*99.
 Rome, Ministry of Public Works—Giomale del Genio Civile, 1898, Fasc. 12. Svo.
       189S.
 Royal College of Physicians, London— List of Fellows, Ac. 8vo. 1899.
 Royal Society of JMiniurgft—Transactions, Vol. XXXIX. Part 2. 4to. 1899.
    Proceedings, Vol. XXII. No. 3. 8vo. 1898.
 Royal Societi/ of London—Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CXCII. A. No. 232.
       4to. 1899.
    Proceedings, Nos. 109, 410. Svo. 1899.

1899.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                           123
Saxon Society of Sciences, Hoyd—
   Maihematisch-PhysUche Clause—
      Berichte, 1899, No. 1. 8vo.
Scottish Microscopical .Socidy—Proceedings, Vol. II. No. 3. 8vo. 1897-98.
 Smithsonian
Setborne        Institution—Annual
           Society—Nature                March,
                              Notes forReport    the U.S.8vo.National Museum for year
                                              of 1899.
      ending June, 1896. 8vo. 1898.
    Smithsonian Report Excerpts, Nos. 1133, 1140. 8vo. 1898.
 Society of Arts—Journal for March, 1899. 8vo.
 Statistical Society, Boyal~Journal, Vol. LXH. Part 1. 8vo. 1899.
  Tacchini, Prof. P. Hon. Mem. R. I. (the Author)—Memorie della Societa degli
      Spettroscopisti Italiani, Vol. XXVII. Disp. 12. 4to. 1898.
  United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for March, 1899. 8vo.
  United States Department of Agriculture—Experiment Station Record, Vol. IX.
       Nos. 6, 7 ; Vol X. Nos. 3, 6. 8vo. 1898.
    Experiment Station Bulletin, Nos. 49, 54. 8vo. 1898.
  Catted States Department of the Interior—Eighteenth Annual Report of tho U.S.
       Geological Surrey, Vols. I.-V. 4to. 1897.
    Report of the Department of the Interior for 1897. 5 vols. 8vo. 1897-98.
  United States Patent Office—Official Gazette, Vol. LXXXVI. Nos. 8-13. 8vo.
       1898-99.
  Verein sur Befdrderung' des Geuxrbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1899,
       Heft 2.Philosophical
  Yorkshire       4to.      Society—Annual Report for 1898.

124               Earth Currents and Electric Traction.      [April 14,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, April 14, 1899.
    Sie William Cbookee, F.R.S., Vice-President, in the Chair.
       Pbofbsbob A. W. Ruokee, M.A. D.Se. Sec.E.8. M.R.I.
                  Earth Currents and Electric Traction.
Discussing the cause of the earth's magnetism, the lecturer said it
might be due to the existence of electric currents at a considerable
distance below the surface or to the presence of magnetised material
within the earth. He described the magnetarium constructed by
Mr. Henry Wilde in accordance with the latter hypothesis and the
means by which he was able to reproduce on a suitably arranged
geographical globe the magnetic condition of the earth as observed
in nature. He came to the conclusion, after an examination of the
difficulties involved, that the hypothesis must be admitted to be at
least one that was not physically impossible. Turning next to the
artificial surface currents such as resulted from electric railways, he
pointed out how dangerous they were to magnetic observatories.
This danger was first experienced in America, where rough methods
of construction had produced great disturbances, the observatories at
Washington and Toronto having been ruined from this cause.
Doubtless construction both in England and America had greatly
improved, but that did not end the matter, for it was not certain that
the most careful construction could entirely prevent the evil. The
engineers concerned in the various industrial enterprises had received
those connected with the observations very kindly and had agreed to
practice certain precautions, such as not putting currents to earth
and providing for insulated return wires. Still the next year or two
must be an anxious time, since if these measures proved inefficient,
the observatories would have to be moved, and a break be caused in
the observations of which it was very important to preserve the con
tinuity. In conclusion he discussed the possibility of the existence
of currents between earth and air.

1899.]     Structure of the Brain in Relation to its Functions.      125
                 WEEKLY        EVENING
                         Friday,            MEETING,
                                 April 21, 1899.
 Sib Jambs Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
               Fbederick
          Structure         Walkbb
                     of the Brain     Mott, M.D.
                                  in Relation          Functions.
                                               to its F.R.S.
What we know, even what we believe we know, of the relation of the
structure of the brain to its functions is comparatively small indeed
to what we do not know. The history of the evolution of our know
ledge of the structure of the nervous system is full of interest, but
time will not permit me to mention more than the fact that Descartes,
although he was never able to see the structure of the nervous system,
yet considered the nervous fibres to consist of little tubes along which
the " animal spirits " were conveyed from the brain to the muscles ;
if we substitute the phrase " nervous impulse " for animal spirits, his
conception was not so very far behind our conception of this structure
at the present time.
    At the beginning of this century the microscope demonstrated
that the nervous fibre was not a hollow tube, but that it contained a
central solid axial core. A little later, microscopical research showed
that the brain not only contained nerve fibres but myriads of little
masses of protoplasm of a regular shape—nerve cells. These are
the two essential elements of the nervous system of all animals with
a nervous system. At first, microscopical research was unable to
determine the relationship of the cells to the fibres in the brain.
All that was known was that the fibres were found in the white
matter, the cells in the grey matter ; where the fibres came from and
 where they went to, was not known. Later on, I shall endeavour to
show the enormous advance which has been made in our knowledge
of the minute structure of the nervous system, by the invention of
instruments with which extremely thin slices of the brain can be
cat; so that these delicate sections can be examined with the high
 magnifying powers of the microscope. These sections are stained
 with various chemical reagents so that different structural features in
 the nerve cells and fibres are seen by the affinity they possess for
 colouring with the reagents used. The brilliant aniline dyes are
 among the most useful of these reagents. The investigation of the

 126                       Dr. Frederick Walker Mott                   [April 21,
 minute structure of the brain is truly a most elaborato mierochemical
 study, and we can test the condition of the tissues of the body by
 their colour reactions, on the same principle that the chemist tests
fluids by colour reactions in his test tube.
      Before proceeding further, however, I feel that my remarks will
 be more intelligible if I point out some of the more important
 features in the general anatomy of the brain.
                    DIAGRAM | NERVOUS ELEMENT', » 6REV NATTER « 6SAIN
                                       Fio. 1.
    Diagrammatic representation of the Cerebral Cortex, showing the neurones
with their processes, also sensory ingoing, motor outgoing, and association fibres;
after Foster.
     If you look at a series of brains of vertebrates you will observe
that as you rise in the zoological scale the brain becomes more and
more complex in structure, until in man it reaches its highest
degree of complexity. Yet, architecturally speaking, these brains
are all built on the same general plan, and at one time during its
development the human brain was as simple in structure as that of a
bird or fish. Moreover, the microscopical nervous units which make
up the structure of the brain of all vertebrates are constructed on a

                                       Fio. 2.
    Photomicrograph of a Section of a Dog's Brain, stained by Cox's methodi
showing large psj cho-motor cells sending their processes up to tho surface layer
of horizontal (tangential) fibres, which serve to bring them into relation with tho
sensory ingoing fibres. Magnified 100 diam.

I

    Fio. 3a. Section of the Brain of u     Fio. 3b. Section of the Brain of a
Healthy Man, killed suddenly by a      case of Juvenile General Paralysis of
stub iu the heart. Shows layers of     the Insane, from the same region of
neurones of the cerebral cortex (grey  the brain. Shows great diminution and
mutter). Magnified 150 diam.           atrophy of the nervous elements in the
                                       grey matter. Magnified 150 diam.

1899.] on Structure of the Brain in Relation to its Functions.         127
similar plan, only in man they are relatively more numerous, more
varied and more complex.
      If a brain be sliced into, it will be seen that the centre is white,
and that it has a mantle or rind of a greyish colour. This grey
mantle consists of countless millions of cells with their processes.
The photograph I am showing is of a tiny speck of grey substance of
the brain highly magnified. You observe the little pyramids of
protoplasm with a nucleus in the middle sending out branches in all
directions, these processes forming apparently a delicate network.
The whole of the surface of the brain is covered by myriads of these
little cells arranged in five layers (Figs. 3a and 3b). Streaming in
among these cells of the grey matter, and derived from other cells in
the deeper structures of the brain, are innumerable fibres, while a still
 larger number of fibres may be seen lower down, and these are in
 great part the fibres which stream out from the grey matter to form
 the white substance (Fig. 1).
      The nervous units are all of similar general structure in the
 brains of all vertebrates.
       I will describe now the structure of one of these simple nervous
 units. It consists of a little lump of protoplasm, the cell body ; in
  the centre of which, as in the centre of other cells, is a nucleus and
  nucleolus ; starting out from the cell in all directions are numbers of
  processes like the branches of a tree, these branching processes are
  termed protoplasmic processes ; they were once believed only to possess,
  like the roots of a tree, the power of absorbing nutrition and carrying
  the same to the cell to be utilised ; we now know, also, that they serve
  to conduct nervous currents. There is, however, only one process of
  the cell which becomes a nerve fibre and arises as a cohe-like swelling
  at the centre of the base of the little pyramid. After a short distance
  this fibre becomes insulated by a sheath of fatty substance termed
   myelin. Nervous currents when transmitted along the nervous ele
   ments are collected by the protoplasmic processes and transmitted to
   the cell, and thence outwards by tho process which will become the
   core of a nerve fibre, so that the direction of the molecular vibration
   is always the same. Although there are countless myriads of these
   nervous units which are termed neurones, forming an inextricable net
   work, yet wben stained by the chromate of silver method invented by
   Professor Golgi, the innumerable delicate processes of these nervo
    cells are found not to be in continuity. Like the trees of a forest,
   there is contiguity but not continuity ; each one is independent, and
    has an independent life and structure (Fig. 2).
        The nervous system consists then of systems, groups, communities
     and clusters- of these nervous elements called neurones, mingled with
     supporting tissue and blood vessels for their nutrition. The amount
    of blood in the grey matter is very much more abundant than in tho
     white matter, indicating that the chemical changes incidental to vital
     activity take place there, rather than in tho white matter. The
     processes of mind are inseparably connected with the functional

128                    Dr. Frederick Walker Mott             [April 21,
activities occurring in the cell bodies of the nervous units, but we
know very little or nothing of the biochemical processes occurring in
the neurones when we think, and feel, and move, and have our being.
Some authorities presume to know the biophysical processes which
take place, and I shall speak of these later on. One fact we do
know, is, that if blood for a few seconds fails to reach the mantle of
grey matter which covers the surface of the brain, there is loss of
consciousness, as in fainting. Consciousness then depends upon the
vital functions of these nervous elements in the grey rind or cortex
of the brain. The physiologist Flourens taught that all parts of
this grey substance were of equal value as regards function. This
doctrine, however, was even worse than that of phrenology which it
was directed against. The grey cortex or rind in the human brain
is, as you observe, thrown into a number of folds by fissures (Fig. 4).
These folds on the brain's surface become more numerous and com
plex the higher we rise in the zoological scale, until in a cultured
European it finds its greatest development. Anatomically speaking,
this increasing number of folds means an increase in number of the
nervous units of the grey matter without an inconvenient increase in
the size of the head. I hold up to you the brains of an idiot and a
chimpanzee, you will observe there is not much difference. It has
been shown that the intellectual faculties are more developed in
persons with complex convolutions, and this means increased numbers
of nervous units in the grey matter, especially in certain regions
which I shall indicate to you later. With the death and disappear
ance of these nervous units paralysis of mind and body ensues.
     Intellectual processes depend not so much upon relative increase
of brain weight as increase of the superficial area of the mantle of
nerve cells of certain regions. How has it been ascertained that
certain portions of the brain have definite functions? The first step
in this direction was the observation that persons who suffered with
 injury or disease of the left half of the brain were not only liable
 to paralysis of the right half of the body, but also to loss of speech.
 Subsequently Broca determined the exact portion of the brain which
 is connected with the function of articulate speech. Later it was
 shown that destruction of a certain region produced word deafness ;
 a person would not understand the meaning of words although he
 could hear sounds. Further back still, there is a portion of brain
 which, if destroyed, is followed by word blindness, a person so
 affected would be able to converse, but would not be able to read
 aloud, although he is not blind. It is only written language which
 has no meaning to him. It is probable, therefore, that all right-
 handed people use tho left half of the brain much more than the
right. The whole of the central portion of the brain has been found
by experiments on animals, and by applying that knowledge to
diseases in man, to be tactile-motor in function—that is to say, it is
 the part of the brain by which voluntary movements are directed and
controlled ; it is also tho part of the brain where sensations coming

                                      Fio. 4.
   Diagram showing the various known Regions of the Brain having ai>ecial
functions. It will be observed that this is the left hemisphere, and that the
various speech centres are represented, connected together by lines, indicating
the paths of the association impulses. The portion marked epevch is called
Broca's convolution, and is connected with arliciUate speech.



                                      Fio. 5.
    Diagrams of the Outer and Inner Surface of tho Bight Hemisphere of the
Drain, showing the parts corresponding to Flechsig's assoeiation centres. All the
portions dotted and dark indicate the situation of the projection system of neu
rones, afferent and efferent. Other portions, according to Flechsig, are concerned
with the higher functions of mind and the simple psychical reflexes.

1899.] on Structure of the Brain in Relation to Us Functions.         129
from the muscles and the surface of the body are received and rise
into consciousness. It was found by Fritsch and Uitzig that this
portion of the brain is excitable by electrical stimulation, and they
were able to map out in the dog the whole excitable surface of the
brain into definite areas, each area when electrically excited causing
a definite representative movement. Subsequently, Ferrier showed
the same in the monkey, which being nearer to man made the experi
ments of greater value. This discovery was of the greatest import
ance to the physiologist, physician and surgeon. It explained what
Hoghlings Jackson had previously observed and described, namely,
the march of a fit due to local disease of this region of the brain.
He had observed that from a definite focus of irritation the spread of
the excitation as shown by the succession of definite movements that
occur in this form of epilepsy always began in the same way, and
gave rise to a definite series of movements of the same order and
character. If yon look at the diagram you will understand how a fit
starting from irritation in the arm area will spread to the face area
below, and to the leg area above, causing convulsive movements in
the muscles. You will observe that other areas of the brain have
 also been investigated, and we now know that the posterior part of
 the brain, especially the inner surface, is connected with sight,
 another with hearing, and another with taste and smell (Figs. 4
 and 5). In the dog the sense of smell is highly developed, and is
 the main avenue of intellectual experiences, and the incitement to
 volitional action ; therefore the area of this sense in its brain is
 highly developed. In man, on the contrary, the senses of smell and
 taste, which stand like sentinels to guard the respiratory and
 alimentary systems, are little connected with intellectual faculties,
 and therefore not much developed. There is, however, yet a large
 portion of the brain, quite two-thirds in fact, to which I have
  allocated no special function.
      Flechsig, by studying the development of the structures of the
  brain of the new born child and of infants of various ages, has shown
  that certain parts of the brain are prepared for functional activity
  before others. I will call your attention to the diagram Fig. 6, which
  represents a slice through the brain of a child at birth ; only certain
  definite systems of fibres are insulated by a myelin sheath, and
  therefore ready to conduct nervous currents. For only those fibres
  which have a sheath of myelin are stained purple by his method,
  and thin slices of the brain can thus be made to reveal the
   parts which are prepared for conduction. These are all tracts of
  fibres which convey sensory impressions from the eye, skin, muscles,
   ears, nose and mouth to the very portions of the brain which I have
   already indicated to you that experiment and pathological observa
   tions have shown to be connected with the special sense functions.
   These sensory tracts developed first then, are the primary avenues of
   consciousness and of all the higher functions of the mind. All the
       Vol. XVI. (No. 93.)                                      k

130                   Dr. Frederick Walker Mott               [April 21,
rest of the brain is asleep, waiting to be awakened by the sensory
impressions from without. The base of the brain and its stalk, which
is stained deeply purple, subserves the vegetative functions of life—
breathing, circulation of the blood, swallowing, digesting, etc. The
portions of the brain indicated by dots in the diagram (Fig. 5) form
receiving stations for all the nervous currents subserving special and
general sensibility ; but by the side of these receiving stations for
ingoing currents are developed transmitting stations for outgoing
currents to the muscles, consequently we are not surprised to find
in the diagram (Fig. 7) of a vertical slice of the brain of a child aged
three months, evidence of the formation of this outgoing tract to the
imiscles. It is by this tract of fibres the infant commences to exercise
volitional movements. You will see, moreover, that there are now
developed fibres in the other regions of the brain ; these are for the
purpose of linking together and coordinating all the different sensory
areas—association fibres as they are called. You will, moreover, see
that the greator part of the surface of the brain is made up of these
association systems, and in these regions there are, according to
Flechsig, no sensory and motor nervous elements. Flechsig terms
these portions of the brain association centres. They are situated in
the frontal region, the temporal, occipital, parietal, and a small lobe
which lies at the back of the large sylvian fissure called the island.
Flechsig states that it is in these association centres that every
sensation perceived leaves an ineffaceable imprint which constitutes
memory. It is there in these higher centres that visual, auditory,
 tactile-motor and other sensations meet and fuse together. It is
there they are compared one with another and to previous sensa
tions. It is there the mind finds the indispensable elements for all
the acts of intellectual or physical life. They form, in fact, the
anatomical substratum of human experience, knowledge, language,
sentiments and emotions. From the association centres nerve cur
rents pass into the sensory sphere, controlling the lower centres of
sensation and movement. It is generally believed that great develop
ment of the frontal region of the brain indicates high intellectual
power. Observations have, however, been mado which would seem
to point to the great posterior lobe being connected with the higher
intellectual functions of the mind. The brains of eighteen very dis
tinguished men deceased were examined, and the essential features
which were noted were extraordinary convolutional complexity and
development of the posterior lobe. Recently the skulls of Beethoven
and Bach havo been examined, and measurements indicate that this
portion of their brains must have had a great development.
     In the nervous system we have three systems of nervous units or
neurones. I will call your attention to the accompanying diagram
(tig. 8) which shows those systems, namely—1. Ingoing sensory;
2. Outgoing motor ; and 3. Association. Tho latter form the great
bulk of the nervous units of the brain. You will observe that in the

                                    Fio. 6.
    Diagram of Vertical Section through the Brain of a New-born Child, stained
by a special method to show myelination of the fibres. All the parts which arc
-lurk contain myelinated fibres. Attention is particularly called to the rather
faint deep staining nbout the central fissure, which corresponds to the tactile
motor urea. It will be observed that the association centres are not myelinated
u in Fig. 7.

                                   Fio. 7.
   Diagram of Verticil Section of the Brain of a Child aged Three Months.
The greater part of the brain now shows by the staining myelination of the
white matter, showing development of the association centres.

 1899.] on Structure of the Brain in Relation to its Functions.             131
 projection systems the neurones are arranged in series, and that a
sensation coming from the skin before it reaches the surface of the
brain has to pass through a series of three neurones which are in
physiological connection with one another, and the consciousness of
the skin perception depends upon the intensity of the stimulus and
the conducting capacity of the chain of nervous elements. You will
                                       Fio. 8.
     Diagram to show the Three Systems of Neurones, illustrating the path of
 sensory impulses to the Cerebrum and Cerebellum, the path of outgoing im
 pulses from the Brain in a voluntary movement and the association of the
 afferent and efferent projection systems in the grey matter of the Brain. This
 diagram also illustrates the path of a simple spinal reflex and of a psychical
 reflex.
 observe at right angles to the ingoing and outgoing fibres there are
 other fibres which join up these systems serving to coordinate the
 nervous currents arriving at and leaving this area of the brain : these
 ire association fibres, so that if a skin sensation excites a conscious
 volitional movement, this will be the path of the nervous current.
      If, however, we move our hand in response to some visual sensa
 tion, it is obvious that long association systems of neurones must
                                                                    K 2

132                     Dr. Frederick Walker Moil            [April 21,
come into play to join up the visual area with the centre of movement
of the hand, that is to say, that impulses must pass from the back to
the middle of the brain. These conscious motor responses to sensory
impressions are truly psychical reflexes, because the nervous current
is bent back from the sensory ingoing system down along the motor
system to the muscles.
    I have told you there is reason to believe that every neurone
is an independent unit, and although its processes appear to enter
into an inextricable network, yet there is really no continuity of
structure. By inference we should believe this view to be correct,
because if the whole of the nervous elements were connected together,
diffusion of the nervous current through the whole substance of the
brain would occur, and instead of orderly sequence, only confusion
could arise in response to an external stimulus. If the neurones then
are separate living units, can they by biochemical or biophysical pro
cesses promote or retard the transmission of currents along systems
or between clusters, groups and communities ? The method of contact
between two neurones is always by tho terminal arborisation of the
norve fibre process of one with the branching protoplasmic processes
of another. Movements in the nerve cell of a minute aquatic animal
having been observed under the microscope, it was conceived that
the terminal twigs of the nerve fibre process might elongate, and
come in better contact therefore with the protoplasmic processes of
the next neurone of the series ; and it has also been thought that sleep
and unconsciousness from anaesthetics and narcotics, also trance and
the hypnotic state, might be due to retraction of the terminal twigs
of the sensory neurones on the surface of the brain so that contact
is broken, and the transmission of nervous currents consequently
interrupted.
     It has been attempted to found a theory of retraction of the
terminal buds or points of contact of the branching processes of the
dendrons, by fixing in various fluids small pieces of the brain of
animals which have been anajsthetised with chloroform and other
anaesthetics and narcotics, and comparing the appearances presented
 by the dendrons with those presented by the brain of an animal killed
 suddenly. One set of observers finds retraction during narcosis, with
 the appearance of little moniliform swellings on the processes and
 disappearance of the gemmules. Another set finds no retraction of
 the gemmules, but retraction they say occurs when the brain is in
 activity ; thus the facts are entirely opposed to one another. My
 observations, also those of my assistant Dr. Wright, who has given
 special attention to this subject, are opposed to the facts stated by
 the first set of observers (Figs. 2 and 9).
     The whole difficulty lies in the fact that we are looking not at
 living matter but dead matter; still the theory of association and
dissociation of groups or systems of neurones subserving special
 functions is an attractive theory for explaining the problems of

                                     Fio. 9.
    Photomicrograph, showing the Branching Processes of the Dendrons of the
Psycho-motor Cells of the Cerebral Cortex of a Dog killed with chloroform ;
studded all over with little buds, which come into contact, but not connection,
with fibres at right angles. Unfortunately the reproduction of the photograph
is very indistinct. Magnified 200 diam.



                                  Fios. 10 and 11.
      Photomicrographs of two Psycho-motor Cells from the Human Cortex.
    Fig. Id, healthy, shows the cell with processes and a mastic pattern, doe to
differentiation of the protoplasm of the cell into stainablc and uustainable sub
stances, seen in the picture as dark and light parts respectively.
    Fig. 11 is a similar cell, from a patient who had died in status epilcpticus.
The cell is swollen up, tho nucleus is nearly extruded, and there is no longer
any differentiation in tho protoplasm of the cell, thowing a profound bio-chemicol
change due probably to the asphyxia.

 1899.] on Structure of the Brain in Relation to its Functions.        133
 repose and activity of the brain. I am inclined to believe that
 Lugaro's view is the better one : that cerebral activity is associated
with a cutting off of the great majority of interneuronic connections,
and the strengthening of the current traversing a few ; that during
repose or under narcotics there is a general expansion of the gem-
mules due to exhaustion of their contractility, and thus all the
neurones being in contact, nervous currents are so diffused that they
•re not of sufficient intensity to rise into consciousness.
     A new method of staining has revealed a fact concerning the
internal constitution of the neurone. There are two biochemical
substances entering into the formation of the neurone—a substance
stainable by aniline dyes which exists in the body of the cell and upon
the protoplasmic processes, and another unstainable substance which
forms the framework of the cell, and consists of extremely delicate
threads which pass into and form the processes. This latter is the
essential conducting agent, and upon its integrity the life of a neurone
depends. The stainable substance is probably a store of food or
energy which is continually used up during functional activity, and
replaced and stored up during rest from the surrounding lymph (Figs.
10 and 11).
     The arrangement of this colouring matter in the cell serves as a
means of distinguishing cells with different functions ; for example,
the large motor cells of the brain, with a characteristic arrangement
of the stainable substance, are found only in the central regions of
the cortex, and in the occipital lobe ; they do not exist in the associa
tion centres. This is possibly a proof of relation of structure of the
neurone to its function.
      Very little is known of the chemical composition of the nervous
 elements, only that they are among the most complex bodies on our
 planet. -When they die they split up into simple bodies, and this
 fact has served a most useful purpose in following the course taken
 by nerve fibres ; e. g. if a motor nerve of the brain is separated from
 its cell by injury or disease, the fibre below the injury undergoes
 degeneration which can be recognised by the chemical changes
 occurring in the fibre during its destruction. We can follow this
 dead fibre to its ultimate destination -by the microchemical reactions
 of the products of degeneration even though they extend for more
 than a yard in length. Besides this there is a change in the life of
 the cell body itself when the fibre is cut ; for the stainable substance
 disappears, and only reappears if a new fibre grows out from the
 cell.
     In this address I have attempted to give you a sketch of what we
 know and what we believe we know of the relation of the structure
 of the brain to its functions. The vast problems of mind still remain
 unsolved ; but the conception of the neurone as an independent unit, a
 microcosm within a macrocosm, has shed a flood of light upon the
 problems of disease of the nervous system, and if further evidence is

134              Dr. Mott on Structure of the Brain.         [April 21,
forthcoming to support the theory of association and dissociation of
the neurones either by biophysical or biochemical processes occurring
at the terminal twigs of their tree-like processes, then we may be on
the eve of great discoveries relating to the functions of the brain as
an organ of mind. We must, however, not scoff at this theory
because we cannot seo this process taking place in the brain, but
remember the phenomenal advances Chemistry made after the adop
tion of the atomic theory ; and yet the chemist never can see or even
conceive what an atom is.
                                                         [F. W. M.]

1899.]        Some Features of the Electric Induction Motor.        135
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, April 28, 1899.
       Sib Edwabd Fbankland, K.C.B. D.C.L. LL.D. F.E.S.,
                      Vice-President, in the Chuir.
         Pbofessob C. A. Casus Wilson, M.A. M.Inst.E.E.
             Some Features of the Electric Induction Motor.
The action of a magnetic field upon a conductor carrying an alter
nating current might be illustrated in a simple manner by placing an
incandescent lamp in the neighbourhood of an electro-magnet and con
necting the lamp to an alternating supply circuit. If the magnetic
field were uniform, the filament would vibrato in front of the magnet,
and if the vibrations could be minutely studied they would be found
to increase first of all to a maximum in one direction, then fall to
nothing, and then reach a maximum in the other direction, following
an harmonic law. The variations of the force on the filament were
similar to those which took place in a steam engine, where the
turning moment on the crank went through a complete cycle from a
positive to a negative maximum, the law of variation being harmonic
if the steam pressure were constant and the connecting rod of infinite
length.
     The conditions under which the conductor vibrated could be
 shown more perfectly if it were possible to attach a mirror to the
 conductor and reflect a beam of light therefrom. But in order that
 the motion of the conductor should give a true indication of the force
 acting upon it, the moving part must have a very small periodic time
 and be perfectly dead-beat. These conditions were fulfilled in a
 remarkable way in the oscillograph recently designed by Mr. W.
 Dmldell, who had kindly lent one of his instruments for the purpose
 of illustration. In this instrument the conductors were metal strips
 stretched in -a magnetic field ; a minute mirror fixed to the strips
 reflected a spot of light on to the screen. The delicacy of tho
 arrangement was such that the period of vibration of the mirror was
 unly the two-thousandth part of a second.
     When an alternating current was passed through the strip, the
 magnetic field being constant, the spot of light on the screen assumed
 an up and down motion in a straight line. It was possible, however,
 to indicate the true nature of the law of motion by making the beam
 of light on its way to the screen strike on a mirror which moved to
 and fro synchronously with the variations of current in the strip.
 The spot then followed a wave-like course, tracing out an S-shaped

 136                 Professor C. A. Cams Wilson              [April 28,
 figure. If the spot moved quickly enough, the successive' impressions
 would remain on the eye for a sufficient length of time to give the
 effect of a continuous line of light.
     When examined in this way, the force due to a constant magnetic
 field and a variable current in the strip was seen to vary from nothing
 to a certain maximum, then to nothing again, then to change sign
 and increase to an equal negative maximum, and finally to fall to
 nothing. The strip was thus subjected to a series of equal impulses
 varying in sign so that the resultant impulse was zero.
     To prevent the impulses from changing sign it was necessary to
 make the magnetism change sign at the same time as the current
 This could be done by exciting the magnet by an alternating current
 in step with that in the strip. When this change was made, the spot
 of light was seen to fluctuate up and down from a fixed line, instead
 of alternating as before, showing that the strip was now subject to ft
 series of fluctuating impulses. There were, however, dead-points at
 which the strip was not subject to any force. It appeared then
 possible to combine an alternating field with a conductor or con
 ductors carrying an alternating current in such a way as to obtain a
 series of unidirectional impulses, and motors had been constructed on
 this principle. Such motors had the disadvantage of dead-points,
 and uniform motion could be obtained only by making the moving
 parts of considerable weight, so that part of each impulse was stored
 up as kinetic energy, and the dead-points thus successfully passed
 over.
     The dead-points could be avoided in a manner often used in
steam engines, where two separate cylinders were set so that when
 the action of one on the crank shaft was a minimum, the action of
 the other was a maximum. This principle could be carried out far
more completely in an electric motor than in any other form of
 motor for the reason that while in a steam engine, for instance, the
 force of each one of the two cylinders varied according to an har
monic law, with uniform steam pressure, and two series of harmonic
impulses at right angles did not give a uniform turning moment,
 with the electric motor, on the other hand, the law of force variation
with synchronously varying field and current was not an harmonic
law—as might be seen by the shape of the curves on the screen—
but a law having the remarkable peculiarity that two such series of
impulses at right angles gave a uniform impulse when acting
together. It was thus possible to construct an alternating electric
motor in which the sum of the turning moments on the shaft was s
constant quantity. The Induction Motor was such a motor.
     Taking the fixed coil A, shown in plan in the figure, to represent
the magnetising coil used in former experiments, and the moving coil
B to represent the conductor or strip, the condition of a unidirectional
fluctuating impulse from A to B was that the magnetism of A should
be in step with the current in B. To produce the latter recourse
might be had to the principle of induction, by which currents could

1899.]        on Some Features of the Electric Induction Motor.      137
be induced in coils through which an alternating magnetic field was
allowed to pass.
     By way of illustration, coils A and B were placed opposite and
parallel to one another, each being connected to a separate strip on
the oscillograph, in which the magnetic field was kept constant.
When an alternating current was passed through A, a current was
induced in B, and the two currents were shown on the screen in the
form of two curves overlapping each other. The explanation of the
overlapping was that the induced current in B was not in step with
the magnetism produced by A, but lagged behind it by an amount of
time equal to a quarter of a period.
     This lagging of the induced current behind the inducing mag
netism had an important bearing on the motor problem, because it
showed that it was not possible to make the magnetising coil A
 induce in coil B a current suitable for producing a unidirectional
 series of fluctuating impulses, since the necessary condition was that
 the current in B should be in step with the magnetism produced
  by A.
      If a second magnetising coil C could be used, in which the current
  differed from that in A by a quarter of a period, it could be made to
  induce currents in B which were in step with the magnetism pro
  duced by A. The intermediate coil B would then be subject to the
  influence of two coils A and C, of which the former produced an
  alternating magnetio field, and the latter an induced alternating
  current in step with that field, the two together giving a series of
   unidirectional fluctuating impulses.
      The magnetising coil A exerted the greatest force on the coil B
   when the planes of the two coils were at right angles to each other,
   and the coil C induced the greatest current in B when their planes
   were parallel. Hence it followed that the best effect was obtained by

138          Some Features of the Electric Induction Motor. [April 28,
placing the planes of the coils A and C at right angles to one another,
and B at right angles to A, as in the figure.
    If a second intermediate coil D were placed across coil B, there
would be currents induced in it by A, and a force exerted on it by
the field due to C, resulting in a series of impulses similar to those
acting on B, but differing from them by a quarter of a period. The
sum of the two sets of impulses on the intermediate conducting
system was a uniform twisting moment.
    If the two coils B and D were replaced by a continuous con
ductor—such, for instance as a copper drum —this action could go on
while the conducting system rotated. In the experiment shown, a
copper drum was suspended in front of two coils placed at right
angles, and excited by currents differing by one quarter of a period.
When both coils were excited the drum rotated at a uniform speed.
    A striking feature in the Induction Motor was the rotating mag
netic field caused by the variations of magnetism in the different
coils. This was illustrated by an experiment in which a small
permanent magnet carrying a mirror was centred upon a vibrating
rod placed between two pairs of electromagnets. When two oppo
site magnets were excited the mirror vibrated between them and
reflected a spot of light on to the screen, tracing out a vertical line.
When the second pair of opposite magnets was excited the spot traced
out a horizontal line of equal amplitude. Both sets were then excited
together by currents in stop with each other, with the result that the
spot vibrated in a line making an angle 45° with the former lines of
vibration. When the exciting currents were made to differ by one
quarter of a period, the spot of light reflected from the mirror
described a circle, showing that the magnetic field produced by two
magnets set at right angles and excited by two currents differing by
a quarter of a period is of uniform intensity and rotates at a uniform
rate.
    The action of the Induction Motor was based on principles which
governed the action of the better known transformer, and for pur
poses of calculation it was convenient to regard the Induction Motor
as a transformer. One form only of the Induction Motor had been
alluded to ; of other possible forms that in which three magnetising
coils were used, with currents differing from one another by one-third
of a period was tho one most commonly employed in practice.

   1899.]                            Annual Meeting.                             139
                            ANNUAL MEETING,
                                 Monday, May 1, 1899.
    Thi Duke of Nobthumbbbland, F.S.A., President, in the Chair.
       The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
  1S98, testifying to the continued prosperity and efficient management
  of the Institution, was read and adopted, and the Report on the Davy
  Faraday Research Laboratory of the Royal Institution, which accom
  panied it, was also read.
       Fifty-eight new Members were elected in 1898.
       Sixty-three Lectures and Nineteen Evening Discourses were
   delivered in 1898.
       The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1898 amounted to about
   271 volumes, making, with 667 volumes (including Periodicals bound)
   purchased by the Managers, a total of 928 volumes added to the
   Library in the year.
       Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and the Honorary
   Secretary, to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the
   Professors, for their valuable services to the Institution during the
    past year.
        The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
   for the ensuing year :
        Pbesident—The Duke of Northumberland, F.S.A.
        Tbsasubbb—Sir James Crichton-Browne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.8.
        Smbbtabt—Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
                            M. Inst. C.E.
              Managebs.                                        Visitobs.
f Frederick Abel, Bart. K.C.B. D.C.l.. Ll..D. William Henry Bennett, Esq. F.R.C.S.
fjls.                                         Henry Arthur Blyth, Esq. J.P.
I Wilham Crookes, F.R.S.                      Maures Horner, Esq. J.P. F.R.A.S.
* Duke of Devonshire, K.G. M.A. D.C.l.. Edward Kraftmeier, Esq.
 LLD. P.HS.                                   l.ieut.-Colonel Llewellyn Wood Longstaff,
>e Right Hon. the Earl of Halsbury, M.A.         F.R.G.S.
 I'C L F K S                                  Frank McClean, Esq. M.A. l.l..D. F.R.S.
njW Wilham Charles Hood, M.D. F.R.C.P.           F.R.A.S.
*Tid Edward Hughes, Esq. F.R.S.               Henry Francis Makins, Esq. F.R.G.S.
b( Right Hon. l.ord Kelvin, G.C.V.O. D.C.l.. T. Lambert Mears, Esq. M.A. l.l..D.
 LLD. F.R.S.                                  Rudolph Messel, Esq. Ph.D. F.C.S.
Hrtd B. Kempe, Esq. M.A. Treas. R.S.          Lachlan Mackintosh Rate, Esq. M.A.
nch l.eonard, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.              John Callander Ross, Esq.
ii Andrew Noble, K.C.B. F.R.S.                William James Russell, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.
he Right Hon. The Marquis of Salisbury, Alfred Gordon Salamon, Esq. F.C.S. F.I.C.
  K.G. SU. D.C.L LL.D. F.R.S.                 Sir James Vaughan, B.A. J.P.
itsaader Siemens, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.          John Jewell Vezey, Esq. F.R.M.S.
Seal Woodd Smith, Esq, F.R.A.S. F.S.A.
Vilham Hugh Spottiswoode, Esq. F.C.S.
« Henry Thompson, Bart. F.R.C.S. F.R.A.S.

   140                  Dr. William James Russell                 [May 5,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 5, 1899.
    Sib Fbedebick Bbamwell, Babt., D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S., Honorary
                Secretary and Vice-President, in the Chair.
         William James Russell, Esq., Ph.D. V.P.R.S. M.R.I.
         Pictures Produced on Photographic Plates in the Dark.
  I think I may fairly assume that every one in this theatre has had
  their photograph taken, and consequently must have some idea of the
  nature of the process employed. I have, therefore, only to add, with
 regard to what is not visible in the process of taking the picture, that
 the photographic plate is a piece of glass or such like body, coated on
 one side by an adhesive paste which is acted on by light, and acted on
 in a very remarkable manner. No visible change is produced, and the
 picture might remain latent for years, but place this acted-on plate in a
 solution, of, say pyrogallol, and the picture appears. The subsequent
 treatment of tho plate with sodium hyposulphite is for another purpose,
 simply to prevent the continuance of the action when the plate is
 brought into the light. Now, what I purpose demonstrating to you to
 night is that there are other ways of producing pictures on photo
 graphic plates than by acting on them by light, and that by these other
 means a latent picture is formed, which is rendered visible in precisely
 the same way as tho light pictures are.
      The substances which produce on a photographic plate these results
so strongly resembling those produced by light, are, some of them,
 metallic, while others are of vegetable origin. At first it seemed very
remarkable that bodies so different in character should act in the same
way on thc photographic plate. The following metals—magnesium,
cadmium, zinc, nickel, aluminium, lead, bismuth, tin, cobalt, antimony
—are all capable of acting on a photographic plate. Magnesium most
strongly, antimony but feebly, and other metals can also act in the
same way, but only to a very slight extent. The action in general is
much slower than that of light, but under favourable conditions a
picturo may be produced in two or three seconds.
     Zinc is nearly as active as magnesium or cadmium, and is the most
convenient metal to experiment with. In its ordinary dull f-tate it is
without the power of acting on a photographic plate, but scratch
it or scrape it, and it is easy to prove that the bright metal is active.
I would say that all tho pictures which I have to show you, by
means of the lantern, arc produced by the direct action of the metal,

1899.] on Pictures Produced on Photographic Plates in the Dark. 141
or whatever the active body may be, on the photographic plate, and
that they have not been intensified or touched up in any way. This
first slide is the picture given by a piece of ordinary zinc which has
been rubbed with some coarse sand-paper, and you see the picture
of every scratch. Here is a piece of dull zinc on which some circles
have been turned. It was exposed to the photographic plate for four
hours at a temperature of 55° C. In the other cases, which are on a
larger scale, a zinc stencil was polished and laid upon a photographic
plate, and you see where the zinc was in contact with the plate much
action has occurred. In another case a bright zinc plate was used,
and a Japanese stencil interposed between it and the photographic
plate, and a very strong and sharp picture is the result. The time
required to produce these zinc pictures varies very much with the tem
perature. At ordinary temperature the exposure would have to be for
about two days, but if the temperature was, say, 55° C, then half to
 three-quarters of an hour might be sufficient. Temperatures higher
 than this cannot be used except for very short times, as the photo
 graphic plate would be damaged. Contact between the zinc and
 photographic plate is not necessary, as the action readily takes place
 through considerable distances. Obviously, however, as you increaso
 the distance between object and plate, so you decrease tho sharpness
 cf the picture, as is shown by the following pictures, which were taken
 respectively at a distance of 1 mm. and 3 mm. from the scratched zinc
 surface. The appearance of the surfaces of different metals varies,
 and the following slides show the surface of a plate of bismuth, a plate
  of lead, and one of aluminium. On the next slide are the pictures pro
  duced by similar pieces of pure nickel and cobalt, and it clearly shows
 how much more active in this way nickel is than cobalt. Many alloys,
  such as pewter, fusible metal, brass, etc., are active bodies, and in
  the case of brass the amount of action which occurs is determined by
  the amount of zinc present. Thus you will see that a brass with 30
  percent, of zinc produces hardly any action on the photographic plate,
  but when 50 per cent, of zinc is present there is a fairly dark picture,
  and when as much as 70 per cent, is present a still darker picture is
  produced.
       The second class of bodies which act in the same way on a photo
  graphic plate are organic substances, and belong essentially to the
  groups of bodies known as terpenes. In trying to stop the action of
  metallic zinc, which I thought at the time might arise from vapour
  given oft- by the metal, copal varnish was used, but in place of stop
   ping the action it was found to increase it, and this increase of
   activity was traced to the turpentine contained in the varnish. In ex
   perimenting with liquids it is convenient to use small shallow circular
   glass vessels such as are made for bacteriological experiments, the
   plate resting on the top of the vessel, and the amount of liquid in the
    vessel determining the distance through which the action shall take
    place. The following slide, produced in this way, shows how dark a
    picture ordinary turpentine produces. All tho terpenes are active

142                     Dr. William James Russell                  [May 5.
bodies. Dipentine is remarkably so ; in a very short time it gives a
black picture, and if the action be continued, the dark picture passes
away, and you then have a phenomenon corresponding to what photo
graphers call reversal. The strong smelling bodies known as essen
tial oils, such as oil of bergamot, oil of lavender, oil of peppermint, oil
of lemons, etc., are all active bodies, and all are known to contain in
varying quantities different terpenes; therefore ordinary scents are
active bodies, and this is shown by the following pictures produced by
eau de Cologne, by cinnamon, by coffee, and by tea. Certain wines
also act in the same way : Sauterne gives a tolerably dark picture, but
brandy only a faint one. Other oils than these essential ones are also
active bodies : linseed oil is especially so ; olive oil is active, but not
nearly as much so as linseed oil ; and mineral oils, such as paraffin oil,
are without action on the photographic plate.
     Interesting results are obtained with bodies which contain some
of these active substances ; for instance, wood will give its own picture,
as is shown by the following slides : the first is a section of a young
spruce tree, the next a piece of ordinary deal, and the third of an old
piece of mahogany. Again, the next slide you will recognise as the
picture of a peacock's feather. There is much interest in these pictures
of feathers, as they distinguish the brilliant interference colours from
those produced by certain pigments ; the beautiful blue in the eye of
the peacock's feather is without action on the photographic plate.
Butterflies' wings, at least some of them, will draw, as you see, their
own pictures. Linseed oil, which is a constituent of all printing ink,
makes it an active body, and it can, like the zinc and other active
bodies, act through considerable distances. In the picture before
you the ink was at a distance of one inch from the plate, and the
next slide shows what a remarkably clear and dark picture ordinary
printing can produce. As the composition of printing ink varies
so does its activity, and here are pieces of three different newspapers
which have acted under the same conditions on the same plate, and
you see how different the pictures are in intensity. Printed pictures,
of course, act in the same way—here is a likeness of Sir H. Tate
taken from " The Year's Art." The pictures and printing in Punch
always print well ; so does the yellow ticket for the Friday evening
lectures at the Royal Institution ; also the rude trade-mark on Wills's
tobacco, and it is of interest because the red pigment produces a very
clear picture, but the blue printing is without action on the plate.
     An interesting and important peculiarity of all these actions is
that it is able to pass through certain media ; for instance, through a
thin sheet of gelatin. Here are two plates of zinc; both have been
scratched by sand-paper ; one is laid directly on the photographic
plate, and the other one has a sheet of gelatin, its colour is of no
note, laid between it and the sensitive plate ; the picture in this case
is, of course, not so sharp as when no gelatin is present, but it is a
good and clear likeness of the scratches.
     Celluloid is also a body which allows the action to pass through

1899.] on Pictures Produced on Photographic Plates in the Dark. 143
it, as is seen in this picture of a piece of perforated zinc, a picture
which was produced at ordinary temperatures. Gold-beaters' skin,
albumen, collodion, gutta-percha, are also bodies which are transparent
to the action of the zinc and the other active bodies. On the other
hand, many bodies do not allow the transmission of the action through
them ; for instance, paraffin does not, and among common substances
writing-ink does not, as is easily shown by placing ordinary paper
with writing on it between the active body and the photographic
plate. The active body may conveniently be either a plate of zino
or a card painted with copal varnish and allowed to dry, or a dish of
drying oiL The picture of an ordinarily directed envelope shows
this opacity of ink well. It is a property long retained by the ink,
as this picture of the direction of a letter, written in 1801, shows ;
also this letter of Dr. Priestley's, dated 1795 ; and here is also some
very faded writing of 1810, which still gives a very good and clear
picture. Even if the writing be on parchment, the action passes
through the parchment, but not through the ink, and hence a picture
 is formed.
     With bodies which are porous, such as most papers, for instance,
the action passes gradually through the interstices, and impresses the
plate with a picture of the general structure of the intervening sub
stance. For instance, the following pictures show the structure and
the water-mark of certain old and modern writing-papers. Some
modern writing-papers are, however, quite opaque; but usually paper
allows the action to take place through it, and combining this fact
with the fact of strong activity of the printing-ink, the apparently
confused appearance produced on obtaining a picture from paper with
printing on both sides is accounted for, as the printing on the side
away from the photographic plato, as well as that next to it, prints
through the paper, and is, of course, reversed.
     I hope I have now given you a clear idea how a picture can be
 produced on a photographic plate in the dark, and the general character
 and appearance of such pictures. I now pass on to tho important
 question of how they are produced. Moser suggested fifty years ago
that there was " dark light," which gave rise to pictures on polished
metallic plates, and lately it was suggested that pictures were produced
by vapour given off by the metals themselves ; the explanation, how
ever, which I have to offer you is, I think, simpler than either of these
 views, for I believe that the action on the photographic plate is due to
the formation of a well-known chemical compound, hydrogen peroxide,
which undergoing decomposition acts upon the plate and is the im
 mediate cause of the pictures formed. The complicated changes
 which take place on the sensitive plato I have nothing to say about
 on the present occasion, but I desire to convince you, that this
 body, hydrogen peroxide, is the direct cause of these pictures pro
duced in the dark. Indirect proof has to be resorted to. Water
 cannot be entirely excluded, for an absolutely dry photographic plate
 would probably be perfectly inactive, and as long as water is present

144                   Dr. William James Russell                  [May 5,
peroxide of hydrogen may be there also. Bat what are the conditions
under which these pictures are formed? Only certain metals are
capable of producing them. This list of active metals which I have
mentioned to you was determined solely by experiment, and when
completed it was not evident what common property bound them
together. Now, however, the explanation has come, for these are the
very metals which most readily cause, when exposed to air and
moisture, the formation of this body peroxide of hydrogen. Schon-
bein showed as long ago as 1860 that when zinc turnings were shaken
up in a bottle with a little water hydrogen peroxide was formed, and
the delicate tests which we now know for this body show that all the
metals I named to you not only can in the presence of moisture
produce it, but that their power of doing so follows the same order
as their power of acting on a photographic plate. Again, what
happened with regard to the organic bodies which act on the photo
graphic plates? I have already mentioned that in experimenting
with the metals it was accidentally observed that copal varnish was an
active substance producing a picture like that produced by zinc, and
that the action was traced to the turpentine present ; again a process
very much like groping in the dark had to be carried on in order
to determine which were active and which inactive organic bodies,
and the result obtained was that the active substances essentially
belonged to the class of bodies known to chemists as terpenes. Now
a most characteristic property of this class of bodies is that in
presence of moisture and air they cause the formation of hydrogen
peroxide, so that whether a metal or an organic body be used to pro
duce a picture, it is in both cases a body capable, under the circum
stances, of causing the formation of hydrogen peroxide. Passing
now to experimental facts, which confirm this view of the action on
sensitive plates, I may at once say that every result obtained by a metal
or by an organic body can be exactly imitated by using the peroxide
itself. It is a body now made in considerable quantity, and sold
in solution in water. Even when in a very dilute condition it is
extremely active. One part of the peroxide diluted with a million
parts of water is capable of giving a picture. It can, of course, be
used in the glass dishes like any other liquid, but it is often con
venient not to have so much water present ; and then it is best to
take white blotting paper, wet it in the solution of the peroxide, and
let it dry in the air. The paper remains active for about twenty-four
hours ; or, what is still better, take ordinary plaster of Paris, wet it
with the peroxide solution, and let it set " in a mould " so as to get
a slab of it. This slab increases in activity for the first day or two
after making, and retains its activity for a fortnight or more. Such
a slab will give a good and dark picture in three or four seconds.
     To show how similar the pictures produced by the peroxide and
those by zinc are, pictures of a Japanese paper stencil, which had
been paraffined to make it quite opaque, have been made by both
processes, and are shown with other instances in which turpentine

 1899.] on Pictures Produced on Photographic Plates in the Dark. 145
was used in the following slides. It is also vory easy to obtain good
pictures with the peroxide alone of the structure of paper, etc. ; see*
for instance, this one of a five-pound note and these of lace. Again*
the strict similarity between the action of the peroxide and that of
the metals and organic bodies is further shown by the fact that its
action passes through the same media as their action does ; and hefe
are good pictures formed by the action of the peroxide after passing
through a sheet of these substances. How this singular transmission
can be explained, I have treated of elsewhere, and time does not
allow of my discussing the matter to-night.
      There are many ways in which the bright, active zinc surface can
be modified. Draw your finger across it, press your thumb upon it*
and yon stop its activity, as is shown by the picture it will give.-
Lay a printed paper on the zinc, and let the contact continue for
three-quarters of an hour, at a temperature of 55°, then bring the
zinc in contact with a sensitive plate, a picture of the printing is
formed, but allow the contact between the zinc and printing to
continue for eighteen hours at the same temperature, and the picture
thee given by the zinc is the reverse of the former one. Where the
ink has been is now less active than the rest of the plate; Here are
 elides which show these positive and negative pictures. Another
 way of modifying the zinc surface is interesting. You have seen
 that the ordinary zinc surface which has been exposed to air add          *
 moisture is quite inactive, but if a bright piece of zinc be immersed
 in water for about twelve hours, the surface is acted on ; oxide of
 sine is formed, showing generally a curious pattern. Now, if the
 plate be dried, it will be found that this oxide is strongly active, and
 gives a good picture of the markings on the Zinc. The oxide evi
 dently holds, feebly combined or entangled in it, a considerable
 quantity of the hydrogen peroxide, and it requires long drying or'
 heating to a higher temperature to get rid of it. Also, if a zinc
 plate be attacked by the hydrogen peroxide, the attacked parts be
 come more active than the bright metal. Thus place a stencil on it
  piece of bright Zinc, and expose the plate to the action of an activo
 plaster of Paris slab, or to active blotting-paper for a short time,-
  then, on removing the stencil, the zinc plate will give a very good
  picture of the stencil. Any inactive body—for instance, a piece of
  Bristol board or any ordinary soft paper—can be made active by
  exposing it above a solution of peroxide, or, more slowlyj by exposing
  it to a bright zinc surface. If, for instance, a copper stencil be laid
  on a piece of Bristol board, and a slab of active plaster of Paris be
  placed on the stencil for a short time, the Bristol board will evonj
  After it has been removed from the stencil for some time, give a good
  picture of the stencil. Drying oil and other organic bodies may be
  used in the same way to change the paper. A eurioUs case of this
  occurred in printing a coloured advertisement cut oat of a magazine, for
   there appeared printing in the picture which was not in the original;
   This printing was ultimately traced to an advertisement on the oppeM-'
       Vol. XVI. (No. 93.)                                        t

146 Pictures Produced on Photographic Plates in the Dark. [May 5,
site page, which had been in contact with the one which was used ;
thus this ghostly effect was produced.
    I believe, then, that it is this active body, hydrogen peroxide,
which enables us to produce pictures on a photographic plate in the
dark. There are many other curious and interesting effects which it
can produce, and which I should like to have shown you, had time
permitted.
    I would only add that this investigation has been carried on in
the Davy Faraday Laboratory of this Institution.
                                                        [W. J. B.]

1899.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                      147
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
 His Grace The Duke of          Nobthumbebland,
                             Monday,   May 8, 1899.President, in the Chair.
                        Alfred Cooper, Esq. F.R.C.S.
                        Alfred William Porter, Esq. B.Se.
                        S. Stephenson, Esq.
                        Theodore Uzielli, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Mr. Hugh
Dewar for bis donation of £200, to Mr. Thomas H. Sowerby for his
donation of £5 5*., and to Mr. John H. Usmar for his donation of
£50, to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental Research at
Low Temperatures.
    The President referred to the death of Mr. Benjamin Vincent, for
many years Assistant-Secretary to the Royal Institution, and said
that the Managers desired to express the high appreciation in which
they held his services to the Institntion.
    The Pbksknts received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
    FBOH
The Lordt of the Admiralty—Greenwich Observations for 1896. 4to. 1898.
  Greenwich Spectroscopic and Photographic Resnlts for 1896 and 1897. 4to.
     1898. of Cape Observatory, Vol. I. 4to. 1898.
  Annals
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1898, Part 9. 8vo.
    1899.
Aetaaemia dei Lincei, Beale, Roma—Classe di Scienze Fisiche, MatemaMche 8
    Nsturali. Atti, Berie Quinta : Bendiconti. 1° Semestre, Vol. VIII. Fasc.
    6, 7. 8vo. 1899.
Aneritan Academy of Arte and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XXXIV. Nos. 6-14.
    8vo. Philosophical
American    1898-99. Society—Proceedings, No. 158. 8vo. 1898.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal for April, 1899. 8vo.
Agronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LIX. No. 6. 8vo, 1899,
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XX, Part 4. 8vo. 1899.
Bataaa, Magnetieal and Meteorological Observatory—Observations, Vol. XX.
     1897. in4to.
  Rainfall         1898. Indian Archipelago, Nineteenth Year, 1897. 8vo, 189S,
               the East
                                                                    1, 2

148                                 General Monthly Meeting.
Birt, Sir William—Poppy Land. By C. Scott. 8th edition. 8vo. 1899.
   Summer iu Broadland. By H. M. Doughty. 6th ediiion. 8vo. 181>9.
   Handbook to the Rivers and Broads of Norfolk and Suffolk. By G. C. Davies,
      31st edition. 8vo. 1899.
   East Coast Scenery. By W. J. Tate. 8vo. 1899.
   Vers in Poppy Land. By Mr. A. Berlyn. 8vo.
   The Land of the Broads. By E R. Suffling. New edition. Sva.
   Rambles in East Anglia. By H. Brittnin. 3rd edition. 8vo. 1899.
   How
Boston     to 1899.
              Organise
      8vo.Public  Library—Monthly
                             a Cruise on Bulletin.
                                                the Broads.       By No.
                                                            Vol. IV.   K R.     8vo. 1899.
                                                                           4. Suffling. 3rd edition.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, 3rd Series, Vol. VI. Nos. 11, 11
      4to. 1899.
California,    University of—Various Publications. 1898. 8vo.
 Camera Clul>—Journal for April, 1899. 8vo.
Chemical Industry. Society of—Journal. Vol. XVIII. No. 3. 8vo. 1899.
Chemical Society—Journal for April, 1899. 8vo.
   Proceedings.
   Collective       Nos.to207,
                Index               20S. 8vo. &c.1899.
                               Transactions,             1873-1882. 8vo. 1899.
Crwovie, VAcadimie des Sciences—Bulletin International, 189H, No. 3. 8vo.
Oicil Engineers, Instituiion of—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. CXXXV. 8to.
      1899.
 Cutter, Dr. E.—Phonntion. 8vo 1899.
 Cutter, Ih. E. and Cutter, J. A. Esq.—Fatty Ills and their Masquerades. 8ra.
      1898.
 Dax. Socielc de Borda—Bulletin, 1898, Quatrieme Trimestre. 8vo. 1S98.
 Dublin Society, Royal -Transactions, Vol. VI. Parts 14-16; Vol. VII. Part 1.
      4to. 1898.
   Proceedings, Vol. VIII. Part 6. 8vo. 1S98.
 East India Aiuociation—Journal, Vol. XXX. No. 6. 8vo. 1899.
   Analyst for April, 1899.
 Editors—Aeronautical           Journal 8vo.for April, 1899., 8vo.
   Anth >ny'a Journal
   American      Photographicof ScienceBnlletin
                                             for April,     1899.1899.
                                                    for April,      8vo. 8vo.
   Astrophysics! Journal for March, 1899.
   Athenaeum
    Author
    Bimetallist
    Chemical
    Brewers'
    Chemistfor Journal
                News
               andApril,
                   forDrngsrist
                        April,
                          forfor
                             1899
                               April,
                                  1899.
                                    for8vo.
                                 April,  April,
                                         1899.
                                           1899.
                                            4to.
                                            8vo. 1899.8vo. 8vo.
                                                    4to.
    Electrical   Engineering
                  for April, for
    Education Engineer           1899.
                                     for
                                      April,   1899.
                                          April,    1899.fol.8vo.
    Electrical Review for April, 1899. 8vo.
    Electricity tor April, 1899. 8vo.
    Engineering
    Engineer          April,
                for for   April,1899.1899.fol. fol.
    Homoeopathic Review for April, 1899, 8vo.
    Horolojiical Journal for April, 1899. 8vo.
    Industries for
    Invention            Iron for
                 andApril.           April. 1899. fol.
                                 1899.
    Journal of Physical Chemistry for March, 1899. 8vo.
    Journal of State Medicine for March and April, 1899. 8voi
    Law Journal for April, 1899. 8vo.
    Life BoatTechmcal
    Lightning
    London
    Machinery     for
                  MarW
                Journal /Vpril.
                              for
                              Education
                               for1899.
                                   April,
                                    April,8vo.
                                             1899.
                                              GazetteSvo.
                                            1899.         for April, 1899.
                                                        8vo.

 1899.]                         General Monthly Meeting.                    149
   Nature
   New Churchfor April,
 Editor*—continued.      1899. for4to.
                    Magazine            April, 1899. 8m
   Nuovo Cimento for Jao.-Feb. 1S99. 8vo.
   Photographic News for April, 1899. 8yo.
   Tropical
   Science
   Zoophilist
   Physical
   Public for
   Travel   Health
             of
             Sidings
             Abstract*
              Agriculturist
                April,
                ManApril,
                for
               ReviewKngimer
                      for
                       for
                        1899.
                        forVol.
                           March,
                            April,
                             March,
                             1899. 8vo.
                               forII.
                                   forApril,
                                       1899.
                                       1899.
                                        Part
                                         4to.
                                         April,
                                         1899.4.1899.
                                                  1899.
                                                   8vo.
                                                    8vo. 8vo.
                                                 8vo.      1899.
Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, No. 139. 8vo. 1899.
Florence, Biblioteea Nazionale Centrale—Bollettino, Nos. 319, 320. 8vo. 1899.
Franklin Institute—Jounml for April, 1899. 8vo.
Genera, Soc4eter de Physique et d'Histoire Saturelle—Memoires, Tome XXXIII.
     Part 1. 8vo. 1898.
Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for April, 1899. 8vo.
Imperial Institute—Imperial Instituie Journal for April, 1899.
Johns Hopkins University—American Journal of Philology, Vol. XIX. Part 4.
     kto. 1898.
   American Chemical Journal for April, 1899. 8vo.
Karkaria. K. P. Esq. (the Author)—India : Forty Years of Progress and Reform.
     8vo. 1896.
Kete Observatory—Report for 1898. 8vo. 1899.
Lhnean Society—Journal, Nos. 173: 230. 8vo. 1899.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXVI. Parts 1-3. 8vo. 1898.
Meteorological Societu, /tojfaZ—Quarterly Journal. No. 109. 8vo. 1899.
Mexico, Sociedad Cientifica "Antonio Alzate"—Memorias, Tomo XII. Nos. 1-3.
     8»o. 1898.
Middlesex Hospital—
Mirrufcopical               Royal—Journal,
                 Society, Reports      for 1897. 1899,       1898.
                                                      8vo. Part 2. 8vo.
-Vary League—Navy League Journal for April, 1899. 8vo.
-Vnr South Hales, Agent-General for—A Statistical Account of the Seven Colonies
     of Australasia, 1897-98. 8vo. 1898.
Norman, J. H. Esq. (the Author)—Addemla to the World's Exchanges in 1898.
     8*o.
Odontological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXI. No. 5. 8vo. 1899.
Paris, Societi Francaise de Physique—Seances, 1898, Fuse. 3. 8vo.
   Bulletin, Nos. 130, 131. 8vo. 18tI9.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for April, 1899. 8vo.
Photigrapiiic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for March, 1899. 8vo.
Rochechcntart, La Socie'te' Irs Amis des Sciences et Arts—Bulletin, Tome VIIL
     Nos. 4, 5. 8vo. 1898.
Rojal Engineers, Corps of—Foreign Translation Series, Vol. I. Paper 6. 8vo.
     1899.
Royal Irish Academy—Transactions, Vol. XXXI. Part 7. 4to. 1899.
   Philosophical
Boyil               London—YearVol.
        Society of Transactions,              CXCII.
                                          Book,              No. 233.
                                                   1899. A,8vo.
   Proceedings. Nos. 411, 412. 8vo. 1899.
Sanitary Institute-Journal, Vol. XX. Part 1. 8vo. 1899.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—
   Mathematisch-Physische Classe—
      Berichte, 1899, No. 2. 8vo.
      Abhandlungen, Band XXV. Nos. 1, 2. 8vn. 1899.
Bslbnme Society—mature Notes for April, 199. 8vo.
 Sharp, Granville, Esq. (the Author)—China, Anglo-America and corn. 8vo.

150                         General Monthly Meeting.                      [May 8,
Sidgreaves, Rev. W. F.R.AJ3. (the Director)—Stonyhurst College Observatoiy;
     Results of Observations, 1898. 8vo.
Smithsonian Institution—A Select Bibliography of Chemistry, 1492-1897. By
     H. C. Bolton. First Supplement. 8vo. 1899. (Smith. Misc. Coll. 1170.)
St. Petersbourg,
Society           UAeadtmie
         of Arte—Journal       April, 1899.
                           for Imperial*      Sciencet—Memoires, Tome VI. Nos. 9,
                                         des 8vo.
     11, 12, 13; Tome VII. Nos. 1-3. 4to. 1898.
Tacchini, Prof. P. Hon. Mem. R,I. (the Author)—Memorie" della Societa degti
     Spettroscopisti Italiani, Vol. XXVIJI. Disp. 1. 4to. 1899.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for April, 1899. 8vo.
 United States Department of Agriculture—Experiment Station Record, V I. X.
     No.States
United          Patent
          7. 8vo.       Office—Official Gazette, Vol. LXXXVTI. Nos. 1-4. 8m
                     1899.
     1899.
Upsal, L'Observatoire Me-teorologique de I'Universite'—Bulletin Mensuel, Vol XXX.
     4to.tur1898-99
Verein        Befdrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1899.
     Heft. 3. 8vo.
Vienna, Geological Institute, Imperial—Jahrbuoh, Band XLVIII. Heft 2. 8?a
     1898.
   Verhandlungen, 1899, Nos. 1-4. 8vo.
Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1898, Part 4. 8vo.

  1899.]        Magnetic Perturbations of the Spectral Lines.             151
                   WEEKLY        EVENING
                            Friday,            MEETING,
                                     May 12, 1899.
  His Grace The Dukk of Nobthumbebland, E.G. F.S.A., President,
                                 in the Chair.
             Pbofessob Thomas Pbeston, M.A. D.Sc. F.R.S.
               Magnetic Perturbations of the Spectral Lines.
 The subject which we are about to consider this evening forms a
 connecting link between two of the most interesting branches of
 human knowledge—namely, that which treats of magnetism and that
 which treats of light. Almost as soon as the properties of magnets
 became known, mere curiosity alone must have prompted philosophers
 to ascertain if any relation existed between magnetism and " the other
forces of nature," as they were generally termed. We are consequently
led to expect, amongst the records of early experimental investiga
     When
tions,           seek forwhich
        someweaccounts     such treat
                                 accounts,
                                      of thehowever,
                                             action ofwe find that on
                                                       magnetism       light.
                                                                    they  are
almost wholly absent from the literature of science ; and this arises, I
believe, from the great difficulty of the investigation and from the
circumstance that only negative results were obtained, rather than
that no such inquiry suggested itself or was undertaken. Even in
quite recent times this inquiry has been prosecuted, but without
 success, by physicists who have published no account of their experi
ments. We may take it, therefore, that the inquiry is in itself an
old one, although it is only now that it has been carried to a successful
issue.
     The earliest recorded attempt to solve this problem with which
we are acquainted, is that of a celebrated British physicist whose
name must for ever shed lustre on the annals of the Royal Institution
—I speak of Michael Faraday. In order to understand the nature of
the investigation which Faraday took in hand, and which has led up
to the discourse of this evening, it is best to consider briefly some
elementary facts concerning magnetism and light.
    In the first place I shall assume that we know in a general way
what the peculiarities of a body are which lead us to say that it is
magnetised, or a magnet. These are that, when freely suspended, it
sets itself in a definite direction over the earth's surface, as illustrated
by the compass needle, and that in the space around it there is
"magnetic" force exerted on pieces of iron, and in a smaller degree
on other substances. For this reason we say thut a magnet is
surrounded by a magnetic field of force. The field of force is simply
the space surrounding the magnet, and it extends to infinity in all
directions from the magnet. Near the magnet the force in strong.

152                    Professor Thomas Preston               [May 13,
and far away from it the force is almost insensible ; and so we say
that the field is strong at certain places near the magnet, and that it
is weak at places far away from the magnet. The direction of the
fprce at any point is the direction in. which the north pole of another
magnet would be urged if placed at that point, and the push which
this pole experiences may be taken to represent the intensity or
strength of the magnetic field at the point in question. This is
represented diagrammatically by these drawings [referring to figures
suspended before the audience], which show roughly the nature of
the field of force surrounding an ordinary bar magnet, a horse-shoe
magnet, and the much more powerful form—the electro-magnet It
will be seen that the space outside the iron is filled with a system of
curved lines running from the north pole to the south pole of the iron
core. Where the lines are closest together there the magnetic force
is strongest, and the direction of a line at any point is the direction
of the resultant magnetic force at that point—that is, the direction in
which a north pole would be urged if placed at that point,
     Faraday always pictured the magnetic field as filled with lines of
force in this way, and the importance of the conception can scarcely
be over-rated, for it leads ns to view the magnetic action as being
transmitted continuously through the intervention of some medium
filling all space, rather than by the unintelligible process of direct
action at a distance, This medium is called the ether; but as to
what it is that is actually going on in the ether around a magnet, we
cannot definitely say. It may be that there is a flow of ether along
the lines of magnetic force, so that there is an out-flow at one end of
the magnet and an in-flow at the other, or it may be that the ether is
spinning round the lines of force in the magnetic field. For our
present purpose it is not a matter of very much importance what the
exact condition of the ether may be in a magnetic field, for if the
ether in a magnetic field is either in some peculiar condition of strain
or of motion, and if light consists of an undulutory motion propagated
through this same ether, then it may be naturally expected that some
action should take place when light is propagated throngh, or radiated
in, a magnetic field of force. This is what Faraday snspected ; and
in order that we may appreciate the problem with which he had to
deal, let us place ourselves in his position and ask ourselves the
question: lfIn what manner can we test experimentally if there is
any magnetic action on light ? "
     In answer to this question, the first thing that occurs to us is to
pass a beam of ordinary light through the magnetic field, in some
chosen direction, and examine by all the means at our disposal if
any action has taken place. When this is done we find that no
observable effect is produced, But the scientific investigator does
pot rest satisfied with one negative result. He varies the conditions
of the experiment, and returns to the attack with renewed vigour and
hopes. In our first trial we passed a beam of light through the air-
filled space around the magnet, and we may vary this experiment

1899.]       on Magnetic Perturbation* of the Spectral Lines.          153
either by removing the air altogether, and so causing the beam to
traverse a vacuum, or we may replace the air by some dense trans
parent substance such as glass or water. Under these new conditions
we still fail to detect any influence of the magnetic field on a beam of
ordinary light. This negative result might arise from tho field of
force being too weak to produce an observable effect, or it might be
that the effect (if any effect really does exist) may be of such a cha
racter that it is impossible to detect it with ordinary light. In common
light the vibrations take place indifferently in all directions around
the ray, and follow no law or order as to their type. They possess
do permanent relation to any direction around the ray, so that if the
magnetic action should happen to be a twisting of the vibrations
round tho ray, it will be impossible to detect this twist in the case of
ordinary light.
     As a matter of fact it is a twist of this kind that actually happens,
and this is probably what Faraday anticipated. In order to detect
it, therefore, it is necessary to employ a beam of light in which the
vibrations are restricted to a single plane passing through the ray.
Such light is said to be plane-polarised, and may be obtained by
transmitting common light through a doubly refracting crystal.
Faraday fonnd that when a beam of this plane-polarised light is
passed through the magnetic field, in the direction of the lines of
force, a distinct effect takes place, and that the effect is a twisting of
the plane of polarisation of the light vibrations as they pass through
tbe magnetic field—or, to be more precise, as the light passes through
the matter occupying the field.
     This is the Faraday effect. Its magnitude depends on the strength
of the field and upon the nature of the matter, through which the
light passes in that field. This latter is an important fact that
should not be lost sight of in reasoning upon the nature of this effect.
The presence of matter in the field appears to be necessary. The
effect is not observed in a vacuum, but becomes greater as the field
becomes filled with matter of greater density. It is, therefore, not a
direct action of the magnetic field on the light vibrations, but rather
an indirect action exerted through the intervention of the matter
which occupies the magnetic field.
     This action, as we have said, is a rotation of the plane of polarisa
tion of the beam of light, and it arises from the circumstance that, in
passing through the magnetic field, vibrations whioh take place from
right to left do not travel forward with the same velocity as those
which take place from left to right. There is no change in tho
periods of the vibrations: it is essentially a change of velocity of
propagation that occurs. If we examine the transmitted light with a
spectroscope, we find that the wave-lengths are unaltered, but that
the amount of rotation of the plane of polarisation is different for
 waves of different lengths. The law which governs the effect is that
 the rotation of the plane of polarisation varies inversely as tho square
of the wave-length of the light employed.

 154                     Professor Thomas Preston               [May 12,
      You will have noticed that in the foregoing experiment tho source
 of light was placed quite outside the field of magnetic force, while
 the beam of light was transmitted through the field for examination.
 Now we might place the source of light itself in the magnetic field,
 and then examine if the light emitted by it is in any way affected by
 the magnetic force. This variation of the experiment suggests itself
 at once, and was indeed also tried by Faraday—in fact it formed bis
 last experimental research of 1862, but without success. The same
 experiment has been tried, no doubt, by many other physicists, with
 the same negative result.
      The first recorded success, or at least partial success, was by
 M. Fievez in 1885. He placed the source of light—a gas flume
 impregnated with sodium vapour —between the pole-pieces of a
 powerful electro-magnet. This being done, the light radiated by the
 flame was passed through the slit of a highly dispersive spectroscope
 and examined. What M. Fievez observed was that the bright spectral
 lines became broadened by the action of the magnetic field on the
 radiating source. His account is, perhaps, somewhat confused, owing
 to his imperfect apprehension of the true nature of the phenomenon
 which he observed ; but, without doubt, he observed a true magnetic
 effect on the radiated light—namely, this broadening of the spectral
lines. But he did not convince the scientific world that he had made
any new discovery, and so the matter fell into neglect until it was
 revived again in 1897 by the now celebrated work of Dr. P. Zeeman.
      The credit which attaches to Dr. Zeeman's work is that he not
 only, after prolonged effort, succeeded in obtaining this new magnetic
 effect, but he also convinced the world that the effect was a true one,
arising from the action of the magnetic field on the source of light
 That Dr. Zeeman was able to do this was due, perhaps, as much to
the present advanced state of our theoretical knowledge of this sub
ject as to his own skill and perseverance as an observer ; and this in
a striking example of the great assistance which well-founded theory
affords to experimental investigation. The theory connects the facte
already known in reasonable and harmonious sequence, predicts new
results, and points out the channels through which they must be
sought. Without such scientific theory this general systematic ad
vance would be impossible, and new results would be stumbled on
only by accident.
     To see how this applies to our case, we revert to the fact deter
mined by Dr. Zeeman—namely, that when the source of light is
placed in a strong magnetic field the spectral lines become broadened.
[Slide shown here.] As soon as this was announced Professor
Lorentz, and subsequently Dr. Larmor, examined the question from
the theoretical point of view. They analysed the subject mathe
matically, and came to the conclusion that each spectral line should
be not merely broadened, but should be actually split up into three
—that is, each line should become three lines, or, as we shall say in
future, a triplet. They also arrived at the further most important

 1899,]       on Magnetic Perturbations of the Spectral Lines.       155
 and interesting conclusion, viz. that the constituent lines of this
 triplet must be each plane-polarised—the central line of the triplet
 being polarised in one plane, while the side lines are polarised in a
 perpendicular plane. In fact the vibrations of the light forming the
central line are parallel to the lines of magnetic force, while the
 vibrations in the side lines are perpendicular to the lines of force.
 This prediction of tripling and polarisation from theoretical con
 siderations may be regarded as the key to the subsequent advance
that has been made in the investigation of this region of physics.
In order to understand it, let us place ourselves in Dr. Zeeman's
position when he found that the spectral lines became broadened by
the magnetic field, and let us be informed that this broadening is in
all probability a tripling of the lines accompanied by plane-polarisa
tion. The question now is, " How are we to determine if this is the
case?"
    It is clear that if the broadened lino is really a triplet, then the
components of this triplet must be so close together that they over
lap each other, and so appear to the eye merely as one broad line, as
illustrated by the model which is here before you. [Model illus
tbating the overlapping shown here.] We know that the spectral
lines are not infinitely narrow lines, but are really narrow bands of
light of finite width, and consequently we are quite prepared to
regard the magnetically broadened line as an overlapping triplet ; but
we cannot remain satisfied until we have proved beyond all doubt
that it really is a triplet, and not merely a single broad line. To
do this, Dr. Zeeman made use of the second prediction of the theory
—namely, that the constituents of the triplet must be plane-polarised.
If this is so, then the outer edges of the broadened line must be plane-
polarised, and therefore by introducing a Nicol's prism into the path
of the light it must be possible to turn the Nicol so that the plane-
polarised edges shall be cut off, and the breadth of the line shall be
reduced to its normal amount. In fact, in this position of the Nicol
the outside lines of the triplet are extinguished, and the central
component alone remains. This component is, of course, the same
in width as the original line, and consequently when the outer
members of the triplet are extinguished all the magnetic broadening
of the line is removed. When the Nicol is turned through a right
angle the central component of the triplet is extinguished, while the
aide lines remain ; and, if these side lines arc sufficiently soparated
to that they do not overlap, then, when the central line is removed,
a narrow dark space will exist between the side components, which
represents the space intervening between the outer members of the
triplet, as illustrated by this photograph. [Slido shown.]
     But even though we may be able to so increase the strength of
the magnetic field that when the central component of the triplet is
removed by a Nicol the side lines stand apart with a clearly defined
interval between them, yet this in itself does not absolutely satisfy
us that the broadened line is a triplet. It might be contended that

 156                    Professor Thomas Preston                [May 12,
the broadened line is not really a triplet, but is merely a band of
light polarised in one plane along its edges and in the perpendicular
plane along its centre, and that increase of the magnetic field might
never separate it into distinct constituents, but merely continue to
broaden it. This contention, however, might be disposed of by a
careful study of the facts, even though we might not be able to pro
duce a magnetic field strong enough to completely separate the
constituent lines of the triplet.
     But clearly the thing to be arrived at is to so arrange matters—in
fact, to so design our electro-magnet and to plan the conditions of
our experiment—that the magnetic field acting on the source of light
shall be strong enough to completely separate the members of the
triplet, if such exist. You will understand that this is no easy thing
to do when you remember that it was only after repeated efforts and
many failures that even a slight broadening of the spectral lines was
obtained. Nevertheless, in spite of the great difficulty which besets
this investigation, and which arises from our inability to obtain a
magnetic field of unlimited strongth, yet, with a properly designed
magnet and other properly arranged conditions, it is possible to
obtain a magnetic field strong enough to completely separate the
constituents of the magnetic triplet, and thus to prove that the pre
diction of theory is verified by the actual facts. [Slide shown.]
     But with a magnetic field of great strength the facts as shown by
these slides [photographs shown here] turn out to lie more com
plicated and more interesting than the simple theory led us to expect
For while some of the spectral lines are split up into triplets as indi
cated by theory, some on the other hand become resolved into sextets,
or octets, or other complex types. [Slides shown here.] Thus, when
the magnetic field becomes sufficiently intense, we realise to the fall
all the theoretical predictions and more. The reason of this surplus
of realisation over expectation lies in the fact that the theory in its
simplest form deals only with the simplest types of motion under the
simplest conditions, and the conclusions arrived at are of course of
corresponding simplicity. When more complicated types of motion
are contemplated, the theory furnishes us with the dynamical ex
planation of the more complicated types of effect produced by the
magnetic field. That tripling pure and simple should occur in the
case of every spectral line (as predicted by the simplest form of
theory) is not a result which we should expect from a broader con
sideration of the problem. In fact, if we reflect on the subject, we
are forced to the conclusion that deviations from the pure triplet
type should be expected, and, as we have seen, such deviations
actually do occur. In this respect, therefore, the experimental in
vestigation which yields more than the simple theory expected is not
to be taken as in any way discordant with that theory, but, on the
contrary, to be in harmony with it.
    In order that you may form some idea as to what it is that the
theory supposes to be in operation in the production of these pheno

1899.]         on Magnetic Perturbations of the Spectral Lines.        157
mena, I have had this elliptic frame constructed [model shown],
which I ask you for the present to consider as the orhit described by
one of those elements of matter which by their motions set up waves
in the ether, and thereby emit what we call light. This white ball,
which slides on the elliptic frame, is supposed to represent the
element of matter. It is sometimes called an ion, which name is
used to imply that the element of matter carries an electric charge
inherently associated with it.
      Now, under ordinary circumstances this ion revolving in its orbit
with very great rapidity will continue to do so peacefully, unless
external forces come into play to disturb it. When external forces
come into action the orbit ceases in general to be the same as l>efore.
 The orbit becomes perturbed, and the external forces are termed per
turbing forces. But you now ask, What is the character of the forces
 introduced by the magnetic field when the ion is moving through it ?
 In answering this, we are to remember that the ion is supposed to be
 an element of matter charged with an electric charge—or, if you like,
 an electric charge possessing inertia. Now, if a charged body moves
 through a magnetic field, it is an experimental fact that it experiences
 a force arising from the action of the magnetic field on the moving
 electric charge. The direction of this force is at right angles both
 to the direction of motion of the charged body and to the direction of
 the magnetic force in the field. The effect of this force in our case
 ia to cause the elliptic orbits of the ions to rotate round the lines of
 magnetic force ; or to cause them to have a precessional motion
 [illustrated by model] instead of staying fixed in space, just as the
 perturbing forces of the planets in the solar system cause the earth's
 orbit to have a precessional motion. The angular velocity of this
  precessional motion is proportional to the strength of the magnetic
  field, and depends also, as you would expect, on the electric charge
  and the inertia associated with the ion.
       This precessional motion of the orbit, combined with the motion
  of the ion around the orbit, gives the whole motion of the ion in
  space, and the result of this combined movement, of these two super
  posed frequencies—viz. the frequency of revolution of the ion in its
  orbit, and the frequency of rotation of the orbit around the lines of
   force—is that, in the case of the light radiated across the lines of
   force, each period becomes associated with two new periods, or, in
   other words, each spectral line becomes a triplet. A partial analogue
   to this, which may to some extent help you to understand the intro
   duction of the two new periods, occurs in the case of sound, although
   the two phenomena at basis are quite different. The analogue (or
   quasi-analogue) is this. When two notes of given pitch, that is of
   given frequency of vibration, are sounded together, their superposition
   produces two other notes of frequencies which are respectively the
   sum and the difference of the frequencies of the two given notes.
    These are known as the summation and the difference tones of the
    two given notes. Corresponding to these are the two side lines of the

158                    Professor Thomas Preston                [May 12,
magnetic triplet. The frequency of the vibration in one of these
lines is the sum, and the frequency of the other is the difference, of
the two frequencies mentioned before—namely, the frequency of the
revolution of the ion around its orbit, and the frequency of the pre-
cessional revolution of the orbit round the lines of force. The centre
line of the triplet has the frequency of the original vibration, and
this frequency disappears completely when the light is viewed along
the lines of force—that is, through axial holes pierced in the pole-
pieces. In this direction, too, a further peculiarity arises, for not
only does the triplet drop its central member and become a doublet,
but each member of this doublet is not plane-polarised, as the
members of the triplet are. They are each, on the contrary, cir
cularly polarised—that is, the vibration is circular instead of being
rectilinear.
    This all follows as the expectation of the simple theory which
supposes that the ions are free to describe their elliptic orbits undis
turbed by any forces other than the magnetic field. But it is only to
be expected that other perturbing forces must come into play in the
assemblage of ions which build up incandescent matter of the source
of light. We know, for example, that the other members of the solar
system perturb the earth's motion, so that it deviates from the simple
elliptic motion predicted by the simple theory which did not take
these perturbing forces into account. Hence, if any such perturbing
forces exist, and we should be surprised if they did not exist, the
tripling pure and simple of the spectral lines will be departed from,
and other types will arise. From the character of these new types
we may inter the nature of the perturbations which give rise to
them, and hence by the study of these types we obtain a view of what
is going on in matter when it is emitting light, which we should not
possess if such perturbations did not occur. These deviations from
pure tripling are consequently of more importance almost, in regard
to our future progress, than the discovery of the tripling itself. To
give you some idea of the influence of such perturbations in modi
fying the triplet form, I may mention that it follows from simple
theoretical considerations, that if the perturbing forces cause the
orbit to revolve in its own plane, or cause it to change its ellipticity
periodically, then each line of the triplet produced by the magnetic
field will be doubled, and a sextet will result, and other oscillations
of the orbit will give rise to other modifications of the normal triplet
type. It is not quite easy to see at once, however, what the per
turbing forces are exactly, for we do not know the way in which the
ions are associated in matter ; but if we regard an ion as a charged
element of matter describing an orbit, it will be analogous to a closed
circuit, or to a magnetic shell, and will be urged to set in some
definite way in the magnetic field. In coming into this position it
may oscillate about the position of equilibrium, and thus introduce
an oscillation into the precessional motion of the orbit, which may
have the effect of doubling or tripling the constituents of the pure
precessional triplet.

1899.]         on Magnetic Perturbations of the Spectral Lines.            159
      Now, experimental investigation shows us that all the spectral
lines do not become triplets when viewed across the lines of force
in a magnetic field, for some lines show as quartets, or sextets, or
octets, or in general as complex triplets derived from the normal
triplet by replacing each component by a doublet or a triplet. We
conclude, therefore, that the ions which give rise to these complex
forms are not perfectly free in their motions through the magnetic
field, but are constrained in some way by association with each other
in groups, or otherwise, while they move in the magnetic field.
      And now we come to a very important point in this inquiry.
 According to the simple theory every spectral line, when viewed
 across the lines of force, should become a triplet in the magnetic
 field, and the difference of the vibration frequency between the side
 lines of the triplet should be the same for all the spectral lines of a
 given substance. In other words, the processional frequency should
 be the same for all the ionic orbits, or the difference of wave-length
 6 A between the lateral components of the magnetic triplet should
 vary inversely as the square of the wave-length of the spectral line
 under consideration. Now, when we examine this point by experi
 ment, we find that this simple law is very far from being fulfilled.
 In fact, a very casual survey of the spectrum of any substance shows
 that the law does not hold even as a rough approximation ; for, while
 some spectral lines show a considerable resolution in the magnetic
 stance,other
 field,         lines ofaffected
           are scarcely  nearly the
                                 at all.
                                      sameThis
                                            wave-length,        mostsame
                                                deviation inis the        sub-
                                                                      interest
 ing to those who concern themselves with the ultimate structure of
 matter, for it shows that the mechanism which produces the spectral
  lines of any given substance is not of the simplicity postulated in the
 elementary theory of this magnetic effect.
       Our previous knowledge of the line spectra of different substances
  might indeed have led us to suspect some such deviation as this from
  the results predicted by the simple theory. For if we view the line
  spectrum of a given substance we find that some of tho lines are
  sharp while others are nebulous or diffuse, and that some are long
   while others are short—in fact, the lines exhibit characteristic
   differences which lead us to suspect that they are not all produced
   by the motion of a single unconstrained ion. On closer scrutiny
   they are seen to throw themselves into natural groups. For example,
   in the case of the monad metals (sodium, potassium, etc.), the spectral
   lines of each metal form three series of natural pairs, and again, in
   the case of the diad group (cadmium, zinc, etc.), the spectrum of each
   shows two series of natural triplets, and so on.
       Thus, speaking generally, the lines which form the spectrum of a
   given substance may be arranged in groups which possess similar
   characteristics as groups. Calling the lines of these groups At, BI,
   Cj . . M A2, Bj, C3 . . ., A3, B3, C3 . . . we may regard the suc
   cessive groups as repetitions of the first, so that the A's—that is
    Aj, A,, A3, &c.—are corresponding lines produced probably by the
    same ion ; while the B's—namely, B„ B2, B3, &c.—correspond to one

 160                       Professor Thomas Preston                     [May 12,
another and are produced by another ion, and so on. This grouping
of the spectral
stances,            lines
           and it has   beenhasa subject
                                  been noticed
                                         of earnest
                                                 in the    caseamongst
                                                     inquiry             spectro-
                                                                of several    sab-
scopists for some time past. All such grouping, however, up to the
present, has had to depend on the judgment of the observer as to
certain similarities in the general character and arrangement of the
lines, and similarities which indeed may or may not have any specific
relation to the mechanism by which the lines are produced. In fact,
such grouping has been effected by guess-work, or by empirical
formulae, and we need not be surprised if it is found that the groups
so far obtained are more or less imperfect.
      I introduce this grouping of the spectral lines to your notice in
order that we may attack the problem of reducing to order the so far
apparently lawless magnetic effect. As I have already mentioned,
the lines in the spectrum of any given substance are not all resolved
into triplets by the magnetic field, but some are resolved into triplets
 while others become sextets, etc. ; and further, the magnitude of this
 resolution, that is the interval & A. between the lateral components
does not appear at first sight to obey any simple law.
      According to the prediction of the simple theory the separation
 8 A. should be proportional to A2, and although this law is not at all
 obeyed, if we take all the lines of the spectrum as a single group,
yet we find that it is obeyed for the different groups if we divide the
lines into a series of groups, In other words, the corresponding
lines Aj, A2, A3, etc. have the same value for the quantity em,* or,
as we may say, they are produced by the motion of the same ion.
The other corresponding lines, B,, B2, B3. etc. have another common
Value for e/m, and are produced therefore by a different ion, and so
on. We are thus led by this magnetic effect to arrange the lines of a
given spectrum into natural groups, and from the nature of the effect
we are led to suspect that the corresponding lines of these groups are
produced by the same ion, and therefore that the atom of any given
substance is really a complex consisting of several different ions,
each of which gives rise to certain spectral lines, and these ions are
associated to form an atom in some peculiar way which stamps the
substauca with its own peculiar properties.
      In order to illustrate the meaning of this, let us consider the
spectrum of some such metal as zinc. The bright lines forming the
spectrum of this metal arrange themselves to a large extent in sets of
throe—that is, they group themselves naturally in triplets. Denot
ing these triplets in ascending order of refiangibility by A, B,, C„
A2, B2, C2, etc. we find that the lines A1, A.,, etc. show the same mag
netic effect in character, and have the same value of e/m, so that they
form a series obeying the theoretical law deduced by Lorentz and
     * The quantity e is the electric charge of the ion, and m is its inertia, and
the ratio e/m determines the processional frequenoy, or spin, of the ionic orbit
round the lines of magnetic force in a given field.

 1899.]        on Magnetic Perturbations of the Spectral Lines.                     161
Larmor. In the same way the lines B„ B2, B3, etc., form another scries
which also obeys the theoretical law, and possess a common value
for the qnantity e/m, similarly for the lines C,, C2, C3, etc. The value
of e/m for the A series differs from that possessed by the B series or
the C series, and this leads ns to infer that the atom of zinc is built
up of ions which differ from each other in the value of the quantity
ejm, and that each of these different ions is effective in producing a cer
tain series of lines in the spectrum of the metal. When we examine
the spectrum of cadmium, or of magnesium—that is, when we examine
the spectra of other metals of the same chemical group—we find that
not only are the spectra homologous, not only do the lines group
themselves in similar groups, but we find in addition that the corre
sponding lines of the different spectra are similarly affected by the
magnetic field. And further, not only is the character of the mag
netic effect the same for the corresponding lines of the different
metals of the same chemical group, but the actual magnitude of
the resolution as measured by the quantity e/m is the same for the
corresponding series of lines in the different spectra. This is illus
trated in the following table, and leads us to believe, or at least to
              Magnetic effect               Noneti or
                                            complex
                                             triplets.      Sextets.       Triplets.
                                   A=         508(1          4800            4678
                                   A=         4811           4722            4680
                                   A=         5184           5173            5167
   Precessional spin (approx.)       ''    e/m = 55       e/m = 87      e/m - 100
    [This table shows the effect for the three lines which form the first mitural
triplet in the spectrum of cadmium compured with the corresponding lines in
tbe spectra of zinc and magnesium. It will be seen that the corresponding lines
ia the different spectra suffer the same magnetic effect both in character and
magnitude. Thus the corresponding lines 4800, 4722, 5173 are each resolved
into sextets, and the rate at which the ionic orbit is caused to precess is the same
fa each (denoted by e/m = 87 in the table). Similarly for the other corre-
sponiling lines.]
suspect, that the ion which produces the lines A,, A2, A3, etc., in the
spectrum of zinc is the same as that which produces the corresponding
series Aj, A2, A3, etc., in cadmium, and the same for the corresponding
sets in the other metals of this chemical group. In other words, we
are led to suspect that not only is the atom a complex composed of an
association of different ions, but that the atoms of those substances
which lie in the same chemical group are perhaps built up from the
^tne kind of ions, or at least from ions which possess the samo e/m,
     Vol. XVI. (No. 93.)                                                    m

1G2                     Professor Thomas Preston                [May 12,
and that the differences which exist in the materials thus constituted
arises more from the manner of association of the ions in the atom
than from differences in the fundamental character of the ions which
build up the atoms; or it may be, indeed, that all ions are funda
mentally the same, and that differences in the value of e/m, or in the
character of the vibrations emitted by them, or in the spectral lines
produced by them, may really ariso from the manner in which they
arc associated together in building up the atom.
     Th is may be on unjustified speculation, but there can be no doubt
ns to the fascination which enquiry of this kind has always exerted,
and must continue to exert, over the human mind. It is the specula
tion of the ignorant as well as of the philosophic and trained scientific
mind, and even though it should never be proved to rest on any sub
stantial basis of fact, it will continue to cast its charm over every
 investigator of nature.
     It is ever the desire of the human mind, to see all the phenomena
of nature bound by one connecting chain, and the forging of this
chain can be realised only gradually and after great labour in the
laboratories of science. From time to time the hope has been enter
tained that metals may be transmuted, and that one form may be
converted into another ; and although this hope has been more gene
 rally nurtured by avarice and by ignorance rather than by knowledge,
yet it is true that we never have had any sufficient reason for totally
abandoning that hope, and even though it may never bo realised that
in practice we shall be able to convert one substance into another,
even though the philosopher's stone be for ever beyond our grasp, yet
when the recent developments of science, especially in the region of
 spectrum analysis, are carefully considered, we have, I think, reason
 able hope that the time is fast approaching, when intimate relations,
 if not identities, will be seen to exist between forms of matter which
have heretofore been considered as quite distinct. Important spectro
 scopic information pointing in this same direction has been gleaned
 through a long series of observations by Sir Norman Lockyer on the
 spectra of the fixed stars, and on the different spectra yielded by the
 same substance at different temperatures. These observations lend
 some support to the idea, so long entertained merely as a speculation,
 that all the various kinds of matter, all the various so-called chemical
 elements, may be built up in some way of the same fundamental sub
 stance ; and it is probable that this protyle theory will, in one form
 or another, continue to haunt tho domains of scientific thought, and
 remain a useful and important factor in our progress, for all time
 to come.
      Even though it may be that a knowledge of the ultimate constitu
 tion of matter must for ever remain a sealed book to our enquiries,
 yet, framed as wo are, we must for ever prosecute the extension of
 our knowledge in every direction ; and in pursuing knowledge it
 frequently happens that vast acquisitions are mado through channels
 which at first seem most unlikely to lead us any further. It h&e

 1899.]       on Magnetic Perturbations of the Spectral Lines.        163
 frequently happened that small and obscure effects, obtained after
 ranch labour and difficulty, have led to results of the highest import
 ance, while very pronounced and striking effects which have forced
themselves on the attention of the observer have proved comparatively
barren. It was by a determined effort of this kind, founded on a
correct appreciation of the importance of small outstanding differ
ences—so small as to be despised or passed over by all other
observers—that Lord Rayleigh discovered a new gas in our atmo
sphere, added argon to our list of elements, and initiated the attack
which led to the brilliant capture by Prof. Ramsay of several new
terrestrial substances.
     Viewed from this standpoint I hope I am to some extent justified
in occupying your attention this evening with the consideration of
the action of magnetism on light, for although the effect produced is
small and not easy to observe, yet it is likely to prove an important
instrument of research in the study of matter, and it is not inappro
priate that a public account of what has been already achioved should
be given in this Institution, in which the enquiry was first begun by
Faraday, and in which his spirit still lives.
                                                               IT. P.l

1G4                      The Bishop of Bristol                 [May 19,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 19, 1899.
       The Doke of Nobthumbebland, E.G. F.S.A., President,
                               in the Chair.
           The Right Rev. The Loed Bishop of Bbistol.
    Runic and Ogam Characters and Inscriptions in the British Isles.
I am frequently surprised by the ignorance which I find of the mere
existence of such a thing as an Ogam inscription, and of the meaning
of the phrase " a Runic inscription." My business this evening is to
givo some elementary information on both of these subjects.
     The Runic alphabet was the character in which our earliest
Anglian ancestors wrote their own language. The use of this cha
racter practically died out early, under tho influence of the Latin and
the Scottish missionaries, who were ignorant of runes, and probably
suspected them of paganism and sorcery. Bcde refers to runes once,
and in that kind of connection. He tells us that a prisoner who
frequently contrived to get loose from his chains was accused of
having charms, literae solutoriae, which ^Elfric translates "rune-
staves." Wo have therefore but a limited number of runic inscrip
tions of tho Anglian character remaining in our island. I say
" Anglian " rather than " Saxon," because the inscriptions are almost
entirely confined to the parts of the island occupied by the Northum
brian Angles, in whom I am accustomed to find the ancestors of our
art and literature. The earliest piece of English literature in
existence is found cut in deep large runic characters on the shaft of
 a cross in old Northumbria ; and tho earliest and most beautiful
 specimens of English art in sculpture and in draftsmanship are found
 on tho remains of Northumbrian cross-shafts and in the gospel-book
 of the Northumbrians.
     While tho Ogam symbols are found only in these islands, Enncs
are found in connection with Gothic remains in Europe of an early
 date, and immense quantities of Runic inscriptions aro found in
Scandinavia. The Gothic runes aro practically the same as tie
Anglian ; the Scandinavian runes show considerable disintegration
from the earlier type.
     Several of tho characters of tho Runic alphabet are at once distin
guishable, from their likeness to our ordinary capital letters. Snch
aro T, I, B, E. Inasmuch as our ordinary capital letters are Latin,
this means that some of tho Rnnic characters have much resemblance
to the Latin. But tho Latin alphabet is only one stago younger than
tho Greek alphabet, with which in toveral letters its capitals arc

1899.]               on Runic and Ogam Characters, etc.                165
identical. On which of these two alphabets was the Runic alphabet
based '? I fail to see sufficient length of time, or any geographical
connection, to account for their being based on the Latin. On the
other hand, there are a sufficient number of centuries and sufficient
geographical links to account for the runes being based on a Greek
Alphabet ; not the ordinary Attic, but one more archaic in some
leading characters. It is technically an error to speak of a " Latin
alphabet " or a " Runic alphabet." It is only tho Greek that is
properly called an alphabet, from its first two letters. The Latin is
properly called the abecedarium, from its a b c, d, and the Runic the
fathork, f u th o r k. The Ogam alphabet is called in a similar way
tho bethluisnion, from the first letters b I (beth and luis), pronounced
baylushneen. The English " alphabet " is wrongly so-called ; it is
properly " the abecee."
      I accept as conclusive Canon Isaac Taylor's theory as set forth
in his Greeks and Goths, a preliminary portion of his great book on
 The Alphabet. He goes boldly to the time when the Ionian colonics
in Thrace and about the Black Sea were cut off for ever from their
 mother country by the Persian invasions of the sixth century before
 Christ. They were shut off in that distant and dark land for cen
 turies, with the alphabet of the mother country as it was at the
 time of their separation. What that alphabet was we know. In the
 course of centuries a junction was effected between the barbarians
 our ancestors, living about the Baltic, and the Greek traders from
 the Black Sea with their remains of an ancient civilisation. Our
 Gothic ancestors learned from the traders from the south to use their
 characters as a means of recording transactions. That is the simple
  theory. When you examine the table which I have prepared (Fig. 1),
  of the Ionian alphabet and the runes, you will need only two
  other hints to see the connection. Our Baltic ancestors kept their
  tallies by incisions on wood. Anyone who has cut his initials on a
  school bench or desk knows that boys with initials formed of straight
  strokes are lucky as compared with boys whoso initials are rounded.
  He knows also that a straight stroke itself can be a nuisance if it
  goes along the grain ; care is needed to prevent its splintering at
  the ends when he endeavours to extract tho piece he is cutting out.
   The difference between the Ionian alphabet and tho runes consists,
   roughly speaking, in all rounded curves being made into straight
   lines, forming angles instead of curves, and in the removal by one
   device or another of every horizontal line ; there is not one horizontal
   line in tho whole futhork.
        The Anglian runes identical with the Ionian letters are B, I, L,
   E, S. The runes for W and long 0 are Ionian letters cut in straight
    lines instead of curves ; E and T are only altered by horizontal
    lines being replaced by two lines at an angle, cut against tho grain ;
    G and U are the Ionian gutturals Ch and G ; Ng is a double Ionian
    G; Tl: is the Ionian D ; H has its horizontal lino made slanting, as
    alsj F ; M has its two middle lines cut through to the sido lines, to

 166                        Tlie Bieihop of Bristol                [May 19.
 distinguish it from the E rune. D is the Ionian Th cat square,
 with the horizontal lines removed as unnecessary and troublesome.
                                    Tho vowel sounds, A, Ac, O, appear to
                                    be simple modifications of the Ionian
    6     X        1                short E, a very useful letter for cut
     a 1
    LU 1              *-            ting on wood. K and N have one of
                                    their three strokes knocked off. I
    <              1                have now mentioned 22 of the 26 Ang
    no
   Z                 XX             lian runes ; and of the remaining four,
         ®           .A.            one is compounded of E and A, and
    h                               the others are so exceedingly rare as
    5 !              A.             scarcely ever to meet the eye of the
         > >         a              investigator of Runic inscriptions.
                                        Many questions of great interest
   h     f-                         are raised by some of these changes
   co                               and appropriations. I will only men
         tL          M              tion two. One is the use of the Greek
                                    koppa, corresponding to the Hebrew
   cm                >.             koof, for the rune W. We are fa
   A- 1                             miliar with the mediaeval use of qu
                                    for w in such words as quhat for what.
   o     o cc                       The other is the use of the Greek G
   z     z           +.             for the runo U. Here again we aro
                                   familiar with tho forms guard and
   2 1 z             r             ward, guerre and war.
   _1 1              L.                 Tho earliest pieces of English
         —           —              literature in existence are the inscrip
   — 1                              tions on the shaft of a cross in the
   x 1 X             2C            churchyard of Bewcastle, nine miles
   O      < v        X              from Gilsland. It is 14\ feet high,
                                   and when the head was on it stood
   LL 1 LL                          17 feot high. It was erected in the
   LU | OL X                       year 670, as the inscriptions show, and
                                   besides the inscriptions now shown it
   a I A             z             bears tho names of Wulfhere, king of
   ^ i                             tho Mercians, his wife Eynesuitha,
         V x
  °A                               and her sister Kynburug.
   CD |                                 The sculptures on this cross in
                                   clear relief are so striking as works
   < 1 <             2L            of art that I have had a slide specially
    X                  z           prepared to show the figure of our
     w       z         <           Lord in the attitudo of benediction ; a
     _jU
     z
    La       /INOI     ANGL        figuro about 4 foet high, of marvollous
                                   dignity in its simplicity. Very diffi
                                   cult questions are raised on the art
side of this striking panel. For our runic purposes we note tho
inscription at the head, Kristlus Gessus, which shows that our Anglian
ancestors pronounced their consonants with special emphasis ; whereas

1899.]                on Runk and Ogam Characters, etc.                 1G7
the Britons probably followed the modorn Welsh rule, " pronounce
the vowels."
      I show on slides and in full-size facsimilo diagrams portions of
the following Bewcastlo inscriptions :—
      (1) " Fruman gear kuninges ricass thases Ecgfrithu."
      (2) "This sigbekn thun setton Hwretred Wothgar Olwfwolthu
oft Alcfrithu ean klining eac Oswiung. Gebid heo sinna sowhula."
      (1) "The first year of Ecgfrith king of this realm."
      (2) " This slender token of victory HwtBtred Wothgar and Olwlf-
wolthn set up in memory of Alchfrith formerly king and son of
Oswy. Pray for the high sin of his soul."
      There is a similar shaft, rather longer, at Ruthwoll, in Dumfries
shire, which was under Anglian domination during Ecgfrith's reign
 down to his death, in 685, when it passed away. No later period can
 be mentioned at which a great religious poem in early Anglo-Saxon
 conld have been incised in early Anglian runes on a cross in that
 district. Parts of the shaft, especially the upper part which is
 socketed into the lower and may be a little earlier in character, arc
 defaced, bat most part of the lengthy inscription can be road with
 case. It is tho original poem which was afterwards dovelopod into
 the Dream of the Holy Hood, a poem of more than 300 lines found
  iu a manuscript of the ninth century at Vercelli. Tho Cross of
  Christ itself is made to speak and describe its agony in the part it
  had to play.
       The portions of this great shaft which I show on slidos and in
  facsimile diagrams contain the runes of tho four following passages
  of the Dream of the Hood :—
       (1) "(On)geredas hinas God almoottig tho he walde on galgu
  gestige
       (2) " Krist was on rodi hwethras ther fusoe foarran kwomu
   eththilae ti lanum ic thast al bi(bea)ld s(are) ic wass mith sorgum
   gidne(fe)d              "
        (3) "(Ahof) ic riicnas ciininge heafunos hlafard hfelda ic (n)i
   darstje bismaenedu ungcet men ba ajtgadre              "
        (4) "Mith strolum giwundad alegdun hire hin» limweerigno
   gistoddun him ast h(is) (1) icres heaf(du)m bihealdun bias ther. . . ."
        (1) " Girded him God Almighty then he would step on tho
   gallows ..."
         (2) " Christ was on the Cross, but there in hasto from far camo
    they to their noble prince. All this I saw, sorely was I with sorrows
    harrowed . . . ."
         (3) " I upraised the rich king the Lord of heaven. I dared not
    stoop, they scorned us both together . . . . "
         (i) " With missiles wounded they laid him down limb-weary,
     stood by his head, there they looked upon                "
          Fig. 2 shows the inscriptions (2) and (4) ; (-2) begins at tho top
     and reads across the top and down the right side ; (4) begins at the
     top of tho left side and reads down that side. Tho figure is taken
      from my book on ' Theodore and Wilfrith ' (S.P.C.K.), p. 247.

168                    Hie Bishop of Bristol               [1 ay 19,
    The runes are on two sides of the shaft. On tho other si les arc
panels representing scenes from tho New Testament and on 3 from
early Church History. They aro surrounded by inscriptions chiefly
                                         tATTVUT NWA
                    w
     I.ll           HI
                                                              <
                                        1^1
                    n
                                        l-n
    fix             M
    ir              HI                                          jo
    nt
   HFH                                 3?
                     ,Ht
                                       t=3
  M
                                                                I
                                      I—I
  til
                                                                S
                     MM
                                          OTTISM1B5H5
  fid
                        l
 in                                                              m
                      IN
  it
            Pio. 2.                          Fw. 3.
from tho Vulgate, in beautifully cut Latin capitals of great pal.-eo-
graphical value. As an illustration, I show tho complete inscription
which surrounds the scene of the woman wiping tho Lord's feet with

                  an Runic and Ogam Characters, ate.                 169
the hair of her head. Attulit alahastrum unguenti                capillis
capitis sui tergehat. Fig. 3 shows this inscription and parts of tho
one below ; the L in alahastrum has lost or never had the horizontal
stroke. The figure is taken from ' Theodore and Wilfrith,' p. 240.
    The runic stone shown next was found a few years ago in tho
Wirral. It must be regarded as having an error in the inscription.
Errors did occur, even in those careful times. Even on the Ruthwell
cross a letter was cut as E instead of U, and a bold stroke of tho
chisel corrected it, but left the correction evident. On one of tho
pillow-stones found under the heads of the early Anglo-Saxon nuns
in the cemetery at Hartlepool, the rune-cutter omitted a letter, and
cut Hilddiyth instead of Hilddigyth ; he remediod this by drilling a
hole between the i and the y, and above the line he cut a g. This is
shown on a slide. The error in the Wirral stone seems to be due to a
confusion of the two words for " in memory of," fore and aefler. It is
said, also, that there is a very irregular plural for folk. The inscrip
tion was in two lines, thus :
                   " Folk* arardon bek [un . . .
                     [geb]iddath fote 2Ethelmun[d . . "
                  " The people erected a memorial . . .
                    Pray for ^thelmund."
     There are at Thornhill, near Dewsbury, three pretty little runic
 tombstones, with interlacing patterns in the upper part and the runes
below. The longest of the three inscriptions is thus :—" Gilsuith
araerdo aft Berhtsuithe bekun at bergi gebiddath thaer saule,"
 " Gilsuith erected in memory of Berhtsuith a memorial at the grave-
 mound. Pray for the soul." Thus in three cases we have tho word
 beka or bekun for a memorial : it means " that which beckons to us,
gives us a sign, reminds us." Another slide shows the whole of tho
 Kunic inscriptions on the Bewcastle and Ruthwell shafts, about 530
runes in all, 180 at Bewcastle and 350 at Ruthwell : but there were
 many more on the Buthwell cross, now no longer legible. The re
 maining inscriptions in Anglian runes now known in England give
 about 100 runes. The only rones in the southern part of England
 are the 8 letters of a name at Dover, and 8 at Sandwich. Thcio are
 about a dozen letters of Anglian runes in Wigtonshire, at Whithorn
 and in St. Ninian's cave.
     Of runes Scandinavian in character, we have in England two
 examples in Cumberland (now practically ascertained to bo forgeries
 of about the middle of the present century), and one in London. Tho
 runic head-stone now in the Guildhall Museum in London, shown on
 a slide, was found some twenty feet below the surface in St. Paul's
  Churchyard during tho excavations for Messrs. Cook's warehouses.
  There is an excellent cast of it in Messrs. Cook's counting-house, and
  another in tho library at St. Paul's. Tho front of tho stone has a bold
  and intensely Scandinavian representation of tho ancient Persiuu
  ornament, the antelope looking over his shoulder at the sun rising

170                       Tlte Bishop of Bristol                [May 19,
among the trees. On the odgo the inscription is found, in Scandi
navian runes beautifully cut, Kona let lekia stin thensi auk Tuki,
" Kona and Tuki caused lay this stone." Tuki was the minister of
King Canute. The body stone bore on its edges the name of the
deceased ; portions of this stone are in the British Museum.
    These runes have not digressed so widely from the Anglian type
as is the case with the runes in the Isle of Mann (Fig. 4), where
are about as many runic inscriptions as in England. At Kirk Braddan
there are no less than five in the churchyard. I select (Fig. 5) the
inscription which occupies ono edge of the shaft whose other sides
are covered with skilfully designed dragons. The runes run thns :
 Thurlabr Neaki risti krus thono aft Fiak sun sin bruthwr sun Eabrs,
"Thurlabr Neaki erectod this cross in memory of Fiak his son,
Eabr's nephew," probably but not cortainly meaning that Thurlabr
was nephew to Eabr or Eab.
                 A B K E F H I L M N 0 R s T U
   Anolian r t s M Y N 1 Is N                          R h t ft
                     A y t         +        T I \         i
                                                              \
                                  Fio. i.
    Kirkmichaol is still more rich in runes ; there are six in and near
the churchyard. I select (Fig. 6) the groat cross which stands on a
pedestal of several courses outside tho gate. The ornamcutation is
curious, having something in common with tho Pictish stones of
tho east of Scotland. The inscription is Iualfir sunr Thurulfs kins
rautha risti krus thono aft Frithu muthur sino, " Iualfir son of Tborolf
the Red erected this cross in memory of Fritha his mother." Another
of the Kirkmichaol Eunic inscriptions is tho most interesting on the
island (Fig. 7). The cross is cut in relief on an erect fiat tombstone,
as is usual in Mann and in Scotland, and has the specially Manx
pattern, which is so near akin to patterns on tesselated pavements,
and is so very seldom seen on sculptured stones out of Mann. Tho in
scription runs up the front of tho slab, on one side of the cross :—
Mail Brikti sunr Athalcans Smith raisii krus thano fur salu sina sin
brukuin kaut kirthi thano auk ala i Maun, " Macl Brikti, son of Athakan,
Smith, erected this cross for his soul. His — Gaut carved this and
all in Mann." The moaning of brukuin is uncertain ; surety, tenant,
friend, kinsman, and other interpretations, have been assigned to
tho word. Gaut was clearly a great sculptor of crosses or incisor
of runes. Ho had wrought all that up to that time had been
wrought in Mann. Whero he learnod his art is a difficult question,
if tho sculpture of the whole cross is meant, less difficult if thn
nines only are meant. One ingenious writer romarks acutely that
the statement cannot be true that Gaut carved all the crosses in
Mann, for somo of them nro much later than his timo.

1899.]              on Runic and Ogam Characters, etc.                 171
    The origin of the Ogam symbols (Fig. 8)—for letters they cannot
be called—is lost in an obscure past. In this respect they aro in a
position very different from that of Rnnes, where the only question
is from which of two closely related classes of alphabet .the actual
Runic letters are derived ; that is, tho early Italian form or tho early
                                     Fio. 5.
  Greek form of tho Phoenician alphabet. It is usual to say of tho
  Ogams that they have evidently been invented for tho sake of easo in
  cutting upon wood or stone. That view can scarcely be maintained
  in face of the facts that the letter i, which in the alphabets connected
  with the Phoenician is as simple as a letter can be, is in the Ogam
  script one of the four most laborious symbols, tho three which share

172      The Bishop of Brutal [M.y 19,
    Via. C.

  1899.J     on Runic and Ogam Characters, etc.
 with it this distinction being n, q, and r, these
 four letters being as often used in Ogam inscrip
 tions as any other four letters which can be
named ; and that the letter ft, which is not in-
contestably present in any one of the largo
number of Ogam inscriptions known to tho pub
lic as in existence at the present time, and is
at least excessively rare, is one of the four least
laborious of the Ogam symbols, the three which
share with it this distinction being a, b, and m,
b being of rare occurrence as compared with any
one of the four heaviest symbols. Without
making any assumption as to the language for
which tho Ogam symbols wero originally used,
it is fairly safe to say that in no known lan
guage is the relative frequency of occurrence of
the several letters such that it should be mado
five tinies as easy to cut the four letters a, b,
A, m, as to cut the four j, n, g, r. In the Gaelic
languages, while still in an inflection^ stage,
for which we find the ogams actually used, the
relative frequency points rather the other way,
if anything.
     That the Runes reached the state of develop
 ment in which wo find them in the earlier
 periods, by means of alterations in the rounded
 and curved and horizontal lines of letters, with
 a view to making them easy to cut on wood
 with a marked grain, may be taken as certain.
 The result accounts for and justifies the change.
  But convenience of cutting has not been the ori
  ginal cause of the assignment of Ogam symbols.
     I shall not enter upon the question, what is
 the reason for the order of the Ogams. It is in
 fact, so I am assured, the actual order of the
 Irish alphabet. If this be so, the connection
 is of course certain ; but which gave to the other
 this order, and where the one which gave it to
 the other got it from, are pertinent questions.
 On the latter question, where the order ori
 ginally came from, I have—as I have said—no
 intention of entering. The performances of the
 champions in that field are not an encourage
 ment to others. This much is certain ; it is not
 an order which grew up unawares, nor is it an
 order which came from tho Semitic alphabet,
 or from any other known primitive alphabet
 in any part of the world. No early alphabet

 174                       The Bklwp of Bristol                    [May 19,
 would put all the vowels together. That has certainly been the
 work of men who had studied language and the means of expres
 sing articulate sounds. Why, we may ask, should men who cer
 tainly must have been—I mean no. play on the words^—men of
 letters, so far as in those early times any man not of the two great
 nations of civilisation were, have devised an exceedingly cumbrous
 manner of writing the language and representing the letters of which
 they had at least some scientific knowledge ? To say that it was for
 convenience of cutting on stone or wood is—as I have pointed out—
 to disregard the facts ; that is to say, a very much more convenient
 arrangement of the system of notches could have been made. I do
 not at all mean to imply that thoso who speak of convenience of
 cutting suggest that the idea of rapid work was present to the minds
 of those who devised the Ogam. The world was young then, and
 people were not striking for so much an hour. But I think the
 principle of least effort may be taken as having guided, on the whole,
 the general conduct of men at all times, to their knowledge or not
to their knowledge, and the principle of least effort was not present
as the fairy godmother at the birth of the Ogam script.
     In connection with the runes and the relative labour of cutting
runes and ogams, I once took the trouble to count how many scores
you must cut to make the Anglian runes which correspond to the
20 ogam symbols. The result is curious. In each set of 5 letters
you must cut in ogam the sum of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 scores or notches. In
the first of these groups, 15 notches in ogam, 6, 1, f, s, n, in name, you
must cut 15 scores in runes, exactly the same numbor. For the second
group of 5 ogams, that is of 15 notches, you must cut 13 scores in
runes. For the third 15, you have no st in runes ; without it you
cut 14 notches in runes, and with it you cut 15 in ogam. For the
last group, 16 in rune and 15 in ogam. That is, it costs you 60
notches to cut tho ogam bethluisnion straight through, and 58 to out
the corresponding runes less st, or 56 in ogam and 58 in rune omitting
st in ogam. Of course this is the merest coincidence, but it has its
bearing on the question of least effort expended on the whole alphabet,
as contrasted with the question of least effort in individual letters.
If we make a distinction between long notches and short ones, the
runes take much less effort to cut, for 31 of the 58 notches are short.
In the ogam only tho vowels are short ; and as the m group are all of
them more than twice the ordinary length, tho shortness of the vowels
is moro than compensated for. Indeed, if you take an ogam score for
& of 3 inches in length as your normal length for ogams and runes
alike, you will have to cut 216 inches of notch and 15 dots to make
your ogams, and about 97 inches of notch to make the corresponding
runes. The fact that he had carefully to fit together the various
notches which form a rune would probably be more trying to an early
stone-cutter than a much greater length of straight cutting in ogam
would have been.
    I am driven to believe, either that the ogam was invented of sot

1899.]            on Runic and Ogam Characters, etc.                  175
purpose as a cryptic alphabet, a set of symbols to be used on wood or
on stone instead of letters, on a system known only to a few, or that
the ogam was copied directly from some method of notation in which
it was just as easy to mark five as to mark one. The two, as you will
see, are not inconsistent, and the ogam may have come from some
cryptic system of notation in which it was about equally easy to mark
one, two, and up to five.
     Now the tradition is—though no ogams have been found which
belong to the earlier stages of which the tradition tells—that there
were originally only 10 ogams ; that they were then increased to
12 ; then to 16 ; and finally to 20. That is to say, beginning with
2 sets of 5 ogams, people went on to 3 sets of 4, then to 4 sets of 4,
and at last to 4 sets of 5. And it is said that at one change of this
kind the man who guided the change ordered that the ogam should no
longer be a secret. What can bo the explanation of the ringing of
the changes on 4 and 5, with apparently no extra difficulty of treat
ment ? And what hint can the story of tho ogam ceasing to be secret
havo for us ?
     My theory is this, that the ogams are mere copies of signs mado
with the fingers of one hand or the other, and that when the ogams
were in groups of 4, with 1, 2, 3, 4 notches for signs, tho fingers only
of each hand were used ; when they were in groups of 5, with 1, 2,
3, 4, 5 notches for signs, the thumb of each hand was used as well as
the fingers.
     The ogams which we are accustomed to see, or which I hope my
sheets of illustrations are accustoming you to see, run along on a
long line without discontinuity. But of course each could be made
separately for practical purposes. We may suppose that the
original operator held up his left hand and applied the point of one
finger at right angles for one letter, two fingers for two letters, and
so on up to five. Now it really makes no difference, so far as trouble
goes, whether you hold out five fingers or one. Then the operator
held up his right hand, and applied one, two, . . fingers of his left
hand. This accounts for ten letters. Then one finger, two, and so
on, laid diagonally across the palm of the other hand, will give you
five more. Finally, to apply the point of one finger, two, and so on,
to the palm of the left hand, will give you the dots for the vowels ;
or laid from the middle to the side of the palm, that is, short notches.
Conceivably, the knuckles of the clenched fist were touched for vowels.
The diphthongs are easy to make with the fingers. There is a curious
hint of fingers in the cross-line diphthongs, especially in the fact that
there are crosses of one finger each, two fingers each, and four fingers
each, none of three. The well-known difficulty of bringing up the
third finger without the help of the second or fourth, seems an almost
conclusive explanation of this phenomenon.
     My guess is that these finger-signs were used for incantation, or
for cryptic purposes, and that they wore for long unknown except to
a few of tho initiated. They may well have come down from cx

176                        Tlic Bishop of Bristol                [May 19,
ceedingly early times, the times of Caesar's Druids, for instance, and
earlier. I cannot at all think that they are a mere literary invention
of Christian times. Passing through many stages they arrived at
length at the development in which we know them. Christianity
rendered their use for cryptic purposes no longer applicable. The
time for medicine-men had gone by. The abolition of the Druids
abolished the impiousness of writing down any Druid secret. The
ogams were then, for the first time, used for sepulchral purposes, just
at their fullest development, and just at the time of transition in
religious beliefs, among the people who occupied the limited districts
where the survivors of thoso who had cryptically used them dwelt ;
and in a very short time their use passed away for ever. The know
ledge of the key did not die out, and wo have a few examples in
Scotland probably quito as late as some of even the later runes.
    You will of course have noticed that while our present finger
alphabot for the deaf and dumb, which was only invented about 150
years ago, reproduces as far as fingers can the shapes of the letters,
so that anyone looking on can see what several of the letters are, the
ogam entirely avoids that, and is quite inscrutable if you do not know
the key.
    In cutting the ogams on stone, one edge of the stone, or a pro
minent ridge on the stone, was taken as the dividing line. In the
following illustrations, which are taken by photography from my
facsimile rubbings of the stones, the edge is not shown ; it is usually
irregular, the inscriptions being cut on a rude pillar-stone.
    Fig. 9 shows the inscription on a stone now in the Queen's College
at Cork. The ogams are read from the bottom upwards, and they pass
round the top and down the other side. The inscription seems to be
of comparatively late date, judging by its grammatical form. It has
after the first four letters a symbol in form of X, and to this Mr. Brash
assigns the function of dividing two parts of the inscription. But
such division is unknown elsewhere, and has in this case no meaning,
indeed it destroys meaning. The symbol X is given in the Book of
Ballymote as representing the consonant ea, and there seems no doubt
that on this stone it stands for that or somo other letter or combina
tion of letters.
    The stone has been damaged at one end of the inscription since it
was first found at Tinnahally farm, in the parish of Kilorglin. The
journey of 70 miles on rough roads from Kilorglin to Cork may well
have obscured the earlier letters, which were quite clear when it was
found. They are fairly clear still. I read it anm teagann mac
deglenn.
    The usual form of the inscriptions in ogam characters is " A son
of B." The words are all in the genitive, tho word " tho stone," or
" the memorial," or " the grave," or possibly " the body," being
understood :—" tho monument of A son of B."
    This inscription has Mac, instead of 'the old genitive Maqi.
This looks as if anm were a verb, with some such sense as rcquiescat,

 1899 ]              on Runic and Ogam Characters, etc.               177
 or hicjacet. The anm is at present a puzzle, but a puzzle that no
 doubt will soon be conclusively solved. On the companion stone to
 this, which I describe next, it is a worse puzzle, appearing in the form
ancm. I show in illustration of this word, slides from my rubbings
of two stones at Lismore, with minuscule inscriptions (Fig. 10),
bendacht for anm Marfan, " a blessing for the repose (or for the soul)
of Martin," and (Fig. 11) bendacht for anmain Colgen, "a prayer for
the repose (or soul) of Colgan." In both of these cases the word
might well be understood as an adaptation of the Latin anima, the
soul, as bendacht for benedictio ; but that use would give us no help
             Fio. 9.                               Via. 11.
in the mac deglenn case, where " the soul " must have been followed
by the genitive maqi. It has been suggested that anm may bo taken
either as a verb or as a substantive, so that we might read " may
Teagann mac Ueglann ret>t," and in the next case [" a prayer for]
the repose of Farran."
     But it seems to me that these are relatively late ideap. The
Lismore inscriptions which I have shown in illustration of the word
anm or anmain are later than the dates assignable to Ogam in
scriptions. The Colgan (irrog. genitive Colgen) named in the earlier
of the two was an eminent ecclesiastic who died at Lismore in the
     Vol. XVI. (No. 93.)                                        n

178                      The Bishop of Bristol                  [May 19,
year 850. Martin (genitive Martan) is probably Martin ua Roichlich,
Abbat of Lismore, who according to the Four Masters died in 878.
    The other Tinnahally stone (Fig. 12) is also in the cloister at tho
Queen's College, Cork. It, like its companion, is 7 feet 6 inches high,
but it is less bulky, and the inscription is less clear.' It has on it, in
my judgment, traces of another ogam inscription, which tend to con
fuse the inscription we are now considering. I am not quite sure
that the puzzling and feeble c which thrusts itself in among the
digits forming the anm may not be part of such other inscription, just
            Fra. 12.                              Fio. 13.
 so far showing itself that the author of tho inscription was obliged to
 leave it as a gap between his n and m.
     I read the scores thus :—an(c)m furuddran maqi culigeinn " [a
 prayer for the] repose (or the soul) of Farran, son of Colgen." The
 name Furuddran is found in an Ogam inscription at Gortamaccaree
 in the same county of Kerry, in tho form Faradran and Furadhran.
 The destructive effect of the letter h upon consonants which precede
 it in Irish words reduces this to Furaran and Farran. There are
 plenty of names similar to Culigonn ; for instance, Cooligan.

  1899.]               on Runic and Ogam Characters, etc.                  179
      Sir 8. Ferguson reads anmc instead of ancm, but his account
  makes me think that he had not really examined the stone and that
  he accidentally transposed the c and the m ; certainly my own per
 sonal inspection pnts the c before the m. Further, he reads doligeinn
 where I read culigeinn, and ho translates maqi do ligeinn as ' son of
  reading,' i.e. scholar, or learned man. This would be a stretch of
  imagination far beyond the reach of the ogam cutters. Mr. Brash reads
  culig . . . .enn ; I, like Sir S. Ferguson, felt fairly clear that there are
 nine vowel dots, divided into four and five, that is, e i.
      In the Museum of the Science and Art Department in Dublin,
 among the collections of the Royal Irish Academy, is a stone (Fig. 13)
 from a rude ancient clochan at Gortnagullanagh, co. Kerry. It
 has two inscriptions on the two edges of the same face, both to bo
 read the same way ; probably both visible to persons entering the
 clochan. The stone is about 4 feet 6 inches long, and 11 inches
 broad. It has a Latin cross 8 inches by 6 inches, inscribed on tho
 face.
     One of the inscriptions is very clear. It reads, as all agree,
 maqqi decedda. The other is in most of its letters clear ; all agreo
 that it was maqqi caluf, except that Sir S. Ferguson prints cattuf,
 no doubt by accidental confusion with a stone at Corkaboy. The
 remaining scores I think read id or perhaps ice ; Mr. Brash reads
 them ucuc ; Sir S. Ferguson, ic. My reading gives either 14 or
 13 scores ; Mr. Brash's gives 14 ; Sir S. Ferguson's 9. I inclino to
 Catuficc, for at Corkaboy in this same county there is an Ogam stone
 which I have not seen, where Mr. Brash and Sir ^. Ferguson agree in
 reading Caltuffiq maqi Ritte. Mr. Brash, reading maqqi Caluf uc tic,
translates 'son of Catuf, alas, alas.' But that translation is out of
the question.
     In each of these cases the inscription would seem to be incomplete,
the name of the person not being given, only the name of his father
 or some descriptive word standing in the place of a father's name or
the name of a race. But there are curious evidences which go to
show that the Ogam inscriptions are in Ireland usually—it is said
almost or quite always—found in proximity to cilleens, said to be the
remains of pagan cemeteries, used afterwards for the burial of nnbap-
tised children. It is quite conceivable that an Ogam inscription
should name the race or family whose general burial place it was,
and not name any particular member of the race. We speak of " the
Percy vault " in Westminster Abbey, and we are familiar with tho
appearance of a family name on a stone in the floor of a church indi
cating the entrance to a burial place. There is nothing distinctively
Christian in this practice.
     The inscription Maqqi Decedda has very wide relations. The
Clan Degadi or Degaid was a famous clan in very early times ; and
though other explanations are given, it may probably be taken that
the numerous inscriptions with this name in one form or another
have to do with members of this clan. In that case the maqqi is
                                                                  n 2

180                         27te Bishop of Bristol              [May 19,
used in its general sense for " of the race of," not in its limited sense
for " son of." I do not remember any Ogam inscription which uses
the better known formula for "of the race of," Ua or 0', i.e. " grand
son of." As far as I have been able to see, the difference in principle
between the formation of a familv name from Mac and from the
more distant 0' would provide a very interesting subject of investiga
tion. It is probably not known to all English readers that O'Neill,
for instance, is properly only used as the name of a man ; an Irish
woman in an English hospital is addressed by an Irish physician as
Mary Nin Neill, in the feminine, not Mary O'Neill in the masculine.
Other examples of the patronymic Decedda are as follows : In
another Kerry inscription, maqi deccedda; at Dnnbel, Kilkenny,
maqi decqnedda; at Ballycrovane, co. Cork, maqi decce lda; at Bal-
lintaggart, co. Kerry, maqi deccedda ; at Killeen Cormac, maqi
ddecceda ; these are all in Ogam script : at Penrhos Lygwy, in Latin
characters, hie iacit maccu deceti ; and at Buckland Monachorum,
near Tavistock, Sarini fili macco decheti.
      The cross on this stone is, no doubt, a great deal later than the
ogams. The ogams on the two arrises aro both read the same way,
instead of up one side ami down the other. This is evidence that'
 they aro Wo separate inscriptions, not one continuous phrase ; and it
 suggests that the stime was originally in a horizontal position, per
haps as the lintel of a rude entrance to the pagan cilleen.
      Fortwilliatn, co. Kerry. Fig. 14 is a stone in the vestibule of
 the Library of Trinity College, Dublin. It is in excellent preserva
 tion, and the ogams are beautifully bold and regular and clear; and
 yet it presents considerable difficulties. The Irish antiquarians
 appear to be agreed about the readings, and my rubbing and exam
 ination falls in with their view, though 1 have felt it necessary to
 mark two of the scores with a query. The chief difficulties are (1)
 that it is not easy to distinguish vowels from consonants, whether
 by size or by relative position ; and (2) that there are rows of vowel
 scores without spaces to separato them into their proper numbers.
 My first score is quite as large as a consonant, and yet, with the
 Tinnahally examples before us, we seem compelled to take it as the
 vowel a. This gives anm fedlliostoi macui eddoini. The patronymic
  eddoini need not give us any trouble, it is probably the same as
  Aedan. The fedll, again, need not trouble us ; there are other names
  of this character, as Feidhlimidh, or Fedhlimidh, our Phelim. The
  oistoi, or iostoi, appears to be too much for the science of interpre
  tation. The only point on which I feel it possible in my ignorance
  to fasten is the group of four scores which is rendered st. There
  is no doubt that the Book of Ballymote assigns to it this value of st,
  though, so far as I know, it has not been found on any ogam stone.
  Considering the recognised fact that care was not taken by the author
  of this inscription to separate his lines of dots into their proper
  groups, I venture to suggest that we should read these four scores as
  two groups of two scores ; that is, as gg, not with the usual pronun

 1899.]            on Runic and Ogam Characters, etc.             181
ciation ng, which in the Book of Ballymote is represented by three
scores, but as a hard double g. We shall then have, as the name of
the person buried, Fedlliogg, a name akin to Volioo, which in one
form and another we find in very early times.
                                                         Fid. 15.
     Knockourane, co. Cork (Cnoc-oran, the Hill of Song). This stone
  (Fig. 15) was bought by the late Mr. Windele, who intended to have

182                         The Bishop of Bristol               [May 19,
it used as his own grave-stone. It was not used for that purpose,
and it is now in the cloister at Queen's College, Cork. It is remark
able for a large Maltese cross cut on its face, all but interfering with
the ogam scores. Either the cross was cut first, and the ogam-
cutter turned the stone upside down and cut his ogam upwards ; or
the cross-cutter found an ogam stone and turned it upside down to
cut his cross at the top. In the case of the Llywell stone, as we shall
see, it is certain that either the cutter of the ogams or the cutter of
the human figures, whichever came last, turned his predecessor's
work upside down. I do not hesitate to make the ogam-cutter the
 predecessor of the other. The cutters of the Enockourane cross and
 the Llywell human figures probably had not the faintest idea of tho
 meaning of the ogams or of the direction in which they must be read.
     The reading as given by my rubbing is annaccanni maqi aill-
 uatt(ajn. I am inclined to think that there are signs of an Ogam
 score below the first a. The second nn is rather doubtful, and may
 be ss. The q is unusual, running past the arris and appearing on the
 face of the stone ; but the scores do not slant, and I do not see how
 we can read it as r, still less how Sir S. Ferguson can make it stand
 for both q and r. I have omitted the a in the last syllable of the
 third word, and Sir S. Ferguson omitted it ; there is, however, cer
 tainly a notch in the stone where the a ought to be if it ever wns
 there. Finally, the concluding scores slant decidedly, and the arris
 is not well-defined. I should not resist the reading r, though linguistic
 probabilities point to n. Sir S. Ferguson would seem not to have
 seen the stone itself ; but the rubbing supplied to him was clear
 enough to warn him of difficulties not present to the eye of Mr.
 Brash. Both names are well known. Hannagan is an Irish name
 still, and the form Aenagan appears in the Four Masters as late as
 the years 878, 893, 898. The other goes very far back ; the name of
 no less a person than the father of Ogma the sun-worshipper was
 Ealladan. Sir S. Ferguson read Aillittr, by adding a notch between
 the u and a ; but there is certainly no notch there now. He made
 Aillittr mean " tho pilgrim." It should be noted that a rubbing of
 this stone seems to show ogam scores where in fact no scores exist.
      The stone at St. Dogmael's Abbey (Fig. 16) near Cardigan, is of
 great interest. It was the first ogam stone found with an inscription in
 Latin letters : it is also bilingual. Before the discovery of this stone,
 it had been a matter of dispute whether the Book of Ballymote gave
 the correct key to the Ogam script, the letters of the Irish inscrip
 tions giving such curious words according to that key. It had, how
 ever, been aoutely argued, that inasmuch as a certain group of four
ogam scores occurred in so large a number of the inscriptions as to
be almost universal, this group of four probably represented tho word
" son," coming between the name of the dead man and the name of
his father ; further, that as the name was probably in the genitive,
the words " the monument," or " the memorial stone," or " the body,"
or " gravo," being understood, the word " son " would also be in the
genitive, and in tho early times tho gonitivc would be inflexioncd

1899.]             on Iiunic and Ogam Characters, etc.               183
and mac would become maqi or maqui, the qu being regarded as one
letter. This reasoning mado the inscriptions fall in so far with the
Ballymote key. The St. Dogmael's discovery clenched the matter.
Taking the four letters m, a, q, •', as ascertained before the discovery,
no less than eleven out of the twenty ogam scores found at St.
Dogmael's were already known. The test was at once applied ; the
                   Fiq. 16.                         Fia. 18.
 Latin letters agreed with the ogam scores ; and the theoretical reason
 ing was triumphantly proved to be correct. The only differences are
  that Sagrani in the Latin is Sagramni in the Ogam, and Cunotami is
  Cunatami. The interchange of a very broad o and a very broad a
  is exactly what we might have expected ; and inasmuch as the name
  Sagramn is almost of necessity pronounced Sagran, the other difference
  is iIuite natural. The Latin reads, Sagrani fili Cunotami ; the Ogams
  read, beyond all question, Sagramni Maqi Cunatami ; " the memorial
  of Sagramn, son of Cunatam." I think there can be at most very

184                      The Bishop of Bristol                  [May 19,
little question that the date is not far off that of the departure of
the Romans, and the style of the Latin letters is free from Welsh
and Irish influence.
     The Cilgerran stone (Fig. 17) had sunk in the soft ground of
the churchyard when I visited it. Some years before it had been
raised, and both of the inscriptions had been read in full. My slide
shows each of the two Latin lines cut off :—
                               Trenegussi f
                               Macutr
 and the Ogam appears to begin with sgus or egus. The full Latin
inscription is Trenegussi fili mactitreni hie iacit. It is usually said
 that this form of inscription, of which there are several in this island,
 is ungrammatical. I am not inclined to defend in all cases the
 grammar of the inhabitants of Wales, who could inscribe on a monu
 ment Carausius hie iacit in hoc congeries lapidum, or Veracius hie iacit
 cum mullitudinem fratrum, and could very seldom indeed rise to the
 use of iacet. But my impression is that we may render the Cilgerran
 and other like inscriptions as " the memorial of Trenegns son of
 Macutren ; he lies here." The full Ogam reads Trenegusu maqi Maqi-
 treni, " the memorial of Tronegus son of Macitren." The Latin " son
 of Macitren " seems to make it clear that the Ogam Maqitren is meant
 to be the patronymic, and that we are not to read it aa maqi maqi
  Trent, grandson of Tren. This opens up some very wide questions.
     Fig. 18, from the left-hand gate post of the lane leading to the
 farm of Cwm Gloyn on the high road from Cardigan to Nevern,
 need not keep us long. The Latin reads Vitaliani emerito, " the
 memorial of Vitalianus, emeritus," that is, we are told, a Roman
 soldier with an honourable discharge. The Ogam is only one word,
 Fitaliani, " the memorial of Vitalianus." This seems to show that the
 ogam cutter knew the second Latin word to be no part of the man's
 name. The correspondence of the Ogam / with the Latin r may
  remind us that there is supposed to be no v in modern Welsh, / being
 properly always used where v is meant, and ff being used when the
  sound of our / is wanted.
      We now come to two stones in the British Museum, from Fardell
 in Devonshire (Fig. 19), and Llywell in Brecon (Fig. 20). The
 Fardell stone and some very fine ogam stones from Ireland are
 in the room immediately on the left hand as you first enter the
 Museum ; the Llywell stone is on the first floor, near the head of
 the stairs.
      The Fardell stone has its ogams nobly cut. They are only
 much too clear, for they do not satisfy any ordinary experience or
 theory, except indeed, a theory of my own, which I will propound
 shortly. The Latin reads clearly enough Fanoni MaqtUrini. This
 ought to mean " the memorial of Fanon, son of Maquirin " ; it seems
 impossible to import a Gaelic maqui into the middle of a Latin
 inscription, and translate " the memorial of Fanon, son of Bin."
 But it is not quite inconceivable that both tho Latin letters and

1899.]          on Runic and Ogam Characters, etc.                185
the ogam scores represent a Gaelic inscription, and in that case
the maqui rini is properly taken as " son of Kin," or Run, the
latter a very well-known name.
    The ogams read only too clearly Sfaqquci Maqi Qici, and " the
memorial of Sfaqquc, son of Qic " does not take us into very intelli
gible regions.
                                                  FlO. 20.
    My theory is that we have here an ogam cutter who was only half
 familiar with the ogam scores, and if he did his best, his best was
 bad. The labour he expended on making the scores nobly clear had
 better have been spent on making them correct. The key to my sug
 gestion is found in a zigzag scratch which comes before the F in
 Fanoni, and must represent an S. It is practically the same letter as
 the S of Sagrani which is found on the back of this same stone. This

186                        The Bishop of Bristol                [May 19,
gives a curiously close agreement between the forms of the two in
scriptions, if we suppose the first n in Fanoni duplicated,
                        Sfannoni maqui Rini
                        Sfaqquoi maqi Qici,
and when we examine the differences, we find that they are chiefly
questions of one side or other of the arris. Thus if the ogam cutter
had put his two groups of five scores each on the other side of the
arris, we should have had Sfann in both scripts. In two other cases
he puts four scores on one side of the arris where the Latin script
requires five on the other side. If we can suppose that he made these
two mistakes of transplanting from one side to the other of the divid
ing edge, and in one case stopped five scores at the edge instead of
running them through, each repeated, we have
                        Latin, Sfanoni maqui Rini,
                        Ogam, Sfunnuni maqi Eini.
    It is clear that, phonetically, the difference between o and u is
almost nothing; and if the o in the Latin script on this stone is
examined, it will be seen to have a good deal more of a w than an o
in it. There is, perhaps, in the abstract a greater probability that
the cutter of the Latin letters mis-read some of the ogams, but the
names seem to point the other way. If my suggestion has anything
in it, this stone is of very great interest, as marking a parting of the
ways between the two scripts.
    The stone from Llywell, in Brecon, now in the British Museum,
has on one side a mass of curious sculpture, about which a good deal
might be said if this were the place to say it. On the back (Fig. 20)
there is a Latin cross, and it is here that the two inscriptions, in Latin
and Ogam script, are found. The Latin reads Vaccutreni Saligiduni,
" the memorial of Vaccutren, son of Saligidun," or, inasmuch as the
first letter is very near the end of the stone, and the A is joined on to
the V, it may well have been M, and then we should read Maccutren.
The Ogam settles the point in favour of M ; it reads Maqitreni
Salicidni, " the memorial of Maqitren (son of) Salicidn." It will be
remembered that on the stone at Cilgerran, about 45 miles from
Llywell as the crows fly, there is a memorial of " the son of Macutren."
     I should give a warning to any one who attempts to follow the
readings on this stone with Sir Samuel Ferguson's volume of Rhind
Lectures in his hand. The late Sir A. W. Franks told me that
 Sir S. Ferguson, a devoted observer and recorder of ogams, spent
 hours upon this stone ; but his notes were so far from clear that his
 account is most baffling. He remarks that the Latin inscription is
 Vaccutrenii Maqi Saligiduni. But the second i in the first word
 is only the limb of tho incised Latin cross, and not a letter of the
 Maqi is there at all. Sir Samuel clenches the error by remarking
 that this is the only example of a Latin Maqi ; and having read the
 limb of a cross as a second i at the end of Maccutreni, ho reads the
 Ogam as Maqitrenii, thus inserting a whole row of five scores which
 aro certainly not on the stone.

1899.]              on Runic and Ogam Characters, etc.                   187
    Tie easternmost of the English ogams, and from the place of its
discovery the most puzzling of all the ogams in these islands, was
found in a well at Silchester, incised on a Roman stone. It bears
the word which has up to this time baffled every one, mucoi. The
inscription is Ebicali maqi mucoi.
    In order not to omit any of our combined islands and parts of
islands from ogamio illustration, I show diagrams produced from
rubbings of stones in Mann and in Scotland.
    At Arbory, in Mann, we have Cunamagli maq . . .," the memorial
of Cunamgl, the son of . . ." The name is the same as the Irish
Conmal and Conmhal.
    On an irregular rounded stone at Arbory there is an Ogam
inscription which is evidently honest, but otherwise might have
been supposed to be a trick not very skilfully played. It reads
maqleogu, the u being shown, as I believe, by the tips of the three
short vowel strokes ; others had not noticed this when I was there.
The curious thing about it is, that Macleog, and its modern forms
(after the Manx fashion of dropping all but the last letter of Mac)
Cleaguc and Clague, are and have long been local names in Arbory
parish ; " Arbory " is " Kirk Cuirbre." The minuscule inscription at
Beckermet, in Cumberland, which has so long defied solution, has this
        Ballaqueeny,
yearAtbeen             also in Mann,
            read as Manx-Irish  : it is are
                                        the two
                                            epitaph
                                                Ogam   Juan son of of
                                                    of inscriptions    much
                                                                    Cairbre.
interest, on account of an unusual genitive found on each of them.
They are Dofaidona maqi droata and Bi/aidonas maqi mucoi Qunafa.
The proper names are Dofaidn, Bifaidn. The former of the two is
believed to mean " the memorial of Dofaidn, son of a Druid." If that
is so, it is the only existing mention of the Druids in the epigraphy
of these islands. It should be noted that Manx tradition and folk
lore attributes everything ancient to the Druids, so that Mann is the
most likely of all places to have some mention of that elusive class
of people.
    In Scotland I show the ogams and minuscules upon the famous
Newton stone (Insch, Aberdeenshire), on which volumes are written.
It is rather a disgrace to us all that the minuscules are not as yet
conclusively read. I do not propose to give any reading of either
inscription here.
    The ogams on a sculptured stone found at Scoonie, in Fife, of
which I show a complete facsimile, read Edarrnonn, a name which
would take us into very interesting questions if we were dealing with
ecclesiastical history.
    The sculptured stone at Aboyne, of which also I show a complete
facsimile, has a longer inscription, a good deal disputed. On my
outlined rubbing we may read on the left-hand line maqqoi talluorrh.
Talorc and Taluorc; in various forms, is a well-known Pictish name
in the lists of Pictish kings.

188                  Adjourned General Meeting.              May 22,
             ADJOURNED  Monday,  May 22, 1899.
                               GENERAL       MEETING,
His Grace The Duke of Nokthumbebland, K.G. F.S.A., President,
                             in the Chair.
    The following persons were unanimously elected Honorary
Members of the Royal Institution iu Commemoration of the Cen
tenary of the Foundation of the Royal Institution :—
          Dr. Emile Ador (of Geneva).
          Professor Joseph S. Ames (of Baltimore).
          Professor Svante Arrhenius, F OS. (of Stockholm).
          Professor George F. Barker (of Philadelphia).
          Professor Carl Barus, Ph.D. (of Providence, U.S.A.).
          Professor Henri Becquerel, Ph.D. (of Paris).
          Dr. L. Bleekrode (of The Hague).
          Professor Giacomo Luigi Ciamician (of Bologna).
          Professor Nicolas Fgorof (of St. Petei sburg).
          Professor Antoine Paul Nicolas Franchimont, Ph.D. F.C.S.
              (of Leiden).
          Professor Armand Emile Gautier (of Parish.
          Professor Heinrich Gustav Kayser, Ph.D. (of Bonn).
          Professor Wilhelm Korner, F.C.S. (of Milan).
          Mr. Samuel Pierpoint Langley, F.R.S. (of Washington).
          Dr. Oscar Liebreich
          Professor            (of Berlin).Van der Mensbrugghe (of
                      Gustave Leonard
              Ghent).
          Professor Albert A. Miohelson (of Chicago).
          Professor Henri Moissan, F.C.S. (of Paris).
          Professor Raffaelo Nasini (of Padna).
          Professor Walther Nernst (of Gottingen).
          Professor Wilhelm Ostwald (of Leipzig).
          Mr. Ernest Solvay (of Brussels).
          Professor Robert H. Thurston (of Ithaca).
          Professor Emilio Villari (of Naples).
          Professor Jules Louis Violle (of Paris).
          Dr. William L. Wilson (of Washington).

1899.]           Climbs and Explorations in the Andes.             189
                 WEEKLY       EVENING
                         Friday,            MEETING,
                                  May 26, 1899.
  The Rioht Hon. The Eabl of Halsbcbt, M.A. D.C.L. F.R.S.,
               Lord Chancellor, Manager, in the Chair.
                  Sib William Mabtin Conway, M.A.
                Climbs and Explorations in the Andes.
                                [Abstract ]
The object of my journey to South America, made iu the latter part
of 1898, was to investigate the physical geography of the Cordillera
Heal in Bolivia. I was accompanied by two Alpine guides, Antoine
Maquignaz and Louis Pellissier. The Cordillera Real is a snowy
range eighty miles in length, culminating at its north end in Mount
Sorata and at the south in Illimani. It is not a volcanic range, nor
were any signs of volcanic action mot with at any part of its main
axis. It consists principally of a core of crystalline rock, Qatikod to
the westward by Silurian deposits and further out by Red Sandstones
and Conglomerates, rising in low hills out of the plateau which
stretches all aloDg the foot of the range at an altitude of between
 12,000 and 13,000 feet above the sea. This plateau was formerly
the bed of a large inland sea, of which there only now remains the
 relatively small portion known as Lake Titicaca.
     The two great peaks, Illimani and Sorata, were ascended, Illimani
 to its highest point, Sorata to within a couple of hundred feet or so
 from the top. At both ends the range is cut through by river valleys
 which drain to the eastward. That to the south is the valley of the
 La Paz River, which, rising ou the slope of Mount Cacaaca, tho
 midmost peak of the range, flows first to the south-east along
 the range, and then cuts right acn ss it and flows into the River Beni,
 a tributary of the Amazon. To the north the sources of the Mapiri
 River lie actually at tho foot of Mount Sorata, and some of the snow-
 slopes, belonging properly to the western face of the mountain, drain
  into it. But the actual cutting through of the range is not here
  complete. There still remains a low ridge, about 2000 feet higher
  than Lake Titicaca, which is not entirely cut through, though the
  eating-back process is going forward very rapidly, and tho day is not
  far distant from a geologist's point of view when Lake Titicaca must
  be drained by this river.
      The eastern face of the rango was not visited on this journey.
  On the west the line of great mountains is flanked by vast slopes of
  debris, and here the signs of former glacial extension are easily

 190                  Sir William Martin Conway                  [May 26,
 perceived. At one time, when the waters of the inland sea washed
 the foot of this side of the mountains, the glaciers probably descended
 into it ; and, even since the drying up of this ancient sea, the glaciers
 have descended several miles further down than they now do. The
 high plateau is bordered to the west by an irregular range of peaks,
 chiefly of volcanic origin.
     During the course of the expedition the main range was triangu
lated, and a sketch survey was made of the western slopes and of the
peaks lying between Sorata and Illitnani. The northern half of the
Cordillera Ileal—the portion, that is to say, which lies between Mounts
Sorata and Cacaaca—consists of a series of lofty snow mountains,
many of them of very pointed form, which stand one beside another
in close proximity, so that the passes over this part of the range
seldom sink below the level of perpetual snow. South of Cacaaca
the character of the range is different ; the mountains are less pre
cipitous in form and there are wide openings between them, dropping
to levels little above that of the plateau. The mountains them
selves are uninhabited, but the plateau bears a relatively dense
population of Aymara Indians, whilst in the two towns of La Paz
and Sorata the white population is considerable. La Paz is the
commercial capital of Bolivia ; Sorata occupies an important position
on the main route leading from the plateau to the rich valleys and
india-rubber forests to the eastward. This route is of great antiquity,
for in the days of the Incas, and possibly long before them, the gold-
bearing character of the river gravels in the valleys descending to
the north-east and east from Mount Sorata was known to the natives.
     Besides the collection of rock specimens made throughout the
range, which are being examined by Professor Bonney, small collec
tions were likewise made of the high-level plants, insects and birds,
which have been sent to Kew and the British Museum respectively.
The only animals found at relatively high levels were bizcachas,
mountain deer and a few vicunas. The flora of the high levels is
very sparse at the time when tho mountains are accessible to a
traveller, though probably after the rainy season has set in there is
a greater floral wealth than was observed by our expedition.
     Bolivia is known to bo a country rich in mineral deposits, but few
signs of mineral wealth were observed at very high altitudes. It is
not in the heart but on the flanks of the range that the chief mineral
deposits have been discovered. Gold is found chiefly in the valleys
running eastward from Mount Sorata, and in the La Paz valley and
its branches. Important deposits of tin are known near Cacaaca ;
cobalt and antimony are likewise found in the same neighbourhood,
but I do not think that any copper has been discovered actually in
the Cordillera Heal. The chief copper mines are those about Coro-
coro, whilst along the route from La I'az to Antofagasta there is
immense and largely undeveloped mineral wealth of all kinds.
    On leaving Bolivia, a brief visit was paid to the great mountain,
Aconcagua, near the Chilian-Argentine frontier, and one of its

1899.]         on Climbs and Explorations in the Andes.            191
culminating points was climbed. It was ascended and thoroughly
explored by the FitzGerald expedition in 1897. The only observa
tions of any original importance there made by my expedition
were in respect to a peculiar formation of snow locally known as
Nieves Penitentes. Nieves Penitentes are named from a supposed
resemblance to a crowd of white-robed penitents. They are an
assemblage of cones of snow, or rather they would better be de
scribed as a field of snow whose surface consists of a multitude of
cones in close proximity to one another, and varying in height from
a few inches to a few feet, though at any moment the cones near
together will probably all be of about the same height. It has been
usual to ascribe the formation of this many-coned surface to the
action of violent winds, which are conceived of as causing the snow
to eddy and whisk about and thus build itself up into these peculiar
spires. Such, however, in my opinion, is not the true explanation.
To begin with, if winds were the cause, this conical formation of
snow surface should be found in windy places such as Greenland and
Spitsbergen, where, on the contrary, this form of surface is unknown.
It has never been noticed in the Alps or the Caucasus, nor, as far as
I know, in the northern regions of the Himalayas, but it is found in
Mexico and in other parts of the Andes. The cones at the beginning
of the warm season are very small ; as the year advances they in
crease in size, by the deepening of the hollows between them, till
they become eight feet or more in height. They are, in fact,
formed by some process of melting, not by any process of building
up. They never consist of new snow. A careful examination of
them at many points about Aconcagua revealed the fact that they
are not of circular but elliptical section, and that they do not
stand vertically, but bend over towards the north. The major axis of
the ellipse was in every case more or less east and west, sometimes
with one end or the other brought around somewhat to the north in
cases where the site was sheltered by some neighbouring eminence
either from the morning or evening sun. A field of newly fallen
snow may be regarded as having a flat surface, but the accidents of
its structure will in process of melting soon cause inequalities to
arise. These inequalities naturally take the form of pits and lumps,
and when the sun is very nearly vertical at mid-day, it naturally pro
duces more melting in the bottoms of the hollows than it does on the
slopes leading down to them. These hollows once formed tend to
deepen by melting, and the deeper they become, and the steeper the
sides, so much tho more does the deepening tendency increase. The
 originally round summits are sharpened by a similar process. The
sun, always remaining to the north of the zenith at mid-day, causes
the hollows to have a northward tilt. When the hollows have been
 so deepened and widened that they ultimately run into one another,
 there remains standing between them a series of cones, and these are
the Nieves Penitentes of the Andes. Sometimes, where the snow bed
 is only a few feet deep, the hollows will be melted down to the sur

192                   General Monthly Meeting.               [June 5,
face of the ground beneath, and then the cones may be observed
standing upon the stony bed like so many pawns on a chessboard.
It is needless to observe that when these Penitentes are several feet
high they form no slight impediment to the advance of a traveller.
Mr. Vines on Tupnngato had to climb over 2000 feet of them.
    After leaving the Aconcagua region the journey was continuod by
sea down the secluded and tempestuous Smyth's Channel, and a brief
visit was paid to the snowy mountains of Tierra del Ftiego. The
ascent of Mount Sarmiento was accomplished to the foot of the final
crags, but a violent storm then necessitated a hasty retreat. The
glaciers of this southermost region present many analogies with
those of Spitsbergen and other places in high latitudes.
                GENERAL       MONTHLY
                         Monday,             MEETING,
                                   June 5, 1899.
His Grace The Duke of Nobthumbebland, K.G. F.S.A., President,
                              in the Chair.
           Sir Edward Courtenay Boyle, K.C.B.
           Robert Macnamara Cowie, Esq. L.R.C.P. M.TJ.C.S.
           Henry Hardinge Cunynghame, Esq.
           Mrs. Hardinge Cunynghame,
           Henry Williams Grigg, Esq.
           O. J. Kilvington, Esq.
           Thomas Matthews, Esq.
           Mrs. T. Lambert Mears,
           William Beswick Myers-Beswick, Esq.-
           Theodore Charles Owen, Esq.
           Mrs. R. Palmer Thomas,
           Thomas Terrell, Esq. Q.C.
           Mrs. Twopeny,
           Rev. Charles Edward Wright, M.A.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to the
Right Hon. Evelyn Ashley for his present of a letter written by

1899.]                          General Monthly Meeting.                                 193
Count Rumford to Lady Palmerston. The following are copies of
Mr. Ashley's letter and of Count Rumford's letter :—
j)yAH giR.                                              Bboadlands, Romskt, May sth, 1R99.
          Looking over gome old papers I have come across the enclosed—namely,
a letter from Count Rumford to Lady Palmerston, dated Feb. 2nd, 1799, and
giving a sketch of the proposed scheme for a " Royal Institution." It may
perhaps be of tome interest to the Fellows on the occasion of their Centenary,
and I therefore offer it for their acceptance.
                                                                Yours faithfully,
                                                           (Signed) Eyblyh Ashley.
     Count Rumford was a great friend of the Palmerstons of that day. I have
many letters, &c., here from him.
                                                              BromptON How, 2nd Feb. 1T99.
     It would be difficult for you to form any just idea, my dear friend, of the
 pleasure 1 should have to be able to put the affairs of your little but useful
 Institution on the most perfect footing immediately, but that alas ! is not in my
 power. To its being the more extensively useful it must be so arranged in all
 its part-', and more especially in all its mechanical contrivances to serve as a model
 foryonr neighbourhood. But the model of that model is not yet quite finished,
 —nor are all the moulds made that must serve for the castings at the founders.
 These things are however all in hand, and the moment they shall be finished,
 and that I shall have instructed thoroughly any one workman so that I can be
 tare that he will be able to execute the job without committing any fault. To
  §how you that I have not been inattentive to the business I send you a drawing
 for your new kitchen which I made as soon as I got the plan of the buildings.
  I shoald have sent you the materials for it, and the workman to put them up,
  had they been ready.
      I think if you read my Second Essay you will see that something may be
 done en attendant. Your Housekeeper may open a dny school for children ;—and
 with the information you will find in my third Essay and that published by the
 Society for bettering the condition of the Poor, she may contrive to give them
      I wish
 useful        it were in
          employment,   andmy   power
                             a good  warm
                                        to give
                                            soupyou  dinner todirections
                                                 for specific   encourage   writing
                                                                         in their     for all
                                                                                   industry.
 the details of the management of your Establishments. But have 1 not already
 explained these matters in my writings?
      I am just at this moment engaged in a business that may prevent my intended
 journey to America, or at least determine to postpone it. We are considering of
 a scheme for forming in London a Public Institution for diffusing the knowledge
  and facilitating the introduction of useful mechanical improvements, and for
  teaching by means of regular courses of Philosophical Lectures and Experiments
 the application of Science to the common purposes of life. I shall depend on you,
  and on Lord Palmerston to give your support to this most useful and most
  interesting scheme.
      It is proposed to put the execution of the plan, and the solo mnnsgement of
  all affairs of the Institution, into the hands of seven Managers, one of whom to be
   —yoor most obedient Servant. As soon as the scheme shall be digested and
  properly drawn up in writing I shall not fail to send it to you. It is proposed
  that the subscribers of 50 guineas paid once for nil should possess for ever all the
   property belonging to the Institution, and these shares to be transferable by sale,
  gift, legacy, &c. Kach such subscriber to have two tickets, transferable, of admis
   sion to every part of the Institution—and also two tickets likewise transferable of
   admission to all Public and Private Lectures and Experiments. The choice of
   the Managers, and of a Committee of Visitors to be exclusively vested in Sub
   scribe™ of this first class. Subscribers of the second class at 10 guineas, to be
         Vol. XVI. (No. 93.)                                                      o

194                          General Monthly Meeting.                         [June 5,
free of the Institution for life, and the third class, at 2 guineas, to have the entree
for one year. But the tickets of the second and third classes not to be transferable.
    One very interesting part of the Institution will bo a grand collection of
useful machines—all at work, and a collection of models of useful mechanical
Inventions, with Workshops for giving instructions to Tradesmen and Manu
facturers; and a magnificent Laboratory for making Chemical and Philosophical
Experiments.
    I shall be a subscriber of the first class, and I am not sure but I shall make
my daughters subscribe also.
    Tell me what you think of this scheme.
                             I am ever, as you well know.
For                                              Yours most faithfully.
  Lady ralmerston.                                              (Signed) Rcmfobd.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Mr. Hugh
Spottiswoode for his valuable gift to the Royal Institution of his
father's collection of physical apparatus.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Mrs. Wigan
for her douation of £10 10a. and to Mr. Thomas A. Eogers for his
donation of £10 10s. to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
Research at Low Temperatures.
     The Pbf.bknts received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The Secretary   of State for India—Memoirs of tho Geological Survey of India,
     Vol. XXVIII. Part 1. Svo. 1898.
The Meteorological Office—Meteorological Observations at Stations of the Second
     Order tor 18!)5. 4to. 1899.
Accademia dei Linct.i, Reale, Roma—Clnsse di Scienze Fisiche, Matematiche e
     Naturali. Atti, Scrie Quinta: Eendiconti. 1" Semestre, Vol. VIII. Fasc.
     8, 9. 8vo. 1899.
  Classe di Scienze Morali, etc. Vol. VIII. Fasc. 1, 2. 8v>>. 1899.
American Giographical Society—Bulletin, Vol. XXXI. No. 2. 8vo. 1899.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Join nal, Vol. LXVII. Part 1, No. 4, Part 3, No. 2.
     8vo. 1898-9!).
  Proceedings, 1898. Noe. 9-11 ; 1899, Nos. 1-3. 8vo.
  The Kaciulracabdamrta, Part 2. 8vo. 1899.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LIX. No. 7. 8vo. 1899.
Bankers, Intitule of—Journal, Vol. XX. Part 5. 8vo. 1899.
Berlin, Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences— Sitzungsberichte, 1899, Nos. 1-22.
     8vo.Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, 3rd Series, Vol. VI. No. 13. 4to.
British
     1899.
British Astronomiml Association—Memoirs, Vol. VIII. Tart 1. 8vo. 1899.
  Journal, Vol IX. No. G. 8vo. 1899.
Camera Club— Journal for May, 1899. 8vo.
Canadian Institute—Proceedings, Vol. II. Part 1. No. 7. 8vo. 1899.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XVIII. No. 4. 8vo. 1899.
Chemical Society—Journal for May, 1899, and Supplementary Number, 1898.
     8vo.
  Proceedings. Nos. 209. 210. 8vo. 1899.
Chicago, John Crerur Library—Report for 1898. 8vo. 1899.
Churchill, Messrs. J. >t A. —A Treatise on Practical Chemistry and Qualitative
     Analysis. By F. Clowes. 7th ed. 8vo. 1899.

 1899]                       General Monthly Meeting.                        195
 Editors—American Journal of Science for May, 1899. 8vo.
    Analyst for May, 1899. 8vo.
    Anthony's Photographio Bulletin for May, 1899. 8vo.
    Athenaeum for May, 1899. 4to.
    Astrophysical Journal for April, 1899.
    Author for May, 1899. 8vo.
    Bimetallist for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Brewers' Journal for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Chemical News for May, 1899. 4to.
    Chemist and Druggist for May, 1899. 8vo.
    Education for May, 1899.
    Electrical Engineer for May, 1899. fol.
   Electrical Engineering for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Electrical Review for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Electricity for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Engineer for May, 1899. fol.
   Engineering for May, 1899. fol.
   Homoeopathic Review for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Horolo:rical Journal for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Industries and Iron for May, 1899. fol.
   Invention for May, 1899.
   Journal of Physical Chemistry for April, 1899. 8vo.
   Journal of State Medicine for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Law Journal for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Life-Boat Journal for May, 1899.
    Lightning for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Lmdon Technical Education Gazette for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Machinery Market for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Nature for May, 1899. 4to.
   New Church Magazine for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Nuovo Cimento for March and April, 1899. 8vo.
   Photographic News for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Physical Review for April, 1899. 8vo.
   Publio Health Engineer for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Science Abstracts, Vol. II. Part 5. 8vo. 1899.
   Science Sittings for May, 1899.
   Travel for May, 1899. 8vo.
   Tropical Agriculturist for May, 1899.
   Zoophilist for May, 1899. 4to.
Florence, Biblioteca National* Centrale—Bolletino, No. 321. 8vo. 1899.
Franklin Institute—Journal for May, 1899. 8vo.
Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for May, 1899. 8vo.
Geological Society—Geological Literature added to Library during 1898.
   Quarterly Journal, No. 218. 8vo. 1899.
Harlem, Societe Mollandaite dee Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Serie II.
      Tome II. Liv. 5. 4to. 1899.
Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for May, 1899.
Johns Hopkins Univertity—American Chemical Journal for May, 1899. 8vo.
Life-Boat Institution, Royal National—Annual Report for 1899. 8vo.
Manchester, Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs and Proceedings,
      Vol. XLIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1898-99.
Manchester Steam Users' Association—Boiler Explosions Acts : Reports 1037 to
      1120. 8vo.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology—Technology Quarterly for March, 1899. 8vo.
Mechanical Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings, 1898. No. 4. 8vo.
Mersey River, The Acting Conservator—Report on the Present State of the Navi
      gation of tho Mersey (1898). 8vo. 1899.
Munich, Royal Bavarian Academy ofSciences—Sitzungsberichte, 1899, Heft 1. 8vo.
   Neue Annalen der K. Sternwarte in Munchen, Band III. 4to. 1898.
                                                                   o 2

196                           General Monthly Meeting.                        [June 5,
Kavy League—Navy League Journal for May, 1899. 8vo.
Noea Scotian Institute of Science—Proceedings an* I Transactions, Vol. IX. Part 4.
     8vo. 1898.
Odontological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXXI. No. 6. 8vo. 1 899.
Onnes, Prof. H. K.—Communications from the Physical Laboratory at the
     University of Leiden, Nos. 47, 48. 8vo. 1899.
Parte, Societe Francaise dc Phydque—Bulletin, Nos. 132, 133. 8vo. 1899.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—lournal for May, 1899. 8vo.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for April, 1899. 8vo.
Physical Society of London—Proceedings, Vol. XVI. Part 5. 8vo. 1899.
   List of Fellows, etc. 1899. 8vo.
Quekett Microtcopical Cluh—Journal, Vol. VII. No. 44. 8vo. 1899.
Rome, Ministry of Public Works- -Giornale del Genio Civile, 1899, Fasc. 1, 2. 8vo.
     And Designi. fol.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Proceedings, Vol. XXII. No. 4. 8vo. 1899.
   Philosophical
Royal   Society
      Nos.  168, of169.
                     London—Proceedings,
                      Transactions:
                          4to. 1899. A. Vol. Nos. 413, Nos.
                                              CXCII.         8vo. 235;
                                                       414. 234,    1899.B. Vol. CXCI
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—
   Philologisch-Historische Classe—
      Abhancllungen, Band XVIII. No. 4. 8vo. 1899.
Schooling, William, Esq. F.R.A.S. M.R.I, (the Compiler —Inwood's Tables of
     Interest and Mortality. 25th ed. Edited by W. Schooling. 8vo. 1899.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes for May, 1899. 8vo.
Smithsonian Institution—Smithsonian Report for 1897. 8vo. 1898.
Society of Arts—Journal for May, 1899. 8vo.
Streatham Public Libraries—Eighth Annual Report, 1898. 8vo. 1899.
 Tacchini, Prof. P. Hon. Mem. R.I. (the Author) —Memorie della Societa degli
      Spettroscopisti Italiani, Vol. XXVIII. Lisp. 2% 3•. 4to. 1899.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for May, 1899. 8vo.
 United States Department of Agriculture—Year Book of the Department of Agri
      culture for 1898. 8vo. 1899.
   Experiment Station Record, Vol. X. No 8. 8vo. 1899.
   North American Fauna, No. 14. 8vo. 1899.
   Experiment Station Bulletin, No. EKi. 8vo. 1899.
 United States Patent Office—Official Gazette, Vol. LXXXVII. Nos. 5-8. 8vo.
      1899.
 Verein zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1899,
      Heft 4. 8vo.
 Vitagapatam, G. V. Juggarow Observatory—Report for 1897. 8vo. 1899.
 Washington, Academy of Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. I. pp 15-10(3. 8vo. 1899.
 Washington, National Academy of Sciences—Memoirs, Vol. VIII. Part 3. 4to.
       1899. Society of London—Report for 1 898. 8vo. 1899.
 Zoological
 Zurich, Naturforschende Gesellschaft—Vierteljahrsschrift, Jahrg. X Mil. Heft 5.
      8vo. 1899.
   Neujahrsblatt, 101 Stuck. 4to. 1899.

1899.]           Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.                197
         CENTENARY OF FOUNDATION, 1799-1899.
In the month of June, 1899, the Royal Institution of Great Britain
completed one hundred years of its existence, the first meeting of its
members in the building in Albemarle Street having been held on
June 5, 1799.
    The President, Managers and Professors, having decided that this
event, so interesting and memorable in the life of the Institution, and
in the history of Science in this country, should be duly celebrated,
invited many eminent scientific representatives from other countries
to take part in the proceedings of the Centenary Celebration.
                        Monday, June 5, 1899.
                     CENTENARY BANQUET
                 TO THE GUESTS OP THE INSTITUTION.
    The guests were entertained by the President and Managers at a
Centenary Banquet, held in the hall of the Merchant Taylors'
Company, kindly lent for the purpose, on Monday, June 5, and had
the honour of meeting His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, K.G.,
Vice-Patron of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. His Grace
the Duke of Northumberland, K.G., the President, in the Chair.
    There were also present His Royal Highness the Duke of
Cambridge, E.G., the Earl of Halsbury (Lord Chancellor), the Earl
of Roese, K.P., Lord Lister (President of the Royal Society), Lord
Kelvin, Lord Ivoagh, M.P., Lord Strathcona and Mount Royal, 8ir
John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., Professor A. Cornu (of Paris), Sir George
Stokes, Bart., Henry White, Esq. (Secretary American Embassy),
S. P. Langley, Esq. (of Washington), Lord Amhorst of Hackney,
Lord Blythswood, Professor Oscar Liebreich (the delegate from the
German Chemical Society), George W. Barnard, Esq. (Master of the
Merchant Taylors' Company), The Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of
Bristol, Rear-Admiral A. K. Wilson, Sir James Crichton-Browne,
Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart., Lord Rayleigh, Professor Dewar, and
about two hundred other Gentlemen.
    The gallery behind the Chairman's seat was occupied by ladies
throughout the evening.
    The Duke of Nobthumbebland (the President of the Royal
Institution), in proposing " The Health of Her Majesty the Queen,
Empress of India," remarked that it appealed in a peculiar manner to
her Majesty's subjects at the present moment, because we had just
had the satisfaction of celebrating her eightieth year, and congratu
lating her upon the health and strength which Providence had

198              Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.             [June 5,
bestowed upon her, as well as recording our sense of the admirable
manner in which, through so lengthened a period, she had ruled over
us. That night they drank her health also as Patron of the Royal
Institution. She, like many of her illustrious predecessors, had shown
that she realised the importance of the work which the Institution
was formed to carry out, and how largely, either directly or indirectly,
it tended to the welfare of her subjects. That welfare had ever been
the dearest thing to the heart of her Majesty to secure, and it had
been the guiding principle of her public conduct ; and in addition to
her private virtues, the knowledge and the appreciation of that fact
had endeared her to the hearts of her people.
     The toast having been duly honoured,
     The Duke of Nobthumbebland (the President), again rising,
proposed " The Health of the Vice-Patron, the Prince of Wales, the
Princess of Wales, and the rest of the Royal Family." They were
much honoured, he said, by the presence of the Prince of Wales.
The associations which his Royal Highness had with the Royal
Institution went back a considerable time, for he believed that it was
in the year 1855 that the Prince first attended a lecture at the Royal
 Institution. It was one of those juvenile lectures which Professor
Faraday so well knew how to deliver. They were unfortunate that
night in losing the presence of the Duke of York, who had been a
member of the Institution for so many years, but they were fortunate
in securing—in the capacity of a distinguished guest—the presence
of the Duke of Cambridge.
     The Pbinoe of Wales said, I am most grateful to the Duke of
 Northumberland for the kind terms in which he has proposed this
 toast, and to you for the manner in which you have received it. I
 consider it a great privilege, and a great honour, to take part, as Vice-
 Patron of this Institution in the hundredth anniversary of its existence.
 As the Duke has said, I had an early acquaintance with the Royal
 Institution. Though it is nearly half a century ago, I have not for
 gotten that, as a boy, my brother, the Duke of Saxe-Coburg, and
 myself were sent by our father to London, just after Christmas, to
attend those famous lectures, which were then given by the great
 Professor Michael Faraday. I have not forgotten the interest which we
 took in those lectures, and the clear way in which Professor Faraday
 explained to boys difficult scientific problems, and the beautiful way
in which he showed us the chemical experiments which were then the
order of the day. On an occasion of this description it is very
difficult to say anything new with regard to the Institution, or any
thing that is not known by so distinguished and able an audience as
is assembled here to-night. When one looks back, one recalls that
one hundred years ago the Society was first formed by Sir Benjamin
Thompson, who was better known, and who himself liked to be known,
under the name of Count Rumford. It is remarkable, that the build
ing in Albemarle Street, though much changed in architecture, is the
identical one in which the lectures were given and the work was

1899.]            Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.                 199
carried on. Of course, this Society has gone through many vicissitudes,
but fortunately many people assisted it in a pecuniary way, and only
as recently as three years ago we were indebted to tho liberality of
Dr. Mond for the Davy Faraday Laboratory, at the opening of which,
I myself had the pleasure of being present. When one looks back
to the eminent men who have worked and lectured at the Institution,
one thinks first of the name of Thomas Young, and of the great
Humphry Davy—a man of whom all Englishmen are proud, and one
of whose most remarkable scientific discoveries, perhaps, was that
wonderful lamp which has saved the lives of thousands of miners.
Then there is another name to which in this connection I must
again refer, that of Professor Michael Faraday, whom I knew, and
whom I shall ever associate in my mind with the Royal Institution ;
I should also mention his distinguished successor, Professor Tyndall.
There is another name, which at the present day overyone looks up to
as one very remarkable in every branch of science—that of Lord
Rayleigh. The President of the Royal Institution, and many of us,
I hope, will have the pleasure of listening to a lecture which he is to
 deliver to-morrow. As the Duke has kindly said, and I think very
 properly said, we are a large gathering. Still, on this occasion,
 speeches should be short—I will therefore not detain you longer. I
 thank you once more for having kindly listened to the words which I
 have said ; and I assure the Duke and the members of this distin
 guished Society how highly I appreciate the opportunity which has been
 given me to take part in this Centenary banquet, and how pleased we
 are to see present so many distinguished foreign gentlemen connected
 with Science. To the Duke of Northumberland it must be especially
 gratifying that he and members of his family now, for upwards of fifty
  years, with the exception of oight years, when Sir Henry Holland was
 president, have occupied the chair as presidents of the Royal Insti
 tution. In the name of the Princess of Wales and other members of
 my family, I tender you my warmest thanks for the manner in which
 you have received this toast.
      The Dukk of Cambbidge proposed " The Royal Institution of
 Great Britain." He said the Prince of Wales had already pointed
 out the salient points of tho Institution, and, therefore, all that ho
 could really do was to back up what the Prince had said. They wero
 commemorating that night the Centenary of an Institution for diffus
 ing knowledge, and facilitating the general introduction of useful
 mechanical inventions and improvements. Whilst during these one
 hundred years the march of intellect had largely increased in every
 part of the world, and nowhere more than in this country, there had
 also been a change in scientific matters to an extent which, having him
 self lived eighty years he could not have thought possible. In those
 one hundred years everything had changed, more or less, in every
 department of life, but nothing had gone forward more rapidly than
 Ecience, which was still progressing in a sound and useful direction
 and which they of that Institution were helping to support and

200              Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.           [Jone 5,
fructify. He thought the world was greatly indebted to the Insti
tution for the progress made, but the members of the organisation
had always made progress with prudence and intelligence, and with
out rashness. Nowadays, they saw new things introduced which were
not always carried out with the judiciousness they would desire ; but
their Institution was sound to the core, because it had gone on
continuously, without rashness and with all that intelligence which
was worthy of such an important Society. They rejoiced to find that
their feelings were gradually becoming general throughout the world.
There was reciprocity in science, and whilst they were delighted to
see the representatives of science of other nations, they, he hoped,
were ready at all times to hear and appreciate the endeavours made
in this country of those engaged in scientific work. That was one of
those principles which should go to regulate the world in the future.
He was himself a soldier, and had been for years, and he felt they
were greatly indebted as soldiers to that Institution for having intro
duced improvements which made wars, not impossible, but very much
less likely than they used to be. At the same time, they were heart
and soul loyal to the Crown, and loyal to themselves, and when they
had occasion to show that loyalty they were quite ready as heretofore,
as sailors and soldiers, to do their duty. Scientists had made war
much less likely and much less possible, but he sincerely hoped that
every endeavour made at the Hague Conference to modify the miseries
of war by judicious and prudent regulations would be crowned with
the success that it deserved. The progress of the world was extremely
indebted to a large number of the eminent and great scientific men
who surrounded him that evening, and he was sure they would all
join in a hearty welcome to the present Duke of Northumberland,
and would drink to the prosperity and the extension of the usefulness
of that great body of men known as the Royal Institution. He gave
the toast of " the Prosperity of the Royal Institution," and coupled
it with the name of the Duke of Northumberland, who had suc
ceeded his distinguished father, the late Duke of Northumberland,
as President of the Institution.
     The Duke of Nobthumbebland, in acknowledgment of the toast,
 said that the appreciation expressed by his Royal Highness of the
 work of the Institution and the reception of the toast were signal
proofs of the esteem in which the work of the Institution was held.
It was a great honour that so many eminent representatives of foreign
 science had honoured with their presence the Centenary of the Insti
tution. It was just one hundred years ago when the Institution
entered upon its present premises. A long roll of names had lent
lustre to their labours. Davy, Faraday, Young, Tyndoll—above all
they should remember their founder, Benjamin Thompson, Count
Rumford, whom it was easy to criticise, but whose virtues had been
productive of great results. The work of the Institution had been in
large measure the carrying out of Count Rumford's ideas. It was said

1899.]           Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.                 201
that he intended an institution of a more practical or industrial
character than the Institution now was. But changes had taken
place. Facilities for communicating new discoveries were one
hundred years ago few ; competition was less keen ; there was then
much dislike of innovation and there was extreme jealousy with the
working classes of any reduction of manual labour. It was thus
necessary to popularise discoveries ; and that was the aim of their
founder. But now every such discovery was soon heralded to the
public. Popular magazines had now articles on the manufacture of
liquid air and other subjects of an abstruse character. Towards this
wide diffusion of science the Royal Institution had largely contri
buted. Their principal objects were research, for which their labora
tories gave such ample means and in respect of which special gratitude
was due to Dr. Mond for his noble gift, and to Mr. Spottiswoode for
his collection. The second object was to bring the results of research
to the knowledge of those who could appreciate them, and these results
were expounded in the evening lecturos of the Institution. Thirdly,
this knowledge was popularised by the afternoon lectures ; and finally
the rising generation were stimulated by the juvenile lectures to those
 who, it was hoped, were destined to take their part in future scientific
investigation. They had an admirable library of the subjects which
they sought especially to promote. They did not limit their interest
to pure science, but literature and history had also been the subjects
of admirable discourses by acknowledged masters. Lastly, he would
venture to say that nothing would be heard in the Institution which
 could wound the most sensitive in the subjects of history, moral
philosophy, or religion. Lord Rayleigh, Professor Dewar, and others
had shown that the ordinary wants of mankind were not foreign
to their purposes. Their gratitude on this occasion was due to the
Merchant Taylors' Company for the use of their beautiful hall.
    The toast of " The Guests " was proposed by the Lobd Chancel
lob, who observed that he presumed the toast was entrusted to him as
one who had sat as a very diligent listener at the feet of some of those
Gamaliels of science he saw around him. It was unnecessary for
him to add much to what had already been said by those taking part
in the proceedings as to the importance of the Royal Institution, for
all would recognise the incalculable benefits it had conferred on all
who came within the sphere of its influence. He had some difficulty
in proposing the toast, because he was not certain as to how many
present belonged to the scientific family they designated the Royal
Institution ; but he would couple the toast with the names of two of
their guests who came from over the sea— Mr. S. P. Langley, Secre
tary of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, and Professor A.
Cornu, Officier de la Legion d'Honneur, Membre de l'lnstitut,
France.
    Mr. S. P. Langlby said, I could wish that another, whose words
would carry more weight than mine, were here to respond to these

202              Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.            [June 5,
kindly expressions in the name of your guests, and especially of those
from America ; but I may at least feel that no one can speak with
more sincerity of the pleasure those from the United States have in
being hore to-night, and in testifying to their grateful remembrance
of all that American science owes to this, its mother-country.
    We cannot forget that it was from the heart of the English
people that those earliest colonists of New England came, who in
the last century, in token of their ancestry, produced a Franklin and
a Rumford, or forget that it is strictly true that American science,
during the generation that followed the foundation of this Institution,
grew up under almost exclusively English influence.
    All your guests, without distinction of country, appreciate at its
high value the example which this Institution has set, in uniting
original research of the very greatest importance with the communi
cation of its results in a form understanded of the people ; but we in
America are especially glad to remember that it was an English man
of science, James Smithson, who, following your example of this two
fold purpose, loft his fortune to the United States to, in his own
brief and pregnant words, found " an establishment for the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men."
     The American Government accepted the trust in a way without
precedent, placing by organic law the President of the United States
at the head of the Institution, and giving the regency of its affairs
to a board representing whatever is most eminent in the councils of the
nation, under whose direction it has pursued the same double objects
as your Institution, both of the increase of knowledge by original
research, and its diffusion throughout the world. It has done this
with a faithful regard to the wishes of its founder, who died before
the fruition of his large purpose, so that this modest man of science
did not live to see in the Smithsonian Institution his work enduring
 in an honoured name.
     The American founder of your great Institution was more fortu
nate, in seeing at least the beginning of his work, but even of him it
might be almost said that he " builded better than he knew," for while
we are glad to remember that Rumford has thus associated his name
with your early history, we must agree that if the seed he planted had
not been sown in so good a soil, his earlier plan would not have grown
into what the years have wrought, not only in bringing the most
eminent contributions to the sum of human knowledge, but in their
publication under royal patronage, for it is thus, in the worthiest
sense that word may bear, continued under the gracious lady whoso
birthday has just been celebrated with rejoicings on both sides of the
Ocean, which here, perhaps more than in any other land, has led all
that is best in social life to take an interest in the exhibition of tha
results that such men as your Young, your Davy, your Faraday and
your Tyndall have wrought.
     It is known to all, on both sides of the Atlantic, that the work of
these men is boing continued by one who has added a new element

1899.]            Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.                  203
to our atmosphere, and has opened the way to others, and by another
who has just been near to the boundaries of warmth and life, to bring
back liquid hydrogen to your lecture table ; and such work is still
being so carried on, that in all your honoured j ears, none have been
more pregnant in results of world-wide interest than those which
close this, your first century.
     If the naturalist tells us truly, that we can forecast the probable
duration of the future life of any organic being from the time that it
takes to reach adolescence, we shall see in the hundredth year of such
performance and such promise, not age, but youth, and the expecta
tion of a growth to continue through centuries to come.
     Such at least, I think, is both the belief and the wish of your
scientific kinsmen and guests, from beyond both the broad and narrow
seas, and certainly of those present to-night, who return their thanks,
through my imperfect voice, for the hospitality which has enabled
them to be present, under such auspices, on so memorable occasion.
     Pbofessob Cobnu, D.C.L. F.R.8.. said, C'est en français que je vais
répondre au nom des invités du Continent ; je choisis le français
parce que c'est la langue diplomatique : excellente raison ! elle me
dispense d'en donner une autre qui serait peut être encore meilleure.
     L'histoire de la fondation de la Royal Institution, que j'ai relue ces
jours derniers, m'a fait une impression profonde. Nous connaissions
tous Benjamin Thompson, Comte de Rumford, commo un physicien
pénétrant, auteur d'importantes découvertes sur la chaleur et la lumièro ;
comme le précurseur des théories modernes de l'énergie, le premier
qui ait osé dire devant la Société Royale que la chaleur ne peut pas être
autre chose que du mouvement. Aussi la Société Royale a-t-elle con
sacré la mémoire des fécondes études de Uumford par une médaille,
l'une des plus hautes distinctions auxquelles les physiciens puissent
aspirer.
     Nous connaissions également le Comte de Rumford comme un ami
sincère de l'humanité pauvre et souffrante.
     Nous savions qu'il avait fondé l'Institution Royale pour la diffusion
des sciences, le perfectionnement de l'industrie et l'accroissement du
comfort de la vie domestique.
     Mais j'ignorais, pour ma part, que sa pensée avait été plus haute
encore et qu'en réclamant de ses contemporains la fondation d'une
institution utile à la prospérité nationale il s'était élevé à une concep
 tion aussi généreuse que nouvelle de l'influence de la science sur le
 progrès social.
     Écoutez ses belles paroles :
     " But, in estimating the probable usefulness of this Institution,
 wc must not forget the public advantages that will be derived from
 the general diffusion of a spirit of experimental investigation and
 improvement among the higher ranks of society.
     " When the rich shall take pleasure in comtemplating and en
couraging snih mechanical improvements as are really useful, good
 taste, with its inseparable companion, good morals, will revive ;

201               Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.                  [June 6,
rational economy will become fashionable; industry and ingenuity
will be honoured and rewarded ; and the pursuits of all various classes
of society will then tend to promote the public prosperity." *
     Heureuses les nations qui savent comprendre ces généreuses
idées !
     Heureuses les nations qui sont capables, comme la Grande
Bretagne, de fonder, de maintenir, et de faire prospérer des telles
institutions t
     Je crois être l'interprète de mes collègues du Continent en expri
mant toute notre admiration pour l'œuvre rêvée et accomplie par
Eubuford et en buvant à la prospérité indéfiniment séculaire de l'Insti
tution Royale, qui depuis un siècle, à travers tant d'événements inat
tendus, a conservé, grace aux illustres savants qu'elle choisit, toujours
l'admirable esprit de son fondateur.
                          Tuesday, June 6, 1899.
          H.R.H. The Pbince of Wales, E.G., Vice-Patron,
                                  in the Chair.
                   COMMEMORATION LECTURE,
 By the Rioht Hon. Lobd Rayleigh, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.E.S.,
                   Professor of Natural Philosophy R.I.
     There were also present tho Duke of Northumberland (President)
the Duke of Devonshire, Lord Lister (Pres. R.S.) Lord Eelvin, Lord
Amherst, Sir John Lubbock, Bart. M.P., Sir John Dorington, Bart.
M.P., Sir Frederick Abel, Bart., Sir Edward Frankland, Sir Andrew
Noble, Sir Henry Thompson, Bart., Sir William Crookes, Dr. J. H.
Gladstone, Professor Silvanus P. Thompson, Sir James Crichton-
Browne, Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart., Dr. Ludwig Mond, and
Professor Dewar.
     Loud Rayleioh said that though bis was intended to be a com
memorative lecture, the idea of commemorating all the work that had
been done at the Royal Institution was hopeless. To do so he would
require, not one lecture, but many courses of lectures, even though
much of it had been in chemistry, which did not fall within his
province. Eemembering that on other occasions he had spoken in
detail of the achievements of Faraday and Tyndall, he thought on
this occasion he would do well to go still further back in the century
    * The Royal Institution : its Founder and its First Professors. By Dr. Bence
Jones (1871), page 147.

1899.]           Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.                205
and speak of Dr. Thomas Young, one of the earliest professors of the
Institution. Young occupied a very high place in the estimation of
men of science—higher, indeed, now than at the time when he did
his work. His " Lectures on Natural Philosophy," containing the
substance of courses delivered in the Institution, was a very remark
able book, which was not known as widely as it ought to be. Its ex
positions in some branches were unexcelled even now, and it contained
several things which, so far as he knew, were not to be found elsewhere.
The earlier lectures dealt with elementary mechanics, and the reader
would find as sound an exposition of that science as could be imagined.
It was to Young that they owed the term energy, now in everybody's
mouth. Elastic resilience was better dealt with there than in any
other treatise he knew of, for Young discussed the subject with re
markable ingenuity, showing that the phenomena exhibited by two
bodies coming into collision were comprehended under it. If the
velocity was moderate, all their motion might be taken up in them in
the form of potential energy ; but if it exceeded a certain limit their
integrity could not be preserved. In the case of a grain of sand pro
jected against a sheet of glass, another element, that of time, had to
 be considered, for it became a question of the propagation of the wave
 set up by the impact, and if the region traversed by the wave during
collision, and alone available as the seat of potential energy, were too
 small the glass was bound to break. Young again discussed the
problem of a ball supported on a column of air or water, and correctly
 explained that it preserved its stability and did not fall out of the
 stream owing to centrifugal force. In the province of sound Young
 was the originator of many of the most important principles on which
 the docrine was now expounded, but it was with optics that his name
 was most closely associated, for he and Fresnel were the builders
 of the great structure of the undulatory theory. This was a matter
 that was tolerably familiar. Lord Rayleigh thought he could best
 utilise the time at his disposal by mentioning some of the points in
 which Young's good work had been overlooked. In his time a ques
 tion of discussion was the change of the focus of the eye for vary
  ing distances. One suggested explanation, that accommodation was
  effected by an alteration in the external convexity of the eye, Young
 proved to be wrong by drowning his eyo in water. This virtually
  eliminated the convexity, yet the power of accommodation remained ;
  and he therefore concluded it was due to a muscular alteration in the
  internal lens of the eye. He alto described the phenomenon of astig
  matism and showed his deep knowledge of optical theory by suggest
  ing that its effects could be counteracted by the use of a slightly
  sloping lens. In the study of compound colours, or chromatics as it
  was then termed, Young's views were correct, though not universally
  accepted even yet. Lord Rayleigh showed a modification of the ex
  periment by which he proved that the combination of green and red
  gave yellow, and illustrated the fact by a further experiment, not
  Young's, but following his suggestions, which demonstrated to the

 206               Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.            [Jane 6,
audience that when the blue and yellow of the spectrum were cut off
by solutions of litmus and bichromate of potash respectively the com
bination of the remaining red and green was obviously yellow. The
lecturer next described Young's way of getting rid of the " false light,"
that interfered so greatly with the brilliance of the effects when
Newton's rings were being obtained by means of two glass plates
pressed together, and by analysing the colours from such plates with
a prism he exhibited the original of a diagram in Touug's book,
which indicated the particular rays destroyed by interference. Young
was singularly successful in the theory of cohesion and capillarity, in
which some of his earliest work was done, and he was the first to
deduce an estimate of molecular dimensions from data afforded by
that theory. The size of the molecule, according to his calculations,
was not very different from that admitted at the present day. In the
theory of the tides he made great advances, and in explaining the
circumstances which determine whether there shall be high or low
water under the moon, he gave the general theory of forced vibrations.
His views of heat were very interesting. He had the utmost con
tempt for the idea widely prevalent in his time that it was a separate
Cdtity, and expressed the hope that before long philosophers might
return to a true conception of its nature as motion. Lord Rayleigh,
in concluding his observations on Young, said that possibly he had
left the impression that Young knew everything. In fact, it was
seldom that he was wrong ; but just to show that he was, after all,
human, a passage might be quoted from his book in which he de
clared there was no immediate connection between magnetism and
electricity ! Speaking of work which had been done at the Institution
by men who held no regular appointment in it, the lecturer noted that
Wedgwood, in conjunction with Davy, was the first to produce any
thing that could be called a photograph, while instantaneous photo
graphy, such as was required for rapidly moving objects, was carried
out for the first time by Fox Talbot in the laboratory of tho Institution.
Slides were exhibited illustrative of flying bullets, splashing milk, and
breaking soap films, all taken by the electric spark. Towards the
close of the lecture Lord Rayleigh showed one famous experiment of
Faraday's, the rotation of the plane of polarised light by magnetism,
which he observed had acquired a new interest from the recent dis
coveries of l)r. Zeeman. In illustration of Tyndall's work, he instanced
the discovery of sensitive flames and their application to acoustical
investigation. The analogue of a remarkable optical experiment, from
which it appears that there is a bright spot at the centre of the shadow
of a circular disc, was exhibited.
Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne said,
    May it please your Koyal Highness,
     The Koyal Institution having resolved to mark its Centenary by
adding to its roll of Honorary Members the names of some of the
most eminent representatives of physical and chemical science on the

1899.]           Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.                207
Continent and in America, I beg leave to present to you the gentle
men who have been selected for that distinction and who have
honoured us with their presence here to-day.
    All of them have done worthy and memorable work in the field of
science, all of them are of world-wide reputation, and it is unneces
sary therefore in an audience like this, and it might be tedious and
embarrassing to them that I should recount the offices, achievements,
publications and honours of each, and so I shall only present them
nominally in asking your Royal Highness to admit them to the
Honorary Membership.
    The diplomas which have been prepared for them they will carry
back with them to almost every country in Europe and to the United
States of America—whence came the founder of the Royal Institution
to these shores just one hundred and twenty-three years ago—and wo
feel sure that these diplomas will have an enhanced interest and value
for all of them because they are bestowed by the hand of your Royal
Highness.
     Our conference hero this afternoon accentuates the universal
brotherhood of science, and so may perhaps do something to promoto
the concord of the nations.
    I have the honour to present the following gentlemen :—Dr. Emile
Ador (Geneva), Professor Joseph S. Ames (Baltimore), Professor
Svante Arrhonius (Stockholm), Professor George P. Barker (Phila
delphia), Professor Carl Barus (Providence, U.S A.), Professor Henri
Becquerel (Paris), Dr. L. Bleekrode (The Hague), Professor Giacomo
Luigi Ciamician (Bologna), Professor Nicolas Egorof (St. Petersburg),
 Professor Antoine Paul Nicolas Franchimont (Loiden), Professor
 Heinrich Gustav Kayser (Bonn), Professor Wilhelm Korner (Milan),
 Mr. Samuel Pierpoint Langley (Washington), Professor Oscar Lie-
 breich (Berlin), Professor Gustave Leonard Van der Mensbrugge
 (Ghent), Professor Albert A. Micholson (Chicago), Professor Henri
 Moissan (Paris), Professor Raffaelo Nasini (Padua), Professor
 Walther Nernst (Gottingen), and Mr. Ernest Solvay (Brussels). The
 diploma of honorary membership will be forwarded to the following,
 who are unable to be present :—Professor Armand Emile Gautier
 (Paris), Professor Wilhelm Ostwald (Leipzig), Professor Robert H.
 Thurston (Ithaca), Professor Emilio Villari (Naples), Professor Jules
 Louis Violle (Paris), and Dr. William L. Wilson (Washington).
     As it was thought essential that the Centenary of the Royal
 Institution should be celebrated in this place, its old, its first, and
 only home, it was found impossible from want of room to invite
 delegates from universities, colleges, societies and academies, as tho
 managers would otherwise have wished to do ; but notwithstanding
 that no invitations have been issued, two foreign learned societies
 have spontaneously sent addresses of congratulation. The German
 Chemical Society, and the German Society of Chemical Industry,
 felicitate tho Royal Institution on the completion of one hundred
 years of its existence, generously acknowledge the splendid work it

20S               Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.          [June 6,
has accomplished without Governmental aid, and simply by private
enterprise and individual effort, and hope for it a continuance of that
beneficent activity which has never flagged from the days of Rumford
down to those of Rayleigh and Dewar.
    The addresses are most gratefully received and will be published
in the Proceedings of the Institution.
    The Duke of Nobthumbebland moved a vote of thanks to the
Prince of Wales for presiding.
    The Dukk of Devonshibe, in seconding the motion, said that the
Royal Institution had contributed in no small degree to the extra
ordinary advance of science that the century had witnessed. It was
entirely in accordance with the principles that guided his Royal
Highness in public life that he should have taken a prominent part
in the celebration of the Institution which had become a national
one. It was obvious that such an Institution as that could not per
form all the work of which it was capable unless it met with a large
share of public support, and no small element in obtaining that
support was the countenance of his Royal Highness.
    The Pbince of Wales said : I am deeply sensible of the kind words
which have fallen from tho lips of the Duke of Northumberland and
the Duke of Devonshire. I need hardly assure them, nor any of you
ladies ami gentlemen present, that I shall always look back with tho
deepest pleasure and gratification on the fact that I have taken part
in the Centenary of tho Hoyal Institution. Having been acquainted
with it from my earliest years, and having had the advantage of
listening to many of the great scientific men who have given their
lectures and shown their experiments in this room, I am glad to
think that I have been present on this occasion to hear the interest
ing, able and exhaustive lecture which Lord Rayleigh has so kindly
given us with his excellent experiments. He has been able to go
over much ground in a very limited space of time. The interest that
I take in this Institution, I assure you, will never be diminished. It
has, as the Duke of Devonshire has said, become a national one. It
is self-supporting, and during these hundred years has, no doubt,
acquired an amount of scientific knowledge which has been appreciated
not only by this country but by every part of tho world. Amongst
the most pleasant of my duties here to-day I count my having been
asked to personally deliver tho diplomas to the many distinguished
gentlemen who come across the water to join with us in this Centen
ary Festival. As a Member and a Vice-Patron of the Institution, I
beg to acknowledge our gratitude to them for having so kindly given
us their cordial greetings and presence on this interesting occasion.
I regret that I have not time for more. Let me again express my
sincere thanks to you. I leave here with feelings of the deepest
gratification at having been present on this occasion.
    A vote of thanks was passed to Lord Rayleigh on the motion of
Lobd Listeb, seconded by Lobd Kelvin.

1899.]            Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.               209
    The following addresses and congratulations were received, to
gether with letters of congratulation from many eminent scientific
men :—
                               Translation.
    The German Chemical Society begs to send its warmest and
heartiest good wishes to the Royal Institution of Great Britain in
celebration of the hundredth year of its existence.
     We look back with admiration on the glorious history of this
creation, which far-seeing men called into existence at a time when
no similar Institution existed in any other country. True to its
original design, the learned Members of the Institution, down to
the present day, performed their task of advancing Science and
stimulating the interest of educated people in it, thus promoting tho
well-being of the nation. May the lofty position which the Koyal
 Institution of Great Britain has won for itself during the hundred
years of its existence be fully maintained in future generations, for
the good of Physical Science and the honour of the English nation.
                                       II. Landolt, President.
                                      Febd.
                                      Adolf Tiemann)    c    . .
                                              Pinnkb j Secretary.
Royal Institution, London.
    The German Physical Society sends its hearty congratulations
to the. Royal Institution on the celebration of its Centenary, and in
so doing recalls to mind the great forerunners Davy and Faraday, as
well as their successor, Lord Rayleigh.
                                                        Wabbubg.
                               Translation.
to the pbesident and committee of the
        Hoyal Institution of Gbeat Bbitain, London.
    Moved by feelings of pride and of gratification the Association for
the Promotion of the Interests of the Chemical Industry in Germany
desires to associate itself with those who, from near and far, are
sending their congratulations to the Royal Institution of Great Britain
upon this, its Jubilee day.
    Just as England was the first among the civilised countries of
Europe to exploit the growing achievements of scientific investiga
tion for the furtherance of the national prosperity, so also was the
Eoyal Institution of Great Britain the first corporation to impart
practical significance to the beautiful thought that Science is the
common possession of the educated world.
    It is true that other corporations have since followed in the path
thus trodden for the first time, but none has been able to realise the
     Vol. XVI. (No. 93.)                                       P

 210               Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.              [June 6,
 thought in more admirable form than the Royal Institution, whose
 methods and operations have served throughout a whole century as
 the model for all countries.
      Supported by the unexampled devotion of its Members, buoyed up
 by the genius of the great intellects who have been attracted to its
 service, the Royal Institution has succeeded not only in fostering the
 love of Science among the educated, but also in extending greatly
 tue scope of our knowledge.
     The places where a Davy, a Faraday and a Tyndall operated will
 remain for all time sacred, not only to the British people, but to all
 other civilised nations. An eager energetic spirit must for ever
 dwell in those hallowed halls. May the coming century, to which
 we all look forward with such large hopes, weave new laurels in the
 rich wreath of fame which to-day the departing century joyfully
 deposits at the feet of the Royal Institution.
                           The Committee of the Association fob
                               The Peomotion of the Chemical
   Beblin, 5th June, 1899.                      Industby in Gebmant.
                        Académie Royale des Sciences, des Lettbes
                                      et des Beaux-Abts de Belgique,
                                                Bbcxelles, le 27 mat, 1899.
Monsieub le Pbésident,
     J'ai l'honneur de porter à votre connaissance que l'Académie
 Royale de Belgique, désireuse de s'associer au centenaire de l'In
stitution Royale de Londres, vient de déléguer M. le Professeur
 G. Van der Mensbrugghe de l'Université de Gand, à l'effet de la
représenter officiellement aux solennités des 5, 6 et 7 juin.
     Veuillez agréer. Monsieur le Président, l'expression de mes senti
ments les plus distingués.
                         Le Secrétaire Perpétuel de l'Académie,
                                  (Signed) Le Chevalieb Mabohal.
      À Monsieub lb Pbesident de l'Institution
         Royale de la Gbande Bbetagne, à Londbes.
Sib Fbedebiok Bbamwell, Honobaby Secbetaby,
           Royal Institution, Albemable Stbeet, W.
    La Société physique et chimique russe à Pétersbourg, gardant la
mémoire des travaux illustres de Kumford, Davy, Faraday et de leurs
dignes successeurs, s'empresse de faire parvenir à l'Institut Royal
de Londres ses félicitations à l'occasion de son centenaire et joint aux
expressions de la plus profonde considération ses vœux pour un
avenir non moins glorieux.
                                   Secrétaire, Gobboff.
                                   Président Honoraire, Mendzleikff.

I899.J            Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.              211
Royal Institution of Gbiai Bbitain, London.
    The Imperial Military Academy of St. Petersburg offers its con
gratulations to the Royal Institution of Great Britain on its hundred
years anniversary, wishing that the splendid activity of the Institu
tion, glorious by great scientific discoveries, should continue for
many succeeding ages to the honour of England and to the benefit
of mankind.
                                                President, Pashotin.
Sib Fbedebick Bbamwell, Royal Institution, London.
    Official duties prevent my accepting the invitation with which I
was honoured by the Royal Institution ; may it prosper in the
century to come, and retain the same prominent position in the
advancement of science as in the past.
                                            (Signed) Mensghutkin.
Pbofessob Dewab, Royal Institution, London.
    Most cordial congratulations with the Centenary of the Institution,
to the glory of which you have added so much, and my best wishes
for the continuing of your splendid work.
                                      (Signed)   Kameblingh Onnes.
                        Tuesday, June 6, 1899.
           RECEPTION AT THE MANSION HOUSE.
    The Right Hon. the Lobd Mayob or London and the Lady
Mayobess gave a Reception to the Members and the guests of the
Institution, in the evening, at the Mansion House, City.
                       Wednesday, June 7, 1899.
    Db. and Mbs. Mond gave a Gabden Pabty in the afternoon to
the guests of the Institution at the Poplars, 20 Avenue Road, Regent's
Park, N.W.

212              Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.           [June 7,
                      Wbdnesday, June 7, 1899.
    His Gbace the Duke of Nobthumbebland, K.G., President,
                              in the Chair.
                  COMMEMORATION LECTURE,
         By Pbofessob Dewab, M.A. LL.D. F.R S. M.R.L,
                 Fullerian Professor of Chemistry R.I.
     There were also presont, the Honorary Members, together with
Lord Kelvin, Lord Amherst, Sir George Stokes, Sir Andrew Noble,
Dr. Ludwig Mond, Sir James Criehton-Brownc, Sir Frederick
Bramwell, Bart., Sir Frederick Abel, Bart., Sir William Crookes,
and Lord Rayleigh.
Pbofessob Dewab said :—
     My colleague. Lord Rayleigh, in his Commemoration Lecture,
dealt so admirably and exhaustively with some of the discoveries of
our great predecessors in this Institution, that it will be unnecessary
to pursue further the lines of historical treatment in this lecture.
Instead of discoursing generally on the chemical side of the work
of Davy and Faraday and their successors, it has seemed to me more
appropriate to attempt some experimental demonstrations of the
latest modern developments in a field of inquiry opened out to
science by the labours of the two illustrious chemists just mentioned.
With this object in view, my discourse this evening will be confined
 to the subject of liquid hydrogen. Davy said : " Nothing tends so
much to the advancement of knowledge as the application of a new
instrument. The native intellectual powers of man in different times
are not so much the causes of the different success of their labours
as the peculiar nature of the means and artificial resources in their
possession." The new instrument of research, which, for the first
 time we have to experiment with before an audience, is the liquid
 form of the old inflammable air of Cavendish. Lavoisier towards the
 end of the last century had the scientific acumen to declare that in
 his opinion, "if the earth were suddenly transported into a very cold
 region, the air, or at least some of the aeriform fluids which now
 compose the mass of our atmosphere, would doubtless lose their
 elasticity for want of a sufficient temperature to retain them in that
 state. They would return to the liquid state of existence and new
 liquids would be formed, of whose properties we cannot at present
form the most distant idea." Black, about the same time, in dis
 cussing the properties of hydrogen, makes the following suggestive
observations : " We may now further remark with regard to inflam
 mable air, that it is at present considered as one of the simple or
 elementary bodies in nature. I mean, however, the basis of it, called
 the Hydrogen by the French chemists ; for the inflammable air itself,
 namely, hydrogen gas, is considered as a compound of that basis

 1899.]          Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.                  213
and the matter of heat. What appearance and properties that basis
would have, were it deprived of its latent heat and elastic form, and
qnite separated from all other matter, we cannot tell." The accuracy
of the prophecy of Lavoisier has been experimentally verified, but
until recently we had no distinctive answer to the riddle of Black.
The object of this lecture will be an attempt to advance the solution
of the problem suggested by Black a century ago. It is interesting to
note how confident Faraday was that hydrogen would ultimately be
obtained in the liquid and solid form. In the course of one of his
lectures delivered in the year 1852, he said : " There is reason to
believe we should derive much information as to the intimate nature
of these non-metallic elements if we could succeed in obtaining
hydrogen and nitrogen in the liquid or solid form. Many gases have
been liquefied ; one carbonic acid gas has been solidified ; but hydrogen
and nitrogen have resisted all our efforts of this kind. Hydrogen, in
many of its relations, acts as though it were a metal ; could it be
obtained in a liqnid or solid condition, the doubt might be settled.
This great problem, however, has yet to be solved ; nor should we
look with hopelessness on this solution ; when we reflect with wonder
—and, as I do, almost with fear and trembling, on the powers of
investigating the hidden qualities of these elements — of questioning
them, making them disclose their secrets and tell their tales—
given by the Almighty to man." It must be confessed, however, that
later physicists and chemists were almost forced to conclude that the
problem was a hopeless one. The full history of the liquefaction
of hydrogen has been dealt with in a Friday Evening Discourse
delivered in January of this year, so that all questions dealing with
the work of other investigators may for the present be omitted in
order to save time for the experimental illustrations.
    This large spherical double-walled and silvered vacuum vessel
contains one litre of liquid hydrogen. You observe it is lifted out
of a large cylindrical vessel full of liquid air. In order to diminish
the rate of evaporation it is necessary to surround the vessel in which
the hydrogen is collected with liquid air. Under such conditions
the rapidity of evaporation is about the same as that of liquid air
when kept in a similar vessel in tho ordinary way. In order to
prove that hydrogen is present in the liquid form, the simplest ex
periment is to remove the cotton-wool plug which takes the place of
a cork, and insert a metallic wire, to the end of which is attached a
ball of asbestos for the purpose of absorbing the liquid. On bring
ing it quickly into the air and applying a light, it burns with the
characteristic appearance of the hydrogen flame (Figure C, Plate III.).
The liquid can readily be poured from one variety of vacuum vessel
into another, so that by means of this unsilvered cylindrical form the
appearance of the liquid and other experiments may be projected on a
screen (Figure A, Plate III.) The liquid hydrogen appears in gentle
ebullition and is perfectly clear, only there is a white solid deposit in
the bottom of the tube, which is really solid air. This may be shown

214              Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.              [June 7,
by removing for an instant the cotton-wool stopper, when yon see a snow
of solid air falling in the liquid. It is easy to arrange a method of
carrying liquid hydrogen in a small vacuum vessel in such a way as
to prevent the access of air. This is shown in Plate I., where the
vacuum vessel, after it has been filled by dipping it into the main
supply by means of a supporting wire, is surrounded with a glass
envelope, which becomes filled with an atmosphere of hydrogen
gas constantly maintained, thereby preventing the access of air.
That the density of the liquid is vory small and is altogether
unlike liquid air is shown by dropping small pieces of cork,
which float readily in the latter liquid, but sink instantly in the
hydrogen (Figure B, Plate III.). The real density of the liquid is
only one-fourteenth that of water, so that it is by far the lightest
known liquid. This small density explains the rapidity with which
the liquid is cleared on the entrance of the air snow. The relative
smallness of the gas bubbles produced in the actively-boiling liquid
which causes an appearance of opalescence, is really due to the small
surface tension of the liquid hydrogen. The coefficient of expansion of
liquid hydrogen is some five times greater than that of liquid oxygen,
and is comparable with that of carbonic acid, about 5° from its
critical point. The latent heat of evaporation is about 190 units,
and the specific heat of the liquid is very high, and so far as my ex
periments go, leads me to the value 6. This is in very marked
contrast to the specific heat of liquid oxygen, which is about 0 ' 5.
The extraordinary lowness of its boiling point is at once apparent by
cooling a piece of metal in the liquid and then removing it into the air,
when it will be seen to condense for a moment solid air on its surface
which soon melts and falls as a liquid air. This may be collected
in a small cup, and the production of oxygen demonstrated by the
ignition of a red-hot splinter of wood after the chief portion of the
nitrogen has evaporated. If a long piece of quill tubing sealed at
one end, but open at the other, is placed in the liquid, then the part
that is cooled rapidly fills with liquid air. On stopping any further
entrance of air by closing the end of the tube, the liquid air quickly
 becomes solid, showing in the interior a hollow spindle from con
 traction, in passing from the liquid into the solid form (Figure E,
 Plate III.). On bringing the tube containing the solid from the liquid
 hydrogen bath into the air we observe liquid air running from the
 surface while the solid air inside is seen to melt (Figure D, Plate III.).
 Here is a tube into which liquid oxygen has been poured. On placing
 it in liquid hydrogen it freezes to a clear blue ice. Liquid nitrogen
 under similar circumstances forms a colourless ice. If instead of
 an open tube in free air we employ a closed vessel of about a litre
 capacity to which the quill tube is attached, then, on repeating the
 experiment, the same results follow, only the volume of the liquid
 air formed agrees with the total quantity present in the vessel.
 This suggests that any air left in the closed vessel must have a very
 small pressure. This is confirmed by attaching a mercurial gauge to

1899.]           Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.                215
any vessel containing air, when it will be seen the vacuum produced by
hydrogen cooling is equal to that of a Torricellian vacuum (Plate II.).
To reach such a high exhaustion the solid oxygen and nitrogen, at the
boiling point of hydrogen must be practically non-volatile or have an
exceedingly small vapour pressure. If the ordinary air contains free
hydrogen, helium, &c. which are non-condensable in this way of work
ing, then the vacuum would not be so high as with pure oxygen or
nitrogen. This method may be used to separate the incondensable
gases from the air. Such air vacua when examined spectroscopi-
cally show the lines of hydrogen, helium and neon. We may now
employ this process to produce high vacua, and test their exhaustion
by the character of the electric discharge. Vacuum tubes which
have been prepared in this way show extraordinary resistance to the
passage of the electric discharge ; they also show the marked phosphor
escence of the glass, characteristic of Crookes tubes (Figures F and
G, Plate III.). It is, however, the rapidity with which such high ex
haustions can be attained that is so interesting. You will observe
 that this large Geissler tube, previously exhausted to some three
 inches pressure, will, when the end part is immersed in liquid hydro
 gen, pass through all the well-known changes in the phases of
striation : the glow on the poles ; the phosphorescence of the glass ;
 iu the space of a fraction of a minute. From this it follows that
 theoretically we need not exhaust the air out of our double-walled
 vessel when liquid hydrogen has to be stored or collected. This makes
a striking contrast to the behaviour of liquid air under similar cir
cumstances. The rapid exhaustion caused by the solidification of the
 air on the surface of a double-walled unexhausted test-tube, when
 liquid hydi'ogen is placed in it, may be shown in another way. Leave
a little mercury in the vessel containing air, just as if it had been
left from making a mercurial vacuum. Now we know mercury, in
such a vacuum, can easily be made to distil at the ordinary temperature
when we cool a part of the vessel with liquid air, so that we should
expect the mercury in the unexhausted test-tube to distil on to the
surface cooled with the liquid hydrogen. This actually takes place.
 A rough comparison of the relative temperatures of boiling hydrogen
and oxygen may be made by placing two, nearly identical, hydrogen
 gas thermometers operating at constant pressure side by side and
cooling each with one of the liquids (Plate IV.). It will be seen
that the contraction in the thermometer cooled with liquid hydrogen
elevates the liquid some six times higher than that of the correspond
ing liquid column of the thermometer placed in the liquid oxygen.
A constant volume hydrogen thermometer constructed as shown in
Plate V. gave the boiling point of 21° absolute or —252° C, and a
 similar helium thermometer gave the same result. The critical tem
perature is about 32° absolute or —241° C, and the critical pressure
 about 15 atmospheres. If a closed vessel is full of hydrogen gas at
 atmospheric pressure, then, unlike the air vessels, it shows no conden
 sation when a part of it is cooled in liquid hydrogen. To produce

216               Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.            [June 7,
liquefaction we must increase the pressure of the gas, or reduce the
boiling point of the liquid hydrogen by exhaustion. Pure hydrogen
liquefied in a closed vessel is perfectly clear, showing no trace of
colour or any appearance of absorption bands in the position of the
spectrum lines. Electric sparks passing in the liquid when examined
with the spectroscope show the ordinary line spectrum without any
reversals. The vapour of boiling hydrogen is about fifteen times
denser than that of the ordinary gas, thus bringing it up to the
density of air. The liquid hydrogen, at its boiling point, is about
sixty times denser than the vapour coming off. In the case of oxygen
the density of the liquid is 255 times that of the vapour at its
boiling point.
    If a piece of cotton wool in the form of a little ball is attached
to a thread, placed in liquid hydrogen, and then brought into the
magnetic field, it is found to be strongly magnetic. This is simply
due to the condensation of solid and liquid air in the pores of the
wool. This substance we know is magnetic on account of the oxygen
it contains. Pure liquid hydrogen is not magnetic, but when the
solid air snow is in suspension in the fluid, then the magnetic
character of the latter becomes apparent when the vessel is placed
in the magnetic field.
     All the phosphorescent effects produced at low temperatures
formerly described are intensified at the much lower temperature of
boiling hydrogen. To stimulate phosphorescence at the temperature
of liquid air, ultra-violet light had to be employed, and then the solid
body, organic or inorganic, allowed to rise in temperature. It was
during the rise of temperature that the marked luminous emission took
place. _ Amongst inorganic bodies the platino-cyanide of ammonia is
very remarkable in this respect, and generally the group in organic
chemistry known as the ketonic bodies. In the case of bodies cooled
in liquid hydrogen, it appears that some show phosphorescence by
simple stimulation with the light coming from an ordinary carbon
filament electric lamp. The light in this case coming through glass
contains only, we may say, the visible spectra, so that the ultra-violet
rays are not now essential. It is strange to find photographic action
still relatively considerable. At the boiling point of liquid air the
photographic intensity is reduced by 80 per cent, of the value at the
ordinary temperature. The photographic effect on a sensitive film im
mersed in liquid hydrogen as compared with the same placed in liquid
air is as one to two, so that 10 per cent, of the action at ordinary tem
peratures still remains. As every kind of chemical action so far ex
amined is non-existent at this extreme temperature, these experiments
suggest that the cause of the photographic action may be essentially
physical. No better illustration could be given of the rapid diminu
tion of chemical action at low temperatures than to remind you that
fluorine gas, the most active elementary body, under such conditions,
may be liquefied and kept in glass vessels.
     The effect of a tomporature of 21° absolute on the electric re

Plate I.

Plate II.

Pl.ATK III.



Plate V.
         EXHAUST


1899.]            Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.                 217
sistance of the pure metals is a problem of great interest. In passing
from the melting point of ice to the boiling point of hydrogen,
pure platinum loses resistance till only -4'6- remains, and in the case of
electrolytic copper the remaining resistance is only ^7 of what it was
at starting. Such results suggest the approach to the condition, of
what may be called relatively perfect electric conductivity as the zero
of absolute temperature is approached.
     Liquid hydrogen is a non-conductor of electricity, and as regards
being an insulator for currents of high potential, it is comparable to
that of liquid air. The properties of the liquid we have witnessed
in no way suggest the metallic character that chemists like Faraday,
Dumas and Graham anticipated ; and, for the future, hydrogen must
be classed with the non-metallic elements.
     The liquefaction of hydrogen has been the consequence of some
ten years' devotion to low temperature research. To many it may
seem that the results have been indeed costly in more ways than one.
The scientific worker who prepares the way for future development
in this sort of inquiry generally selects complicated methods, and is
attracted or diverted into many by-paths of investigation. He may
 leave to his successors any credit that may be attached to cheapness
and ease of production of the agent of research—results that must
invariably follow. Liquid hydrogen i3 an agent of research which
 will enable us to examine into the properties of matter at the lowest-
maintained temperature ever reached by man. Much work has still
to be accomplished. One of the most fascinating problems of the study
 of low temperatures has been materially advanced. The interval
 separating us from the zero of absolute temperature has been reduced
 to practically one-fourth the value that it stood at when liquid air
 was the cooling agent. We can produce in pure Helium instantaneous
 temperatures bringing us still nearer the goal. Now we can main
 tain a temperature within less than 16° of this zero, and the in
 vestigator who will make the further attempt to reduce this distance
 by an equivalent amount, thereby reaching a steady temperature of
 4° or 5° absolute, will indeed face a problem of almost insuperable
 difficulty. Well, let us take comfort in an aphorism of Davy's :
 " Fortunately for the active and progressive nature of the human
 mind, even experimental rosearch is only a method of approximation
 to truth."
     The success of the demonstration has been largely due to the
 unremitting exertions of my chief assistant, Mr. Robert Lennox, and
 to the valuable aid given by Mr. J. W. Heath.
     Lobd Kelvin, in moving a vote of thanks to Professor Dewar for
 his brilliant, beautiful, and splendidly interesting lecture, said that if
 those present wished to measure the importance of the occasion, let
 them think what Count Rumford, or Davy, or Faraday would have
 thought, could they have been present. They could not have hoped
 for their scientific dreams and prophecies to bo so splendidly verified

218             Centenary Commemoration, 1799-1899.           [June 7,
within the century. The end of experiment in research at low tem
peratures had by no means been reached, and perhaps in a few years
substances yet unknown and more refractory than hydrogen would
have been found which would bring the experimenter to within five
degrees of the absolute zero.
    The vote was seconded by Sib Geoege Stokes and carried by
acclamation.
    Pbofessob Dewab, in reply, referred in appreciative terms to the
part taken in the liquefaction of hydrogen by his assistant, Mr.
Lennox. For himself, his chief function had been to get the where
withal to carry on the experiments, and without the assistance he
had received from numerous friends they would have been absolutely
impossible.
    Diplomas of honorary membership were next presented to Pro
fessor Cornu and Professor Newcomb.
    Sib Fbedebick Bbamwell proposed a vote of thanks to the Duke
of Northumberland for the manner in which he had performed his
duties as President of the Institution.
    This was seconded by Dr. Mond and supported by Pbofessob
Babkeb, on behalf of the guests from beyond the sea, who, he said,
had been royally entertained, listening to lectures such as the world
had never before heard, and witnessing experiments such as it had
never seen.
    The proceedings ended with the reply of the Duke of Nobth
umbebland.
    Pbofessob and Mbs. Dewab gave a Reception after the lecture
in their rooms to the guests of the Institution.
                       Thubsday, June 8, 1899.
    By invitation of the teachers of Natural Science in the University
of Oxford, the Guests of the Institution visited the University and
had Luncheon in Christ Church Hall. Upon five of the guests the
honorary degree of D.C.L., was conferred.

1899.1                      General Monthly Meeting.                         219
                  GENERAL          MONTHLY
                             Monday,              MEETING,
                                        July 3, 1899.
   Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S. Treasurer and
                          Vice -President, in the Chair.
                            The Lord Kinnaird,
                            A. F. Lindemann, Esq.
                            Hon. W. J. Ward,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.             1
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Sir Henry
Thompson, Bart, for his donation of £25, and to Mr. Henry Vaughan
for his donation of £20, to the Fund for the Promotion of Experi
mental Research at Low Temperatures.
      The cordial thanks of the Members were returned to the Master
and Wardens of the Merchant Taylors' Company ; to the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress ; to Dr. and Mrs. Mond ; to Dr. and Mrs. Dewar ;
to Professor William Odling and to the Teachers of Natural Science
at Oxford, for their hospitality to the Members and guests of the
Royal Institution during the recent Centenary Celebrations. The
Managers reported that they had received gratifying assurances from
their guests that the Centenary Celebrations, as a whole, were highly
appreciated and considered not unworthy of the past history of the
Royal Institution, and of good augury for that new century of scien
tific work to which it has now to apply itself. Thus Professor Cornu,
on his return to Paris, reported to the French Academy of Sciences
as follows :—
    " La Koyal Institution of Great Britain, fondée en 1799 par Benjnmin
Thompson, Comte de Rumford, fêtait les 5, 6 and 7 juin, le Centenaire de sa
foudation; S. A. K. le Prince de Galles, Vice-Patron de l'Institution, a
gracieusement demandé qu'on lui présentât nos confrères et leur a remis, dans
l'une des séances commémorativea, le diplôme de membre honoraire de l'Institu
tion Boyale. Lord Rayleigh et M. James Dewar out rappelé, dans deux
remarquables Commemoration Lectures, les principales découvertes faites dans
les laboratoires de l'Institution Boyale, par Thomas Youug, Sir Humphry Davy,
Michael Faraday, John Tyndall.
     " Les expériences les plus intéressantes ont été exécutées ; en particulier,
celles qui se rapportent a l'interférence des sons et à l'hydrogène liquide ont
excité un véritable enthousiasme. Nous avons pu mesurer ainsi l'immense
chemin parcouru depuis un siècle, grâce aux efforts déployés daus cette belle
 Institution.
     " Enfin l'Université d'Oxford a convié tous les savants étrangers présents à
Londres à visiter ses collèges, plus de cinq fuis séculaires, qui renferment des
 richesses d'une valeur inestimable.

 220                            General Montldy Meeting.                       [July 3,
     " Les deux Universités de Cnmbridge et d'Oxford ont témoigné à nos
 confreres leur sentiments d'estime et confraternité scientifiques en leur conférant
 des titres de docteur honoraire.
     " Xous rapportons donc de notre séjour parmi les savants anglais non seule
 ment l'impn^ion de la plus cordiale hospitalité, mais encore une véritable
 admiration pour la manière dont ils cultivent et honorent la science. L'histoire
 de ces Universités, et particulièrement celle de l'Institution Royale de la Grande-
Bretagne, ofifre un example bien instructif : on voit par quelle méthode une
 nation, jalouse de s'élever au premier rang du progrès scientifique, d'encourager
 les recherches élevées et d'en faire comprendre les applications, parvient au but
qu'elle s'est proposé.
     " Elle choisit a chaque époque les savants les plus illustres, leur donne a la
fois l'indépendance et les moyens matériels sans lesquels aujourd'hui on ne
saurait réaliser de grandes découvertes.
     " Il y a là un sujet de méditations et d'études pour ceux qui ont l'honneur de
diriger le mouvement scientifique et qui s'otlbrcent de maintenir notre I ays au
rang élevé que ses traditions lui imposent."
      The Managers also reported that the Centenary Celebrations had
not affected the pecuniary resources of the Royal Institution, as all
expenses in connection therewith had been defrayed by private con
tributions. A balance remaining over of the sums contributed,
amounting to £87, has been paid over to the Fund for the Promotion
of Experimental Research.
      The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      pbom
The Secretary of State for India—The Moghul Architecture of Fathpur-Sikri.
      By E. W. Smith. 4to. 1898.
The Lords of the Admiralty—Report of the Astronomer Boyal to Board of
      Visitors, 1899. 4to.
The Meteorological Office—Hourly Means for 1895. 4to. 1899.
The British Museum Trustees—Antiquities from the City of Benin. By C. H.
      Bead. fol.
   Facsimiles         Boyal, etc. Autographs. Edited by G. F. Warner, fol. 1898.
                 from1899.
   Catalogue of Bronzes. By H. B. Walters. 8vo. 1899.
   Catalogue of Greek Coins. By W. Wroth. 8vo. 1899.
Accadcmia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Classe di Scienze Fisiche, Matematiche e
      Naturali. Atti, Série Quinta : Rendiconti. 1Q Semestre, Vol. VIII. Fasc.
      10. 8vo.
American    Academy1899.of Arts and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XXXIV. Nos. 15-17.
      8vo. 1899.
Astronomical    Society, Itoyal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LIX. No. 8. 8vo. 1899.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XX. Part 6. 8vo. 1899.
Boston Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, April and May, 1899. 8vo.
British Artronomical Association—Journal, Vol. IX. No. 7. 8vo. 1899.
Brough, B. Hi. Esq. (the Author)—The Jubilee of the Austrian Society of
      Engineers. 8vo. 18H9.
Brymmr, Douglas, Esq. (the Archivist)—Report on Canadian Archives, 1898. 8vo.
      1899. Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol X. Part 2. 8vo. 1899.
Cambridge
   Transactions, Vol. XVII. Parts 3, 4. 8vo. 1S99.
Canada, Club—Journal
Camera                      for June, 1899. of8vo.tho Meteorological Service of Canada
           Meteorological Service—Report
      for 1896. 2 vols. 4to. 1898.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal. Vol. XVIII. No. 5. 8vo. 1899.

1899.]                              General Monthly Meeting.              221
Chemical Society—Journal for June, 1899. 8vo.
   Proceedings, Nos. 211, 212. 8vo. 1899.
Cracocie, VAcadcmie dm Sciences—Bulletin International, 1899, Nos. 4, 5.
      8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for June, 1899. 8vo.
   Analyst for June, 1899. 8vo.
   Astrophysical
   Anthony's         Journal forBulletin
                Photographic           May, 1899.  for June, 1899. 8vo.
   Athenaeum
   Author         for June,
            for June,     1899.1899.  8vo.4to.
   Bimetal list
   Brewers'       for June,
              Journal            1899. 1899.
                          for June,         8vo. 8vo.
   Chemist and
   Chemical    News     for June,
                    Druggist           1899. 1899.
                                   for Juue,      4to. 8vo.
   Electrical
   Electrical
   Education Engineer
                Engineering
                for June, for  1899.for June,
                                    June,     1899.1899.fol. 8vo.
   Engineer
   Engineering
   Electricityfor
   Electrical    forfor
                Review
                    June,
                      June,
                        June,
                           for1899.
                                  June,
                                   1899.fol.
                                 1899.      8vo.
                                              fol. 8vo.
                                           1899.
   Homoeopathic Review for June, 1899. 8vo.
   Industries
   Invention for
   Horological  andJournal
                     June,
                       Iron for forJune,
                               1899.           1899. fol.
                                     June, 1899.         8vo.
   Journal of State Medicine for June, 1899. 8vo.
   Law Journal for June, 1899. 8vo.
   Lightning
   London
   Modern
   Motor
   Machinery
    Physical
    Nature
    Nuovo
    New
    Photographic
          Church
           Car
            Cimento
            for
             Technical
             Machinery
               Review
                 Journal
                 for
                 June,
                 Market
                      News
                      June,
                        for
                     Magazine
                          for
                          1899.
                            Education
                            for
                              May,
                               for
                                for
                                1899.
                                May,
                                   June,
                                    June,
                                     June,
                                      4to.
                                       1899.
                                     for 1899.
                                          June,
                                           8vo.
                                             1899.
                                              1899.
                                              Gazette
                                               1899.
                                                  8vo.
                                                   1899.
                                                    8vo.8vo.
                                                         8vo.
                                                          for8vo.
                                                       8vo.   June, 1899.
    Popular
    ScienceHealth
    Public    ScienceEngineer
             Abstracts,     Vol. II.
                         Monthiy      forfor
                                          Part
                                            June,(i. 1899.
                                              June,    8vo. 8vo.
                                                       1899.    8vo.
                                                               1899.
    Science Siftings
    Terrestrial          for June,
                  Magnetism              June, 1899. 8vo.
                                    for 1899.
    TropicalforAgriculturist
    Travel       June, 1899. for         June, 1899.
                                      8vo.
    Zoophilist for June, 1899. 4to.
 Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, No. 140. 8vo. 1899.
 Florence, Ihblioteca NazionaU Centrale—Bollettino, Nos. 322-324. 8vO. 1899.
 Franhlin Institute—Journal for June, 1899. 8vo.
 Geonraphiad Soiriety, Royal—Geographical Journal for June, 1899. 8vo.
 lludleston, W. U. Esq. F.lt.S. M.R.l. (the Author)—The Eastern Margin of the
       North Atlantic. 8vo. 1899.
 Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for June, 1S99.
 Johns Hopkins University—American Chemical Journal for June, 1899. 8vo.
     University Circulars, No. 140. 4to. 1899.
 London Chamber of Commerce—Report from tho Special Committee on Secret
       Commissions, fol. 1899.
 Madras Government Museum—Bulletin, Vol II. No. 3. 8vo. 1899.
 Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs and Proceedings, Vol.
       XLI1I. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1898-99.

 222                          General Monthly Meeting.                       [July 3,
Manchester Museum, Owens College—General Guide to the Natural History Collec
     tions.to the
   Index              1899. Nature " of Linnrous. By C. D. Sherborn. 8vo. 1899.
               8vo." Systema
   Notes from the Manchester Museum, No. 5. 8vo. 1899.
Microscopical
Mining    and Mechanical
                 Society, Royal—Journal,
                            Engineers, North1899,
                                              of England   8vo.
                                                  Part 3. Institution of—Transactions,
      Vol. XLVIII. Parts 2-4. 4to. 1898-99.
Navy League—Navy League Journal for June, 1899. 8vo.
New York Academy of Sciences—Annals, Vol. XI. Part 3. 8vo. 1898.
New Zealand, Registrar-General—Statistics of the Colony of New Zealand for
     1897. fol.Society
Odontological        1898.of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXXI. No. 7. 8vo.
      1899.
Paris, SocieU Francaise de Physique—Seances, 1898, Fasc. 4. 8vo.
   Bulletin, No. 134. 8vo. 1899.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for June, 1899. 8vo.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for Mav, 1899. 8vo.
Physical Society— Proceedings, Vol. XVI. Part 6. 8vo. 1899.
Queensland Government—Geological Map of the Charters Towers Goldfields.
     6 sheets, fol. 1898.
Royal Irish Academy—Proceedings, Third Series, Vol. V No. 2. 8vo. 1899.
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CXCII. A, Nob. 236,
     237.
  Proceedings,     No. 415. 8vo. 1899.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—
  Mathematisch- I'hyeische Classe—
     Berichte, 1899, No. 3. 8vo.
Selhorne Society—Nature Notes for June, 1899. 8vo.
Sutherland, D. A. Esq. (the Author)—The Petroleum Industry of Roumania. 8vo.
     1899.
Swedish Academy of Sciences, Royal—Ofversigt, Band 35. 8vo. 1899.
Tacchini, Prof. P. Hon. Mem. R.I. (the Author)—Memorie della Societa degli
     Spottroscopisti Italiani, Vol. XXVIII. Disp. 4. 4to. 1899.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for June, 1899. 8vo.
United States Department of Agriculture— Experiment Station Record, Vol. X.
     Nos. 9. 10. 8vo. 1899.
  Farmers' Bulletin. No. 93. 8vo. 1899.
United States Geological Survey—Eighteenth Annual Report, 189G-97, Parts 1-5.
     4to.States
United           Patent Office—Official Gazette, Vol. LXXXVII. Nos. 9-12. 8vo.
             1897-98.
     1899.
Vienna, Geological Institute, Imperial—Verhandlungen, 1899, Nos. 5-8. 8vo.
Wh'tty, Rev. J. I. (the Author)—Palestine Exploration. 8vo. 1899.
Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1899, Part 1. 8vo.
Zurich. Naturforschende Gesellschafi—Vierteljahrsschrift, Jahrg. XLIV. Heft 1 , 2.
     8vo. 1899.

1899.],                     General Monthly Meeting.                              223
                  GENERAL            November 6,MEETING,
                          Monday,MONTHLY              1899.
     His Grace The Duke of Nobthumbebland, K.G. President,
                                   in the Chair.
               H.H. The Thakore Sahib of Gondal, D.C.L. LL.D.
                Geoffrey Foster Barrett, Esq.
               John B. Broun-Morison, Esq., F.S.A.
               A. Henry Savage Landor, Esq.
                Thomas Cunningham Porter, Esq., M.A.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to " A Lady
Member" for her donation of £100, and to Mr. George Matthey,
F.R.S. for his donation of £100 to the Fund for the Promotion of
Experimental Research at Low Temperatures.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Miss Elinor
Busk and Miss Frances Busk, for a Portrait of Mr. George Bnsk,
F.K.S., Treasurer of the Royal Institution from 1873 to 1886.
    The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
    FROM
table,  and the thanks of the Members returned for the some, viz. :—
The Lords of the Admiralty—Report of Cape Observatory for 1 898. fol. 1899.
  Independent Day Numbers for 1901 at Cape Observatory. 8vo. 1898.
The Goternor-General of India—General Iteport on Work of Geological Survey
    of India, 1898-99. 8vo. 1899.
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1899, Part I. 8vo.
     1899.
Aceademia dei Lincei, Iieale, Roma—Classe di Scienze Fisiche, Matematiche e
     Naturali. Atti, Serie Quinta : Rendiconti. 1" Semestre, Vol. VIII. Fasc.
Agricultural
     11, 12;Academy
American      Society,
              2°     ofBoyal—Journal,
                        ArteVol.
                 Semestre,   and VIII.
                                 Sciences—Proceedings,
                                       Fnsc.
                                        Vol. X.
                                             1-7.Parts
                                                    8vo.2, Vol.  8vo.
                                                                  XXXIV.
                                                           •3.1899.   1899.Nos. 18-23.
    8vo. Geographical
American    1899.         Society—Bulletin, Vol. XXXI. No. 3. 8vo. 1899.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 159. 8vo. 1899.
Anonymous—Reply to the so-called Criticism and Analysis of Professor Mcintosh
     on Trawling and Trawling Investigations. 8vo. 1899.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Vol. LXVIII. Part 1, No. 1, extra No. 1 and
     Plates ; Part 2, No. 1 ; Part 3, No. 1. 8vo. 1899.
  Proceedings, 1899, Nos. 4-7. 8vo.

224                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [Nov. 6,
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal for July-Oct. 18!)9. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol LIX. No. 9. 8vo. 1899.
Australasian Association for the Advancement of Science—Report of the Seven
      teenth Meeting (Sydney, 1898). 8vo.
Australian Museum, Sydney—Report of Trustees for 1898. 8vo. 1899.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XX. Part 7. 8vo. 1899.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Rnyal—Abhandlungen, Band LXIX. No. 3 ;
      Band LXXI. No. 1. 4to. 1899.
   Sitzungsberichte, 1899, Heft 2. 8vo. 1899.
BidieeU, Shelfnrd, Esq. M.A. LL.B. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Curiosities of
      Light and Sight. 8vo. 1899.
Boston Public Library —Monthly Bulletin, Vol. IV. Nos. 7-10. 8vo. 1899.
   A selected Bibliography of the Anthropology and Ethnology of Europe. By
      Wm. Z. Ripley. 8vo. 1899.
Boston Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Vol. III. No. 12. 8vo. 1899.
Boston Society of Natural History—Proceedings, Vol. XXVII. pages 89-106.
      Vol. XXVlil. Nos. 13-16. 8vo. 1896-99.
   Memoirs, Vol. V. Nos. 4, 5. 4to. 1899.
Botanic Society, Royal—Quarterly Record, N»s. 74-79. 8vo. 1898-99.
British Architects, lioyal Institute of—Kalendar, 1899-1900. 8vo.
   Journal, 3rd Series, Vol. VI. Nos. 16-20. 4to. 1899.
British Astronomical Association—Journal, Vol. IX. Nos. 8, 9. 8vo. 1899.
British Museum (Natural History)—Hand List of the Genera and Species of Birds.
      By R. B. Sharpe. Vol. L 8vo. 1899.
   The (ienera and Species of Blastoidea. By F. A. Bather. 8vo. 1899.
   Catalogue of the African Plants collected by D. F. Welwitaoh. Vol. II. Part 1.
      By A. B. Rendle. 8vo. 1899.
British South Africa Company—Reports on the Administration of Rhodesia,
      1897-98. 8vo. 1899.
   Rhodesia. 8vo. 1899.
Buenos Aires, Museo Nacional—Annales, Totno VI. 8vo. 1899.
   Comunieacionos, Tomo I. No. 8. 8vo. 1899.
Bureau Dimographique National Argentin—Bulletin Démographique Argentin,
      Année [. Numéro 1. fol. 1899.
Cambridge University Library—Report of the Library Syndicate for 1898. 4to.
      1899.
Camera Club—Journal for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
Canadian Institute—Proceedings, Vol. II. I'art 2, No. 8. 8vo. 1899.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XVIII. Nos. 6-9. 8vo. 1899.
Chemical Society—Journal for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
Chicago, Academy of Sciences—Fortieth Annual Report (for 1897). 8vo. 1898.
   Geological and Natural History Survey Bulletin, No. 2. 8vo. 1897.
Chicago, Firld Columbian Museum—Zoological Series, Bulletin, Vol. I. Nos. 12-15.
      8vo. 1899.
   Geological Series, Vol. 1. Nos. 3-6. 8vo. 1899.
   Publications, No. 39. 8vo. 1899.
City of London College—Calendar for 1899-1900. 8vo. 1899.
Clowes, Professor brank, M.R.I, (part Author)—Bacterial Treatment of Crude
      Sewage. By V. Clowes and A. C. Houston. 2 Parts, fol. 1898-99.
Colonial Institute, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XXX. 8vo. 1899.
Cornwall Polytechnic Society, Royal—Sixty-sixth Annual Report, 1898. 8vo.
Cornwall, Royal Institution of—.Journal, Vol. XIII. Part 4. 8vo. 1898.
Cotgreave, A. Esq. (the Compiler)—A Contents Subject Index to General and
      Periodicid Literature, Parts 1-34, 1899. 8vo.
Cracovie, V Academic des Sciences—Bulletin International, 1899, No. 5. 8vo.
 Civil Engineers, Institution of—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. CXXXVI. 8vo.
      1899.
Deuar, Professor, F.R.S. M R.I.—Handbuch der organischen Chemie, 3rd ed.
      Vols. I. et sen.. By F. Bcilsttin. 1893etseq.

1899.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                       225
Downing, A. M. W. Esq. M.A. D.Sc. (the Author)—Precession Tables adapted to
      Newcomb's Value of the Precessional Constant and reduced to the Epoch
      1910-0. 4to. 1899.
Dunsink Observatory, Trinity College, Dublin—Astronomical Observations and
      Researches made at Dunsink, Harts 1. 2, 4-8. 4to. 1890-99.
East India Asmrfation—Journal, Vol. XXX. No. 17. 8vo. 1899.
Editors—Aeronautical Journal for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Analyst for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   American Journal of Science for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Astropbysical Journal for June and August, 1899.
   AtheiHBum for July-Oct. 1899. 4to.
   Author for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Bimetalliat for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Brewers' Journal for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Chemical News for July-Oct. 1899. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for July-Oct. 1899. fol.
   Electrical Engineering for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Electrical Review for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Electricity for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Engineer for July-Oct. 1899. fol.
   Engineering for July-Oct. 1899 fol.
   Homoeopathic Review for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Horological Journal for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Industries and Iron for July-Oct. 1899. fol.
   Invention for July-Oct. 18:i9.
   Journal of Physical Chemistry for May-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Journal of State Medicine for .luly-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Law Journal for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Life-Boat Journal for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Lightning for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   London Technical Education Gazette for July-Oct. 1899.
   Machinery Market for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Modern Machinery for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Nature for July-Oct. 1899. 4to.
   New Church Magazine for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Nuovo Cimento for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Photographic News for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   Physical Review for Aug.-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
    Popular Science Monthly for Julv-Oct. 1899.
   Public Health Engineer for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
    Science Abstracts, Vol. II. Parts 7-10. 8vo. 1899.
    Science of Man for Julv-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
    Science Sittings for July-Oct. 1899.
    Terrestrial Magbetism for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
    Travel for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
    Tropical Agriculturist for July-Oct. 1899.
    Zoophilist for July-Oct. 1899. 4to.
 Electrical Engineers, Institution of— Journal, No. 141. 8vo. 1899.
 Emigrants' Information Office—Combined Circular, Oct. 1899. 8vo.
 Florence, Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale— Bolletino, Nos. 327-331. 8vo. 1899.
 Florence, lieale Accademia dei Gevrgnfili—Att'\, Vol. XXII. Disp. 1", 2". 8vo.
       1899.
 Franklin Institute—Journal for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
 Geological Society—Quurterlv Journal, No. 219. 8vo. 1899.
 Gladstone, Dr. J. E. F.R'S. M RI. -Tijdsohrift van het K. Nedeilandsoh
       Aardrijkskundig
     Vol.                  93.)
            XVI. (No.Genootschap,      Deel XV. 8vo. 1898.             Q

22G                          General Monthly Meeting.                    [Nov. 6
Grey, Henry, Esq. (the Author)—Trowel, Chisel ami Brush. 4th ed. 16mo. 1899'
   A Pocket Encyclopaedia of Useful Knowledge. New ed. 16mo. 1899.
   A Bird's-eye View of English Literature. New ed. 16mo. 1899.
Guarini-Foresio, Entile. Esq. (the Author)—Transmission de l'énergie electrique
     pur un fil et sans fil. Svo. 1899.
   Telegraphic sans fil : Repetitcurs, 1899. 8vo.
Haarlem, Sociiti Hollandaise dee Sciences—(Euvres completes de Ch. Huygens,
     Vol. VIH. 4to. 1899.
   Archives Neorlandaises, Série II. Tome III. Livr. 1. 8vo. 1899.
Head, A. P. Esq. (Joint Author)—Lake SuIjerior Iron Ore Mines. By J. Head,
     M. Inst. E.E, and A. P. Head, M. Inst. K E. 8vo. 1899.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XXIII. Part 1. 8vo. J899.
Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Jnurnal for July-Oct. 1899.
International Arbitration Association—A History of the Peace Conference at the
      Ha^ue. 8vo. 1899.
Johns
Iron andHopkins
           Steel Institute
                  University—American
                           —Journal, 1899. No. 1. of8vo.
                                        Journal      Philology, Vol. XX. Parts 1, 2.
     8vo. 1899.
   American   Ohemionl Journal for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
   University Circulars, No. 141. 4to. 1899.
   Uuiv-rsitv Studies, Series XVI. Nos. 6-12; Series XVII. Nos. 1-5. 8vo.
      1898-99.
Junior Engineers, Institution of—Record nnd Transactions, Vol. VIII. 8vo. 1899.
Kerntler, Franz, Esq. (the Author)—Die Uuitat des absoluten Maass-systoms in
      Bezug auf magnetische und elektrisuhe Giossen. 8vo. 1899.
Knox, H. T. C. Esq. M R I.—Britain on and beyond the Sea. By C. H. Crofts.
      16mo.John.
 Leighton,         Esq. M.R.I.—.Journal of the Ex-Libris Society, Vols. I.-VIII. ;
               1899.
      Vol. IX. Parts 1-10. 4to. 1891-99.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 174. 175, 237, 238. 8vo. 1899.
   Trnnsaciions: Zoology, Vol. VII. Parts 5-8; Botany, Vol. V. Parts 9. 10.
      4to. 1898-99.
 Macpherson,    Mrs. Breiester (the Author)—Omnipotence belongs only to the
      Beloved. 16mo. 1896.
   The Twelve Sonships in Jesus Christ. 8vo. 1899.
Madras Government Museum—Report on the Museum and Connemara Public
     Library. 8vo. 1898-99.
Manchester Geo'ogical Society—Transactions, Vol. XXVI. Parts 7. 8. 8vo. 1899.
ManclKster Museum. Owens College—Report for 1898-99. 8vo. 1899g
Me hanicnl Engineers. Institution of—Proceedings, 1899, Nos. 1, 2. vo.
Meteorological Society, Royal—Meteorological Record, No. 72. 8vo. 1899.
   Quarterly Journal, Nos. 110, 111. 8vo. 1899.
 Metropolitan Asylums Board—Annual Report for 1898-99. 8vo. 1899.
Mexico, Sociedad Cientifica "Antonio Alzate"—Memorias, Tomo XII. Nos. 4-8.
      8vo. 1899.
Microscopiml Society, Royal—Journal, 1899, Parts 4, 5. 8vo.
 Mori'on, Alexander, M.D. M.R.I, (the Author)—On the Relation of the Nervous
      System to Disease and Disorder in the Viscera. 8vo. 1899.
Natal Colony of—Report on the Mining Industry of Natal for 1S98. fol. 1899.
Navy League—Navy League Journal for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
 New Jersey Geological Survey—Annual Report of the State Geologist for 189S.
       South 1899.
New 8vo.       Wales, The Agent-General for—The Jenolau Caves and the Bine
      Mountains, 1799-1899. 8vo. 1899.
 New South Wales, Royal Society of—Journal. Vol. XXXII. Svo. 1898.
 New York Academy of Sciences—Annals, Vol. XII. Part 1. 8vo. 1899.
 Odontological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXXI. No. 8. 8vo. 1899.
Vnnes, Prof. I). H. K.—Communications from the Physical Laboratory of Leiden
      University, No 49. 8vo. 1899.

 1899.]                         General Monthly Meeting.                                 227
 Parit, Sociiti Francaise de Physique—Seances, 1899, Fate. 1. 8vo.
    Bulletin, Nos. 135, 136. 8vo. 1899.
 Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for July-Oot. 1899. 8vo.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for June-Sept 1899. 8vo.
Pollock, Sir Frederick, Bart. M.A. LL.D. M.R.I.—The Complete Italian Master
       (Italian Grammar). By Signor Veneroni. (Bound by Faraday.) Leghorn,
       1805. Hie Agent-General for—Guide to Queensland. By C. S. Rutlidge.
Queensland,
       8v.i. 1899.
Radcliffe Observatory, Oxford—Badcliffo Observations, Vol. XLVII. 1890-91.
Rio de        1899. Obserratorio—Annuario, 1899. 8vo.
      8vo.Janeiro,
Home, Ministry of Public Works—Giornale del Genio Civile, 1899, Fasc. 7. 8vo.
       1899.
Royal
   Proceedings,
       170-177;
       1899.
         Society
         College
          SocietyofVol.
                   Nos.
                    ofEdinburgh—Proceedings,
                      Surgeons
                          CXCII.
                          410-419.
                         London—Philosophical
                               of England—Calendar,
                                  A. 8vn.
                                      No. 238;
                                            1899.Vol.
                                                   Transactions,
                                                  Vol.  CXUIII.
                                                       XXII.
                                                          1899.No.8vo.
                                                                   A.
                                                                    Vol.
                                                                    5. Nos.CXCI.
                                                                         8vo.   1899.B. Nos.
                                                                              239-213.   4to.
Sanitary Institute—Journal. Vol. XX. Purts 2, 3. 8vo. 1899.
«Sun Roman, Francisco J. Esq. (the Compiler)—Carta Geogrufica del desierto i
      cordilleras de Atacama. 5 sheets, fol.
Sax-on Society of Sciences, Boyal—
   Matltematisch-Physische Classe—
      Berichte, 1899, No. 4. 8vo.
      Abhandlungen, Band XXV. No. 3. 8vo. 1899.
   Philologisch-Historische Classe—
      Berichte, 1899, Nos. 1-3. 8va
      Abhandlungen, Band XVIII. No. 5. 8vo. 1899.
SeVborne Society—Nature
Smithsonian                   Notes to
               Institution—Index     forthe
                                         July-Oct.
                                            Literature  of Thallium,
                                                    1899.    8vo.      1861-1896. By M.
      Doan. 8vo. 1899. (Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1171.)
Society of Arts—Journal for July-Oct. 1899. 8vo.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Statistical Tubles for 1898. 8vo. 1899.
St. Petersbourg, I 'Academic Imperinle des Sciences —Bulletin, Tome VIII. No. 5;
      Tome IX. Nos. 1-5; Tome X. Nos. 1-4. 8vo. 1898-99.
   Mémoires, Tome VII. No. 4; T.ino VIII. Nos. 1-5. 4to. 1898-99.
Statistical Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. LXII. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1899.
Swclish Academy of Sciences, Royal—Handlingar, Band XXXI. 4lo. 1898.
   Bihang, Vol. XXIV. 8vo. 1899.
Taechini, Prof. P. Hon. Mem. R.I. (the AuOior)—Memorie della Societa degli
     SpettroscopUti Italiani, Vol. XXVIII. Disp. 5-8. 4to. 1899.
Teyler Museum, Haarlem—Archives, Série II. Vol. VI. Part 3. 8va 1899.
Tommasina, T. Esq. (the Author)—Sur un curieux phenoinfcne d'adhi5rcnce des
      limailles metalliques sous Taction du courant electrique. 4to. 1899.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for July-Sept. 1899. 8vo.
United States Army, Surgeon-General's Office—Index Catalogue, Second Series,
     Vol. IV. 4to. 1899.
United States Department of Agriculture—Experiment Station Record, Vol. X.
     No. 11. 8vo. 1899.
  Monthly Weather Review for April-July, 1899. 4to.
  Weather Bureau Bulletin, No. 26. 8vo. 1899.
  Experiment Station Bulletin, Nos. 28, 67. 8vo. 1899.
United States Geological Surrey—Atlas to Monograph No. XXXI. fol. 1898.
  Tables of the Mineral Products of the United States, 1888-1897. fol
     1898.
  Nineteenth Annual Report, Parts 1, 4, 6. 4to. 1898-99.
  Monographs, Nos. XXIX. XXXI. XXXV. 4to. 1889.
                                                                               Q 2

228                        General Monthly Meeting.                  [NoT. 6,
United Statet Patent Office—Official Gazette, Vol. LXXXVII. No. 13; Tol-
     LXXXVIII.
University         ; Vol. LXXXIX.
            of London—Calendar,  1899-
                                     Nob.
                                       1900.     8vo. 1899.
                                          1-4. 8vo.     1898-99.
Upsal, Uoyal Society of Sciences—Nova Acta, Third Series, Vol. XVIIl. Fast L
     4to.zur1899.
Verein       Befdrderung des Gewerbfleissts in Preussen —Verhandlungen, 1899,
     Heft 5-7. 8vo.
Victoria Institute—Journal, Nos. 121-124. 8vo. 1899.
Victoria, The Agent-General for —Victoria, Its Mines and Minerals. foL 1899.
Vienna, Geological Institute, Imperial— jahrbuch, Band XL1X. Heft 1. Iml
     1899.
Vlugt, Dr. W. Van der—Transvaal versus Great Britain. 8vo. 1899.
Wisconsin Academy—Transactions, Vol. XII. Part 1. 8vo. 1898.
Wright, Messrs. J. and Co.—The Medical Annual for 1899. 8vo.
Terkes Observatory, Chicago—Bulletin, Nos. 6-11. 8vo. 1899.
Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1899, Parts 2, 3. 8vo.
  Transactions, Vol. XV. Parts 2, 3. 4to. 1899.

1899.1                       General Monthly Meeting.                           229
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, December 4th, 1899.
   Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                         Vice-President, in the Chair.
                  Professor Henry E. Armstrong, Ph.D. LL.D. F.R.8.
                  John Herbert Bowman, Esq.
                  John Storrs Brookfield, Esq. B.A. M.D.
                  John B. Carrington, Esq.
                   W. Brodrick Cloete, Esq.
                   Lionel Leigh Smith, Esq. M.A.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      The following letter from the Clerk of the Goldsmiths' Company
 was read :—
                                                    "Goldsmiths' Hall, London, E.C.
                                                          November IMh. 1s99.
     " Dear Sir,—I am directed to inform you that the attention of the Court of
 the Goldsmiths' Company having been drawn to the fact that the Boyal Institu
 tion of Great Britain has lately celebrated its Centenary, they have, in order to
 mark their sense of the importance of that event, been pleased to make to the
 Institution the further grant of £1000, for the continuation and development of
 original research, and especially for the prosecution of further investigations of
 the properties of matter at temperatures approaching that of the absolute zero
 of temperature.
     " I enclose a cheque for this amount, and I shall feel obliged to you to
 acknowledge the receipt.
                                            I am, dear Sir,
                                                  Your obedient Servant,
 The Hon. Secretary,                         (Signed)      Walteb S. Pbidiaix.
    The Boyal Institution of Great Britain."
      The following Resolution was then passed :—'
     "That the Members of the Boyal Institution of Great Britain, in General
 Meeting assembled, having been informed that the Court of the Goldsmiths'
 Company have made a donation of £1000 to the Funds of the Boyal Institution
 in commemoration of its Centenary, and in aid of the investigations which are
 being carried on in its Laboratories into the properties of matter at low tempera
 tures, desire to express to the Court their profound and grateful appreciation of
 this second munificent manifestation of their practical interest in the work of
 the Institution —a manifestation which has been made on this occasion at once
 reminiscent of past services to science and prescient of services yet to come."
      The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
  table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
       FROM
  The Secretary of State for India—Annual Progress Beport of the Arcunological
       Survey Circle, N.W.P. and Oudh, up to June 30, 1890. foL

230                          General Monthly Meeting.                      [Dec. 4,
ITie Meteorological Office—Meteorological Charts of the Southern Ocean between
     the Cape of Good Hope and New Zealand, fol. 1899.
Aecademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Classe di Scienze Fisiche, Matematiche e
     Naturali. Atti, Serie Quinta : Bendioonti. 2" Semcstre, Vol. VIII. Fasc.
     8, 9. Academy
American              of Arte and Sciences —Proceedings, Vol. XXXV. Nos. 1-3.
             8vo. 1899.
     8vo. Geographical
American    1899.         Society—Bulletin. Vol. XXXI. No. 4. 8vo. 1899.
Amsterdam, Royal Academy of Sciences—J larboek, 1898. 8vo. 1899.
  Verslag van de Gewone Vergaderingen. D^el VII. 8vo. 1899.
  Proceedings of the Section of Sciences, Vol. I. 8vo. 1899.
  Verhandeliugen, Eerste Sentie, Deel VI. Nos. 6, 7 ; Tweede Sectie, Deel VI.
     Nos. 3-8. 8vo. 189&-99.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LIX. No. 10. 8vo. 1899.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XX. Part 8. 8vo. 1899.
Belgium, Royal Academy of Sciences—Bulletins, XXXIV.-XXXVI. 8vo.
     1897-98.
   Annuaire, 1898-99. 8vo.
   Mémoires Couronnes (in 8vo) Tome XLVIII. Part 2; Tome LV. and LVII.
     8vo. 189S.
  Mémoires Couronnes (in 4to) Tomes LV. and LVI. 4to. 18;)6-98.
  Mcmoires, Tome LIII. 4to. 1895-98
  Tables Gcnérales des Bulletins, 1881-95. 8vo. 1898.
  Tables Generates des Mémoires, 1772-1897. 8vo. 1898.
Boston Public Library—Bulletin for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
Boston Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Oct. 1899. 8vo.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, Third Series, Vol. VII. Nos. 1, 2.
     4to.Astronomical
British     1899.      Association—Journal, Vol. X. No. 1. 8vo. 1899.
Buenos Aires, Museo Nacional—Comunieamones, Tome I. No. 4. 8vo. 1899.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. X. Part 3. 8vo. 189t).
Canada, Club—Journal
Camera                   for Proceedings
          Royal Society of—               8vo. Transactions, Second Series, Vol. IV.
                              Nov. 1899. and
     8vo. Industry,
Chemical    1898. Society of—Journal, Vol. XVIII. No. 10. 8vo. 1899.
Chemical Society—Journal lor Nov. 1899. 8vo.
   Proceedings, Nos. 213, 214. 8vo. 1899.
Civil Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings, Vol. CXXXVIII. 8vo. 1899.
Cracovie, VAcademie des Sciences—Bulletin International, 1899, Nos. 6, 7.
     8vo. Tliomas R. Esq. F.R.A.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Telephotography. 8vo.
Dallmeyer,
     1899.
Devonshire Association—Report and Transactions, Vol. XXXI. 8vo. 1899.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Analyst for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
   Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
   Astrophysical Journal for Oct. 1899.
  Athenaeum for Nov. 1899. 4to.
   Author for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Bimetal list for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Brewers' Journal for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Chemical News for Nov. 1899. 4to.
  Chemist and Druggist for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Education for Nov. 1899.
  Electrical Engineer for Nov. 1899. fol.
  Electrical Engineering for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Electrical Beview for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Electricity for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Engineer for Nov. 1899. fol.

1899.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                       231
Editors—continued.
  Kngineering for Nov. 1899. fol.
  Homoeopathic Review for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Horological Journal for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Imlustnes and Iron for Nov. 1899. fol.
  Invention for Nuv. 1*99.
  Journal of State Medicine for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Law Journal for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Life-Boat Journal for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Lightning for Nov. 1899. 8vo.                       ,
  Machinery Market for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Modern Machinery for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Motor Car Journal for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Nature fur Nov. 1899. 4to.
  New Church Magazine for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Nuovo Cimento for Oct. 1899. 8vo.
  Photographic News for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Physical Review for Oct. 1899. 8vo.
  Popular Science Monthly for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Public Health Engineer for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Science Abstracts, Vol. II. Part 11. 8vo. 1899.
  Science Sittings for Nov. 1899.
  Travel for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  Tropical Agriculturist for Nov. 1899.
  Zoophilist for Nov. 1899. 4to.
Field Columbian Muteum, Chicago—The Birds of Eastern North America, Part 1.
     By C. B. Cory. 8vo. 1899.
Florence, Biblioteca Nazionale Ontrale—Bolletino, Nos. 331, 333. 8vo. 1899.
Franklin Institute—Journal for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
Geographical Society, Roynl—Geographical Journal for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 220. 8vo. 1899.
   List of Fellows, 1899. 8vo.
Glasgow Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XXV. 8vo. 1899.
Historical Society, Royal—Transactions, New Series, Vol. XIII. 8vo. 1899.
   Index to Archaeological Papers in 1897. 8vo. 1898.
Horticultural Society, Royal- Journal, Vol. XXIII. Part 2. 8vo. 1899.
Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for Nov. 1899.
Johns Hopkins University—American Chemical Journal for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 176, 239. 8vo. 1899.
  Proceedings, Nov. 1898 to June 1899. 8vo.
Madras Observatory—Report for 1898-99. fol.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXVI. Part 9. 8vo. 1899.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Medico Chirurgical Transactions, Vol.
     LXXXII. 8vo. 1899.
Mexico, Biblioteca Nacional—E\ Catorce de Noviembre, Las Lluvias de Leonidas.
     By Manuel M. Miranda y Marron. 8vo. 1899.
Mexico, Sociedad Cientiflca ",Antonio Aliate"—Memoriae, Tomo XII. Nos. 9, 10.
     8vo. 1899.
Aavy League—Navy League Journal for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1899, Part 3. 8vo.
Udontological Society of Great Britain—Transactions, Vol. XXXII. No. 1. 8vo.
     1899.
Onnes, Professor H. K.—Communications, No. 14. 8vo. 1894.
Paris, Socie'te Fram;aise de Physique—Seances. 1899, Fasc. 2. 8vo.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for Oct. 1899. 8vo.
Queensland. Agent-General for—International Catalogue of Scientific Literature,
     Queensland Volume. By J. Shirley. 8vo. 1899.
Quehett Microscopical Club— Journal, Vol. VII. No. 45. 8vo. 1899.

- 232                           General Monthly Meeting.                [Dec. 4, 1899.
  Royal Irish Academy—Proceedings, Third Series, Vol. V. No. 3. 8vo. 1899.
  Royal Society of Literature—The Mirror of the Sinful Soul, by Queen Margaret
       of Navarre. Reproduced in facsimile. Edited by P. W. Ames. 8vo. 1897.
     HistorytoofTransactions
     Index                     to yearof189!).
                  the Ro\al Society             8vo. 1899.
                                          Literature.  Edited by E. W. Brabrook. 8vo.
        1899.
     Transactions,    Vol. XVI. Part 2 ; Vol. XVII. Parts 1,2; Vol. XVIII. Parts 1-4 ;
       Vol. XIX. Parts 1-4; Vol. XX. Parts 1-4. 8vo. 1894-99.
     Report,
  Royal        1899.of London—Philosophical
          Society       8vo.                     Transactions, Vol. CXCII. B, Noa. 178,
       179
     Proceedings, No. 420. 8vo. 1899.
  Selb'irne Boci'ty—Nature Notes for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  S. K S. C. (the Author)—Memoir of Stewart Clark. 8vo. 1898.
  Tallack, William, Esq. (the Author) - Reparation to the Injured. 8vo. 1899.
  Teyler Museum, Harlem—Archives, SeVie II. Vol. VI. Part 4. 4to 1899.
  United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for Oct. -Nov. 1899. 8vo.
  United States Department of Agriculture—Monthly Weather Review for August
        1899. 8vo.Station Record, Vol. XI. No. 2. 8vo. 1899.
     Experiment
     Experiment Station Bulletin, No. 69. 8vo. 1899.
  United States Patent Office—Official Gazette, Vol. LXXXIX. Nns. 5-7. 8vo.
       1899.
  Verein zur BefSrderung del Geieerbfleissei in Preutsen—Verhandlungen, 1899,
       HeftGeological
   Vienna,    8. 8vo. Institute, Imperial—Jahrbuch, Band XLIX. Heft 2. 8vo.
        1899.
     Verhandlungen,      1899, Nos. 9. 10. 8vo.
  Vincento, Professor G.—Pamphlets on Universal Hand Phonography and Uni
       versal Syllabic Phono-telegraphy.
  Wagner Pree'lnstitute of Science of Philadelphia—Transactions, Vol. VI. 8vo.
        1899.


                                      patron.
                        IIEB MOST OUACIOUB MAJESTY
                             QUEEN VICTORIA.
                 T7ire=$atron ann lljonorarg jUScmb1r.
                                HIS BOYAL HIGHNESS
               THE PRINCE OF WALES, E.G. F.R.S.
President —The Duke of Nobthumbebland, K.G. D.C.L. F«8
Treasurer—Sib James Cbichton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.-                           V.P.
Honorary Secretary—Sib William Cboores, F.R.S.— V.P.
       Manageus. 1900-1901.                                  Yisitobs. 1900-1901.
Sir Frederick Abel.Bart. K.C.B. D.C.L.         diaries Edward Beevor, M.D. F L ' I'
  LL.D. F.R.S.                                 William Henry Bennett, Esq. F.U.C.
Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart., D.C.L.
   LL.U. F.R.S. M. lust. C.E.- V.P.             W A. I! linrlelt-Cuntlr. Esq.
Thomas Buzzard, M.D. F.R.C P.                     MA.
Sir William James Farror, M.A. F.S.A.
Hugh Leonard, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.               Joseph O. Gordon, Esq. F.C.S.
The Kt. Hon. Lord Lister, M.D. D.C.L.          Maure8 Horner, Esq. J 1' F.li A.
  LL.D F.R.S. F.R.C.S.— V.P.
Frank McClean, Esq. M.A. LL.D.                 Sir Alexander Campbell Mack
  F.R.S. F.R.A.S.                                 Mus. Doc.
Raphael Meldola, Esq. F.R.S. F.R.A.S.          Henry Francis Mnkius, Esq. 1' R.C 8
Ludwig Moud, Esq. Th.D. F.R.S.—
   V.P.                                        Carl Edward Melchers, Esq.
Sir Andrew Noble, K.C.B. F.R.S.                John Callander Ross, Esq.
  M.Inst. C.E.— V.P.
Alexander Siemens, Esq. M.Inst. C.E.           Willis m Jmmi Russell, Esq. Ph 1>
  — FJj.                                           F.R.S.
Basil Woodd Smith, Esq. F.R.A.S.               Alan A. Campbell Swiuton.Esq -M In-!
  F.S.A.                                          C.E.
William Hugh Spottiswoode,- Esq.               Sir James Vanghan, B.A. J.P.
   F.C.S.
The Right Hon. Sir James Stirliug,             John Jewell Veaej>, Esq. F.K II s.
  M.A. LL.D.— VP.                              Colonel H. Watkin, C.R B.A.
Sir Henry Thompson, Bart. F.R.C.S.
   F.R.A.S.                                    James Wiuishurai, Esq. F.R.S.
                                  {} v 0 f f s $ 0 r s.
Professor of Natural Philosophy—The Right Hon. Loud Rayleioh. M.A. D.C.L.
     LL.D. F.R.8. 4c.
Fvllerian Professor of Chemistry—James DEWAR.Esq. M.A. LL.D. F.R.S. £.-.
Fullerian Professor of Physiology—Allan Macfadyex, M.D. B So.
Keeper of liie Library and Assistant Secretary—Mr. Henry Young.
Assistant in the Library—Mr. Herbert C. Fyfe.
Assistants in tA Lahoratories—Hr. B. N. Lennox, F.C.S. Mr. J. W. Heath,
     F.C.S. and Mr. G. Gordon.
                         I'lUNTEri BT WILLIAM CLOWES ASO £
                         SlAMrulU)       . 1 \Mr i.1 s \ i:i Nv, Cm

                        PROCEED I NGS
                                   OF 1UE
         IRopal      3nstitution        of \Brcat Britain.
  Vol. XVI. -Part II.                                            No. 94.
  1900,                                                               I'AUR
Jan. HI.   Tick BiGkt Hon. Lobd Rayleiuh— Flight                        238
Jan. 20.    The Hon. Chables A. Pabsons — Motive Power—High-Speed
              Navigation—Steam Turbines ..        ..     ..  ..    ..   235
Feb. 2.    SiGNOR G. Makioni— Wiieleiss Telegraphy                      247
Feb. 5.    Genebal Monthly Meeting          ..     ..    ..  ..    .,   257
Feb. 9.    Pbofessob J. Reynolds Gbeen—Symbiosis and Symbiotic Fer
              mentation                         -                       261
Feb. 16.   H. Wakington Smyth, Esq.—Life iu Indo-China       ..    ..   274
Feb. 23.   Pbofessob John H. Poyntlng—Recent Studies in Gravitation     278
March 2. Majob Ronald Ross—Malaria and Mosquito* . .         ..    ..   295
March 5. Genebal Montuly Meeting                                       314
March 9. Pbofessob Fbank Clowes—Bacteria and Sewage          ..        317
March 1G. Sib Benjamin Stone, M.P.—Pictorial Historic Records      ..  325
Murch 33. Sib Andbew Noble, K.C.B.—Some Modern Explosives          ..  329
March 30. Pbofessob J. Abiiii'R Tuomson—Facts of Inheritance . .   ..  310
April 2.   Genebal Monthly Meeting                                     300
April 6.   Pbofessob Dew ab—Solid Hydrogen                             473
April 27. The Rioht Hon. Lobd Kelvin—Nineteenth Century Clouds
             over the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light     ..    ..  303
May 1.     Annual Meeting                                              398
Slay 4.    Pbofessob T. E. TuoRfe—Pottery and Plumbum        ..    ..  399
May 7.     Genebal Monthly Muting                                      412
May 11.    Sidney Lee, Esq.—Shakespeare aud Truo Patriotism . .    ..  410
May 18.    Pbofessob J. A. Ewikg—The Structure of MetaU      ..    ..   419
May 25.    Fbancib Fox, Esq.—The Great Alpine Tunnels                  422
June 1.    Sib Henbt Roscoe—Bunsen                                     437
Jane 8.     Allan Maofadyen, M.D.—The Efteet of Physical Agents on
             Bacterial Life                                            448
June 1 1. Genebal Monthly Meeting                                      458
July 2.    Genebal Monthly Meeting                                     401
Nov. 5.    Genebal Monthly Meeting          ..    ..     ..  ..    ..  405
Dec. :).   Genebal Monthly Meeting                                     470
                               LONDON:
         ALBEMAliLE STREET, PICCADILLY.
                             Noveuiltr 1901.
5*.


             Banal Institution of (£r*at Britain.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING.
                         Friday, January 19, 1900.
   His Gbacb The Duke of Nobthumbebland, K.G., President,
                                 in the Chair.
The Et. Hon. Lobd Eayleioh, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                       PROFESSOR OF NATURAL PHJLOSOP1IT R.T.
                                     Flight.
Lobd Rayleioh first considered the question what people generally
meant when they spoke of a flying machine, and concluded that size
had a great deal to do with their conception, which was usually of
a machino big enough to carry a man by whom it could be con
trolled : otherwiso the flying machine had been invented long since
by Penaud. The main problem of the flying machine was the
problem of the aeroplane. What were the forces that acted on a
piano exposed to the wind ? This was also the vital problem of
kites, of which he mentioned some of the practical applications by
Franklin, Archibald, Baden-Powell, and others ; but kites were
always anchored to the ground, and as soon as we cast ourselves
adrift from the ground the problem became essentially different, for
it was then necessary to consider how maintenance in the air could
be managed. Now some birds seemed to maintain themselves in the
air with little effort. What was the nature of the "soaring" or
" sailing flight " by which a big bird maintained himself with but
little flapping of the wings ? There had been much discussion about
this point, often foolish because of misunderstandings between the
disputants. However, the science of mechanics enabled it to be laid
down with certainty that a bird could no more maintain himself
without motion of the wings in a uniform wind moving horizontally
than in air at perfect rest. It was entirely a question of relative
motion. If, then, a bird was seen to be maintaining himself without
flapping, it was certain the air was not moving horizontally and
uniformly. But there might be rising currents of air upon which he
 was supported, and these were much more common than was often
supposed. In other cases where it was difficult to imagine the
existence of such currents, an explanation might be sought in the
non-uniformity of the wind. For example, it was mechanically
possible for a bird just at the point of transition between two
different strata of wind to maintain its position by taking advantage
of the different velocities. The albatross, he believed, did something
of this sort. Langley, again, had pointed out how the bird could
turn to account the internal work of the wind by taking advantage
of its gustines8. Leaving this subject, the lecturer discussed the
 general question of the action of the wind on an aeroplane. He first
     Vol. XVI. (No. 94.)                                       b

234                  Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh on Flight.                 [Jan. 19,
showed one or two experiments illustrating the carious effects that
might be obtained from a plaue exposed obliquely to wind. In one
of these it was seen that a light pieoe of sheet brass, evenly pivoted
in, and nearly filling up, an aperture through which air was issuing
under pressure, tended to set itself square to the aperture so as to
block it as much as possible, but, if started, it continued to rotate in
either direction, emitting a roariug sound. This phenomenon had
never been properly explained, nor had the somewhat analogous
action of a piece of card, which, when dropped, reached the ground
with a rotatory motion. As to the pressure of the wind on a hori
zontal plane surface, if the latter was falling vertically at the rate,
say, of four miles an hour, and also moving horizontally at, say,
20 miles an hour, did the horizontal motion make a difference to the
pressure that existed at its under surface? It might be argned that
it did not ; but the argument was fallacious, and the truth was that
the horizontal motion inuch increased the pressure under a vertically
falling plane, a fact on which depended the possibility of flight,
natural and artificial. Lord Rayleigh showed how this point might
be illustrated, and even investigated, by means of a simple variation
 of the ordinary windmill. This was a light wheel having six vanes,
 each of which could be set at any desired angle, and it was used by
 setting four at a particular angle, and finding at what angle the
 other two must be placed so as to compensate the rotation of the
 wheel produced by the former when it was moved quickly through
 the air.* He next observed that not only was there pressure under
 neath a bird's wing or an aeroplane, but that the suction above was
 not an unimportant matter ; and he performed an experiment to show
 the reality of this suction, about which he said there had been some
 scepticism. Turning to flight on a large scale, he remarked that it
 was a natural question to ask, Was it possible for a man to raise
 himself from the ground by working a screw with his own muscular
 power only? The investigation was not difficult, and the answer
 was that it was quite impracticable for him to do so. Artificial
 flight was a question of the speed of the horizontal motion. A bird
 did not use a revolving mechanism like a screw to propel itself, but
 he had no doubt that a revolving mechanism was the most suitable
 for artificial flying-machines. Whether the difficulties of these
 would be surmounted he did not know, but he was disposed to agree
 with Mr. Maxim that it was mainly a question of time and much
 money. Still, he did not think flight would ever be a safe mode of
 conveyance for those who were desirous of going out for a day's
 shopping, for it was hard to see how alighting on the ground could
 ever be rendered quite free from danger. But, as Mr. Maxim once
 remarked, the first use of flying-machines would be for military
 purposes, and they had not yet succeeded in making war quite safe.
     * This apparatus was more fully described in the Wilde Lecture (Manchester
 Memoirs, vol. xliv., Part 1, pp. 1-28), where also some ether matters here referred
 to are treated in greater detail.

1900.]          High-Speed Navigation Steam Turbines.                235
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, January 26, 1900.
  Sra Fbedebick Bbamwell, Babt., D.C.L. LL.D. F.K.S., Honorary
              Secretary and Vice-President, in the Chair.
      The Hon. Chables A. Pabsons, M.A. F.R.S. M. Inst. C.E.
        Motive Power—High-Speed Navigation Steam Turbines.
Twenty centuries ago the political power of Greece was broken,
although Grecian civilisation had risen to its zenith. Rome was
growing continually stronger, and was rapidly gaining territory by
absorbing weaker states. Egypt, older in civilisation than either
Greece or Rome, fell, but two centuries later, before the assault of
the younger states, and became a Roman province. Her principal
city at this time was Alexandria, a great and prosperous city, the
centre of the commerce of the world, the home of students and of
learned men, its population the wealthiest and most civilised of the
then known world.
    It is among the relics of that ancient Egyptian civilisation that
we find the first records of the early history of the steam engine. In
Alexandria, the home of Euclid, and possibly contemporary with
Archimedes, Hero wrote his ' Spiritalia seu Pneumatica.' It is
doubtful if Hero was the inventor of the contrivances and apparatus
described in his work ; it is more probable that they were devices
generally known at the time. Nothing in the text, however, indicates
to whom the several machines are to be ascribed. Two of these
machines are of special interest. The first utilised the expansive
force of air in a closed vessel heated externally, the pneumatic force
being applied upon the surface of water in other vessels, and the
hydraulic force utilised for opening the doors of a Grecian temple
and working other pseudo-magic contrivances.
     Then after describing several forms of cylindrical boilers, and
the use of the steam jet for accelerating combustion, he comes to the
first of a type of steam engine, the steam turbine, which is the
subject of our discourse this evening.
    This is a veritable steam engine. The cauldron contains water,
and is covered by a steam-tight cover, a globe is supported above the
cauldron by a pair of tubes, one carrying a pivot, and the other
opening directly through the trunnion joint into the sphere ; short
bent pipes are attached to diametrically opposite points on the equator.
The steam generated in the cauldron passes up into the sphere and

 236                        Eon. C. A. Partont                  [Jan. 26,
 issues tangentially from the bent pipes, and by the reaction causes
 the sphere to rotate.
     It seems uncertain whether this machine was ever more than a
 toy, or whether it was used l>y the Greek priests for producing motion
 of apparatus in their temple ; but from our experience within the
 last twenty years it appeavs that, with some improvements in design
 and construction, it could have been applied to perform useful work
 at the date of Hero, and further that, when so improved, it might have
 claimed a place among economical steam engines, even up to the
 middle of the present century.
     A few years ago I had an engine constructed to test the capabili
 ties of this class of reaction steam turbine, the only difference be
 tween this engine and Hero's being that the sphere was abolished,
 as a useless incumbrance, the arms were made of thin steel tube of
 oval form, bo as to offer the least resistance to their motion, and the
 whole was enclosed in a cast-iron case which was connected to a
 condenser. When supplied with steam at a pressure of 100 lbs. per
 square inch, and a vacuum in the case of 27" of mercury, a speed of
 5000 revolutions per minute was attained, and an effoctivo power
 was realised of 20 horse, and the consumption of steam was only
40 lbs. per brake horse-power. By this very creditable performance,
I was encouraged to further test the system, and constructed a com
pound reaction engine, in which the steam was caused to pass succes
sively through three pairs of arms on one hollow shaft, each pair
being contained in a separate compartment through which the shaft
passed, suitable metallic packing preventing the passage of steam
from one compartment to the next. The performance of this engine
was, however, not superior to that of the single two-arm Hero's
engine, for the simple reason that the excessive resistance to motion
of the arms in the denser steam of the compartments more than
neutralised the gain from the compound form. The performance of this
engine was, however, sufficiently good to have it placod on a par with
many ordinary steam engines in the middle of the present century.
     The great barrier to the introduction of Hero's engine was un
doubtedly the excessive speed of revolution necessary to obtain
economical results, and with the crude state of mechanical engineer
ing at that time, it would have been a matter of some difficulty to
construct the turbine engine with sufficient accuracy of workmanship
for satisfactory results, to say nothing of the necessary gearing for
applying the power to ordinary useful purposes.
     The next steam engine mentioned in history, which is capable
of practical and useful development, is Bianca's in 1629. It is of
the simplest form, a jet of steam from a steam boiler impinges on a
paddle-wheel and blows it round. This form of engine has since
1889 been developed by Dr. De Laval, of Stockholm, with great
ingenuity, and is extensively used for moderate powers on the
Continent. The speed is, however, necessarily very high in order
to obtain economy in steam, and spiral reduction gearing is used in

 1900.]         on High-Speed Navigation Steam Turbines.           237
order that the spoed of revolution may be reduced for the application
 of the power. Tho improvements that have been made in Bianca's
 steam turbine by De Laval are firstly, the ordinary steam jet is re
 placed by a diverging conical jet, which permits of the expansion of
the steam before it emerges from the jet, and so transforming the
potential energy of the high-pressure steam into kinetic energy of
 velocity in the direction of flow.
     Secondly, the crude paddle-wheel of Bianca is replaced by a
wheel of the strongest steel, fringed round the periphery with little
cupped blades of steel, somewhat analogous to the buckets of a Pelton
water-wheel.
     Lastly, the steel wheel is mounted on a long and somewhat elastic
shaft, to allow of its easy and free motion, and on one extremity of
this shaft is mounted the pinion of the spiral reduction gear.
     The speeds of revolution of the steam-wheels of De Laval's
turbine are from 10,000 to 30,000 revolutions per minute, according
to the size, involving peripheral speeds up to 1200 feet per second,
or about one-half the speed of the projectile from a modern cannon.
Such speeds are necessary to obtain power economically from the
high-pressure steam jet, issuing from 3000 to 5000 feet per second
as calculated by li an kino.
     It is somewhat remarkable that not till a century after Bianca,
the piston or ordinary reciprocating engine made its first appearance,
in about the year 1705, and has since become one of the chief factors
in the great mechanical and engineering growths of the last century.
During this period the steam turbine seems to have been, practically
speaking, neglected, which is somewhat remarkable in view of the
numerous attempts of inventors to construct a rotary engine, attempts
which had no practical results.
     In the year 1884, the advent of the dynamo-electrio machine, and
the development of mechanical and electrical engineering, created an
increased demand for a good high-speed engine. Engineers were
becoming more accustomed to high speeds of revolution, for the
speed of dynamos was at this time from 1000 to 2000 revolutions
per minute, of centrifugal pumps from 300 to 1500, and wood-working
machinery from 8000 to 5000; and Sir Charles Wheatstone had
made a tiny mirror revolve at a speed of 50,000 revolutions per
minute for apparatus for measuring the velocity of light. The
problem then presented itself of constructing a steam turbine, or
ideal rotary engine, capable of working with good economy of steam
at a moderate speed of revolution, and suitable for driving dynamos
without the intervention of reduction gearing. To facilitate the
problem, the dynamo was also considered with the viow of raising
its speed of revolution to the level of the lowest permissible speed
of the turbine engine. In other words, to secure a successful com
bination, the turbine had to be run as slowly as possible, and the
dynamo speed had to be raised as much as possiblo, and up to the
same speed as the turbine, to permit direct coupling.

238                         Hon. C. A. Parsons                  [Jan. 25,
    In 1884 preliminary experiments were commenced at G-ateshead-
on-Tyne, with the view of ascertaining by actual trial, the conditions
of working equilibrium and steady motion of shafts and bearings at
the very high speeds of rotation that appeared to be essential to the
construction of an economical steam turbine of moderate size. Trial
shafts were run in bearings of different descriptions up to speeds of
40,000 revolutions per minute ; these shafts were 1£ inches in dia
meter and 2 feet long, the bearings being about § inch in diameter.
No difficulty was experienced in attaining this immense speed, pro
vided that the bearings were designed to have a certain small amount
of " give " or elasticity ; and after the trial of many devices to secure
these conditions, it was found that elasticity, combined with frictional
resistance to transverse motion of the bearing bush, gave the best
results, and tended to damp out vibrations in the revolving spindle.
This result was achieved by a simple arrangement ; the bearing in
which the shaft revolved was a plain gun-metal bush with a collar at
one end and a nut at the other; on this bush were threaded thin
washers, each being alternately larger and smaller than its neighbour,
the small series fitting the bush and the larger series fitting the hole
in the bearing block, these washers occupying the greater part of the
length of the bush. Lastly, a wide washer fitted both the bush and
block, forming a fulcrum on which the bush rested ; while a spiral
spring between the washers and the nut on the bush pressed all the
washers tightly against their neighbours. It will be seen now that,
should the rotating shaft be slightly out of truth (which it is im
possible to avoid in practice), the effect is to cause a slight lateral
displacement of the bearing bush, which is resisted by the mutual
sliding friction of each washer against its neighbour. The shaft
itself being slightly elastic, tends to centre itself upon the fulcrum
washer before mentioned, under the gyrostatic forces brought into
play by the rapid revolutions of the shaft and influenced by the
frictional resistance of the washers, and so the shaft tends to assume
a steady state of revolution about its principal axis, or the axis of
the mass, without wabbling or vibration. This form of bearing was
exclusively used for some years in turbine engines aggregating some
thousands of horse-power, but it has since been replaced by a simpler
form fulfilling the same functions. In this later form the gun-metal
bush is surrounded by several concentric tubes fitting easily within
each other with a very slight lateral play ; in the interstices between
the tubes the oil enters, and its great viscosity when spread into thin
films has the result of producing great frictional resistance to a rapid
lateral displacement of the bearing bush ; the oil film has also a
centring action, and tends under vibration to assume a uniformity of
thickness around the axis, thus centring the shaft, and like a cushion
damping out vibrations arising from errors of balance. This form of
bearing has been found to be very durable and quite satisfactory under
^11 conditions.
     Having tested the bearings up to speeds above those contemplated

1900.]         on High-Speed Navigation Steam Turbines.               239
in the steam turbine, the next problem was the turbine itself. The
laws regulating the flow of steam being well known (which was not the
case in Hero's time), various forms of steam turbine were considered,
and it appeared desirable to adopt in principle some type that had
been both successful in the water turbiuo, and also easily adapted to
a multiple or compound formation, a construction in which the steam
should pass successively through a series of turbines one after the
other.
     The three best known of water turbines are the outward flow, the
inward flow, and the parallel flow, and of these the latter appeared to
be the best adapted for the multiple or compound steam turbine, for
reasons which will afterwards appear.
     The object in view being to obtain a good coefficient of efficiency
from the steam with a moderate speed of revolution and diameter of
turbine wheel, it beoomes essential that the steam shall be caused to
pass through a large number of successive turbines, with a small
difference of pressure urging it through each individual turbine of
the set, so that the velocity of flow of the steam may have the proper
relation to the peripheral velocity of the turbine blades to secure the
highest degree of efficiency from the steam, conditions analogous to
those necessary for high efficiency in water turbines. A large
 diameter of turbine wheel, it is trae, would secure a moderate speed
of revolution, but this may be dismissed at once for the simple
reason that the frictional resistance of such a disc revolving at the
 immense peripheral velocity, in the exhaust steam, would make it a
 most inefficient engine.
     In the year 1884, a compound steam turbine engine of 10 horse
 power and a modified high-speed dynamo were designed and built
 for a working speed of 18,000 revolutions per minute. This machine
 proved to be practically successful, and subsequently ran for some
     This
 years     turbine
       doing  usefulengine
                     work, and
                           consisted
                               is nowofintwo  South Kensington
                                          the groups             Museum.
                                                     of fifteen successive
 turbine wheels, or rows of blades, on one drum or shaft within a
 concentric case on the right and left of the steam inlet, the moving
 blades or vanes being in circumferential rows projecting outwardly
 from the shaft, and nearly touching the case, and the fixed or guide
 blades being similarly formed and projecting inwardly from the case
 and nearly touching the shaft. A series of turbine wheels on one
 shaft were thus constituted, each one complete in itself, like a paral
 lel flow water turbine, but unlike a water turbine, the steam after
 performing its work in each turbine passed on to the next, preserving
 its longitudinal velocity without shock, gradually falling in pressure
 on passing through each row of blades and gradually expanding.
 Each successive row of blades was slightly larger in passage-way
 than the preceding, to allow for the increasing bulk of the elastic
 steam, and thus its velocity of flow was regulated so as to operate
 with the greatest degree of efficiency on each turbine of the seriea
 (Fig- I)-

 240                       Hon. C. A. Parsons                    [Jan. 26,
     All end pressure from the steam was balanced by the two equal
series on each side of the inlet, and the revolving shaft lay on its
bearings revolving freely without any impressed force except a steady
torque urging rotation, the aggregate of the multitude of minute
forces of the steam on each blade. It constituted an ideal rotary
engine ; but it had faults. The comparatively high speed of rotation
that was necessary for so small a size of engine as this first example,
made it difficult to prevent, even with the bearings described, a
certain spring or whipping of the massive steel shaft, so that con
siderable clearances were found necessary, and leakage and loss of
efficiency resulted. It was, however, perceived that all these defects
would decrease as the size of the engine was increased, with a corre
sponding reduction of rotational velocity, and consequently efforts
were made towards the construction of engines of larger size, which
              Fiq. 1.—Fixed and Movinq Blades of Tubbine.
resulted, in 1888, in several turbo-alternators of 120 horse-power
being supplied for the generation of current in electric lighting sta
tions, and at this period the total horse-power of turbines at work
reached in the aggregate about 4000, all of which were of the parallel
flow type and non-condensiug.
     In 1889, in consequence of partnership difficulties and the tem
porary loss of patents, tho radial flow type of turbines was reluctantly
adopted. This typo of turbine consists of a series of fixed discs with
interlocking flanges at the periphery, forming, when placed together
coaxially, a cylindrical case, with inwardly projecting annular discs.
 On the shaft aro keyed a similar set of discs, tho faces of the fixed and
 moving disC lie a short distance apart. From the faces of the fixed
 disc project the rows of guide-blades which nearly touch the moving
 disc, and from tho moving disc project the rows of moving blades
 which nearly touch the fixed disc.

1900.]         on High-Speed Navigation Steam Turbines.               241
    The steam is admitted into the case between the balance piston
on the left and the first fixed disc, and passes outwards through the
rows of fixed and moving blades between the first fixed and moving
discs ; then inwards towards the shaft at the back of the first moving
disc, then again outwards between the second fixed and moving discs,
and so on to the exhaust ; the action being the same as in the parallel
flow type.
    Iu 1892, this type was the first to be adapted to work in conjunction
with a condenser. The first condensing turbine of the radial flow
type was of 200 horse-power, and at a speed of 4800 revolutions per
minute, drove an alternator of 150 kilowatts output. It was tested
by Professor Ewing, and the general result of the trials was to
demonstrate that the condensing steam turbine was an exceptionally
economical heat engine. With a steam pressure of 100 lbs., the
steam being moderately superheated, and a vacuum of 28 inches of
mercury, the consumption was 27 lbs. per kilowatt hour, which is
equivalent to about 16 lbs. of steam per indicated horse-power. This
result marked an era in the development of the steam turbine, and
opened for it a wide field, including some of the chief applications of
motive power from steam. At this period turbine alternators of the
condensing type were placed in the Newcastle, Cambridge and Scar
borough Electric Supply Companies' Stations, and soon afterwards
several of 600 horse-power of the non-condensing parallel flow type
were set to work in the Metropolitan Companies' Stations, where the
comparative absence of vibration was an important factor. Turbine
alternators and turbine dynamos of 2500 horse-power are now in
course of construction in England and the United States, and larger
sizes are in prospect.
    A turbo-alternator manufactured at Heaton Works, Newcastle-on-
Tyne, for the Corporation of Elberfeld in Germany, was tested a few
days ago by a cominitteo of experts from Germany, Professor Ewing
being also present, with the following remarkable results. At the
full load of 1200 kilowatts, and with a steam pressure of 130 lbs. at
the engine, and 10° C. of superheat, the engine driving its own air
pumps, the consumption of steam was found to bo at the rate of
18-8 lbs. per kilowatt hour. To compare this figure with those
obtained with ordinary piston engines of the highest recorded
efficiencies, and assuming the highest record with which I am ac
quainted of the ratio of electrical output to the power indicated in
the steam engine, namely 85 per cent., tho figure of 18 "8 lbs. per
kilowatt in the turbine plant is equivalent to a consumption of
11 '9 lbs. per indicated horse-power, a result surpassing the records
of the best steam engines in the production of electricity from steam.
    Turbine engines aro also used for generating electrical current
for the transmission of power, the working of electrical tramways,
electrical pumping and coaling, and similar purposes. They are also
used for coupling directly to and driving fans for producing forced
and induced draught for general ventilating purposes, also for driving

242                         Han. C. A. Parsons                 [Jan. 26,
centrifugal pumps for lifts up to 200 feet, and screw pumps for
low lifts.
     The most important field, however, for the steam turbine is
undoubtedly in the propulsion of ships. The large and increasing
amount of horse-power and the greater size and speed of the modern
engines tend towards some form which shall be light, capable of
perfect balancing and economical in steam. The marine engine of
the piston type does not entirely fulfil all these requirements, but the
compound turbine engine, as made in 1892, appeared to be capable
of doing so, and of becoming an ideal marine engine. On the other
hand, an element of uncertainty lay in the high speed of the turbine
engine, and to couple it directly to a propeller of ordinary propor
 tions would have led to failure.
     In January 1894, a pioneer syndicate was formed to explore the
problem, those chiefly associated in the undertaking being the Earl
of Rosse, Christopher Leyland, John Simpson, Campbell Swinton,
 Norman Cookson, the late George Clayton, H. C. Harvey, and Gerald
 Stoney. It was deemed expedient, for reasons of economy and also
of time (as many alterations were anticipated), to build as small a
 vessel as possible, but not so small as to preclude the attainment
of an unprecedented high speed in the event of success. The Turbinia
 was constructed, her dimensions being 100 feet in length, 9 feet
beam, 3 feet draught of hull, and 44 tons displacement. She was
 fitted with a turbine engine of 2000 actual horse-power, with an
 expansive ratio of a huudred-and-fifty-fold, also with a water-tube
 boiler of great power, of the express type, with small tubes. The
 turbine engine was designed to drive one screw shaft at a speed
 of from 2000 to 3000 revolutions per minute.
      Many trials were made with screw propellers of various sizes and
 proportions, but the best speeds were quite disappointing, and it was
 clear that some radical defect lay in the propellers. This was corrobo
 rated by dynamometric measurements. The excessive slip of the pro
 pellers beyond the calculated amount, and their inefficiency, indicated
 a want of sufficient blade area upon which the thrust necessary to
 drive the ship was distributed—in other words, the water was torn into
 cavities behind the blades. These cavities contained no air, but
 only vapour of water, and the greater portion of the power of the
 engine was consumed in the formation and maintenance of these
 cavities instead of the propulsion of the vessel. This phenomenon was
 first noticed in the trials of the torpedo-boat Daring, by Messrs.
 Thornycroft and Mr. Barnaby, shortly before the commencement of
 the trials of the Turbinia, and was named " cavitation " by Mr. R. E.
  Froude.
      This phenomenon has been investigated experimentally with pro
  pellers of small size working inside an oval tank, so as to represent
 approximately the conditions of slip ratio customary in fast ships. To
  enable the propeller to cause cavitation more easily the tank is closed
  and the atmospheric pressure removed from the surface of the water

  1900.]       on High-Speed Navigation Steam Turbines.               243
  above the propeller by an air pump. Glass windows are fitted for ob
  servation and illumination. Under these conditions the only forces
  tending to hold the water together and resist cavitation are the small
  head of water above the propeller, and capillarity. The propeller is
  2 inches diameter and 3 inches pitch ; cavitation commences at about
  1200 revolutions and becomes very pronounced at 1500 revolutions.
 Had the atmospheric pressure not been removed, speeds of 12,000 and
  15,000 revolutions per minute would have been necessary, rendering
 observations more difficult.
      The arrangement we have now was kindly suggested by Mr. Heath,
 and is a decided improvement, the revolving disc with narrow slots
 synchronising approximately with the revolutions of the propeller.
 The propeller is now seen to rotate very slowly, it also permits of the
 projection of the phenomenon on the screen, which was not possible
 with my previous arrangement. The permanence of the vortices be
 hind the blades is very striking. The inference to be drawn from
 these experiments seems to be that for fast speeds of vessels, wide thin
 blades, a coarse pitch ratio, and moderate slip, are desirable for the
 prevention of cavitation, and in order to obtain the best efficiency in
 propulsion of the vessel.
      To return to the Turbinia, a radical alteration was deemed neces
 sary. A new turbine engine was made, consisting of three separate
 engines, high pressure, intermediate pressure, and low pressure, each
 of which drove one screw shaft, the power of the engine was dis
 tributed over three shafts instead of concentrated on one, and
 three propellers were placed on each shaft. The result of these
 changes was marvellous. The vessel now nearly doubled her speed,
 30 knots was soon reached, and finally 32J knots mean speed on the
 measured mile authenticated, or the fastest speed then attained by any
 vessel afloat. The economy of her engines was investigated by Pro
 fessor Ewing, assisted by Professor Uunkerly : the consumption of
 steam per indicated horse-power for all purposes at 31 knots speed
was found to be 14£ lbs., or in other words, with a good marine boiler
the coal consumption would be considerably under 2 lbs. per indicated
horse-power, a result better than is obtained in torpedo-boats or
torpedb-boat destroyers with ordinary triple expansion engines.
     The vessel's reversing turbine gave her an astern speed of 6£ knots,
and she could be brought to rest in 36 seconds when running at 30
knots speed, and from rest she could be brought up to 30 knots in
40 seconds.
     The Turbinia cruised from the Tyne to the Naval Review at
Spithead, where she steamed on the day of the Review at an estimated
speed of 34J knots. These results represent about 2300 indicated
horse-power, and may be said to have been obtained without a very
abnormal performance as regards the boiler ; its total heating surface
being 1100 square feet, and an evaporation of about 28 lbs. per
square foot at the speed of 34£ knots.
     These speeds were not obtained by bottling up the steam and

244                        Hon. C. A. Parsons                    [Jan. 26,
opening the regulating valve on coming to the measured mile, but
wero maintained for many miles together with constant steam pressure,
and as long as the fires were clean. On the other hand, the endurance
of the engines themselves seems to be unlimited, all heavy pressures,
including the thrust of the propellers, that would in ordinary engines
come on the bearings, being counterbalanced by the steam pressure
acting on the turbines.
     It seems clear that the results obtained in the ease of the Turbinia
were almost entirely due to the economy in steam of the turbine
engines, and the unusually small weight of the engines, shafting
and propellers, in proportion to the power developed.
     It may also be said that generally speaking every part of the
machinery was as substantial as in naval vessels of the torpedo-boat
class, yet she developed 100 horse-power per ton of machinery, and
50 horse-power per ton of total weight of vessel in working order.
     The results of the Turbinia having beon found satisfactory, the
original company which built her was merged into a large company
under the same directorate for carrying on the work on a commercial
scale. At Wallsend-on-Tyne, the Parsons Marine Steam Tnibine
Company erected works, and in 1898 contracted with the Admiralty
for a 31-knot torpedo-boat destroyer, the Viper (Fig. 2), which is of
the same dimensions as the usual 30-knot vessels of this class, viz.
210 feet length, 21 feet beam, and about 350 tons displacement, but
with machinery of much greater power than usual in vessels of this
size ; they also contracted with Sir W. G. Armstrong, Whitworth and
Co. for machinery for one of their torpedo-boat destroyers.
     The turbine engines of these vessels are similar to those of the
Turbinia, but are in duplicate, and consist of two distinct sets of
engines on each side of the vessel. There are four screw shafts in
all, entirely independent of each other, the two on each side being
driven by one high and one low-pressure turbine respectively of about
equal power ; the two low-pressure turbines drive the two inner shafts,
and to each a small reversing turbine is also permanently coupled, and
revolves idly with them when going ahead. The screw shafts are
carried by brackets as usual, and two propellers are placed ou each
shaft, the foremost in each case having a slightly lesser pitch than the
after one. The thrust from the screw shafts is entirely balanced by
the steam acting on the turbines, so that there is extremely little
friction.
     The boilers, auxiliary machinery and condensers are of the usual
type in such vessels, but their size is somewhat increased to meet the
much larger horse-power to be developed, and to compensate for the
lesser weight of the main engines, shafting, propellers, as well as the
lighter structure of the engine beds. The boilers are of the Yarrow
type, with a total heating surface of 15,000 squaro feet, and grate
surfaco of 272 square feet, and the condensers have a cooling surface
of 8000 square feet. The hull and all fittings are of the usual
design.





1900.]             on High-Speed Navigation Steam Turbinet.                         215
      Let ns consider the machinery on one side of the vessel only : the
steam from the boilers is admitted directly through a regulating valve
to the high-pressure turbine driving one shaft, it then passes to the
adjacent low-pressure turbine, driving its shaft independently, thence
it flows to the condenser, and both the shafts then drive the vessel
ahead ; the reversing turbine revolves with the low-pressure shaft, and
being permanently connected with the vacuum of the condenser no
appreciable resistance is offered to its motion under these conditions.
To go astern the ahead steam valve is closed and the astern valve
opened, admitting the steam from the boilers to the reversing turbine,
 and reversing the direction of rotation of the inner screw shaft.
      On the other side of the vessel the arrangement is the same, and
it will be seen that she can be manoeuvred as an ordinary twin-screw
 vessel, and with great facility and quickness.
      On her second preliminary trial about three weeks ago, the
 mean speed of fonr consecutivo runs on the measured mile reached
 34- 8 knots, and the fastest run was at the speed of 35 -503 knots,
 which is believed to be considerably beyond the recorded speed of any
 vessel hitherto built. The vessel was scarcely completed at the time of
 this trial, and it is anticipated that still higher speeds will be realised
 on subsequent and official trials.* The speed of 35 '5 knots, or nearly
 41 statute miles, represents about 11,000 indicated horse-power in
  a vessel of 350 tons displacement, as compared with 6000 to 6500
  developed in the 30-knot destroyers of similar dimensions and 310 tons
  displacement.
       At all speeds there was very little vibration. Her speed astern is
  guaranteed to be 15^ knots.
       The Viper has surpassed the Turbinia in speed, and is at the pre
  sent time the fastest vessel afloat.
       In regard to the general application of turbine machinery to large
  ships, the conditions appear to be more favourable in the faster class
  of vessels, such as cross-Channel boats, fast passenger vessels, liners,
  cruisers and battleships ; in all such vessels the reduction in weight
   of machinery, and the economy in the consumption of coal per horse
   power, are important factors ; the absenco of vibration is also a
   question of first importance, securing tho comfort of passengers, and,
   in the case of ships of war, permitting of greater accuracy in sighting
   of the guts.
        The model exhibited represents a proposed cross-Channel boat for
   the Dover and Calais or Newhaven and Dieppe routes. She is 270
   feet length, 33 feet beam, 1000 tons displacement, and 8 feet 6 inches
   draught of water. She has spacious accommodation for 600 passengers,
   and with machinery developing 18,000 horse-power would have a sea
    speed of about 30 knots as compared with the speed of 19 to 22 knots
    of the present vessels of similar size and accommodation.
        * The Viper has sinre attained with full trial weights on board a mean speed
    of 36-58 knots, on a one-hour's full-power trial, the fastest runs being at the rate
     uto"-U8 knots per hour.

246              High-Speed Navigation Steam Turbines.         [Jan. 25,
    It is perhaps interesting to examine possibilities ot speed thit
might be attained in a special unarmoured cruiser, a magnified torpedo-
boat destroyer of light build, with scanty accommodation for her large
crew, but equipped with an armament of light guns and torpedoes.
Let us assume that her dimensions are about double those of the 30-
knot destroyers, or of the Viper, with plates of double the thickness,
and specially strengthened to correspond with the increased size and
speed ; length 420 feet, beam 42 feet, maximum draught 14 feet, dis
placement 2800 tons, indicated horse-power 80,000. There would be
two tiers of water-tube express boilers ; these, the engines and coal
bunkers, would occupy the whole of the lower portion of the vessel,
the crow's quarters and armaments would be on the upper decks. There
would be eight propellers of 9 faet in diameter, revolving at about
400 revolutions per minute, and her speed would be 44 knots. She
could carry coal at this speed for about eight hours, and she would
steam at from 10 to 14 knots, with a small section of the boilers
and supplemental machinery more economically than other vessels
of similar size, and of ordinary type and power, and when required
all the boilers could be used, and full power exerted in about half on
hour.
    In the case of an Atlantic liner or a cruiser of large size, turbine
engines would effect a reduction in weight of machinery, and also in
creased economy in fuel, tending either to a saving in coal on the one
hand, or, if preferred, to some increase in speed on the same coal
consumption per voyage.
    In conclusion, it may be remarked that in the history of en
gineering progress, the laws of natural selection generally operate in
favour of those methods which are characterised by the greater sim
plicity and greater economy, whether these advantages be great or
small.
    The progress in this undertaking has perhaps been slow, but many
difficulties were met with besides those of a mechanical nature, and,
as is generally the case, the success so far attained has been largely
due to devoted colleagues and staff, and in the marine developments
to the onterprising and generous financial assistance.
    My thanks are due to the officials of this Institution for the kind
assistance they have afforded me in the arrangement of the apparatus.
                                                           [C. A. P.]

1900.]                    Wireless Telegraphy.                     247
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 2, 1900.
       Alexandeb Siemens, Esq., M. Inst. C.E., Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                   Signoh G. Mabconi, M. Inst. C.E.
                           Wireless Telegraphy.
When Ampere threw out the suggestion that the theory of a universal
ether, possessed of merely mechanical properties, might supply the
means for explaining electrical facts, which view was upheld by
Joseph Henry and Faraday, the veil of mystery which had enveloped
electricity began to lift. When Maxwell published, in 1864, his
splendil dynamical theory of the electro-magnetic field, and worked
out mathematically the theory of ether waves, and Hertz had proved
experimentally the correctness of Maxwell's hypothesis, we obtained,
if I may use the words of Professor Fleming, " the greatest insight
into the hidden mechanisms of nature which has yet been made by
the intellect of man."
     A century of progress such as this has made wireless telegraphy
possible. Its basic principles are established in the very nature of
electricity itself. Its evolution has placed another great force of
nature at our disposal.
     We cannot pay too high a tribute to the genius of Heinrich Hertz,
who worked patiently and persistently in a new field of experimental
physics, and made what has been called the greatest discovery in
electrical science in the latter half of the nineteenth century. He
not only brought about a great triumph in the field of theoretical
physics, but, by proving Maxwell's mathematical hypothesis, he
accomplished a great triumph in the progress of our knowledge of
physical agents and physical laws.
     I cannot forbear saying one word as to the eminent electrician
who was placed in his last home as recently as Saturday last, for it is
manifest that several years ago Professor Hughes was on the verge of
 a great discovery, and, if he had persevered in his experiments, it
 seems probable that his name would have been closely connected
 with wireless telegraphy as it is with so many branches of electrical
 work, in which he gained so much renown and such great dis
tinction.
     The experimental proof by Hertz, thirteen years ago, of the iden
 tity of light and electricity, and the knowledge of how to produce,
 and how to detect these ether waves, the existence of which had been
 so far unknown, made possible true wireless telegraphy. I think I
                                                                        -

 248                         Signor 0. Marconi                      [Feb. 2,
 may be justified in saying that for several years the foil importance of
 the discovery of Hertz was realised but by very few, and for this
 reason the early development of its practical application was slow.
      The practical application of wireless telegraphy at the pretent
 time is many times as great as the predictions of five years ago led as
 to expect in so short a time. The development of the art during the
 past three or four years, and its present state of progress, may perhaps
justify the interest which is now taken in the subject. Yet only a
 beginning has been made, and the possibilities of the future can as vet
 be only incompletely appreciated. All of you know that the idea of
 communicating intelligence without visible means of connection is
 almost as old as mankind. Wireless telegraphy by means of Hertzian
 waves is, however, very young. I hope that if pass over the story
 of the growth of this new art, as I have watched it, or do not attempt
 to prove questions of priority, no ono will take it for granted that
 nothing is to bo said on these subjects, or that all that hag been said
is entirely correct.
     The time allowed for this discourse is too short to permit me to
 recount all the steps that have led up to the practical applications of
 to-day. I believe it will probably interest you more to hear of the
 problems which have lately been solved, and the very interesting
 developments which have taken place during the last few months.
     I find that a great element of the success of wireless telegraphy
 is dependent upon the use of a coherer such as I have adopted. It
has been my experience, and that of other workers, that a coherer as
previously constructed—that is, a tube several inches long partially
filled with filings enclosed by corks—was far too untrustworthy to
fulfil its purpose. I found, however, that if specially prepared filings
were confined in a very small gap (about 1 mm.) between flat plugs of
silver, tho coherer, if properly constructed, became absolutely trust
worthy. In its normal condition the resistanco of a good coherer is
infinite, but when influenced by electric waves the coherer instantly
becomes a conductor, its resistance falling to 100 or 500 ohms. This
conductivity is maintained until the tube is shaken or tapped.
     I noticed that by employing similar vertical and insulated rods
at both stations it was impossible to detect the effects of electric waves
of high frequency, and in that way convey the intelligible alphabetical
signals, over distances far greater than had been believed to be possible
a few years ago.
     I had formerly ascertained (see paper read before the Institntion
of Electrical Engineers by G. Marconi, March 1899) that the distance
over which it is possible to signal with a given amount of energy
varies approximately with the square of tho height of the vertical
wire, and with the square root of the capacity of a plate, drum, or
other form of capacity area which may be placed at the top of the
wires.
     The law governing the relation of height and distance has already
been proved correct up to a distance of 85 miles. Many months ago

    1900.]                   on Wireless Telegraphy.                     249
   it was found possible to communicate from the North Haven, Poole,
   to Alum Bay, Isle of Wight, with a height of 75 feet, the distance
   being 18 miles. Later on two installations with vertical wires of
   double that length, i.e. 150 feet, were erected at a distance of 85 miles
   apart, and signals were easily obtained between them. According to
   a rigorous application of the law, 72 miles ought to have been obtained
   instead of 85 ; but as I have previously stated, the law has been proved
   only to be approximately correct, the tendency being always on what
   I might call the right side ; thus we obtain a greater distance than
   the application of the law would lead us to believe. There is a
   remarkable circumstance to be noted in the case of the 85 .miles sig
   nalling. At the Alum Bay station the mast is on the cliff, and there
   is no curvature of the earth intervening between the two stations ; that
   is to say, a straight line between the base of the Haven and Alum Bay
   stations would clear the surface of the sea. But in the case of the
   85 miles the two stations were located on the sea-level, and between
   them exists a hill of water, owing to the earth's curvature, amounting
   to over 1000 feet. If those waves travelled only in straight lines, or
   the effect was noticeable only across open space, in a direct line, the
   signals would not have been received, except with a vertical wire 1000
   feet high at both stations.
       While carrying out some experiments nearly throe years ago at
   Salisbury, Captain Kennedy, R.E., and I tried numerous forms of
   induction coils wound in the ordinary way, that is, with a great
   number of turns of wire on the secondary circuit, with the object of
   increasing, if possible, the distance or range of transmission ; but in
   every case we observed a very marked decrease in the distance obtain
   able with the given amount of energy and height. Similar results
   were obtained some months later, I am informed, in experiments
   carried out by the General Post Office enginoers at Dover.
       In all our above-mentioned experiments the coils used were those
   in which the primary consisted of a smaller or larger number of turns
   of comparative thick wire, and the secondary of several layers of
   thinner wire. I believe I am right in saying that hundreds of these
   coils were tried, the result always being that by their employment the
   possible distance of signalling was considerably diminished instead
   of being increased. We eventually found an entirely new form of
   induction coil that would work satisfactorily, and ihat began to
   increase the distance of signalling.
       The results given by some of the new form of induction coils have
   been remarkable. During the naval manoeuvres I had an opportunity
   of testing how much they increased the range of signalling with a given
   amount of energy and height. When working between the cruisers
   Juno and Europa, I ascertained that when the induction coil was
   omitted from the receiver, the limit distance obtainable was seven miles,
C, bnt with an improved form of induction coil included, a distance of
   over sixty miles could be obtained with certainty. This demonstrated
   that the coils I used at that time increased the possible distance nearly
       Vol. XVI. (No. 94.)                                          s

250                          Signor 0. Marconi                    [Feb. 2,
tenfold. I have now adopted these induction coils, or transformers, at
all our permanent stations.
    A number of experiments have been carried out to test how far the
Wehnolt brake was applicable in substitution for the ordinary make
 and brake of the induction coil at the transmitting station ; but
although some excellent results havo been obtained ovor a distance of
forty miles of land, the amount of current used, and tho liability of
the brake getting fatigued or out of order, have been obstacles which
havo so far prevented its general adoption.
    As is probably known to most of you, the system has been in
practical daily operation between the East Goodwin Lightship, and
the South Foreland Lighthouse since December 24, 1898, and I have
good reason for believing that the officials of Trinity House are con
vinced of its great utility in connection with lightships and lighthouses.
It may be interesting to you to know that, as specially arranged by
the authorities of Trinity House, although we maintain a skilled
assistant on the lightship, he is not allowed to work the telegraph.
The work is invariably done by one of the seamen on the lightship,
many of whom have been instructed in the use of the instrument by
one of my assistants. On live occasions assistance has been called
for by the men on board the ship, and help obtained in time to avoid
loss of life and property. Of these five calls for assistance, three were
for vessels run ashore on the sands near the lightship, one because the
lightship herself had been run into by a steamer, and one to call a
boat to take off a member of the crew who was seriously ill.
    In the caso of a French steamer which went ashore off the Good
wins, we have evidence, given in the Admiralty Court, that by means
of one short wireless message, property to the amount of 52,588Z. was
saved ; and of this amount, I am glad to say, the owners and crews
of the lifeboats and tugs received 3000Z. This one saving alone is
probably sufficient in amount to equip all the lightships round England
with wireless telegraph apparatus more than ten times over. The
system has also been in constant use for the official communication
between the Trinity House and the ship, and is also used daily by the
men for private communication with their families, etc.
    It is difficult to believe that any person who knows that wireless
telegraphy has been in use between this lightship and the South Fore
land day and night, in storm and sunshine, in fog and in gales of wind,
without breaking down on any single occasion, can believe, or be justified
in saying, that wireless telegraphy is untrustworthy or uncertain in
operation. The lightship installation is, be it remembered, in a small
damp ship, and under conditions which try the system to the utmost.
I hope that before long the necessary funds will be at the disposal of
the Trinity House authorities, in order that communication may be
established between other lightships and lighthouses and the shore,
by which millions of pounds' worth of property and thousands of
lives may be saved.
    At the end of March 1899, by arrangement with the French

1900.]                   on Wireless Telegraphy.                   251
Government, communication was established between the South Fore
land Lighthouse and Wimereux, near Boulogne, over a distance of
thirty miles, and various interesting tests were made between these
stations and French war ships. The maximum distance obtained at
that time, with a height of about 100 feet on the ships, was forty-
two miles. The commission of French naval and military officers
who were appointed to supervise these experiments, and report to
their government, were in almost daily attendance on the one coast
or the other for several weeks. They became intensely interested
in the operations, and I have good reasons to know made satisfactory
reports to their government. I cannot allow this opportunity to
pass without bearing willing testimony to the courtesy and attention
which characterised all the dealings of these French gentlemen with
myself and staff.
    The most interesting and complete tests of the system at sea were,
however, made during the British naval manoeuvres. Threo ships of
the " B " fleet were fitted up, the flagship Alexandra and the cruisers
Juno and Europa. I do not consider myself quite at liberty to
describe all the various tests to which the system was put, but I
believe that never before were Hertzian waves given a more difficult
or responsible task. During these manoeuvres I had the pleasure of
being on board the Juno, my friend, Captain Jackson, R.N., who had
done some very good work on the subject of wireless telegraphy
before I had the pleasure of meeting him, being in command. With
the Juno there was usually a small squadron of cruisers, and all
orders and communications were transmitted to the Juno from the
flagship, the Juno repeating them to the ships around her. This
enabled evolutions to be carried out even when the flagship was out
of sight. This would have been impossible by means of flags or
semaphores. The wireless installations on these battleships were
kept going night and day, most important manoeuvres being carried
out and valuable information telegraphed to tho Admiral when
necessary.
     The greatest distance at which service messages were sent was
60 nautical miles, between the Europa and the Juno, and 45 miles,
between the Juno and the Alexandra. This was not the maximum
distance actually obtained, but the distance at which, under all
circumstances and conditions, the system could be relied upon for
certain and regular transmission of service messages. During tests
messages were obtained at no less than 74 nautical miles (85 land
miles).
     As to the opinion which naval experts have arrived at concerning
this new method of communication, I need only refer to the letters
published by naval officers and experts in the columns of ' The Times '
during and after the period of the autumn manoeuvres, and to the fact
 that the Admiralty are taking steps to introduce the system into
 general use in the navy.
     As you will probably remember, victory was gained by the " B "
                                                              s 2

252                         Signor G. Marconi                     [Feb. 2
fleet, and perhaps I may venture to suggest that the facility which
Admiral Sir Compton Domville had of using the wireless telegraph
in all weathers, both by day and night, contributed to the success
of bis operations.
     Commander Statham, R.N., has published a very concise descrip
tion of the results obtained in the ' Army and Navy,' illustrated, and I
 think it will be interesting if I read a short extract from the ad
mirable description he has published :—
      " When the reserve fleet first assembled at Tor Bay, the Juno was
 sent out day by day to communicate at various distances with the
 flagship, and the range was speedily increased to over 30 miles,
 ultimately reaching something like 50 miles. At Milford Haven tho
 Europa was fitted out, tho first step being the securing to the main
 topmast head of a hastily prepared spar carrying a small gaff or sprit,
 to which was attached a wire, which was brought down to the star
 board side of tho quarter-deck through an insulator and into a roomy
 deck house on the lower after-bridge which contained the various
 instruments.
      " When hostilities commenced the Europa was the leading ship of
 a squadron of seven cruisers despatched to look for the convoy at the
 rendezvous. The Juno was detached to act as a link when necessary
 and to scout for the enemy, and the flagship of course remained with
 the slower battle squadron. The Europa was in direct communica
  tion with the flagship long after leaving Milford Haven, the gap
 between reaching to 30 or 40 miles before she lost touch while
  steaming ahead at a fast speed. (This difference between the ranges
  of communication on these ships was owing to the Juno having a
  higher mast than the Alexandra.)
       " Reaching the convoy at four o'clock one afternoon, and leaving
  it and the several cruisers in charge of the senior captain, the Europa
  hastened back towards another rendezvous, where the Admiral had
  intended remaining until he should hear whether the enemy had
  found and captured the convoy ; but scarcely had she got well ahead
  of the slow ships when the Juno called her up and announced the
  Admiral coming to meet the convoy. The Juno was at this time
  fully 60 miles distant from the Europa.
       " Now imagine," says Commander Statham, " a chain of vessels
   60 miles apart. Only five would be necessary to communicate some
  vital piece of intelligence a distance of 300 miles, receive in return
  their instructions, and act immediately all in the course of half an
  hour or less. This is possible already. Doubtless a vast deal more
  will be done in a year or two or less, and meanwhile the authorities
  should be making all necessary arrangements for the universal appli
  cation of wireless telegraphy in the navy."
       The most important results, from a technical point of view,
  obtained during the manoeuvres wero the proof of the great increase of
  distance obtained by employing the transformer in the receiver, as
  already explained, and also that the curvature of the earth which inter

1900.]                  on Wireless Telegraphy.                     253
vened, however great the distance attained, was apparently no obstacle
to the transmission. The maximum height of the top of the wire
attached to the instruments above the water did not on any occasion
exceed 170 feet, but it would have been geometrically necessary to
have had masts 700 feet high on each ship in order that a straight
line between their tops should clear the curved surface of the sea
when the ships were 60 nautical miles apart. This shows that the
Hertzian waves had either to go over or round the dome of water
530 feet higher than the tops of the masts, or to pass through it,
which latter course I believe would be impossible.
    Some time after the naval manoeuvres, with a view to showing
the feasibility of communicating over considerable distances on land,
it was decided to erect two stations, one at Chelmsford and another
at Harwich, the distance between them being 40 miles. These instal
lations have been working regularly since last September, and my
experiments and improvements are continually being carried out at
Chelmsford, Harwich, Alum Bay, and North Haven, Poole.
     In the month of September last, during the meetings of the
British Association in Dover and of the Association Francaise pour
l'avancement de Science in Boulogne, a temporary installation was
fixed in the Dover Town Hall, in order that members present should
see the practical working of the system between England and France.
Messages were exchanged with ease between Wimereux, near Boulogne,
and Dover Town Hall. In this way it was possible for the members
of the two associations to converse across the Channel, over a dis
tance of 30 miles.
     During Professor Fleming's lecture on the ' Centenary of the
Electric Current,' messages wore transmitted direct to and received
from Franco, and fid the South Foreland Lighthouse to the East
Goodwin Lightship. An interesting point was that it was demon
strated that the great masses of the Castle Rock and South Foreland
cliffs lying botween the Town Hall, Dover, and the lighthouse did
not in the least degree interfere with the transmission of signals.
The result was, however, by no means new. It only confirmed the
results of mauy previous experiments, all of them showing that roek
masses of very considerable size intervening between two stations do
not in the least affect the freedom of communication by ether wave
telepraphy. (See ' J ournal of the Institution of Electrical Engineers,'
April 1899, p. 280.)
     It was during these tests that it was found possible to communi
cate direct from Wimereux to Harwich or Chelmsford, the intervening
distance being 85 miles. This result was published in a letter from
 Professor Fleming addressed to the ' Electrician ' on September 29.
The distance from Wimereux to Harwich is approximately 85 miles,
and from Wimereux to Chelmsford also 85 miles, of which 30 miles
are over sea and 55 over land. The height of the poles at these
stations was 150 feet, but if it had been necessary for a line drawn
between the tops of the masts to clear the curvature of the earth they

254                         Signor G. Marconi                    [Feb. 2,
would have had to have been over 1000 feet high. I give these
results to show what satisfactory progress is being made with this
system.
    In America, wireless telegraphy was used to report from the
high seas the progress of the yachts in the International Yacht
Race, and I think that occasion holds the record for work done in
a given time, over four thousand words being transmitted in the
space of less than five hours on several different days.
    Some tests were carried out for the United States Navy ; but,
owing to insufficient apparatus, and to the fact that all the latest
improvements had not been protected in the United States at that
time, it was impossible to give the authorities there such a complete
demonstration as was given to the British authorities during the
naval manoeuvres. Messages were transmitted between the battle
ship Massachusetts and the cruiser New York up to a distance of 36
miles.
    A few days previous to my departure from America the war in
South Africa broke out. Some of the officials of the American line
suggested that, as a permanent installation existed at the Needles,
Isle of Wight, it would be a great thing, if possible, to obtain the
latest war news before our arrival on the St. Paul at Southampton.
I readily consented to fit up my instruments on the St. Paul, and
succeeded in calling up the Needles station at a distance of 66 nautical
miles. By means of wireless tolegraphy, all the important news was
transmitted to the St. Paul while she was under way, steaming
twenty knots, and messages were despatched to several places by
passengers on board. News was collected and printed in a small
paper called the ' Transatlantic Times ' several hours before our arrival
at Southampton.
    This was, I believe, the first instance of the passengers of a
steamer receiving news while several miles from land, and seems to
point to a not far distant prospect of passengers maintaining direct
and regular communication with the land they are leaving and with
the land they are approaching, by means of wireless telegraphy.
    At the tardy request of the War Office, we sent out Mr. Bullocke
and five of our assistants to South Africa. It was the intention of
the War Office that the wireless telegraph should only be used at
the base and on the railways, but the officers on the spot realised
that it could only bo of any practical use at the front. They there
fore asked Mr. Bullocke whether he was willing to go to the front.
As the whole of the assistants volunteered to go anywhere with
Mr. Bullocke, their services were accepted, and on December 1 1 they
moved up to the camp at De Aar. But when they arrived at De Aar,
they found that no arrangements had been made to supply poles, kites
or balloons, which, as you all know, are an essential part of the
apparatus, and none could be obtained on the spot. To get over the
difficulty, they manufactured some kites, and in this they had the
hearty assistance of two officers, viz. Major Baden-Powell and Captain

 1900.]                  on Wireless Telegraphy.                    255
Kennedy, R.E., who have often helped me in my experiments in
England. (Major Baden-Powell, it will he remembered, is a brother
of the gallant defender of Mafeking.)
    The results which they obtained were not at first altogether satis
factory, but this is accounted for by the fact that the working was
attempted without poles or proper kites, and afterwards with poles of
insufficient height, while the use of the kites was very difficult, the
kites being manufactured on the spot with very deficient material.
The wind being so variable, it often happened that when a kite
was flying at one station there was not enough wind to fly a kite at
the other station with which they were attempting to communicate.
It is therefore manifest that their partial failure was due to the lack
of proper preparation on the part of the local military authorities,
and has no bearing on the practicability and utility of the system
when carried ont under normal conditions.
    It was reported that the difficulty of getting through from one
station to another was due to the iron in the hills. If this had not
been cabled from South Africa, it would hardly be credible that any
one should have committed himself to suoh a very unscientific opinion.
As a matter of fact, iron would have no greater destructive effect on
these Hertzian waves than any other metal, the rays apparently
getting very easily round or over such obstacles. A fleet of thirty
ironclads did not affect the rays during tho naval manoeuvres, and
during the yacht race I was able to transmit my messages with
absolute success across the very high buildings of New York, the
upper stories of which are iron.
    However, on getting the kites up, they easily communicated from
De Aar to Orange River, over a distance of some seventy miles. I
am glad to say that, from later information received, they have been
able to obtain poles, which although not quite high enough for long
distances are sufficiently useful. We have also sent a number of
Major Baden-Powell's kites, which are the only ones I have found to
be of real service.
    Stations have been established at Modder River, Enslin, Belmont,
Orange River and De Aar, which work well and will be invaluable in
case the field telegraph line connecting these positions should be cut
by the enemy.
    It is also satisfactory to note that the military authorities have
lately arranged to supply small balloons to my assistants for portable
installations on service waggons.
    While I admire the determination of Mr. Bullocke and our
assistants in their endeavour to do the very best they could with
most imperfect local means, I think it only right to say that if I
had been on the spot myself I should have refused to open any station
until the officers had provided the means for elevating the wire,
which, as you know, is essential to success.
    Mr. Bullocke and another of our assistants in South Africa has
been transferred with some of the apparatus to Natal to join General

256                         Wireless Telegraphy.                  [Feb. 2,
Bailer's forces, and it is likely that before the campaign is ended wire
less telegraphy will have proved its utility in actual warfare. Two of
our assistants bravely volunteered to take an installation through the
Boer lines into Kimberley ; but the military authority did not think
fit to grant them permission, as it probably involved too great a risk.
     What the bearing on the campaign would have been if working
installations had been established in Ladysmith, Kimberley and
Mafeking, before they were besieged, I leavo military strategists to
state. I am sure you will agree with me that it is much to be
regretted that the system could not be got into these towns prior to
the commencement of hostilities.
     I find it hard to believe that the Boers possess any workable
instruments. Some instruments intended for them were seized by
the authorities at Cape Town. These instruments turned out to
have been manufactured in Germany. Our assistants, however, found
that these instruments were not workable. I need hardly add that
as no apparatus has been supplied by us to any one, the Boers cannot
possibly have obtained any of our instruments.
     I have spoken at great length about the things which have been
accomplished. I do not like to dwell upon what may, or will, be
done in the immediate or more distant future, but there is one thing
of which I am confident—viz. that the progress made this year will
greatly surpass what has been accomplished during the last twelve
months ; and, speaking what I believo to be sober sense, I say, that
by means of the wireless telegraph, telegrams will be as common,
and as much in daily use, on the sea as at present on land.
                                                               [G. M.]

1900.]                           General Monthly Meeting.                                    257
                      GENERAL              February 5, MEETING,
                               Monday,MONTHLY               1900.
       Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. F.R.S., Treasurer and
                              Vice-President, in the Chair.
                         The Hon. Evelyn Ellis,
                         The Hon. Everard Feilding, LL.B.
                        The Hon. Francis Robert Henley,
                         Cecil Elsdale Newton, Esq.
                        The Hon. Richard Oliver,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Mr. Charles
Hawksley for his Donation of £100, to Dr. Frank McClean for his
Donation of £25. and to Sir Andrew Noble, K.C.B., for his Donation
of £100 to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental Research
at Low Temperatures.
     The Chairman reported the decease of Professor David Edward
Hughes, F.R.S., a Manager of the Royal Institution, on the 22nd of
January last. The following Resolution was submitted : —
    Rttolred:—That the Managers desire to express to Mrs. Hughes their heart
felt sympathy in her end bereavement, and the deep regret of the Managers in
losing, by the death of Professor Hughes, a most valued Colleague.
     Prufessor Hughes became a Member of the Royal Institution in 18S2. He
dehvered a Discourse on 'Theory of Magnetism' (illustrated by experiments) on
 February 8th, 1884. As a Manager and Vice-President he has rendered impor
 tant services to the Institution, and his scientific researches, which have received
 world-wide recognition, have done much to promote the objects of the Institution.
      The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
         noM
 Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1899, Part 2. 8vo. 1899.
 Accademia dei IAncei, Reale, Roma—Classe di Scienze Fisiche, Matematiohe a
      Naturali. Atti, Serie Quinta : Bendiconti. 2> Semestre, Vol. VIII. Fuse, lu
  American
       ll Classe
             Academy
  Agricultural      di Scienze
                        ofRoyal—Journal,
                 Society,   Art* Morali,
                                 and Sciences—Proceedings,
                                         Storiche,
                                              Vol. X.
                                                    etc.Part      Vol.
                                                                   8vo.Fasc.
                                                         Vol. 4.VIII.      1899.
                                                                             7-10. No.
                                                                        XXXIV.              8vo.
                                                                                    8vo.1. 1899.
       1899.
  American Geographical Society—Bulletin, Vol. XXXI. No. 5. 8vo. 1899.
    The
  Ankertt
       8vo.
       Palestine
          Jaulan.
          City
            of Hackney,
                     the
                     By G.Land.
                andExploration
                           TheSchumacher.
                                Right
                                  Fund,
                                   8vo.Hon.
                                          1892.
                                         18698vo.
                                             Lord,
                                               to 1899,
                                                     M.R.I.—Quarterly
                                                      1898.
                                                         and General Index,      1869 toof1892.
                                                                             Statement       the
    Noithern Ajlua. By G. Schumacher. 8vo. 1890.

258                            Oeneral Monthly Meeting.                 [Feb. 5,
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Vol. LXVII. Part 3, Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1898.
  The Kacmiracabdamrta : a Kacmire Grammar in the Sanscrit Language.
     Edited by G. A. Grierson. Part 1. 8vo. 1897.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal for Jan. 1900. 8vo.
Asiatic Society, Royal (Bombay Branch)—Journal, Nos. 42, 46, 47. 8vo. 1884-89.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LX No. 2. 8vo. 1899.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XX. Part 9; Vol. XXI. Part 1. 8vo.
     1899.
Bell & Sons, Messrs. G. (the Publishers')—Biological Experimentation. By Sir
     B. W. Richardson. 8vo. 1896.
Bengal, Lieutenant-Governor of—Dictionary of the Lepcha Language. By G. B.
     Mainwaring and A. Grunwedel. 4to. 1898.
Berlin, Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences—Sitzungsberichte, 1898, Nos. 39-53.
     8vo.
Birmingham    and Midland Institute—Report for 1899. 8vo.
Bischoffsheim, R. Esq.—Annales do l'Observatoire de Nice, Tome ler. 4to. And
     Atlas, fol. 1899.
Borgen. V. Esq.—Catalogue of a Collection of Bare Atlases and Maps. 8vo.
     1899.
Boston Public Library—Monthly Bulletin, Vol. IV. No. 12; Vol. V. No. 1. 8vo.
     1899.
Boston Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Vol. IV. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1899.
Boston Society of Natural History—Proceedings, Vol. XXIX. Nos. 1-8. 8vo.
     1899.
Boys, C. V. Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Soap Bubbles. 16mo. 1896.
Bristol Museum and Reference Library—Report of Committee for 1899. 8vo.
     1900.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, 3rd Series, Vol. VII. Nos. 3-6.
     4to. 1899.
British Astronomical Association—Journal, Vol. X No. 3. 8vo. 1900.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, VoL X. Part 4. 8vo. 1900.
Camera Club—Journal for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal. Vol. XVIII. Nos. 11, 12. 8vo. 1899.
Chemical Society—Proceedings, Nos. 215-217. 8vo. 1899.
  Journal for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. XXXII. 8vo. 1899.
Cracovie, VAcademie des Sciences—Bulletin International, 1899, Nos. 8, 9. 8vo.
Daviek, Frederick, Esq. F.S.A. (the Author)—The Romano-British City of Sil-
     chester. 8vo. 1898.
Dax, Societe de Borda—Bulletin, 1899, ler Trimestre. 8vo.
East India Association—Journal, Vol. XXXI. No. 18. 8vo. 1900.
Editors—Aeronautical Journal for Jan. 1890. 8vo.
  American Journal of Science for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
  Analyst for Dec. 1899. 8vo.
  Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
  Astrophysioal Journal for Nov.-Dec. 1899. 8vo.
  Athenaeum
  Author       for Dec.
           for Dec.         and and
                      18991899           1900.1900.8vo.4to.
                                  Jan.Jan.
  Bimetallist for Nov.-Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
  Brewers' Journal for Dec. 1899 and Jun. 1900. 8vo.
  Chemist and
  Chemical   NewsDruggist
                     for Dec.for1899
                                   Dec.and   Jan.
                                          1899        Jan. 1900.
                                                and1900.      4to. 8vo.
              Engineer for for
  Electrical Engineering              1899
                               Dec.Dec.      and Jan.
                                          1899.     8vo. 1900. fol.
  Electrical Review for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
  Electricity for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
  Engineer
  Engineeringfor for
  Homoeopathic     Review
                 Dec.Dec.
                        18991899
                             forand
                                  Dec.
                                     Jan.1899
                                   and      1900.
                                         Jan.  1900.Jan.
                                               and   fol.fol.1900. 8vo.

1900.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                       259
Editors—Horological Journal for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
   Industries and Iron for Deo. 1899 and Jan. 1900. fol.
   Invention for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900.
   Journal of the British Dental Association for Jan. 1900. 8vo.
   Journal of State Medicine for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
   Law Journal for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
   Life-Boat Journal for Deo. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
   Lightning for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
   London Technical Education Gazette for Nov.-Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900.
   Machinery Market for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
   Nature for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 4to.
   New Church Magazine for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
   Nuovo Cimento for Nov. 1899. 8vo.
   Photographic News for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
   Physical Beview for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
   Popular Science Monthly for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900.
   Publio Health Engineer for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
   Science Abstracts, Vol. II. Part 12 ; Vol. IIL Part 1. 8vo. 1899-1900.
   Science of Man for Nov.-Dec. 1899. 8vo.
   Science Sittings for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
   Telephone Magazine for Jan. 1900.
   Terrestrial Magnetism for Dec. 1899. 8vo.
   Travel for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
   Tropical Agriculturist for Deo. 1899. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 4to.
Florence, Biblioteca Naziunale Centrale—Bollettino, No. 337. 8vo. 1899.
Franklin Institute—Journal for Dec. 189J and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
Geographical Society, Hoyal—Geographical Journal for Deo. 1899 and Jan. 1900.
     8vo. Societe HoUandaise des Sciences—Archives Néerlandaises, Bene II.
Haarlem,
     Tome IIL Livr. 2. 8vo. 1899.
Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900.
iron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1899, No. 2. 8vo.
James, Prosser, M.U. (the Author)—The earliest recorded Discovery of Thermal
     Springs. 8vo. 1899.
       Hopkins
Johns8vo.   1899. University—American Journal of Philology, Vol. XX. Part 3.
  American Chemical Journal for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
Kestel, R. W. O. Esq. (the Autltor)—Badiant Energy a Working Power in the
     Mechanism of the Universe. 8vo. 1898.
Leighton, John, Esq. M.R.I.—Journal of the Ex-Libris Society for Dec. 1899 and
     Jan. 1900. 4to.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 177, 178. 8vo. 1899.
Liverpool IAterary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 53. 8vo. 1899.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology—Technology Quarterly, Vol. XII. No. 3.
     8vo. 1899.
Mechanical   Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings, 1899, No. 3. 8vo.
Meteorological Society, Royal—Meteorological Becord, No. 73. 8vo. 1899.
   Quarterly Journal, No. 112. 8vo. 1899.
Mexico, Sociedad Cientifica "Antonio Ahate"—Memorins, Tomo XII. Nos. 11, 12.
     8vo. 1899.
Microscopical Society, Royal—Journal, 1899, Part 6. 8vo.
Navy League—Navy League Journal for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
New Zealand, Agent-General for—The New Zealand Official Year Book, 1899.
     8vo.
Nutt, David, Esq.—Zur Kenntniss der Dispersion im electrischen Spectrum. Von
     E. Marx. 8vo. 1898.
Odontological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXXII. No. 2. 8vo. 1899.

260                             Qeneral Monthly Meeting.                             [Feb. 5,
Onnes. Prof. D. M. K.—Communications from the Physical Laboratory of Leiden
      University, Nos. 51, 52. 8vo. 1899.
Paris, Societe Francaise de Physique—Bulletin, Nos. 139, 140. 8vo. 1899.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Calendar for 1900. 8vo.
   Journal for Dec. 1899 and Jim. 1900. 8vo.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for Nov.-Dec. 1899. 8vo.
Physical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XVI. Nos. 7, 8. 8vo. 1899.
Rayleigh, The Bight Eon. Lord, F.R.S. M.U.I, {the Author)—Scientific Papers,
      Vol. I. 4to. 1898.
Roberts, I. Esq. D.Sc. F.R.S. (the Author)—Photographs of Stars, Star Clusters
      and Nebula>, Vol. II. 4to. 1899.
Rochechouart, La Societe des Amis des Sciences et Arts—Bulletin, Tome VIII. No. 6 ;
      Tome IX. No. 1. 8vo. 1898-99.
Rome, Ministry of Public Works—Giornale del Genio Civile, 1899, Fasc. 8-11.
         8vo. 1899.
Royal Irish Academy—Transactions, Vol. XXX. Part 20. 4to. 1896.
   Cunningham Memoirs, Nos. 2. 3, 4, 9. 4to. 1886-94.
Royal Scottish Society of Arts—Transactions, Vol. XV. Part 1. 8vo. 1899.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Proceedings, Vol. XXII. No. 6. 8vo. 1899.
Royal Society of London— Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CXCIII. A. Nos.
      244-251. 4to. 1899.
   Priioee.lings, Nos. 421-423. 8vo. 1899.
Sanitary Institute—Journal, Vol. XX. Part 4. 8vo. 1899.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—
   Mathematisch-Phytische Classe—
      Beriohte, 1899, No. 5. 8vo.
      Abhandluncen, Band XXV. Nos. 4-7. 8vo. 1899.
   Philologisch-HisUirische Classe—
      Berichte, 18^9, No. 4. 8vo.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
Smithsonian Institution—The Varieties of the Human Species. By G. Sergi.
      8vo. 1894.
   An Index to the Genera and Species of the Foramiuifera. By C. D. Slierborn.
      Part 1. 8vo. 1893.
Statistical
 Tacchini,
   Index
Society
      8vo.oftoArts—Journal
              Prof.
              Society.
               1899.
                the Literature
                         lion. for
                                Mem.
                                 of Dec.
                                    Zirconium.
                     P.Royal—Journal,    R.I.
                                           1899
                                             Vol.
                                               (theLXI
                                                 andAuthor)—Memorie
                                                     Jan.
                                                    By A.
                                                       I. Part
                                                           1900.
                                                           C. Langmuir
                                                               4. 8vo.   and
                                                                          1899.C.Societa
                                                                   8vo. della            degli
                                                                                  Baskerville.
      Spetlroscopisti Italiani, Vol. XXVIII. Disp. 10°. 4to. 1899.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for Dec. 1899 and Jan. 1900. 8vo.
      No.States
 United            Department
            12 ; Vol.  XI. Nos. of         8vo. 1899.
                                  3, 4.Agriculture—Experiment      Station Kecord, Vol. X.
   Monthly Weather Review for Sept. 1899. 4to.
      XC.States
 United            1-4. 8vo.
             Nos. Patent          1899-1900. Gazette, Vol. LXXXIX. Nos. 8-13 ; Vol.
                            Office—Official
   Annual Report of Commissioner of Patents for 1898. 8vo. 1899.
 Verein zur Befdrderung des Uewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhaudlungen, 1899,
      HeftGeological
 Vienna,      9-15. 8vo.Institute, Imperial—Verhandlungen, 1899, Nos. 11-16. 8vo.
 Vizagapatam, G. V. Jnggarow Observatory—Notes on the Meteorology of Vizaga-
      patam, Part 2. 8vo. 1899.
 Washington Academy of Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. I. pp. 161-251. 8vo. 1899-
       1900.
 Western Australia, Agent-General for—Western Australia. 8vo. 1899.
 Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1899, Parts 2, 3. 8vo.
    Transactions, Vol. XV. Part 4. 4to. 1899.

1900.]               Symbiosis and Symbiotic Fermentation.             261
                     WEEKLY         February 9,MEETING,
                           Friday,EVENING        1900.
           Alfbed B. Kempe, Esq., M.A. F.R.S., Vice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
                     Symbiosis
                 Pbofessob     Reynolds
                            J. and          Gbeen,
                                     Symbiotic      Sc.D. F.R.S.
                                               Fermentation.
 The features of socialism are realised perhaps more fully in the
 vegetable world than in any other sphere of life. What we gene
 rally call a plant and think of as an individual may with much
 more appropriateness be considered a colony, composed of units which
 are essentially similar, which live together in enormous numbers,
 and which divide up the work of the community among themselves
  with the greatest completeness ; securing thereby to the greatest
  extent possible the well-being of the colony, so that by this thorough
  co-operation of all its constituent members it comes to possess so
  marked an individuality that its composite character escapes our
  observation.
        With few exceptions every plant is divided up into a number
  of cavities of varying size and shape, limited by delicate mem
  branes of varying thickness and texture. These chambers are the
  dwelling places of the units of which I have spoken, which may be
   Been by careful examination to occupy them. The units are known
  as protoplasts ; each consists of a small piece of living substance
   possessing a certain degree of structure or differentiation. Each is
   in communication with its intermediate neighbours by very delicate
   filaments which extend through the separating walls, so that all the
   protoplasts of a plant are in actual connection with each other.
   The shape and disposition of the protoplast within its chamber varies
    a good deal ; some fill the whole space, others occupy only part of
    it, and in the majority of cases they line the cell membrane as a
    colourless transparent film, having a large cavity filled with water
    in the centre.
         In studying the manner of the growth and development of almost
     every plant we find this view of its structure so placed before us
     that we cannot escape the conclusion with which I started. Every
     plant which is developed sexually begins its career as a single proto
     plast without any cell-wall, and from this simple individual the most
     complex plant-body is gradually constructed by the process of multi
     plication of protoplasts. The protoplasts from which various plants
      start their development are not alike in all cases. In some of the
      simplest sea-weeds we find them free-swimming bodies, making their

262                    Professor J. Reynolds Green              [Feb. 9,
way in the water by means of vibratile filaments or cilia. After a
time they come to rest, secrete for themselves a protecting membrane
or cell-wall, and then by repeated division form a long filament.
Each protoplast in this thread is exactly like all the others, both in
structure and in properties and powers. In the higher plants the
first protoplast of the new individual or colony is not motile, and
is enclosed in some kind of cavity or receptacle, which differs in
different groups of plants. Its behaviour is, however, similar to
that of the one we have examined, and by repeated division of itself
and of those to which it gives origin, the complex plant is constructed.
In the larger plants a great deal of subsequent change or differentia
tion takes place, which can be traced directly to the division of
labour which the massive size of the organism necessitates.
     In nature this general principle of co-operation is found to be
more wide-spread than this. We find inter-relations of varying
degrees of complexity existing between distinct plants, which co
operate to a greater or less extent with each other for their mutual
advantage. The relationship is not confined to any particular group
of plants, nor is any corresponding complexity of structure or organi
sation necessary for the establishment of such an association. We
find examples of the co-operation of flowering plant with flowering
plant, of fungus with fungus or alga, and of flowering plant with
either of the latter.
     The intimacy of the relationship is not the same in all cases ;
indeed the beneficial character of the association varies very greatly.
Sometimes it is almost all on one side ; sometimes each constituent
organism benefits equally ; in many cases there is a preponderance
of advantage on one side or the other.
     In cases in which the advantages of the alliance are more or less
reciprocal we apply the term symbiosis to the association. It is im
portant to bear in mind this limitation, as there are many cases of
the close association of two plants in which the advantages reaped
by one are attended with disadvantage and often serious injury to
the other. This feature is characteristic of what is known as para
sitism.
     There are also instances to be met with in which the close connec
tion of the two plants is attended by almost negative results, neither
gaining much advantage from their association. Of this, an ex
ample is afforded by a few cryptogamous plants, particularly Antho-
ceros and Azolla, and by certain phanerogams, e.g. Gunnera and
 Cyeas, in cavities in the tissues of which particular Algae take up
their residence. In these cases neither organism appears to benefit
by the association, except that the alga finds a shelter and a home,
protected from difficulties incident to a watery environment. There
is no establishment in these cases of any co-operation between the
organisms, no formation of anything resembling a conjoint plant.
It is usual to apply the term comminsalism to such an association
as this.

1900.]          on Symbio»is and Symbiotic Fermentation.            263
    Among the flowering plants a true symbiosis is exhibited by a
group, the chief members of which are met with in the natural
orders Scrophulariaceae and Santalaceae. They are herbaceous plants
of small size, which flourish in pastures or other situations where
there is a rich development of herbage. Some species are found
growing freely in woods. Of these, the littlo plant known as
Thesium humifusum affords a typical example. It grows on rough
ground usually among grass, and develops a fairly large root system,
which extends to some depth in the soil. When the branches of its
roots come into contact with the roots of other plants in the same
earth, a littlo swelling is developed on them at the point of contact,
and from this swelling certain outgrowths of the epidermal cells
proceed, which penetrate into the tissues of the other root, establish
ing a very intimato relationship between them, so intimate in fact
that ultimately the tissues of the two roots become indistinguishable
in the zone common to both. By the relationship thus set up, food
materials elaborated by one of the symbionts can pass into the other,
and thus each can co-operate with the other for the common good.
The degree to which each partner benefits is not always the same,
but the relationship proves to be mutually advantageous. The asso
ciation of the two always depends upon the root of the Thesium
fastening upon that of some other plant. It never receives an
attachment in turn. The same thing is true of the members of the
Scrophulariaceae which have been alluded to, conspicuous among
which are Rhinanthus, Melampyrum, and Euphrasia. On account of
this somewhat one-sided way of establishing the symbiosis, these
plants are frequently spoken of as root-parasites. It is better
perhaps not to employ that term, as the alliance appears to be
mutually beneficial, at any rate to a considerable extent.
    An equally interesting instance of a similar relationship is pre
sented by the mistletoe. This plant has been generally somewhat
vaguely described as parasitic on the oak, the apple, the poplar, and
other trees. The degree of its parasitism has, however, been very much
exaggerated, if that term should be applied to the plant at all. The
mistletoe always grows from seed which is carried from the parent
plant by birds, and deposited upon a branch of one of these trees.
The seed germinates where it is dropped upon the branch, and a bulky
hemispherical radicle is pressed against the bark. This grows and
flattens into a strongly-marked disc, from which a projection is put
out which penetrates the soft tissue of the cortex and reaches the
wood. Lateral outgrowths from this projection or sinker then grow
at right angles and burrow along the cortex of the tree. From these
new sinkers again are sent down into the soft tissues. They grow
slowly, and as the branch which they penetrate becomes thicker by
the activity of the cambium layer, the new wood thus formed sur
rounds the sinkers, and the latter thus become embedded in it. A
very complete union of the tissues of the mistletoe and the host is
thus established. The mistletoe is a slow-growing plant, and the
                                                                        t

264                    Profegsor J. Reynolds Green             [Feb. 9,
fall development of this relationship is only gradually bronght
about.
    The advantages of the symbiosis appear on the whole to be greater
on the side of the mistletoe than on that of its host. During the
longer portion of the year the latter is in full foliage, and no doubt
the invader derives considerable nutriment from it by the passage of
the latter into the sinkers from the parenchyma and the bast of the
host. It must, moreover, draw from the wood of the latter the water
and the mineral salts which it needs for the working of its own
chlorophyll apparatus. The mistletoe, however, is an evergreen plant,
while its host loses its leaves as autumn gives way to winter. The
advantage then becomes transferred to the host plant, which derives
supplies of nutrient material from the mistletoe, the latter being able
to elaborate it from the raw materials it absorbs on the one hand from
the air, and on the other from the wood to which its sinkers are so
closely connected.
    Instances of symbiotic association between members of the higher
and of the lower plants are not at all infrequent. One of the most
curious relationships is exhibited by the young roots of a number of
our woody plants, some shrubs, and other trees. Among the former
we find large numbers of the Heaths and Rhododendrons, while the trees
are represented by the Firs, Oaks, Beeches, Willows and Poplars, and
many others. The roots of these plants when taken up carefully
from the soil are found to be covered with a dense feltwork of fungal
hyphae, constituting, in some cases, a mantle of considerable thick
ness. The filaments of the fungus not only cover the outside of the
roots but penetrate into the cortex and ramify at first between the
cells, later on entering them and branching copiously in their in
terior. The thickness of the mantle varies a good deal in different
cases, but its composition is much the same in all. From it delicate
threads or solitary hyphse extend outwards and ramify among the
particles of soil, appearing almost exactly like the long root-hairs
with which plants are usually supplied. There is a constant setting
up of this symbiotic relationship going on in the soil ; as a young
root grows out it finds itself in mould which is permeated by hyphal
threads or contains spores which are ready to produce them. The
young hypha makes its way into the young root, forcing itself be
tween certain of the cells, and once inside it ramifies freely, being
 nourished by the juices of the root. As long as the latter continues
to grow or even to exist the mycelium accompanies it, becoming
larger and thicker during its development, and sometimes forming a
considerable mass of hyphae in which the root is enveloped.
     The symbiosis in this case is not at first apparent. The advan
tages appear to be altogether on the side of the fungus, which
evidently thrives very luxuriantly at the expense of the nutrient
materials which it extracts from the cells of the cortex of the root
into which we have seen it penetrating. The loss of this particular
 nutrient matter is, however, of very small relative importance. The

1900.]          on Symbiosis and Symbiotic Fermentation.             2C5
tree is vigorous, usually, indeed, in proportion to the development of
the fungus, a fact which shows that the advantages of the connection
must at any rate be mutual.
    Observation of the structure of the young root shows us that
unlike normal terrestrial roots, it does not give rise to any root-hairs.
If the mycelial mantle is prevented from developing, as may be done
by cultivating a plant from seed by the method of water-culture, or
if the fungus is removed from a root on which it has become estab
lished, the plant has no power of flourishing and very speedily dies.
If the mycelium is suffered to play its part this neglect to produce
root-hairs is not attended with any ill-results. In fact the mycelium
takes up the function of absorbing water which is discharged in
other terrestrial plants by the root-hairs. These filaments we have
seen ramify in the soil, coming in contact with its ultimate particles
just as the root-hairs do ; they are in communication also with the
interior of certain cells of the cortex, in which they break up and
form a kind of network. They thus serve for the supply of water
and dissolved mineral matter to the tree, which in turn supports them
by the elaborated nutrient substances they derive from the cells in
which they end.
    A case of a more complete alliance is afforded by the great group of
Cryptogamous plants known as the Lichens, the two constituents of
which are of relatively equal systematic position, and which enter into
the composition of the symbiont organism in almost equal amounts.
     The Lichens are of very wide distribution and show extraordinary
diversities of form. Many of them appear as incrustations on stones
or wood, or the bark of trees, and resemble mere discolorations of
the surface ; others are thin and papery, somewhat resembling leaves
in their texture, though not in their shape, the latter being very
irregularly lobed and corrugated. Some again are of more sturdy
habit resembling miniature shrubs, while yet others are fleshy or
gelatinous cushions of very irregular form.
     The thallus of a lichen, when cut, so as to show its section, is
found to be composed of two constituents ; a green or sometimes
blue-greon alga, imbedded in tho midst of a mingled mass of hyphal
fungal filaments. The order in which these two constituents are
arranged is very varied, the alga being sometimes fairly evenly dis
tributed throughout the thickness of the body or thallus, and in
other cases confined to a particular region of it. There is a great
variety possible in the sppcies which form the lichen ; a particular
alga may co-operate with different fungi and a particular fungus with
different alg».
    Tho gradual formation of a lichen by tho actual growing together
of its two constituents can often be observed. The green cells of
Protococcu8 which are found in such quantity on the bark of elm
trees, forming a green dusty-looking surface over the brown bark,
are frequently found attached by or associated with hyphal filaraouts
of some fungus, which coil round and enclose them. As the algal
    Vol. XVI. (No. 94.)                                         t

26G                    Professor J. Reynolds Green             [Feb. 9,
cells divide and multiply, the hyphae keep pace with them and the
lichen is gradually formed. Filamentous algae, such as Scytonema,
enter into the composition of lichens in the same way.
     When once formed the lichen can reproduce itself in a way
which obviates the necessity for continual reconstruction. In the
interior of the old thai his, generally near one surface, particular
groups of the two constituents become separated from the rest.
Each group consists of a few algal cells wrapped round by hyphal
filaments. By the rupture of the thallus these collections, known
as soredia, are liberated and grow into fresh lichen plants.
     When we consider the physiological peculiarities of this associa
tion we find there is a very complete and satisfactory division of
labour. The fungus is able to condense aqueous vapour, which is
very necessary in the dry situations lichens occupy. It thus provides
a solvent for much of the dust and other d6bris of its resting place,
and having effected its solution absorbs it into the hypha and con
ducts it into the interior of the plant. This solution and absorption
is facilitated by its power of excreting particular substances, such as
certain vegetable acids. It thus carries raw material to the con
 structive algal cells of the interior. The fungus also secures the
 adhesion of the thallus to the substratum. The alga, on the other
 hand, by nature of its chlorophyll or green colouring matter, is able
 to construct food from the raw materials presented to it. It can
 absorb and decompose the carbon dioxide of the air, and when sup
 plied with water and dissolved mineral substances, furnished by the
 fungus in the way described, can build up carbohydrates such as
 sugar. Both partners can no doubt take part in the processes con
 nected with nitrogenous metabolism.
     It is noteworthy that in such an alliance the algal cells grow
 more vigorously and become larger than similar ones which have
 no symbiotic partner.
     A case of symbiosis which is more deeply interesting on account
 of its wide-reaching economical importance, is afforded by various
 plants belonging to the Leguminosae, the pea, bean and clover family.
 In order to make clear the special phenomena which these plants
 present, it is necessary to diverge for a few moments to speak of a
 feature of vegetable protoplasm.
     The food of plants is derived eventually from extremely simple
 bodies, which undergo a process of construction into more elaborate
 ones in their tissues before they can serve actually as food. The
 simple bodies absorbed are chiefly carbon dioxide from the air, water
 and various inorganic salts from the soil, the former being taken up
 by the leaves aud other green parts, the latter by the root-hairs.
  From these simple bodies complex ones, among which especially
  must be mentioned sugar and proteids, are formed in the cells of
  the plant, conspicuous among which are those containing chlorophyll
 bodies or chloroplasts. Among the constituents of proteid matter,
  which is an absolutely essential part of the food of every living

1900.]          on Symbiosis and Symbiotic Fermentation.            267
organism, whether vegetable or animal, is the gas nitrogen. The
source from which this element is derived by the plant has been
ascertained to be some compound present in the soil, either a nitrato
or nitrite, or a compound of ammonia. When we consider that the
atmosphere surrounding the leaves of a plant contains about 80 per
cent, of this gas, it seems surprising that this vast store should not
be utilised. The most careful experiments have shown, however,
that in the vast majority of instances atmospheric nitrogen is of no
use to a plant.
    During the past 10 or 15 years, however, various physiologists
have determined that in the case of the leguminous plants mentioned
just now, more nitrogen can be found in the body of the plant in the
course of very careful quantitative experiments, than can have been
derived from the medium in which it has been cultivated. Soil, plant
and manurial applications have been all most carefully analysed. The
results have been so startling, and so contrary to received opinion,
that they have been very carefully checked by many distinguished
observers, but their absolute accuracy has been found indisputable.
Clearly then, these leguminous plants can in some way appropriate
the nitrogen of the atmosphere. A careful investigation of the phe
nomena presented by these plants during their growth, led to the
discovery of the existence of a form of symbiosis, to which the
phenomenon is due. All the details of it are not yet clear, and no
doubt much time will elapse before the steps of appropriation are
fully known. When one of these plants, growing in ordinary soil,
is removed from the earth and its root-system is carefully washed, it
 presents the appearance of much-branching roots, on which certain
 tnbercular outgrowths are visible. These occur, both upon the main
 tap root and upon the branches, and are present in considerable
 numbers, arising usually in those parts of the root where the root-
 hairs occur.
     A tubercle cut across shows that its axial mass consists of large
 polyhedral cells getting smaller towards the apex, where they form a
 mass of rapidly-growing tissue. Several layers of compressed cells
 surround them.
     In the formation of these bodies a tubular structure seems to
 penetrate one of the root-hairs, and to make its way into the cells
 just under the surface of the root, in which it branches somewhat
 freely. It can be seen ramifying in the substance of the young
 tubercle, the growth of which is apparently due to a hypertrophy of
 the tissue caused by the stimulus of the irritation of its presence.
 In the large-celled tissue the parasite becomes rampant, and indeed,
 the tubes of which it at first consists, can be seen throughout the
 tubercle. In older tubercles the tube can be seen to end, at first
 blindly, in the centre of the cells, and from the blunt end by repeated
 branching and constriction of the branches, an enormous number of
 extremely small bodies are cut off, which accumulate in the proto
 plasm of the cells. They are of various shapes, sometimes straight
                                                              T 2

268                    Professor J. Reynolds Green                [Feb. 9,
and rod-like, at others formed like a V or a Y. The latter have been
seen to arise from the branching of originally straight ones. As the
tubercle still grows, there goes on an enormous coincident develop
ment of these minute bodies which, from their resemblance to bacteria,
have been called bacteroids. When the root perishes at the end of
the summer, most of the plants being annuals, these bacteroids are
liberated from the cells in which they are formed, the latter decaying.
The soil, consequently, in which these plants have been growing,
contains them in large numbers. The original infection of the plant
is no doubt brought about by one of these organisms in the soil coming
into contact with the root-hair, into which it makes its way as already
described.
    We know but little so far of the steps by which the nitrogen is
made to enter into combination. It depends upon the bacteroid or
the tubular structure to which it gives rise, for if the soil is carefully
sterilised no such appropriation takes place. If such a soil is after
wards watered with an extract of an uusterilised soil in which some
of the plants have been growing, the tubercles will be speedily pro
duced and the gain of nitrogen made evident. The same result can
be obtained by inoculating a root with a bacteroid obtained from a
pure culture of the organisms.
    There is some evidence which points to the fungus or schizo-
phyte as having the power to fix the nitrogen. In some cases this
appears to be done in the sheath of the tube as it penetrates the
tissue of the root. In some cases these tubes have not been observed,
so that this cannot be the only locality. It seems probable that it goes
on also in the cells which we have seen are filled with the bacteroids.
In any case the appropriation seems to be done by the lowly partner
in the symbiosis, which thus provides valuable nutrient matter for the
leguminous plant. The latter cannot independently fix the nitrogen,
whether it is in symbiosis or not.
    The advantages which the green plant affords to its fellow sym-
biont are such as have been described in other cases already.
    These cases of symbiosis are on the whole not very difficult to
explain, and we can trace more or less fully the influence of the one
plant upon the other. Associations of organisms are found also lower
down in the scale of life and their relations are much more obscure.
The symbiosis seems in many cases to be shared by several organisms,
but most probably in nearly all cases some of these are only casual
intruders which have nothing to do with the true association of the
others.
    We find many instances of a relation of this kind among the
fungi and schizomycetes which set up various fermentations. It is
necessary here to define carefully what we mean by the terms sym
biosis and symbiotic fermentation when used in connection with these
organisms. The idea of mutual co-operation for the common benefit,
which has been traceable through all the relationships so far con
sidered, cannot be seen so completely in these cases, no doubt because

1900.]          on Symbiosis and Symbiotic Fermentation.            269
their metabolic processes are not at present understood. Probably
when all is known we shall find this is the result of the association,
but at present it cannot be said to be established. We must sub
stitute for it in connection with fermentation the idea of power in
particular directions possessed by the conjoint organisms, which is
not exhibited by either symbiont separately.
     We must guard ourselves still further. There are many fermen
tative processes carried on by microbes in which many such organisms
take part simultaneously or successively. Prominent among these
we have the phenomena of putrefaction. In this process many
organisms take part, some decomposing the original material, for
instance, meat ; others attacking the products of the activity of the
first, and so on. It is evident that there is here a very great com
plexity, and many of the organisms benefit from, and are indeed
dependent upon the activity of the others. But there is at the same
time a conspicuous independence among them, and many of them
would not be seriously missed if they should not happen to be
present. Wo may rather compare such a series of actions with the
struggle for existence which is exemplified by a number of plants
growing together in a somewhat confined area, and competing there
fore for the advantages which the environment presents.
     Nor does a true symbiotic fermentation arise in the case of two
organisms which live together, one being fed by the materials which
the first produces. A curious case is known in which three microbes
have been found together, of which one, Bacillus ramosus, decom
poses proteid or gelatinous matters, setting free ammonia ; the second,
Nitrosomonas, converts the ammonia into nitrites, or salts of nitrous
acid ; the third, Nilrobacter, forms nitric acid or its compounds from
this. These are consecutive fermentations and can only go on in
the order named, so long as all three organisms are present. They
apparently do not influence each other in any way apart from making
their particular products ; Nitrosomonas will make nitrous acid from
ammonia if it is supplied to it from any other source than the activity
of the Bacillus, and is, therofore, not dependent upon the presence
of the latter as such. The Nitrobacter is to the same extent inde
pendent of the Nitrosomonas. True symbiotic fermentation involves
a much closer relationship between the organisms which take part
 in it, and the general reactions incident to their associated life are
much more complex, the influence of one organism upon the other
modifying considerably the course of action of each.
     The first of these cases of symbiosis which may be noticed is the
fermentation set up by the 'so-called Kephir, which produces an
aerated beverage largely used in the Caucasus. The Kephir exists
in the form of, say, somewhat translucent lumps, which swell some
what in water ; they are known as Kephir grains.
     When examined carefully these lumps are found to be composed
of three separate organisms which can, by the usual culture methods,
be separated from each other. The first of these is known as Dis

270                    Professor J. Reynolds Green              [Feb. 9,
pora ; it is a gelatinous bacterium, consisting of much-coiled filaments
with strongly marked sheaths, which form what is technically known
as a zoogloea. The gelatinous appearance of the grain is mainly due
to this. Tho second is the ordinary bacterium which produces lactic
acid from sugar, and the third is a yeast. These are both surrounded
by the coiled filaments of the Dispora, in whose meshes they are
entangled.
     The Kephir sets up its fermentation in the milk of cows, goats,
or sheop. The yeast and the bacterium either jointly or separately
split up the lactose or milk sugar into two other sugars, galactose
and glucose. The yeast then forms alcohol from the latter, and the
bacterium lactic acid from the former. The action of the Dispora
seems to be to change the casein of the milk, so that it is not pre
cipitated or curdled by the lactic acid.
     These general outlines only sketch the probabilities of the course
of action which has not so far been definitely studied. The mode of
development and the full function of the separate factors are not yet
known.
     Another organism, or rather association of organisms, constitutes
what is known as the ginger-beer plant. It is the agent of fermen
tation in the preparation of the so-called " stone ginger-beer," which
is a favourite beverage in the country districts of England, there
 being a pleasing delusion that it is non-alcoholic. The origin of this
" plant " is obscure ; no one knows exactly where it came from, but
 it is preserved carefully by the villagers and handed on indeed from
one to another.
     This material is composed essentially of two organisms ; one is a
 yeast known as Saccharomycee pyriformis, from its being somewhat
 pear-shaped ; the other a bacterium, to which the name Bacterium
 vermiforme has been given. In their association the bacterium forms
 long coiled filaments, in the meshes of which the yeast is entangled.
 As it occurs in use it is seldom pure, but is found to be contaminated
 by admixture with other yeasts and schizomycetes, which however
 have nothing to do with the fermentation it sets up, their presence
 being accidental. As it is met with it forms, like Kephir, translucent
 lumps of a jelly-like consistency which are slightly heavier than
 water.
      The yeast appears to differ but little from the ordinary yeast of
 beer. When it is isolated it sets up a fermentation of cane-sugar and
 grape-sugar, which exhibits the usual features.
      The bacterium is a very interesting form, and when it is isolated
 it can be made to grow in two different conditions :—(1) In the form
 of long rods, varying in number and invested by a common trans
 lucent, often wrinkled sheath. This is found to be capable of coiling
 and twisting in vory curious ways, and can form a convoluted thread
 like gelatinous body. (2) Tho constituent microbes can escape from
 the sheath and live and multiply freely without forming one. In
 many preparations the empty sheaths can frequently be found, some

1900.]          on Symbiosis and Symbiotic Fermentation.              271
times of great length and much convoluted. This sheath is normally
formed by the microbe, and the process can sometimes be watched.
The bacterium sometimes partially escapes from the end as it is
beginning to form it, and so the sheath continually elongates ; the
part behind the organism remaining empty. The conjoint organism
can be synthesised from pure cultures of the two symbionts, but it is
not very easy to make them come together, as the existence of the
complete structure is dependent on the activity of them both.
    The most efficient method is to prepare a glass vessel containing
an appropriate nutrient fluid, and to suspend inside it another vessel
of porous porcelain, so that the walls of the two do not come into
contact. This porcelain pot must contain the same nutritive solution.
The yeast must then be sown in the inner vessel and the bacterium in
the outer one. In this condition the two organisms cannot come into
contact, but the products of their activity can mix by diffusion through
the porcelain vessel. The whole apparatus must then bo kept im
mersed in an atmosphere of carbon-dioxide, so that no oxygen may
gain access to tho microbes. After a time, when both are growing
vigorously, a little of the yeast must be transferred to tho puter vessel,
when the two will grow together into the conjoint form.
    Another method, which does not, however, give such satisfactory
results, is to prepare a good growth of the yeast in a culture-fluid
containing bouillon and grape-sugar, and while its activity is at its
height to inoculate the culture with some of the bacteria.
    In the condition of symbiosis both members are more active than
when they exist separately. The cells of the yeast bud more actively
and the coils of the bacterium are formed more freely. More carbon-
dioxide is evolved from the fermenting liquid. The details of the fer
mentation have not yet been examined, but certain points of interest
as to the inter-action of the one with the other have been established.
    The sheathing form of the bacterium can only be produced when
oxygen is replaced by carbon-dioxide. The advantages of the pro
tective sheath to the microbe seem apparent. In the symbiotic
association the yeast absorbs the oxygen", and during its fermentative
activity produces carbon-dioxide, thus providing tho necessary con
ditions for the formation of the sheaths, that is, for the full develop
ment of the bacterium. When they are cultivated separately, the
yeast appears to form some substance or substances which inhibit the
formation of the sheaths. This does not occur whon the symbiosis
is established. It may be conuected perhaps with the relative
quantity of the two organisms present together in tho free condition,
or with some variation of the vital processes under the different
conditions of cultivation, but the cause is at present obscure. The
bacterium benefits by extractives or other substances excreted by
the yeast, and the latter profits by tho removal of these matters
through the agency of the former.
    A third organism which must be classed with both these occurs in
Madagascar as a curious gelatinous-looking substance found attacking

272                   Professor J. Reynolds Green                 [Fob. 9,
the sugar-cane. In its external appearance it cannot very well be
distinguished from either of the others. It consists again of a yeast
and a bacterium which are associated in the same way as are the
organisms in the ginger-beer plant. The yeast is not the same
as in the latter, and the bacterium differs in some respects, though
its structure and mode of behaviour are very much like those of
Bacterium vermiforme. It is a sheathed organism which seems to
have the power of casting the sheaths in the same way as has been
described.
     The result of the symbiotic fermentation is an effervescent
liquid of distinctly acid taste, which if the fermentation is not
prolonged makes a very pleasant beverage. If the action is allowed
to go on for several weeks the percentage of the acids becomes so
great that it is no longer possible to drink it.
     The morphological features of the organism resemble to a very
large extent those of the ginger-beer plant. A more detailed exami
nation has been made of the products of the fermentation than in the
former case, and certain features of the symbiosis have been ascer
tained. The organisms of which the plant consists can easily be
separated and independent cultures made of both, so that tho separate
and conjoint fermentations can be studied.
     The yeast, when cultivated alone, produces alcohol and of course
 carbon-dioxide, together with a little acetic and a little succinic acid.
 In these respects it appears to differ very little from the ordinary
 yeast of beer.
     The bacterium can form no alcohol, but it gives rise to the forma
 tion of much larger quantities of both these acids. Besides these, if
 cultivated in solutions of cane-sugar it produces a very largo quantity
 of two hemicelluloses, which when in a certain excess, sink to the
 bottom of the liquid and form a kind of gelatinous sediment. This
viscous matter can be precipitated by alcohol from its watery solution.
 It appears to be the same material as the sheath of the organisms, and
 it is noteworthy that when it is formed the organisms possess no
 sheaths. The gelatinous substance is not the discarded sheaths of
 the bacterium, but seems to be formed in the culture liquid at tho
expense of tho sugar. It is in fact a viscous fermentation of the
latter.
     If we compare the products of the fermentation of the two
 organisms separately, those of tho sarae two microbes when present
 together in the same culture-fluid, but not in the symbiotic form, and
 finally those of the conjoint organism, we find that there is evidence
 of some subtle influence exerted by the one upon the other when they
 are in complete symbiosis, though it is difficult to suggest in what that
 influence consists.
     Comparing cultures of them both separately with one in which
 both were present but independent, the nutrient medium being a
 mixture of cane-sugar and fruit-sugar, less acid was produced in
 the latter caso in the proportion of 224 to 1175. The same quan

1900.]            on Symbiosis and Symbiotic Fermentation.             273
tities of yeast and bacteria were employed in each experiment so that
the results might be comparable. With grape-sugar the ratio was
117 to 112, which is a little in the opposite direction. When they
were conjoined symbiotically the amount of acid produced was 474
compared with 224 when they were together but free, a mixture of
cane and fruit sugars being the culture medium. With grape-sugar
the proportions were 196 to 112 ; with fruit-sugar alone they
produced when symbiotic about one-eighth as much acid as when
they were free and separate.
     Without entering upon the question of the advantages or dis
advantages of the association, these figures show that the symbiotic
relation greatly modified the progress and the results of the fer
mentation. The bacterium when in symbiosis with the yeast forms
its sheaths readily in the presence of 2 per cent, of alcohol. When
free it produced no sheaths in less than 5-8 per cent., and then
 only in long standing under the spirit. In 2 per cent, or less it
 only brought about the viscous sediment which has been described.
      But little information has been gained as to the influence of the
 one on the other in the symbiosis. It is not one of the preparation
 of a suitable nutrient material for each other. The action of the
 bacterium being to form acid, if this were the case the yeast should
 be found capable of flourishing in such acid as it produces. But the
 reverse is the case. In the absence of the bacterium so small a
 quantity as - 25 per cent, of acetic acid is distinctly deleterious to it.
      Conversely the alcohol which the yeast produces is not made use
  of by the bacterium in the production of the acid. It is utterly
  unlike Bacterium aceti, the so-called vinegar plant which oxidises
  alcohol to acetic acid. If alcohol is added to a fermentation which
  is conducted by the bacterium alone, that alcohol can be recovered
  unchanged when the fermentation has ceased. The source of the
  acid appears to be the sugar, and a preliminary alcoholic fermentation
  takes no part in the transformation.
       There is presumably some physiological influence excited by the
   one organism upon the other, as the products of the fermentation
   are so different when the two are in the different relationships
   described ; but what is the nature of that influence there is at present
   no evidence to show.
                                                              [J. R. G.]

27i                      Mr. H. Warington Smyth               [Feb. 16,
                 WEEKLY         February 16,MEETING,
                        Friday,EVENING       1900.
 Sib Fekdebiok Bbamwell, Babt., D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S., Honorary
               Secretary and Vice-President, in the Chair.
          H. WARDfQTON Smyth, Esq., M.A. LL.M. F.R.G.S,
                           Life in Indo-CMna.
The lecturer said that no apology was needed for directing attention
to the conditions which affect human life in one of the most important
portions of Asia—the Indo-Chinese Peninsula. Situated midway
between the two great Empires India and China, which in geographical
extent, in population and wealth, as well as intellectual achievement,
had, notwithstanding their want of political cohesion, been amongst
the greatest that the world has seen ; this great peninsula has drawn
its civilisation first from one and then from the other ; so much is
this the case that wherever one travels in it, the best that it has is
invariably traceable to the influence of Indian or Chinese modes of
thought. It has of itself produced nothing of importance or of ori
ginality to the world. Its intellectual and moral life has come from
without. Cut off by tracts of mountainous forest country in the far
north-west and north-east, but little communication was ever able
to take place directly overland with either empire ; thus the sea has
ever been the front door of Indo-China. The causes underlying the
distinctiveness of the Indo-Chinese races become but gradually appa
rent to the traveller. In few portions of the world is he so impressed
with the sense of the predomination of the physical forces of nature.
Mr. Warington Smyth then proceeded to speak of the wonderful rivers
of the Indo-Chinese Peninsula, describing their features and scenery
up to the mountains. He then went on to refer to the other means of
transport which are available to the inhabitants who live either back
in the great plains away from navigable rivers, by streams which for
the greater part of the year are navigable, or up in the mountains and
in the torrent valleys of the highlands. The animal most utilised in
the low country, where for half the year the tracts are under water,
is the water buffalo, which is well known in India and elsewhere.
Mr. Smyth mentioned as an interesting fact their deep-rooted aversion
to the white man whom they scent afar off. On one occasion, when
riding with a dozen Shan dignitaries, who had come out to meet him
on entering the town, they had to gallop for their lives before a herd
of so-called tame buffaloes who had discovered his presence at half a
mile distant. A respected and dignified friend of his spent ten hoars
on the hottest day of the year on the not very commodious summit of

1900.]                   on Life in Indo-China.                      275
a telegraph pole awaiting the departure of a herd of buffaloes which
waited impatiently below throughout the day. The buffalo, when he
is not too sulky, is used for ploughing, for treading out the padi,and
for drawing the big buffalo carts. But the ship of the jungle of
Indo-China is the elephant. He is to bo found in every upland
village of the Lao country, swinging his trunk among the cocks and
hens, or minding the baby in the back-yard. From the forest he
slowly hauls the teak trees to the nearest river, or climbs patiently
along the hill sides with his master's last crop of cotton or tobacco on
his back. Mr. Smyth went on to speak of the methods of capture and
training the elephants in different parts of the peninsula, and re
marked that it is a singular fact which speaks well for the intelligence
and humanity of the Asiatic, that not a single race which has come
into contact with the elephant has failed to make use of his sagacity
and strength by domesticating him. It is interesting to note that the
price of the elephant in most parts of Indo-China is about that of the
horse in this country, but it varies greatly with his age and attain
ments. In the teak districts, large sums amounting to over 200Z. are
paid for a good hauler. The lecturer briefly referred to the ponies
and mules which are used for purposes of transport by the Moham
medan traders of the north.
    He proceeded to refer to the people of Indo-China, and remarked
that no country in the world presents so many different types, or
provides such an interesting field for the ethnologist. It was com
plicated by the perpetual warfare which has to our own times been
waged between the various races with ever-changing fortunes since the
dawn of their history, and which has prevented settled government
and has not given an opportunity for the development of peaceful
industries. Mr. Warington Smyth passed over the semi-Chinese
inhabitants of Tong-King, the Annamites, the Cambodians, the
Malays, the Siamese and Burmans, and went on to speak more
particularly of the Laos and the Shans, and other tribes about which
information is not so easily accessible. All the Lao people had
adopted Buddhism, but at the same time they retained a large ad
mixture of spirit worship. Speaking of the tribe known as the
Musur as tho Lao call them, or Musho as the Burmese Shans style
them, the lecturer remarked that it was stated on good authority that
M. Pavie, the French Commissioner, during the Anglo-French Com
mission, was ready to claim the whole country on the ground that
these were evidently French subjects, else they could not have been
called by a name which was so evidently a corruption for Monsieur
by their neighbours. The badness of the pun was said by unkind
persons to be equalled only by the quality of the claims made by
France to this district.
    Going on to speak of the architecture of the Indo-Chinese Penin
sula, Mr. Warington Smyth said that tho traveller would notice two
primary forms in all the Buddhist —and there was practically no other
—architecture of Indo-China, the spire-like pagoda, taking various

276                     Mr. E. Warington Smyth                [Feb. 16,
shapes in different parts of the country, and the monastery chapel
or chief building, in which the statue of Buddha sits sadly contempla
tive in tho cool lofty height of the great roof. At once the most
ancient, the most extensive, and the most magnificently executed of
the buildings of Indo-China are those which centre round the great
ruins of Angkor Wat and extend over an area of some twenty
square miles in the immediate neighbourhood of the great lake
of Cambodia. They consist of half-a-dozen main groups, most
of them many miles apart in the great Cambodian plain, but
which were, it appears, at one time mostly connected by stone cause
ways which carried the roads above the flood levels of the surrounding
country, the remains of which still exist and are met with in unex
pected places in the jungle. These groups consisted of cities, palaces
and temples ; and were built apparently between the sixth and tenth
centuries. The most remarkable and the most perfect of them all it
the great temple of Angkor, or Nakawn, Wat, which, for the gigantic
boldness of its design, the perfection of its workmanship, and the
delicacy of its detail, may well take rank as one of the greatest
buildings of the world. Of the Kmer, of whose high artistic taste
and architectural skill we have such remarkable evidence, very little
that is accurate is known, except that they came from India, advancing
into tho country apparently by Hatien on the coast to the south-west
[where extensive fifth century ruins still exist] and gradually spread
ing over the country further north even than Korat [15° N. Lat).
But the evidence of the buildings themselves goes to show that to
wards the ninth century the decadence of the building race had set in
and that the advance north of Korat and into A nam occurred during
the period of decline. Originally professing Brahmanism, the evidence
shows that Buddhism was introduced probably in the period just fol
lowing the culmination of its power. But what catastrophe actually
completed the ruin of the race, whether it was due to actual conquest,
or to gradual absorption and decay, are points on which a great deal
more light is wanted. Certainly, travelling in Cambodia, it is difficult
 to believe that the present dull-witted, unenterprising and essentially
stupid Cambodians are the direct descendants of the highly intelligent
and tasteful building race which immigrated from India. These
 buildings, it may be remarked, bear a distinct resemblance to the
 great remains at Pagan in Upper Burmah, which were destroyed by
 Kublai Khan in the thirteenth century—though the latter consist
 entirely of brickwork, while the best portions of the Cambodian
remains are magnificently fitted sandstone blocks. And the architects
 of Siam have gono to Cambodia for their models, as will be seen in
 the great brick towns and the finest of the Buddhist remains at the old
 cities of Ayuthia, Sawankalok, and elsewhere. But none have eTer
 rivalled Angkor Wat in one feature—that of its wonderful stone
 roofing ; which has preserved the building alike against the assaults
 of the climate, and the insidious attacks of the roots of the peepnl
 [ficus indica] and other destructive trees.

1900.]                    on Life in Indo-China.                   277
    In conclusion, the lecturer went on to speak of the mineral wealth
of the country. He said that the coal deposits of Tong-Kiug are
certainly extraordinary for the great thickness to which they attain,
and recent trials go to show that Tong-King coal will soon have an
assured position in the markets of the East, but these beds appear to
be the only ones of really workable character. Gold occurs in very
fine grains over wide areas in the alluvial sands of the great river
systems, but no systematic hydraulic work has ever been attempted on
a large scale. It is doubtful, he added, how far these deposits would
repay European methods of working in a country where transport of
machinery aud commissariat is at present so expensive, and where the
loss by sickness makes the labour question such a serious one. He
also referred to the tin deposits in the Malay Peninsula and in the
island of Junk-Ceylon. Speaking of the latter, he said that the
whole island might be said to be one vast tin mine. Everybody talks
of tin, everything smells of tin, the valleys have all been turned up
side down for it, the mountains have been gashed into chasms which
can be seen many miles away, and the jungle has been felled and
cloared, all for the tin which underlies and pervades the whole.
    Want of time prevented the ruby and sapphire deposits being
more than touched upon by the lecturer.
                                                          [H. W. S.]

278                  Professor John H. Poynting              [Feb. 23,
                      Friday,EVENING
                 WEEKLY                      1900.
                              February 23,MEETING.
      His Gbace The Duke of Nobthumbebland, K.G. F.S.A.
                        President, in the Chair.
             Pbofessob John H. Poynting, D.So. F.R.S.
                    Recent Studies in Gravitation.
The studies in gravitation which I am to describe to yon this
evening will perhaps fall into better order if I rapidly run over the
well beaten track which leads to those studies, the track first laid
down by Newton, based on astronomical observations, and only made
firmer and broader by every later observation.
     I may remind you, then, that the motion of the planets round the
sun in ellipses, each marking out the area of its orbit at a constant
rate, and each having a year proportional to the square root of the
cube of its mean distance from the sun, implies that there is a force
on each planet exactly proportioned to its mass, directed towards,
and inversely as the square of its distance from the sun. The lines
of force radiate out from the sun on all sides equally, and always
grasp any matter with a force proportional to its mass, whatever
planet that matter belongs to.
     If we assume that action and reaction are equal and opposite,
then each planet acts on the sun with a force proportional to its own
mass ; and if, further, we suppose that these forces are merely the
sum totals of the forces due to every particle of matter in the bodies
acting, we are led straight to the law of gravitation, that the force
between two masses M, M2 is always proportional to the product of
the masses divided by the square of the distance r between them, or
is equal to
                             6kM|XM,
                                   r2
and the constant multiplier G is the constant of gravitation.
     Since the force is always proportional to the mass acted on, and
 produces the same change of velocity whatever that mass may be, the
change of velocity tells us nothing about the mass in which it takes
 place, but only abont the mass which is pulling. If, however, we
 compare the accelerations due to different pulling bodies, as for
 instance that of the sun pulling the earth, with that of the earth
 pulling the moon, or if we compare changes in motion due to the
 different planets pulling each other, then we can compare their
 masses and weigh them, one against another and each against the

1900.]                on Recent Studies in Gravitation.                 279
8an. Bat in this weighing our standard weight is not the pound or
kilogramme of terrestrial weighings, but the mass of the sun.
      For instance, from the fact that a body at the earth's surface,
         miles, on the average, from the mass of the earth, falls with a
velocity increasing by 32 ft. / sec 2, while the earth itself falls towards
the sun, 92 million miles away, with a velocity increasing by about
-j inch / sec 2, we can at once show that the mass of the sun is 300,000
times that of the earth. In other words, astronomical observation
gives us only the acceleration, the product of G X mass acting, but
does not tell us the value of G nor of the mass acting, in terms of our
 terrestrial standards.
       To weigh the sun, the planets, or the earth, in pounds or kilo
 grammes, or to find G, we must descend from the heavenly bodies to
 earthly matter, and either compare the pull of a weighable mass on
 some body with the pull of the earth on it, or else choose two weigh
 able musses and find the pull between them.
       All this was clearly seen by Newton, and was set forth in his
 System of the World (third edition, page 41).
       He saw that a mountain mass might be used, and weighed against
  the earth by finding how much it deflected the plumb line at its base.
  The density of the mountain could be found from specimens of the
  rocks composing it, and the distance of its parts from the plumb line
  by a survey. The deflection of the vertical would then give the
  mass of the earth.
        Newton also considered the possibility of measuring the attrac
  tion between two weighable masses, and calculated how long it would
  take a sphere a foot in diameter, of the earth's mean density, to draw
   another equal sphere, with their surfaces separated by ^-inch, through
   that J-inch. But he made a very great mistake in his arithmetic, for
   while his result gave about 1 month the actual time would only be
   about 5^ minutes. Had his value been right, gravitational experi
   ments would have been beyond the power of even Professor Boys.
   Some doubt has been thrown on Newton's authorship of this mistake,
   bat I confess that there is something not altogether unpleasing in
   the mistake even of a Newton. His faulty arithmetic showed that
   there was one quality which he shared with the rest of mankind.
         Not long after Newton's death the mountain experiment was
    actually tried, and in two ways. The honour of making these first
    experiments on gravitation belongs to Bouguer, whose splendid work
    in thus breaking new ground does not appear to me to have received
    the credit due to it.
         One of his plans consisted in measuring the deflection of the
    plumb line due to Chimborazo, one of the Andes peaks, by finding
     the distance of a star on the meridian from the zenith, first at a
     station on the south side of the mountain where the vertical was
     deflected, and then at a station to the west, where the mountain
     attraction was nearly inconsiderable, so that the actual nearly
     coincided with the geographical vertical. The difference in zenith

 280                  Professor John H. Pointing               [Feb. 23,
 distances gave the mountain deflection. It is not surprising that,
 working in snowstorms at one station, and in sandstorms at the other,
 Bouguer obtained a very incorrect result. But at least he showed
 the possibility of such work, and since his time many experiments
have been carried out on his lines under more favourable conditions.
Now, however, I think it is generally recognised that the difficulty
of estimating the mass of a mountain from mere surface chips is
insurmountable, and it is admitted that the experiment should be
turned the other way about and regarded as an attempt to measure
the mass of the mountains from the density of the earth known by
other experiments.
     These other experiments are on the line indicated by Newton in
his calculations of the attraction of two spheres. The first was
carried out by Cavendish.
                     Fio. 1.—Cavendish's Apparatus.
    In the apparatus (Fig. 1) he used two lead balls, B B, each 2" in
diameter. These were hung at the end of a horizontal rod 6' long,
the torsion rod, and this was hung up by a long wire from its middle
point. Two large attracting spheres of lead, W \V, each 12" in
diameter, were brought close to the balls on opposite sides so that
their attractions on the balls conspired to twist the torsion rod round
the same way, and the angle of twist was measured. Tho force could
be reckoned in terms of this angle by setting the rod vibrating to and
fro and finding the time of vibration, and the force came out to less
than 1/3000 of a grain. Knowing M1 M2 and r the distance betweon
them and the force G M1M2/r2, of course Cavendish's result gives G,
or knowing the attraction of a big sphere on a ball, and knowing
the attraction of the earth on the same ball, that is its weight, the

1900.]            on Recent Studies in Gravitation.               281
experiment gives the mass of the earth in terms of that of the hig
sphere, and so its mean density. This experiment has often been
repeated, but I do not think it is too much to say that no advance
was made in exactness till we come to quite recent work.
    By far the most remarkable recent study in gravitation is
Professor Boys' beautiful form of the Cavendish experiment, a
                         Fio. 2.—Boys' Apparatus.
research which stands out as a model in beauty of design and in
exactness of execution (Fig. 2). But as Professor Boys has described
his experiment already in this theatre * it is not necessary for me to
more than refer to it. It is enough to say that he made the great
discovery, obvious perhaps when made, that the sensitiveness of the
apparatus is increased by reducing its dimensions. He therefore
                   * Proc. R.I. xiv. part ii. 1894, p. 353.
    Vol. XVI. (No. 94.)                                       u

282                     Professor John H, Poynting                  [Feb. 23,
decreased the scale as far as was consistent with exact measurement
of the parts of the apparatus, using a torsion rod, itself a mirror,
only 2" long, gold balls, m m, only J" in diameter, and attracting lead
masses, M M, only 4^" in diameter. The force to be measured was less
than 1 /5 x 106 grain.
     The exactness of his work was increased by using as suspending
wire one of his quartz threads. It would be difficult to overestimate
the service he has rendered in the measurement of small forces by
the discovery of the remarkable properties of these threads.
     One of the chief difficulties in the measurement of these small
gravitational pulls is the disturbances which are brought about by
the air currents, which blow to and fro and up and down inside the
apparatus, producing irregular motions in the torsion rod. These,
though much reduced, are not reduced in proportion to the diminu
tion of the apparatus.
     A very interesting repetition of the Cavendish experiment has
lately been concluded by Dr. Braun * at Mariaschein in Bohemia, in
which he has sought to get rid of these disturbing air currents by
suspending his torsion rod in a receiver which was nearly exhausted,
the pressure being reduced to about               of an atmosphere. The
gales which have been the despair of other workers were thus
reduced to such gentle breezes that their effect was hardly noticeable.
His apparatus was nearly a mean proportional between that of
Cavendish and Boys, his torsion rod being about 9" long, the balls
weighing 54 gms.—less than two ounces—and the attracting masses
either 5 or 9 kgms. His work bears internal evidence of great care
and accuracy, and he obtained almost exactly the same result as
Professor Boys.
     Dr. Braun carried on his work far from the usual laboratory
facilities, far from workshops, and he had to make much of his
apparatus himself. His patience and persistence command our
highest admiration.
     I am glad to say that he is now repeating the experiment, using
as suspension a quartz fibre supplied to him by Professor Boys in
place of the somewhat untrustworthy metal wire which he used in
the work already published.
     Professor Boys has almost indignantly disclaimed that he was
engaged on any such purely local experiment as the determination of
the mean density of the earth. He was working for the Universe, seek
ing the value of G, information which would be as useful on Mars or
Jupiter or out in the stellar system as here on the earth. But
perhaps we may this evening consent to be more parochial in our
ideas, and express the results in terms of the mean density of the
earth. In such terms then both Boys and Braun find that density
5 ' 527 times tho density of water, agreeing therefore to 1 in 5000.
    * Denkschriften der Math. Wiss. Classe der Kais. Akad. der Wissenschaften
Wien, lxiv. 189G.

1900.]               on Recent Studies in Gravitation.            283
    There is another mode of proceeding which may be regarded as the
Cavendish experiment turned from a horizontal into a vertical plane,
and in which the torsion balance is replaced by the common balance.
This method occurred about the same time to the late Professor TJ.
Jolly and myself. The principle of my own experiment* will be
sufficiently indicated by Fig. 3. A big bullion balance with a 4-foot
beam had two lead spheres, A B, each about 50 lbs. in weight, hanging
             t Fio. 3.—Common Balance Experiment (Pointing).
from the two ends in place of the usual scale pans. A large lead
sphere, M, 1' in diameter and weighing about 350 lbs., was brought
first under one hanging weight, then under the other. The pull of
the lead sphere acted first on one side alone and then on the other so
that the tilt of the balance beam when the sphere was moved round
was due to twice the pull. By means of riders the tilt and therefore
the pull was measured directly as so much increase in weight. This
increase, when the sphere was brought directly under the hanging
                       * Phil. Trans. 182, 1891, A, p. 565.
                                                             u 2

 284                     Professor John H. Poynting            [Feb. 23,
 weight with 1' between the centres, was about £ mgm. in a total weight
 of 20 kgm. or about 1 in 100,000,000. If then a sphere one foot away
 pulls with 1/10s of the earth's pull, the earth being on the average
 20,000,000 feet away, it is easy to see that the earth's mass is
 calculable in terms of the mass of the sphero, and its density is
 at once deduced. The direct aim of this experiment, then, is not
 (x, but the mass of the earth.
     It is not a little surprising that the balance could be made to
 indicate such a small increase in weight as 1 in 100 million. But
 not only did it indicate, it measured the increase, with variations
 usually well within 1% of the double attraction, or to 1 in 5000
 million of the whole weight, a chango in weight which would occur
 merely if one of the spheres were moved ^0 inch nearer the earth's
 centre. This accuracy is only attained by never lifting the knife
 edges and planes during an experiment, thus keeping the beam in
 the same state of strain throughout, and, further, by taking care
 that none of the mechanism for moving the weights or riders shall
 be attached in any way to the balance or its case ; two conditions
 which are absolutely essential if we are to get the best results of
 which the balance is capable.
     Quite recently another common balance experiment has been
brought to a conclusion by Professor Richarz and Dr. Krigar-
Menzel* at Spandau, near Berlin. Their method may be gathered
 from Fig. 4. A balance of 23 cm., say 9-inch beam, was mounted
above a hugo lead pile about 2 metres cube, and weighing 100,000
kgm.
     Two pans were supported from each end of the beam, one pan
above, the other pan below the lead cube, the suspending wires of the
lower pans going through narrow vertical tubular holes in the lead.
Instead of moving the attracting mass, the attracted mass was moved.
Masses of 1 kgm. each were put first, say, one in the upper right-hand
pan, the other in the lower left-hand pan, when the pull of the lead
block made the right hand heavier and the left hand lighter. Then
the weights were changed to the lower right hand and the upper
left hand, when the pulls of the lead pile were reversed. When we
remember that in my experiment a lowering of the hanging sphere
by 1£ inches would give an effect as great as the pull I was measuring,
it is evident that here tho approach to and removal from the earth
by over 2 metres would produce very considerable changes in weight,
and, indeed, these changes masked the effect of the attraction of the
lead. Preliminary experiments had, therefore, to be mado before tho
lead pile was built up, to find the change in weight due to removal
from upper to lower pan, and this change had to be allowed for. The
quadruple attraction of the lead pile came out at 1 ' 3664 mgm., and
the moan density of the earth at 5*505.
    * Anhane: zii den Abhandlungen der Konigl. Preuss. Akad. dcr WisBcn-
schnften zu Berlin, 18D8.

1900.]              on Recent Studies in Gravitation.                285
    This agrees nearly with my own result of 5 . 49, and it is a curious
coincidence that the two most recent balance experiments agree very
nearly at, say 5 ' 5, and the two most recent Cavendish experiments
agree at, say 5 , 53. But I confess I think it is merely a coincidence.
I have no doubt that the torsion experiment is the more exact, though
probably an experiment on different lines was worth making. And I
am quite content to accept the value 5 . 527 as the standard value for
the present.
    And so the latest research has amply verified Newton's celebrated
guess that " the quantity of the whole matter of the Earth may be
five or six times greater than if it consisted all of water."
     Fio. 4.—Common Balance Experiment (Ricliarz and Krigar-Meuzel).
    I now turn to another line of gravitational research. When we
compare gravitation with other known forces (and those which have
been most closely studied are electric and magnetic forces) we are at
once led to inquire whether the lines of gravitative force are always
straight lines radiating from or to the mass round which they centre,
or whether, like electric and magnetic lines of force, they have a
preference for some media and a distaste for others. We know, for
example, that if a magnetic sphere of iron or cobalt or manganese is
placed in a previously straight field, its permeability is greater than
the air it replaces, and the lines of force crowd into it, as in Fig. 5.
The magnetic action is then stronger in the presence of the sphere
near the ends of a diameter parallel to the original course of the lines

 286                     Professor John H. Poynling                     [Feb. 23,
 of force, and the lines are deflected. If the sphere be diamagnetic, of
 water, or copper, or bismuth, the permeability being less than that of
 air, there is an opposite effect, as in Fig. 6, and the field is weakened
 at the end of a diameter parallel to the lines of force, and again the
 linos are deflected. Similarly, a dielectric body placed in an electric
 field gathers in the lines of force, and makes the field where the lines
 enter and leave stronger than it was before.
     If we enclose a magnet in a hollow box of soft iron placed in a
 magnetic field, the lines of force are gathered into the iron and largely
cleared away from the inside cavity, so that the magnet is screened
from external action.
     Now, common experience might lead ns at once to say that there
is no very considerable effect of this kind with gravitation. The
 evidence of ordinary weighings may, perhaps, be rejected, inasmuch
 as both sides will be equally affected as the balance is commonly
 used. But a.spring balance should show if there is any large effect
 when used in different positions above different media, or in different
  Fio. 5.—Paramagnetic sphere placed        Fio. 6.—Diamagnetic sphere placed
      in a previously straight field.           in a previously straight field.
enclosures. And the ordinary balance is used in certain experiments
in which ono weight is suspended beneath the balance case, and sur
rounded, perhaps, by a metal case, or perhaps, by a water-bath. Yet
no appreciable variation of weight on that account has yet been noted.
Nor doos the direction of the vertical change rapidly from place to
place, as it would with varying permeability of the ground below.
But perhaps the agreement of pendulum results, whatever the
block on which the pendulum is placed, and whatever the case in
which it is contained, gives the best evidcn.ce that there is no great
gathering in, or opening out of the lines of the earth's force by
different media.
     Still, a direct experiment on the attraction between two masses
with different media interposed was well worthy of trial, and such an
experiment has lately been carried out in America by Messrs. Austin
and Thwing.* The effect to be looked for will be understood from
Fig. 7. If a medium more permeable to gravitation is interposed
                        * Physical Review, v. 1897, p. 294.

1900.]              on Recent Studies in Gravitation.                  287
between two bodies, tho lines of force will move into it from each
side, and the gravifativo pull on a body, near the interposed medium
on the side away from the attracting body, will be increased.
     The apparatus they used was a modified kind of Boys' apparatus
(Fig. 8). Two small gold masses in the form of short vertical wires,
each -4 gm. in weight, were arranged at different levels at the ends
virtually of a torsion rod 8 mm. long. The attracting masses M\ M2
were lead, each about 1 kgm. These were first in the positions
shown by black lines in the figure, and were then moved into the
positions shown by dotted lines. The attraction was measured first
when merely the air and the case of the instrument intervened, and
then when various slabs, each 3 cm. thick, 10 cm. wide and 29 cm.
high, were interposed. With screens of lead, zinc, mercury, water,
alcohol or glycerine, the change in attraction was at the most about
1 in 500, and this did not exceed the errors of experiment. That is,
they found no evidence of a change in pull with change of medium.
               FIg. 7,—Effect of interposition of more permeable
                       medium in radiating field of force.
 If such change exists, it is not of the 'order of the change of electric
 pull with change of medium, but something far smaller. Perhaps,
 it still remains just possible, that there are variations of gravitational
 permeability comparable with the variations of magnetic permea
 bility in media such as water and alcohol.
      Yet another kind of effect might be suspected. In most crystal
 line substances the physical properties are different along different
 directions in a crystal. They expand differently, they conduct heat
 difierently, and they transmit light at different speeds in different
 directions. We might, then, imagine that the lines of gravitative
 force spread out from, say a crystal sphere unequally in different
 directions. Some years ago, Dr. Mackenzie* made an experiment in
 America in which he sought for direct evidence of such unequal
 distribution of the lines of force. Ho used a form of apparatus like
 that of Professor Boys (Fig. 2), the attracting masses being calc
 spar spheres about 2 inches in diameter. The attracted masses in
 one experiment were small lead spheres about ^ gm. each, and ho
                       * Physical Review, ii. 1835, p. 321.

288                  Professor John H. Poynting               [Feb. 23,
measured the attraction between the crystals and the lead when the
axes of the crystals were set in various positions. But the variation
in the attraction was merely of the order of error of experiment. In
another experiment the attracted masses were small calc spar crystal
cylinders weighing a little more than ^ gm. each. But again there
was no evidence of variation in the attraction with variation of axial
direction.
              Fio. 8.—Experiment on Rravitative permeability
                           (Austin and Thwing).
    Practically the same problem was attacked in a different way by
Mr. Gray and myself.* We tried to find whether a quartz crystal
sphere had any directive action on another quartz crystal sphere close
to it, whether they tended to set with their axes parallel or crossed.
    It may easily be seen that this is the same problem by con
sidering what must happen if there is any difference in the attraction
between two such spheres when their axes are parallel and when they
are crossed. Suppose, for example, that the attraction is always
greater when their axes are parallel, and this seems a reasonable
supposition, inasmuch as in straightforward crystallisation successive
parts of the crystal are added to the existing crystal, all with their
axes parallel. Begin, then, with two quartz crystal spheres near
each other with their axes in the same plane, but perpendicular to
                     * Phil. Trans. 192, 1899, A, p. 245.

 1900.]            on Recent Studies in Gravitation.                 289
 each other. Remove one to a very great distance, doing work
 against their mutual attractions. Then, when it is quite out of
 range of appreciable action, turn it round till its axis is parallel to
 that of the fixed crystal. This absorbs no work if done slowly.
 Then let it return. The force on the return journey at every point
 is greater than the force on the outgoing journey, and more work will
 be got out than was put in. When the sphere is in its first position,
 turn it round till the axes are again at right angles. Then work
must be done on turning it through this right angle to supply the
difference between the outgoing and incoming works. For if no work
 were done in the turning, we could go through cycle after cycle,
 always getting a balance of energy over, and this would, I think,
 imply either a cooling of the crystals or a diminution in their weight,
 neither supposition being admissible. We are led, then, to say that
if the attraction with parallel axes exceeds that with crossed axes,
there must be a directive action resisting the turn from the crossed
to the parallel positions. And conversely, a directive action implies
axial variation in gravitation.
     The straightforward mode of testing the existence of this direc
tive action would consist in hanging up one sphere by a wire or
thread, and turning the other round into various positions, and
observing whether the hanging sphere tended to twist out of posi
tion. But the action, if it exists, is so minute, and the disturbances
due to air currents are so great, that it would be extremely difficult
to observe its effect directly. It occurred to us that we might call
in the aid of the principle of forced oscillations, by turning one
sphere round and round at a constant rate, so that the couple would
act first in one direction and then in the other, alternately, and so
set the hanging sphere vibrating to and fro. The nearer the com
plete time of vibration of the applied couple to the natural time of
vibration of the hanging sphere, the greater would be the vibration
set up. This is well illustrated by moving the point of suspension
of a pendulum to and fro in gradually decreasing periods, when the
swing gets longer and longer, till the period is that of the pendulum,
and then decreases again. Or by the experiment of varying the
length of a jar resounding to a given fork, when the sound suddenly
swells out as the length becomes that which would naturally give
the same note as the fork. Now, in looking for the couple between
the crystals, there are two possible cases. The most likely is that
in which the couple acts in one way while the turning sphere is
moving from parallel to crossed, and in the opposite way during the
next quarter turn from crossed to parallel. That is, the couple
vanishes four times during the revolution, and this we may term a
quadrantal couple. But it is just possible that a quartz crystal has
two ends like a magnet, and that like poles tend to like directions.
Then the couple will vanish only twice in a revolution, and may be
termed a semicircular couple. We looked for both, but it is enough
now to consider the possibility of the quadrantal couple only.

290                   Professor John H. Poynting                     [Feb. 23,
    Our mode of working will be seen from Fig. 9. The hanging
sphere, ' 9 cm. in diameter and 1 gm. in weight, was placed in a light
aluminium wire cage with a mirror on it, and suspended by a long
    Fio. 9.—Experiment on directive action of one quartz crystal on another.
 quartz fibre in a brass case with a window in it opposite the mirror,
 and surrounded by a double-walled tinfoiled wood case. The posi
 tion of the sphere was read in the usual way by scale and telescope.
 The time of swing of this little sphere was 120 seconds.
     A larger quartz sphere 6*6 cm. diameter and weighing 400
 gms., was fixed at the lower end of an axis which could be turned at
 any desired rate by a regulated motor. The centres of the spheres
 were on the same level and 5 ' 9 cm. apart. On the top of the axis
 was a wheel with 20 equidistant marks on its rim, one passing a fixed
 point every 11 "5 seconds.
     It might be expected that the couple, if it existed, would have
 the greatest effect if its period exactly coincided with the 120 second

1900.]             on Recent Studies in Gravitation.                    291
period of the hanging sphere—i. e. if the larger sphere revolved in 240
seconds. But in the conditions of the experiment the vibrations of
the small sphere were very much damped, and the forced oscillations
did not mount up as they would in a freer swing. The disturbances,
which were mostly of an impulsive kind, continually set the banging
sphere into large vibration, and these might easily be taken as due
to the revolving sphere. In fact, looking for the couple with
exactly coincident periods would be something like trying to find if
          Fio. 10.—Upper curve a regular vibration. Lower curve a
                          disturbancejar
a fork set the air in a resonating       vibrating
                                      dying away. when a brass band was
playing all round it. It was necessary to make the couple period,
then, a little different from the natural 120 second period, and,
accordingly, we revolved the large pphere once in 230 seconds, when
    supposed
the Figs.      and 11 may
           10 quadrantal   couple
                               helpwould
                                      to show
                                           havehow    this ofenabled
                                                 a period             us to
                                                               115 seconds.
eliminate the disturbances. Let the ordinates of the curves in
Fig. 10 represent vibrations set out to a horizontal time scale. The
upper curve is a regular vibration of range + 3, the lower a dis
turbance beginning with range + 10. The first has period 1, the
second period 1 * 25. Now cutting the curves into lengths equal to
the period of the shorter time of vibration, and arranging the lengths
one under the other as in Fig. 11, it will be seen that the maxima
and the minima of the regular vibration always fall at the same
points, so that, taking 7 periods and adding up the ordinates, we
get 7 times the range, viz. ± 21. But in the disturbance the
maxima and minima fall at different points, and even with 7 periods
only, the range is from + 16 to — 13, or less than the range due to
the addition of the much smaller regular vibration.

 292                    Professor John H. Pointing                     [Feb. 23,
      In our experiment, the couple, if it exifted, would Tery soon
 establish its vibration, which would always be there and would go
 through all its values in 115 seconds. An observer, watching the
 wheel at the top of the revolving axis, gave the time signals every
 11 -5 seconds, regulating the speed, if necessary, and an observer at
 the telescope gave the scale reading at every signal, that is, 10 times
 during the period. The values were arranged in 10 columns, each
 horizontal line giving the readings of a period. The experiment was
 carried on for about 2£ hours at a time, covering, say, 80 periods.
 On adding up the columns, the maxima and minima of the couple
 effect would always fall in the same two columns, and so the addition
 would give 80 times the swing, while the maxima and minima of the
        Fio. 11.—Results of superposition of lengths of curves in Fig. 10
                    equal to the period of the regular one.
natural swings due to disturbances would fall in different columns,
and so, in the long run, neutralise each other. The results of
different days' work might, of course, be added together.
     There always was a small outstanding effect such as would be
produced by a quadrantal couple, but its effect was not always in the
same columns, and the net result of about 350 period observations
was that there was no 115 second vibration of more than 1 second of
arc, while the disturbances were sometimes 50 times as great.
     The semicircular couple required the turning sphore to revolve
in 115 seconds. Here, want of symmetry in the apparatus would
come in with the same effect as the couple sought, and the out
standing result was, accordingly, a little larger.

1900 ]                 on Recent Studies in Gravitation.                 293
     But in neither case could the experiments be taken as showing
a real couple. They only showed that, if it existed, it was incapable
of producing an effect greater than that observed.
     Perhaps the best way to put the result of our work is this :
Imagine the small sphere set with its axis at 45° to that of the other.
Then the couple is not greater than one which would take 5^ hours
to turn it through that 45° to the parallel position, and it would
oscillate about that position in not less than 21 hours.
     The semicircular couple is not greater than one which would
turn from crossed to parallel position in 4£ hours, and it would
oscillate about that position in not less than 17 hours.
     Or, if the gravitation is less in the crossed than in the parallel
position, and in a constant ratio, the difference is less than 1 in
1 6,000 in the one case and less than 1 in 2800 in the other.
     We may compare with these numbers the difference of rate of
travel of yellow light through a quartz crystal along the axis and
perpendicular to it. That difference is of quite another order,
being about 1 in 170.
    As to other possible qualities of gravitation, I shall only mention
that quite indecisive experiments have been made to seek for an
alteration of mass on chemical combination,* and that at present
there is no reason to suppose that temperature affects gravitation.
Indeed, as to temperature effect, the agreement of weight methods
and volume methods of measuring expansion with rise of tempera
ture is good, as far as it goes, in showing that weight is independent
of temperature.
     So while the experiments to determine G are converging on the
same value, the attempts to show that, under certain conditions, it
may not be constant, have resulted so far in failure all along the line.
No attack on gravitation has succeeded in showing that it is related
to anything but the masses of the attracting and the attracted bodies.
It appears to have no relation to physical or chemical condition of
the acting masses or to the intervening medium.
    Perhaps we have been led astray by false analogies in some of
our questions. Some of tho qualities we have sought and failed to
find, qualities which characterise electric and magnetic forces, may
be due to the polarity, the + and — , which we ascribe to poles
and charges, and which have no counterpart in mass.
    But this unlikeness, this independence of gravitation of any
quality but mass, bars the way to any explanation of its nature.
    The dependence, of electric forces on the medium, one of
Faraday's grand discoveries for evor associated with the Royal
Institution, was the first step which led on to the electromagnetic
theory of light now so splendidly illustrated by Hertz's electro
magnetic waves. The quantitative laws of electrolysis, again duo
   * Lnndolt, Zeit. fiir Phya. CUom. xii. 1, 1891. SanforJ and Ray, Physical
Review, v. 18rJ7, p. 247.

294                  Recent Studies in Gravitation.            [Feb. 23.
to Faraday, are leading, I believe, to the identification of electrifica
tion and chemical separation, to the identification of electric with
chemical energy.
    Bat gravitation still stands alone. The isolation which Faraday
sought to break down is still complete. Yet the work I have been
describing is not all failure. We at least know something in
knowing what qualities gravitation does not possess, and when the
time shall come for explanation all these laborious and, at first
sight, useless experiments will take their place in the foundation on
which that explanation will be built.
                                                          [J. H. P.]

1900.]                   Malaria and Mosquitoes.                       295
                  WEEKLY       EVENING
                          Friday,            MEETING,
                                  March 2, 1900.
      His Gbace The Duke of Nobthumbebland, K.G. F.S.A.,
                          President, in the Chair.
                         Malaria Ross,
                 Majob Ronald            D.P.H. M.R.C.S.
                                   and Mosquitoes.
Oub knowledge of the disease called malarial fever first emerges
from chaos in the seventeenth century, when, owing to the recent
discovery of quinine, the great Italian physician, Torti, was able
to differentiate this malady from other fevers, and to describe its
symptoms with accuracy. Next century, Morton, Lancisi, Pringle
and others observed the connection of the disease with stagnant water
and low-lying ground, and first emitted the theory—which in one
form or another has found general acceptance up to the present date
—that the fever is due to a miasm which rises from the soil or water
of malarious localities. The next great advance was made in the
middle of the nineteenth century by Meckel, Virchow and Frerichs,
who ascertained that the distinguishing pathological product of the
disease is a black substance, which is distributed in collections of
minute coal-black or brown granules in the blood and organs of
patients, and which is called the malarial figment or melanin. This
line of research culminated in the great discovery of Laveran in 1880
—to the effect that the melanin is produced within the bodies of vast
numbers of minute parasites which live in the red blood-corpuscles
of the patient.
     Ray Lankester had already opened the science of the parasitology
 of the blood-corpuscle by his discovery of Drepanidium ranarum in
 frogs ; and it was at once apparent that the parasites found by these two
 observers are somewhat nearly allied —that is, that Laveran's parasite
 is a Protozoal organism, and not a vegetable one like the pathogenetic
 organisms recently discovered by Pasteur, Lister, Koch and many
 others. And our knowledge of the subject was quickly increased by
 the discovery of similar haematozoa in certain species of reptiles, birds,
 monkeys and bats, and in cattle, by Danilewsky, Eruse, Labbe, Koch,
 Dionisi, Smith and Kilborne. In 1885 a further advance was made
 by Golgi, who ascertained that. the human parasites propagate within
 the body of the host by means of ordinary asexual spore-formation :
 that the exacerbations of fever in a patient are coincident with tho
 disruption of the clusters of spores produced by the organisms ; and
 that there are at least three varieties of the parasites in man in Italy.

 296                       Major Ronald Ross                   [March 2,
 These observations were confirmed and extended by a large number
of persons working in various parts of the world—most prominent
among whom are Marchiafava, Celli, Vandyke Carter, Grassi, Osier,
Bignami, Antolisei, Councilman, Mannaberg, Romanowsky, Labbe,
Koch, Mauson, Thayer and MacCallum. In short, the work of all
these observers, and of many others scarcely less meritorious, has not
only absolutely established the fact that the parasites are the cause
of malarial fever, but has given us a very thorough knowledge both
of the parasites themselves and of their pathological effects, direct and
 indirect ; until the science of malaria—for it may almost be de
scribed as a science in itself—has becomo a brilliant exemplar of the
modern methods of research as regards the science of disease in
general.
     But I am not here concerned with questions of pathology in
malarial fever. At the conclusion of the labours to which I have
just referred, we had, it is true, grasped the nature of the disease
itself ; but a question of the greatest moment still required an
answer. We had studied side by side the morbid process and tho
parasites which cause it ; but we had still to find out how infection
is caused, how these parasites effect an entry. We had ascertained the
life-history of tho parasites within man, and of the kindred parasites
within other animals ; but, even after all these investigations, the
life-history of the parasites outside man and outside other vertebrate
hosts remained to be discovered. Until this was done our knowledge
was not complete. It is now my privilego to describe the interesting
theories and investigations which led to the solution of this great and
difficult problem.
     The importance of tho problem need not be enlarged upon. In
the British army in India during the year 1897, out of a total strength
of 178,197 men, no less than 75,821 were admitted into hospital for
malarial fever ! Fortunately the death-rate of tho diseaso is low in
most places ; but on the other hand tho cases are so numerous that
in the aggregate the mortality from malarial fever is very large
indeed. For instance, in India alone, among the civil population
(who do not take adequate treatment), the mortality from "fevers"
during the single year 1897 amounted to the enormous total of
6,026,725—over five million deaths— being nearly ten times that due
to any other disease. Although undoubtedly thousands of deaths are
wrongly attributed to fever in these statistics, such figures can point
only to a very great mortality due to malaria. Yet India on the
wholo is not nearly s0 malarious as many localities—such, for in
stance, as places on the coasts of Africa. In short, next perhaps to
tuberculosis, malarial fever is admittedly the most important of
human diseases.
    But if tho problem to which I refer was an important one, its
solution presented difficulties which I, for one, formerly thought to
be insuperable. It has been mentionod that Lancisi and Pringle
connected the disease with stagnant water; and their views have

 1900.]                on Malaria and Mosquiloei.                    297
been generally endorsed by innumerable observations made since their
time—by the general experience of mankind, by statistics, and by
the fact that malaria can often be actually banished by means of
drainage of the soil. But Laveran had now shown the disease to be
due to a parasite of the blood. How reconcile these facts ? There
appeared to be but one way of doing so—namely, by supposing that
the organism lives a free life in the water or soil of malarious places,
from which it enters man by the respiratory or digestive tracts. To
prove this it was necessary to discover it in the water or soil of
malarious places. But how make this discovery? The organism
is not a bacterium, but an animal parasite. It cannot be taken from
the living blood and sown on the surface of a gelatine film. Experi
ments have proved that it can be inoculated from man to man by the
intravenous injection of fresh infected blood ; but this is a very
different thing to cultivating it in an artificial medium. At all
events, experiments in this line have always failed, and are not in
the least likely to succeed. The parasites simply perish when taken
from their natural habitation, the blood. It was therefore extremely
unlikely that we should ever be able to follow up their life-history
by this means—which has proved so successful as regards the bacteria.
It remained only to find them in the soil or water by direct search.
But how identify them among the host of Protozoa which live in
these elements? Certainly not by their form or appearance. As
known to us at that time, they were simply minute amoebae ensconced
in the red corpuscles and accurately adapted for such a life. Now
red corpuscles do not exist in soil and water ; if the parasites live in
the latter, they must possess some other form to that which they
possess in the blood, and the clue afforded by identity of appearance
fails us. The only remaining method open to us would have been
to attempt to produce infection by each one in turn of the numerous
species of Protozoa found in the water and soil of malarious places—
a task of great magnitude, and one which we now know would have
failed. Indeed, it was actually attempted by several observers, and
actually did fail.
    Such was the state of things up to the end of the year 1894.
Speaking for myself, I can well remember the hopeless feelings with
which I then regarded the problem. Fortune, however, was to be
kinder to us than I had dared believe. At this very moment the
key to the solution of the problem had already been indicated by
Dr. Patrick Manson.
    I have said that since the original discovery of Ray Lankester,
numerous hssmatozoa—or rather haemocytozoa—have been found in
man and various animals. All these are generally classed by zoolo
gists in Leuckart's order of the Sporozoa, and are usually divided
into three groups—groups which are not very closely related, except
for the fact that all the organisms concerned are parasites of the red
corpuscles of the blood. One group—found in reptiles — consists of
parasites closely allied to the Gregurinidae, another is found in oxen,
    Vol. XVI. (No. 94.)                                        x

 298                         Major Ronald Rom                   [March 2,
 and is the cause of Texas cattle-fever ; the third—for which I adopt
 the name of Haemamcebidae Wassielewski—is found in man, monkeys,
 bats and birds. It is to this third group—the Haemamcebidae—to
 which we must now direct our attention, because it includes the
 parasites of malarial fever. There are at least two known species
 found in birds, two in bats, one in monkeys, and three in man. The
 human parasites are those which respectively cause the three varieties
 of malarial fever—quartan, tertian, and remittent or pernicious fever.
 For these three species I adopt the names Haemamceba malariae
 (quartan), Haemamceba vivax (tertian), and Haemomenas praecox
 (remittent fever).* According to Metchnikoff the group belongs, or
 is allied, to the Coccidiidae. All the species have a close resemblance
 to each other, and all contain the typical melanin of malarial fever.
 The youngest parasites are found as minute amcebulae living within
 the red corpuscle and generally containing granules of this melanin
 (which, indeed, is derived by the parasite from the haemoglobin of the
 corpuscle within which it makes its abode). The amoebulae grow
 rapidly in size, until, after one or more days (according to the species)
they reach maturity. At this point many of them become sporocyteg
—that is, give rise to ordinary spores by vegetative reproduction.
These spores presently attach themselves to fresh corpuscles, become
fresh amcebulae, and so continue the life of the parasites indefinitely
within the vertobrate host. Others of the amcebultB, however, instead
of becoming sporocytes like the rest, become gametocyiel.
     Now it is to these gametocytes that an extreme interest attaches,
 because it is to them, and to Manson's study of them, that we owe the
 solution of the malarial problem. Numerous observers had examined
 them before Manson's time, but all had failed in arriving at a correct
 idea as to their function. It had been often observed that they circu
 late in the blood of the vertebrate hosts without apparently perform
ing any function at all. As soon, however, as they are drawn from
the circulation—as when the blood containing them is made into a
fresh specimen for microscopic examination—they undergo the most
remarkable changes. They swell up and liberate themselves from the
 enclosing corpuscle ; and then some of them are suddenly seen to
emit a number of long motile filaments. These filaments can easily
be watched struggling violently, and may sometimes be seen to break
from the parent cell and to dart away among the corpuscles, leaving
the residue of the gametocyte, with its melanin, an inert and apparently
dead mass.
     Now it is not to be supposed that SHch an extraordinary pheno
menon as this—which was observed by Laveran during his first
investigations—could be witnessed without exciting the liveliest
curiosity. As a matter of fact a hot controversy rose regarding it.
Laveran, Danilewsky and Mannaberg maintained that the phenomenon
is a vital one—that the motile filaments are living organisms, and
                          * Nature. August 3, 1899.

 1900.]                 on Malaria and Mosquitoes.                         299
 constitute a stage in the history of the parasite. Antolisoi, Grassi,
 Bignami, and others of the Italian school, fell back upon the old theory
 — which we always like to employ when we cannot explain a pheno
 menon—that it is a regressive phenomenon, a disintegration of the
 parasite due to its death in vitro. Here, however, the controversy
 practically stayed. While the Italians, in conformity with their
 views, attached no signification to the motile filaments, Laveran,
 Danilewsky and Mannaberg, who held an opposite opinion, did not
expressly or exactly state what their signification is. Mannaberg,
 indeed, held that they are meant to lead a saprophytic existence, but
did not explain how they oould escape from the body in order to
do so.
     It was reserved for Manson to detect the ultimate (though not the
immediate) function of these bodies. He asked why the escape of the
motile filaments occurs only after the blood is abstracted from
the host (a fact agreed npon by many observers). From his study of
these filaments, of their form and their characteristic movements, he
rejected the Italian view that thoy are regressive forms ; he was con
vinced that they are living elements. Hence he felt that the fact of
their appearance only after abstraction of the blood (about fifteen
minutes afterwards) must have some definite purpose in the life-
scheme of the parasites. What is that purpose ? It is evident that
these parasites like all others must pass from host to host ; all known
parasites are capable not only of entering the host, but, either in
themselves or their progeny, of leaving him. Manson himself had
already pushed such methods of inductivo reasoning to a brilliantly
successful issue in discovering by their means the development of
Filaria nocturna in the gnat. He now applied the same methods to
the study of the parasites of malaria. Why should the motile fila
ments appear only after abstraction of the blood ? There could be
only one explanation. The phenomenon, though it is usually observed
in a preparation for the microscope, is really meant to occur within the
stomach cavity of some suctorial insect, and constitutes the first step in the
life-history of the parasite outside the vertebrate host.
    It is perhaps impossible for any one, except one who has spent
years in revolving this subject, to understand the full value and force
of this remarkable induction. To my mind the reasoning is complete
and exigent. It was from the first impossible to consider the subject
in the light in which Manson placed it without feeling convinced that
the parasite requires a suctorial insect for its further development.
And subsequent events have proved Manson to have been right.
    The most evident reasoning—the connection between malarial
fever and low-lying water-logged areas in warm countries—suggested
at once that the suctorial insect must be the gnat (called mosquito
in the tropics) ; and this view was fortified by numerous analogies
which must occur at once to any one who couaiders the subject at all
and which it is not necessary to discuss in this place.
    Needless to say, since Manson's theory was proved to be right, it
                                                                 x 2

300                         Major Ronald Ross                 [Maroh 2,
has been shown to be not entirely original. Nuttall, in his admirable
history of the mosquito theory, demonstrates its antiquity. Eleven
years before Manson wrote, King had already accumulated much
evidence, based on epidemiological data, in favour of the theory. A
year later (1884) Laveran himself briefly enunciated the same views,
on the analogy with Filaria nocturna. Koch, and later, Bignami and
Mendini, were also advocates of the theory—partly on epidemiological
grounds and partly because of a possible analogy with the protozoal
parasites of Texas cattle-fever which Smith and Kilborne had shown
to be carried by a tick. Hence many observers had independently
arrived at the same theory by different routes. But I feel it most
necessary to point out here that there is a difference between a
fortunate guess and a true scientific theory. Interesting and sug
gestive as were many of the hypotheses to which 1 have just referred,
they were to my mind far from convincing. Filaria nocturna, and
even Apiosoma bigeminum, are not in close enough relationship with
the Haemamoabidn to admit of very forcible analogies in regard to
the respective life-histories. The epidemiological arguments of King
and Bignami (some of which were also used by Manson) were scarcely
solid enough to support by themselves a theory of any weight. All
these were hypotheses—little more : I can scarcely conceive a prac
tical man sitting down to laborious researches on the strength of
arguments like these. On the other hand, Manson's theory was what
I have called it—an induction—a chain of reasoning from which it
was impossible to escape.
    I have wished to defend this work of Manson's because it has been
much misunderstood and much misrepresented, and even (in a
somewhat amusing manner) completely ignored by some who, though
they once strongly opposed his theory, now, as soon as it has done
its work, wished to forget it. It is true that he endeavoured to
predict the history of the parasites a little too far, and that he was
in error (as will presontly appear) regarding the immediate nature of
the motiie filaments ; but the core of his theory was invaluable. I
have no hesitation in saying that it was Manson's theory, and no
other, which actually solved the problem ; and to be frank, I am
equally certain that but for Manson's theory the problem would
have remained unsolved at the present day.
     Dr. Laveran's theory was unfortunately enunciated with great
brevity ; but it appears to me to have been really founded on many
if not all the arguments independently advanced by King and Manson.
To him we owe not only the discovery which made all these re
searches possible ; but also an early and correct prediction as to the
future life-history of the organisms with which his name will bo
inseparably connected.
    To leave these interesting theories and to return to actual observa
tions—I should begin by remarking that Manson thought the motile
filaments to be of the nature of zoospores—that is, motile spores
which escape from the gamotocytes in the stomach cavity of the gnat,

1900.]                on Malaria and Mosquitoes.                   301
and then occupy and infect the tissues of the insect. In this he was
proved, two years later, to have been wrong. The motile filaments
are not spores, but microgametes—that is, bodies of the nature of
spermatozoa. I have said that some of the amoebulae in the blood-
corpuscles of the host become sporocytes, which produce asexual
spores (nomospores) ; while other amcebulsa become gametocytes,
which have no function within the vertebrate host. As soon, how
ever, as these gametocytes are ingested by a suctorial insect they
commence their proper functions. As their name indicates, they are
sexual cells—male and female. About fifteen minutes after ingestion
(in some species), the male gametocyte emits a variable number of
microgametes—the motile filaments—which presently escape and
wander in search of the female gametocytes. These contain a single
macrogamete or ovum, which is now fertilised by one of the micro
gametes, and becomes a zygote. We owe this beautiful discovery to
the direct observation of MacCallum (1897), confirmed by Koch
and Marchoux, and indirectly by Bignami. Metchnikoff, Simond,
Schaudinn and Siedlecki have also demonstrated what are practically
sexual elements in some of the Coccidiid». Directly MacCallum's
discovery was announced Manson saw the important bearing of it on
the mosquito theory. Admitting that the motile filaments themselves
do not infect the gnat, he at once observed that it was probably the
function of the zygote to do so—and this time he was perfectly
right.
    1 must now turn to my own researches. Dr. Manson told me of
his theory at the end of 1881, and I then undertook to investigate
the subject as far as possible. I began work in Socunderabad, India,
in April 1895 ; and should take the present opportunity for ac
knowledging the continuous assistance which I received both from
Dr. Manson and from Dr. Laveran, and later from the Govern
ment of India. Even with the aid of the induction, the task so
lightly commenced was, as a matter of fact, one of so arduous a
nature that we must attribute its accomplishment largely to good
fortune. The method adopted— the only method which could be
adopted—was to feed gnats of various species on persons whose blood
contained the gametocytes, and then to examine the insects carefully
for the parasites which by hypothesis the gametocytes were expected
to develop into. This required not only familiarity with the histology
of gnats, but a laborious search for a minute organism throughout
the whole tissues of each individual insect examined—a work of at
least two or three hours for each gnat. But the actual labour
involved was the smallest part of the difficulty. Both the form and
appearance of the object which I was in search of, and the species of
the gnat in which I might expect to find it, were absolutely unknown
quantities. We could make no attempt to predict the appearance
which the parasite would assume in the gnat ; while owing to the
general distribution of malarial fever in India, the species of insect
concerned in the propagation of the disease could scarcely be

 302                         Major Ronald Boss                 [March 2,
 determined by a comparison of the prevalence of different kinds of
 gnat at different spots with the prevalence of fever at those spots. In
 short, I was forced to rely simply on the careful examination of
 hundreds of gnats, first of one species and then of another, all fed on
 patients suffering from malarial fever—in the hope of one day finding
 the clue I was in search of. Needless to say, nothing but the most
 convincing theory, such as Manson's theory was, would have sup
 ported or justified so difficult an enterprise.
     As a matter of fact, for nearly two and a half years, my results
 were almost entirely negative. I could not obtain the correct
 scientific names of the various species of gnats employed by me in
 these researches, and consequently used names of my own. Gnats of
 the genus Culex (which abound almost everywhere in India) I called
" grey " and " brmdled " mosquitoes ; and it was these insects which
I studied during the period I refer to. At last, the persistently
nugatory results which bad been obtained with gnats of this genus
determined me to try other methods. I went to a very malarious
locality, called the Sigur Ghat, near Ootacamund, and examined the
mosquitoes there in the hope of finding within them parasites like
those of malaria in man. The results were practically worthless
(except that I observed a new kind of mosquito with spotted wings) ;
and I saw that I must return to the exact method laid down by
Manson. The experiments with the two commonest kinds of Culex
were once more repeated—only to prove once more negative. The
insects, fed mostly on cases containing the crescentic gametocytes of
Haemomenas praecox, were examined cell by cell—not even their
excrement being neglected. Although they were known to haTe
swallowed living Haemamcebidae, no living parasites like these could
be detected in their tissues—the ingested Hsamamoebidas had in fact
perished in the stomach cavity of the insects. I began to ask
whether after all there was not some flaw in Manson's induction ;
but no —I still felt his conclusion to be an inevitable one. And it
was at this very moment that good fortune gave me what I was in
search of.
     In a collecting bottle full of larvas brought by a native from an
unknown source, I found a number of newly-hatched mosquitoes like
those first observed by me in the Sigur Ghat—namely, mosquitoes
with spotted wings and boat-shaped eggs. Eight of these were fed on •
patient whose blood contained crescentic gametocytes. Unfortunately
I dissected six of them either prematurely or otherwise unsatisfac
torily. The seventh was examined, on August 20, 1897, cell by cell ;
the tissues of the stomach (which was now empty owing to the meal
of malarial blood taken by the insect four days previously being
digested) were reserved to the last. On turning to this organ I was
struck by observing, scattered on its outer surface, certain oval or
round cells of about two to three times the diameter of a red blood-
corpuscle—cells which I had never before seen in any of the hundreds
of mosquitoes examined by me. My surprise was complete when I

1900.]                 on Malaria and Mosquitoei.                    303
next detected within each of these cells a few granules of the character
istic coal-black melanin of malarial fever—a substance quite unlike
anything usually found in mosquitoes. Next day the last of the
remaining spotted-winged mosquitoes was dissected. It contained
precisely similar calls, each of which possessed the same melanin ;
only the cells in the second mosquito were somewhat larger than those
in the first.
     These fortunate observations practically solved the malaria
problom. As a matter of fact, the cells were the zygotes of the
parasite of remittent fever growing in the tissues of the gnat ; and the
gnat with spotted wings and boat-shaped eggi in which I had found
them belonged (as I subsequently ascertained) to the genus Anopheles.
 Of course it was impossible absolutely to prove at the time, on the
 strength of these two observations alone, that the cells found by me
in the gnats were indeed derived from Haomamcebidae sucked up by
 the insects in the blood of the patients on whom they had been fed—
this proof was obtained by subsequent investigations of mine ; but,
guided by the presence of the typical and almost unique melanin in
the cells, and by numerous other circumstances, I myself had no
doubt of the fact. The clue was obtained ; it was necessary only to
follow it up—an easy matter.
     The preparations of the stomachs of the two Anopheles were
sealed, and were afterwards examined by Drs. Smyth, Manson, Thin
and Bland-Sutton ; and an account of the work, and of the observa
 tions of these gentlemen, was published a little later. Unfortunately,
my labours now met with a serious interruption ; but not before I
had succeeded again in finding the zygotes in two other mosquitoes
—one, another species of Anopheles, also bred from the larva, and also
 fed on a case containing crescentic gametocytes ; the other, a " grey
mosquito " (Culex pipiens type), which had been caught feeding on a
 case of tertian fever, and which I now think had become previously
infected from a bird with Htemamceba relicta.
     Early in 1898, mainly though the influence of Dr. Manson, Sir
 H. W. Bliss and the United Planters' Association of Southern India,
 I was placed by the Government of India on special duty in Calcutta
 to continue my investigations. Unable to work with human malaria
 —chiefly on account of the plague scare in Calcutta—I turned my
 attention to the HsemamcebideB of birds. Birds have at least two
 species of Haemaincebidae. I subjected a number of birds containing
 one or the other of these parasites to the bites of various species of
 mosquitoes. The result was a repetition of that previously obtained
 with the human parasites. Pigmented cells precisely similar to those
 seen in the Anopheles were found to appear in gnats of the species
 called Culex fatigans, Wiedemann, when these had been fed on
 sparrows and larks containing Haemamoeba relicta. On the other
 hand, these cells were never found in insects of the same species when
 fed on healthy birds or on birds containing the other parasite, called
 Haemamceba danilcwskii.

    ;to4                       Major Ronald Roa                     [March 2,
        It will be evident that this fact was the crucial test both as regards
    the parasitic nature of these cells and as regards their development
    from the haemooytozoa of the birds ; and it was not accepted by me
    without very close and laborious experiment.
        The actual results obtained were as follows : Out of 245 Cidex
   faligans fed on birds containing H. relicta, 178, or 72 per cent., con
    tained " pigmented cells." But, out of 41 Culex fatigans fed on a
   man containing crescentic gametocytes, 5 on a man containing im
   mature tertian parasites, 154 on birds containing E. danilewskii, 25
   on healthy sparrows, and 24 on birds with immature E. relicta—or
   a total of 249 insects, all carefully examined—not one contained a
   single " pigmented cell."
        Another experiment was as follows : Three sparrows, one con
  taining no parasites, another containing a moderate number of H.
   relicta, and the third containing numerous H. relicta, were placed in
   separate cages within three separate mosquito curtains. A number
  of culex fatigans, all bred simultaneously from larvsB in the same
  breeding bottle, were now liberated on the samo evening partly
  within the first mosquito netting, partly within the second, and partly
   within the third. Next morning many of these gnats were found to
   have fed themselves on the birds during the night. Ten of each lot
  of gnats were dissected after a few days, with the following result :
  The ten gnats fed on the healthy sparrow contained no "pigmented
  cells." The ten gnats fed on the sparrow with a moderate number of
  parasites were found to contain altogether 292 " pigmented cells " ;
  or an average of twenty-nine in each gnat. The ten gnats fed on the
  sparrow with numerous parasites, contained 1009 " pigmented cells " ;
  or an average of 100 cells in each gnat. These thirty specimens
  were sent to Manson in England, who mado a similar count of the
  cells.
       I may mention one more out of several experiments of the same
  kind : A stock of Culexfatigans, all bred from the larva, were fed on
 the same night partly on two sparrows containing H. relicta, and
 partly on a crow containing H. danilewskii (placed, of course, under
 separate mosquito-nottings). Out of twenty-three of the former lot,
 twenty-two were found to have pigmented cells ; while out of sixteen
 of the latter, none had them.
      Hence no doubt remained that the " pigmented cells," really
 constitute a developmental stage in the mosquito of these parasites ;
 and this view was accepted both by Laveran and Manson, to whom
 specimens had been sent. In June 1898, Manson published an illus
trated paper concerning my researches, and showed that the pigmented
cells must in fact bo the zygotes resulting from the process of
fertilisation discovered by MacCallum.
      It remained to follow out the life-history of the zygotes. For
this purpose it was immaterial whether I worked with the avian or
the human parasites, since these are so extremely like each other. I
elected to work with the avian species, chiefly because the plague

  1900.]                 on Malaria and Mosquitoes.                    305
  scare in Bengal still rendered observations with the human species
  almost impossible. By feeding Culex fatigans on birds with H. relicta
  and then examining the insects one, two, three and more days
  afterwards, it was easy to trace the gradual growth of the zygotes.
  Their development briefly is as follows : After the fertilisation of the
  macrogamete has taken place in the stomach-cavity of the gnat, the
  fertilised parasite or zygote has the power of working its way through
  the mass of blood contained in the stomach, of penetrating the wall
  of the organ, and of affixing itself on, or just under, its outer coat.
  Here it first appears about thirty-six hours after the insect was fed,
 and is found as a " pigmented cell "—that is, a little oval body, about
 the size of a large red corpuscle or larger, and containing the granules
 of molanin possessed by the parent gametocyte from which the macro-
 gamete originally proceedod. In this position it shows no sign of
 movement, but begins to grow rapidly, to acquire a thickened capsule,
 and to project from the outer wall of the stomach, to which it is
 attached, into the body cavity of the insect host. At the end of six
 days, if the temperature of the air be sufficiently high (about 80° F.),
 the diameter of the zygote has increased to about eight times what it
 was at first ; that is, to about 60 fx. If the stomach of an infected
 insect be extracted at this stage, it can be seen, by a lowpr power of
 the microscope, to be studded with a number of attached spheres,
 which have something of the appearance of warts on a finger. These
 are the large zygotes, which have now reached maturity and which
 project prominently into the mosquito's body-cavity.
     All this could be ascertained with facility by the method I have
 mentioned ; and it should be understood that gnats can be kept alive
for weeks or even months by feeding them every few days on blood—
or, as Bancroft does, on bananas. But a most important point still
required study. What happens after the zygotes reach maturity ?
I found that each zygote as it increases in size divides into meres,
each of which next becomes a blastophore, carrying a number of blasts
attached to its surface. Finally the blastophore vanishes, leaving the
thick capsule of the zygote packed with thousands of the blasts. The
capsule now ruptures, and allows the blasts to escape into the body
fluids of the insect.
     These blasts, when mature, are seen to be minute filamentous
bodies, about 1U-16 p in length, of extreme delicacy, and somewhat
spindle-shaped—that is, tapering at each extremity. Just as the
zygotes recall the shape of the GoccidiidtB, so do these blasts recal 1
the "falciform bodies." Prof. Herdinan and I have adopted this
word " blast " for these bodies after careful consideration —but others
prefer other names. They are, of course, spores, but spores which
have been produced by a previous sexual process—and are, in fact the
result of a kind of polyembryony. Just as a fertilised ovum gives rise
to blasts which produce the cluster of cells constituting a multi
cellular animal, so, in this case the fertilised ovum or zygote gives
rise to blasts, each of which, however, becomes a separate animal.

306                          Major Ronald Ross                [March 2,
Prof. Ray Lankcster suggests for the blasts of the Haemamcebidaa the
simple term " filiform young."
     At this point the investigations took a turn of extreme interest
and importance, scarcely second even to what attached to the first
study of the zygotes. Since the blasts are evidently the progeny of
the zygotes, they must carry on the life-history of the parasites to a
further stage. How do they do so ? What is their function ? Do
thoy escape from the mosquito, and in some manner, direct or in
direct, set up infection in healthy men and birds ? Or, if not, what
other purpose do they subserve ? It was evident that our knowledge
of the mode of infection in malarial fever—and perhaps even the
prevention of the disease—depended on a reply to these questions.
     As I have said, the zygotes become ripe and rupture about a week
after the insect was first infected—scattering the blasts into the body-
cavity of the host. What happens next? It was next seen that by
some process, apparently owing to the circulation of the insect's
body-fluids (for the blasts themselves nppear to bo almost without
movement), these littlo bodies find their way into every part of the
mosquito—into the juices of its head, thorax, and even legs. Beyond
this it was difficult to go. All theory —at least all theory which I
felt I could depend upon—had been long left behind, and I could
rely only on direct observation. Gnat after gnat was sacrificed in
the attempt to follow these bodies. At last, while examining the
head and thorax of one insect, I found a large gland consisting of a
central duct surrounded by large grape-like cells. My astonishment
was great when I found that many of these cells were closely packed
 with the blasts—(which I may add are not in the least like any
normal structures in the mosquito). Now I did not know at that
time what this gland is. It was speedily found, however, to be a
large racemose gland consisting of six lobes, three lying in each side
of tho insect's neck. The ducts of the lobes finally unite in a common
channel which runs along the under surface of the head and enters the
 middle stylet, or lancet, of the insect's proboscis.
     It was impossible to avoid the obvious conclusion. Observation
 after observation always showed that the blasts collect within the
cells of this gland. It is the salivary or poison gland of the insect,
similar to the salivary gland found in many insects, the function
of which, in the gnat, had already been discovered-—although I
was not aware of the fact. That function is to secrete the fluid which
is injected by the insect when it punctures the shin—the fluid which
causes the well-known irritation of the puncture, and which is pro
bably meant to prevent either the contraction of the torn capillaries
or the coagulation of the ingested blood. The position of the blasts
in the cells of this gland could have only one interpretation—
wonderful as that interpretation is. The blasts must evidently pass
down the ducts of the salivary gland into the wound made by the
proboscis of the insect, and thus causes infection in a fresh vertebrate
host.

1900.]                on Maluria and Mosquitoes.                      307
    That this actually happens could, fortunately, he proved without
any difficulty. As I had now been studying the parasites of birds
for some months, I possessed a number of birds of different species,
the blood of which I had examined from time to time (by pricking
the toes with a fine needle). Some of them were infected, and some,
of course, were not. Out of 111 wild sparrows examined by me in
Calcutta, I found H. relieta—the parasite which I had just culti
vated in Culex fatigans—in 15, or 13*5 per cent. As a rule, non-
infected birds were released ; but I generally kept a few to use for
the control experiments mentioned above, and the blood of these
birds had consequently been examined on several occasions, and had
always been found free from parasites. At the end of June I pos
sessed five of these healthy control birds—four sparrows and one
weaver-bird. All of them were now carefully examined again and
found to be healthy. They were placed in their cages within
mosquito-nets, and at the same time a large stock of old infected
mosquitoes were released within the same nets. By " old infected
mosquitoes " I mean mosquitoes which had been previously fed re
peatedly on infected birds, and many of which on dissection had been
shown to have very large numbers of blasts in their salivary glands.
Next morning, numbers of these infected gnats were found gorged
with blood, proving that they had indeed bitten the healthy birds
during the night. The operation was repeated on several succeeding
nights, until each bird had probably been bitten by at least a dozen
of the mosquitoes. On July 9, the blood of the birds was examined
again. I scarcely expected any result so complete and decisive.
Every one of the five birds was now found to contain parasites—and
not merely to contain them, but to possess such immense numbers of
them as I had never before seen in any bird (with H. relieta) in
India. While wild sparrows in Calcutta seldom contain more than
one parasite in every field of the microscope, those which I had just
succeeded in infecting contained, ten, fifteen, twenty and even more
in each field—a fact due probably to the infecting gnats having been
previously fed over and over again on infected birds, a thing which
can rarely happen in nature.
    The experiment was repeated many times—generally on two or
three healthy birds put together. But I now ^improved on the
original experiment by also employing controls in the following
manner. A stock of wild sparrows would be examined, and the
infected birds eliminated. The remainder would then be kept apart,
and at night would be carefully secluded from the bites of gnats by
being placed within mosquito nets. These constituted my stock of
healthy birds. From time to time two or three of these would be
separated, examined again to ensure their being absolutely free from
parasites, and then subjected to the bites of " old infected mosquitoes,"
and, of course, kept apart afterwards for daily study. Thus my stock
of healthy birds was also my stock of control birds. Until they were
bitten by gnats, I found that they never became infected (except in a

308                        Major Ronald Ross                   [March 2,
single case in which I think I had overlooked the parasites on the
first occasion), although large numbers of healthy birds were kept in
this manner. The result in the case of the sparrows which were
subjected to the bites of the infected gnats was different indeed. Oot
of 28 of these, dealt with from time to time, no less than 22, or
79 per cent., became infected in from five to eight days. And, as in
the first experiment, all the infected birds finally contained very
numerous parasites.
     It was most interesting to watch the gradual development of the
parasitic invasion in these birds; and this development presented
such constant characters that, apart from other reasons, it was quite
impossible to doubt that the infection was really caused by the
mosquitoes. The course of events was always as follows : The blood
would remain entirely free from parasites for four, five, six or even
seven days. Next day one or perhaps two parasites would be found
in a whole specimen. The following day it was invariably observed
that the number of the organisms had largely increased ; and this
increase continued until in a few days immense numbers were present
—so that, finally, I often observed as many as seven distinct parasites
contained within a single corpuscle ! Later on, many of the birds
died ; and their organs were then found to be loaded with the
characteristic melanin of malarial fever.
     I also succeeded in infecting on a second trial one of the sir
sparrows which had escaped the first experiment ; and also a crow
and four weaver-birds ; and lastly, gave a new and more copious
infection to four sparrows which had previously contained only a few
parasites.
     These experiments completed the original and fundamental
observations on the life-history of the Haemamoebidae in mosquitoes.
The parasites had been carried from the vertebrate host into the
gnat ; had been followed in their development in the gnat ; and had
finally been carried back from the gnat to the vertebrate host. The
theories of King, Laveran, Koch and Bignami, and the great
induction of Manson, were justified by the event ; and I have given
a detailed historical and critical account of these theories, and of my
own difficulties and experiences, in the hope of bringing conviction
to those who might, perhaps, otherwise think the story to be too
wonderful for credence.
     But work of great importance remained to be done. I had
intended, immediately after making this study of one of the parasites
of birds, to extend the investigation more fully to those of man—a
work which now presented no difficulty, since both the kind of
mosquito hospitable to them (Anopheles) and the form of the parasites
in the mosquito were well known to me. Unfortunately I was
obliged to attend to other and less important duties, which kept me
fully occupied for several months—an interruption which practically
put an end to my own study of the mosquito-theory at a very
interesting point. No time, however, was really lost In December

1900.]                on Malaria and Mosquitoes.                   309
1898, Dr. Daniels of the Malaria Commission of the Royal Society
and the Colonial Office, arrived in Calcutta to examine and report
upon my results. After carefully repeating the various experiments
he fully confirmed the statements made by me.* At the same
moment, the work was taken up with great brilliance and success by
Dr. Eoch and by Prof. Grassi and Drs. Bignami and Bastianelli, in
Italy. I must now describe the investigations of these observers—
though I have scarcely space to do so at the length they deserve.
    Ever since the discoveries of Laveran and Golgi, the Italian
observers of the Soman school have done mnch important work on
malaria, facilitated by the well-known prevalence of the disease near
Rome ; work, if not of much originality, yet full of careful detail.
More recently, however, this work had been practically arrested by
their theory—wholly gratuitous, but which they accepted as a dogma
—that the motile filaments are forms of disintegration in vitro. When
Manson propounded his theory, Bignami, for instance, rejected it on
this ground. But at the same time he evolved a gnat-theory of his
own—a theory that malarial fever is inoculated by gnats which carry
the parasite from marshy areas. The arguments he used were the
epidemiological ones already advanced by King, and which can
scarcely be said to amount to more than a plausible hypothesis : the
only solid basis for the theory—that of Manson—was opposed by
him. Later, however, the work of Simond, Schaudinn, Siedlecki,
MacCallum and myself, explained by Manson, rendered the Italian
position concerning the motile filaments quite untenable ; and
Bastianelli, Bignami and Grassi now undertook a study of the
mosquito-theory on sound principles. My own results, with descrip
tions of the technique employed and with illustrations of the zygotes,
had been published from time to time ; a summary of them had been
given by Manson in June 1898, and another, including the infection
of healthy birds, before the British Medical Association, early in
August ; and there could therefore be no difficulty in following up
the observations therein recorded. In September, Grassi published
a paper in which he described certain investigations made in Italy
with a view to ascertaining the species of gnats which are associated
with the prevalence of malaria in that country. Such investigations
are not, I think, trustworthy ; and as a matter of fact two out of the
three species of gnat then selected by Grassi as being malaria-bearing
ones, have now been rejected by him. The third species was an
Anopheles, namely A. claviger, Fabr.
    At the same timo Bignami resumed his study of the subject.
Some years previously, following his theory, he had endeavoured to
infect healthy persons by the bites of gnats brought from malarious
places. He had failed and abandoned his efforts—and I believe that
his method would of itself never had led to a solution of the problem.
In the autumn of 1898, however, he renewed his efforts ; but was
                         * Nature, August 3, 1899.
                                                                       ,

 810                          Major Ronald Ross                 [March 2,
 again unsuccessful until he used a number of Anopheles claviger,
 brought from a house containing infected persons. The result was
 successful, the subject of the experiment becoming infected after some
 time. This important experiment gave the first confirmation with
 human malaria of my previous inoculation experiments with the
 malaria of birds ; but since other species of gnats as well as
 A. claviger had been employed, it failed to fix suspicion entirely on
 the latter. In order to obtain this result, these observers were finally
 obliged to resort to the correct method of Manson and myself —
 namely that of direct cultivation of the parasites in the gnat. Success
 was now immediate. The zygotes and blasts of the parasites were
 found, exactly as previously described by me, in the tissues of
 A. claviger ; and lastly, healthy persons were infected by the bites of
 these insects. Pushing forward with admirable rapidity, the Italian
 observers next, found that all three species of the human Haemamoebide
 are cultivable in A. claviger ; and not only in this, but in other
 Italian species of Anopheles, while, like me, they failed in cultivating
 the parasites in Culex.
     Almost simultaneously Koch repeated and confirmed with the
 weight of his authority most of the results which had been obtained
 as regards both the human and avian parasites. In August 1899 the
 malarial expedition sent to Sierra Leone by the Liverpool School of
 Tropical Medicine (of which expedition I was a member), found the
 human parasites in two species of Anopheles in that colony, namely
 A. costalis, Loew, and A. funestus, Giles. I hear also that the same
 result has been obtained with Anopheles in two other parts of the
 world, so that it would appear that something like nine species of
 Anopheles have now been inculpated—while as yet every species of
Culex which has been tried has failed to give positive results.
     From this point it becomes impossible to follow in detail the
researches carried out in connection with the mosquito theory in
various parts of the world. The facts already collected would fill
a small volume ; and every month witnesses additional publications
on the subject. I shall therefore, in conclusion, content myself with
a brief reference to three points of leading importance.
     I shall first try to indicate how completely the recent discoveries
explain the well-known laws regarding the diffusion of malaria. As
mentioned at the beginning of this lecture, malarial fever has long
been known to be connected with the presence of stagnant water.
That is to say, we generally, though not invariably, find that the
disease is associated with low-lying flat areas, where water tends to
collect to a considerable extent. It was indeed the general apprecia
tion of this law which led to the old miasma-theory of the disease—
the theory on which the word " malaria " was based. We assumed
that the poison is one which rises from marshy areas in the form of
a mist, and which thence infects all living within a given distance.
Later, when the pathogenetic parasite was discovered in the blood of
febricitants, many observers, still clinging to this conception, thought

 1900.]                 on Malaria and Mosquitoes.                     311
 that the parasite is an organism which in its free state dwells in such
 places, and diffuses itself in such mists. It is interesting to note
 how near to the truth this almost instinctive conception took us. It
 is right in idea, wrong in fact. It is not the parasite itself which
 springs from the marshy ground, but the carrier of the parasite.
     This was one of the many interesting points made by King in his
 mosquito-theory of seventeen years ago. But King fell into an error
which could have been used as a powerful argument against his
hypothesis. He seemed to have assumed that all mosquitoes rise
from marshes. Hence, he said, malaria exists in the presence of
marshes ; hence it is a disease of the country, rather than of towns,
and so on. As a matter of fact, mosquitoes as a rule do not rise from
marshes at all ; they do not all even rise from pools of water on the
ground ; the commonest species, at least of those which habitually
annoy human beings, spring from tubs and pots of water in the
vicinity of houses, and aro indeed more common in cities than in
country places, at any rate in the tropics. Now it is not the least
interesting feature of recent researches that they havo shown where
the error lay. As soon as I have succeeded in cultivating the human
parasites in my " dappled-winged mosquitoes," which were really
gnats of the genus Anophele*, I began to study the habits of theso
insocts, and soon ascertained the remarkable fact that while gnats of
genus Culex generally breed, in India, in vessels of water round
houses, guats of genus Anopheles, which I had just connected with
malaria, breed in small pools of water on the ground. This point was
made the subject of a special investigation by the recent expedition
to Sierra Leone ; and we found that the law holds good there as in
India. While Culex larvae were to be seen in almost every vessel of
water, or empty gourd or flower-pot in which a little rain-water
collected, in only one case did we find Anopheles larvae in such. On
the other hand, Anopheles larvae occurred in about a hundred small
puddles scattered through the city of Freetown—puddles mostly of a
fairly permanent description, kept filled by the rain, and not liable
to scouring out during heavy showers. What was almost equally
significant, the larvae seemed to live chiefly on green water-weed.
Hence it follows that while Culex, the apparently innocuous genus
of gnats, are essentially, or at least often, domestic insects, Anopheles,
the malaria-bearing genus, are essentially gnats which spring from
stagnant water on the ground. And numerous other facts in the
history of malaria can be explained by the same discovery. It is
supposed, for instance, that malaria originates from freshly-turned
earth ; now wo actually noted examples where railway embankments
and the like had produced Anopheles pools ; and it is oasy to see that
disturbance of the soil may often produce depressions in the ground
capable of holding a little rain-water suitable for the larvae of these
insects. Again malarial fever often appears on board vessels which
have touched at malarious ports ; as an explanation of this we ascer
tained that Anopheles visit ships from the shore. In short, on study

  312                        Major Ronald Boss                   [March 2,
  ing the matter from every point of view, I must confess to being
  ignorant of any well-established fact about malarial fever which is
  not explained by the mosquito-theory.
      This brings me to the subject of objections to the mosquito-theory.
 In view of the exact and copious microscopical and experimental
 evidence which has now been collected in proof of the theory, it is no
 longer permissible to doubt the main facts ; and the objections which
 one still finds, both in the lay and the medical press, are generally
 based on a complete ignorance of these facts, and need not be dis
 cussed here. But there is one objection—frequently made, in spite
 of corrections as frequent, by persons who reside in malarious pliees
 —which deserves comment. This is, that malaria exists where there
 are no mosquiWs, and that so-and-so has had fever without being
 bitten by gnats at all. Generally speaking, we must always remember
 that malarial fever is a disease in which relapses occur perhaps for
 years after the first infection, and that it is this first infection and
 not the relapses which are due to the bite of Anopheles. It is thus
 possible to suffer from any number of attacks of fever without being
 bitten by Anopheles (except on one occasion), and without invali
 dating the theory—a fact of which those who argue in this manner
 are generally ignorant. Again, it is well known that one may be
 bitten without perceiving it ; that some persons are singularly callous
 to the punctures of these insects ; and, lastly, that many others haTe
 very limited powers of observation. I may say at once that, person
ally, I cannot accept any statement to the effect that gnats are absent
 in any locality in the tropics, until such a statement is made by a
competent observer after direct search ; because I have never been in
any place in the tropics—and I have been in a large number—where
there were no gnats. On the other hand, I have often found numer
ous gnats in localities where I was previously told there were none.
I was once actually informed that there are no mosquitoes in Sierra
Leone ! The fact is that those who will trust the statements of the
general public on such matters must be very credulous.
     I turn lastly to the all-important subject of prevention, but can do
no more than touch upon it here. Two methods suggested themselves
at once. I need not refer to that of guarding against the bites of
these insects by the use of mosquito-nets and so on—an obvious and,
I believe, an exceedingly useful measure, which may reduce the
chances of infection to a small fraction. Unfortunately such methods
will never be employed on a large scale in the majority of malarious
localities ; and we must resort to the destruction of malaria-bearing
species of gnats. Early in 1892 I reported to the Government of
India that it may be possible to exterminate Anopheles in some locali
ties—especially some towns, cantonments and plantations—owing to
the habit the insects have (in some places) of breeding only in
selected pools. Since then, a considerable literature has already
grown up round the subject. Reviewing this literature, it seems
probable that we may be able to exterminate Anopheles or at least

 1900.]                 on Malaria and Mosquitoes.                    313
largely reduce their numbers, in towns where, owing to the confor
mation of the ground, the low level of the subsoil water or the small
rainfall, surface pools suitable for the insects are comparatively few.
The methods which can be adopted against the larvae are numerous
—such as brushing out the pools with a broom, draining them away,
filling them up, or treating them with various culicides, such as
paraffin and numerous other substances (recently investigated by
Celli and Casagrandi). On the whole the most promising method
which suggests itself is the employment of some cheap solid material
or powder which dissolves slowly, which kills the larvbe without
injuring higher animals, and which renders small pools uninhabitable
for the larvae for some months. If, for instance, a cartload of such
a material would suffice to extirpate the larvae for a^quare mile of a
malarious town, the result would be a large gain to its healthiness.
Dr. Fielding-Ould has lately reported favourably on tar. Urillet
recently reports a case in France where a large district was rendered
free of malaria by the extensive use of lime for agricultural purposes.
Gas-lime, or even common salt, may be suggested. In short, though
the question of the possibility of attacking these insects with success
is still entirely in the experimental stage, we may reasonably hope
that the mosquito-theory of malaria may some day prove to be as
useful to humanity as it certainly has proved interesting to the
student of science.
     In conclusion, however, I should add that this result is not likely
to bo attained unless we, as a nation, determine to pay more attention
to scientific discoveries in the field of tropical medicine than hitherto
we have done. During the last fifty years discovery after discovery
in this field has been made without finding any adequate reflex in
medical and sanitary practice in our tropical possessions. The dis
coveries, for instance, of Losch, Davaine, Dubini, Bilbarz, Bancroft,
Koch, Laveran, Manson, Carter and Giles, though nearly concerned
with the lives of thousands of human beings, have been generally
treated either with scepticism or neglect—have been neither suffi
ciently followed in the laboratory nor sufficiently acted upon in the
region of practical sanitation.
                                                               [R. R.j
     Vol. XVI.     (No. 94.)                                     Y

314                         General Monthly Meeting.                  [March 5,
                  GENERAL   Monday,    March 5, 1900.
                                   MONTHLY        MEETING,
     His Grace The Duke of Nobthumbeblaud, K.G., President,
                                   in the Chair.
             Mrs. Francis Ernest Colenso,
             Miss Annie C. Colthurst,
             Joseph David Everett, Esq. M.A. D.C.L. F.R.S.
            Professor Percy Faraday Frankland, D.L. B.Sc. F.R.S.
             Alexander C. Ionides, Esq.
             Mrs. Alfred B. Kempe,
             Alexander G. Low, Esq.
             Colonel William Thomas Makins,
            Colonel Fairfax Rhodes,
             William Mudd Still, Esq.
             Major Frederick Richard Trench-Gascoigne,
             Samuel West, M.D. F.R.C.P.
            Mrs. West,
            Miss Hilda Meadows White,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     Meteorological Office—Diurnal Bange of Rain, 1871-90. 8vo. 1899.
The FBOM
Accademia dei Lined, Reale, Roma—Clusse dl Scienze Fiaiche, Matematiche e
     Naturali. Atti, Serie Quinta: Rendiconti. 1° Semestre, Vol. IX. Fa&o.
     1-3. Academy
American    8vo. 1900.of Artt and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XXXV. Nos. 4-7.
     8vo. Geographical
American    1899.        Society—Bulletin, Vol. XXXI. Nn. 5. 8vo. 1S99.
Astronomical Society, Royal—-Monthly Notices, Vol. LX. No. 8. 8vo. 1900.
Bunkers, Institute of—Journal. Vol. XXI. l'art 2. 8vo. 1900.
Bannerman, W Bruce, Esq. M.R.I, (the Editor)—The Visitatioua of the County
     of Surrev, 1530-1623. (Harleian Society, Vol. XLI1I.) 8vo. 1899.
Bickerton, Professor A. W. (the Author)—K New Story of the Stars. 8vo.
  Some Recent Evidence in favour of Impact. 8vo. 1891.
Boyce, Professor—Instructions for the Prevention of Malarial Fever. 2nd edition.
     (Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, Memoir I.) 8vo. 1900.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, Third Series, Vol. V1L Nos. 7, 8.
     4to. 1900.
Camera Club—Journal for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
Chemval Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XIX. No. 1. Svo. 1900.
Chemical Society—Journal for Feb. 1900. 8vo.

1900.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                          315
Editors—American Journal of Science for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Analyst for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Astrophysical Journal for Feb. 1900.
   Atheuaeum for Feb. 1900. 4to.
   Author for Feb. 1900. 8m
   Bimetallist for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Brewers' Journal for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Chemical News for Feb. 1900. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Education for Feb. 1900.
   Electrical Engineer for Feb. 1900. fol.
   Electrical Review for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Electricity for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Engineer for Feb. 1900. fol.
   Engineering for Feb. 1900. fol.
  Homoeopathic Review for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Horologioal Journal for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
  Industries and Iron for Feb. 1900. fol.
   Invention for Feb. 1900.
  Journal of State Medicine for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Law Journal for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Life-Boat Journal lor Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Lightning for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Machinery Market for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
  Motor Car Journal for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
  Nature for Feb. 1900. 4to.
   New Church Magazine for Jan. 1900. 8vo.
  Nuovo Cimento for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Photographic News for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
  Physical Review for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
  Popular Science Monthly for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
  Public Health Engineer for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
  Science Abstracts, Vol. III. Part 2. 8vo. 1900.
  Science Siftings for Feb. 1900.
  Telephone Magazine for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
  Travel for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
  Tropical Agriculturist for Feb. 1900.
  Zoophilist for Feb. 1900. 4to.
Franklin Institute—Journal for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
Grey, Henry, Esq. (the Compiler)—The Plots of some of the most famous old
     English Plays. 8vo. 1900.
Huggins, Sir William nnd Lady—An Atlas of Representative Stellar Spectra from
     4870 to 3300. (Publications of Sir William Huggins' Observatory, Vol. I.)
Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for Feb. 1900.
Johns Hopkins University—American Chemical Journal for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
Jordan, William Leiqhton, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Astral Gravitation and the
     first Law of Motion. 4to. 1899.
     de ('Institution
Mensbrugqhe,          Royale.
               Professor          rfer, 1900.
                          G. Van8vo.    Hon. Mem. R.I. (<Ae Author)—Le Centcnaire
  Sur les effets mecaniques produita par l'élasticitc de l'eau. 8vo. 1899.
Navy League—Navy League Journal for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
Numismatic Society—Chronicle and Journal, 1899, Purt 4. 8vo.
Pharmaceutiral Society of Great Britain—Journal for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
Phene; Vr. F.S.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Rise, Progress and Decay of t
     of Painting in Greece. 8vo. 1899.
  Old London in Pre-Roman Times. 8vo. 1896.
  On some Early Settlers near Conway. 8vo. 1899:
                                                                      y 2

316                        General Monthly Meeting.                 [March 5,
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for Jan. 1900. 8vo.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 424. 8vo. 1900.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
Stoddart, F. W. Esq. (the Author)—An Improved Sewage Filler. 8vo. 1900.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for Feb 1900. 8vo.
United State* Department of Agriculture—Monthly Weather Review for Oct. 1899.
     8vo.
United States Patent Office—Official Gazette, Vol. XC. Nos. 5-7. 8vo. 1899.
Verein zur Beftirderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1900.
     Heft 1. 8vo.
Washington, Philosophical Society of—Bulletin, Vols. XI. XII. 8vo. 1892-95.

 1900.]                    Bacteria and Sewage.                        317
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 9, 1900.
      Sib William Cbookes, F.R.S., Vice-President, in the Chair.
            Pbofessob Fbank Clowes, D.Sc. F.C.S. M.B.I.
                           Bacteria and Sewage.
 The discovery made by Schwann, in 1839, that a putrefying liquid
 swarmed with microscopic living organisms, gave occasion to a long
 series of remarkable investigations as to the general nature and the
 life-history of these organisms, and the chemical changes which they
 produced.
     Prominent amongst the names of those who prosecuted these in
 vestigations stands that of Pasteur, who, in 1857, drew attention to
 the nature and causes of fermentative changes produced upon sugar
 solution, of the putrefactive changes in liquids containing animal
 substances, and of disease changes in the blood of the living animal,
 which were produced in the presence of various minute living
 organisms. He showed that, if these liquids were sterilised by heat,
 and were then duly protected against receiving solid particles from
 the air, or from other sources, these changes did not occur ; and that
 contact with air which had passed through a red-hot tube, or had
 been filtered through a cotton-wool plug, was incompetent to intro
 duce the organisms and to start the above changes.
     These researches drew attention to the important part played by
the air as a vehicle of the organisms or of their spores, and were
supplemented by the researches of Tyndall (1876), who proved that
air, which had been allowed to remain at rest until its motes had
subsided, was incompetent to produce putrefaction. Tyndall also
proved that boiled sterilised broth, when opened in Alpine air, did
not usually putrefy, and that the air near the earth's surface in
different localities, and even in the same locality at different times,
possessed infective power varying from nil to something considerable.
The inference is that the distribution of these organisms and of their
spores varies very considerably in any horizontal plane near the
earth's surface.
    Percy Frankland (1886) determined the number of these living
organisms which could be developed from equal volumes of air col
lected at varying heights from the earth's surface. He made use of
hills and cathedral towers for the purpose of collecting his samples,
and noted a regular decrease in the number of the organisms which
were in the air at greater and greater distances from the earth's surface.

318                      Professor Frank Cloves                [March S.
     These typical researches render it evident that the organisms and
their spores, which are produced at or near the earth's surface, are
wafted by natural atmospheric movements to some height, bat are
constantly tending to subside, and to sow the organisms broadcast as
they descend.
     It has been shown by more recent bacteriological investigations
that many of these minute organisms are normally present in the
living organism, and make their appearance in large numbers in the
dejecta. It is therefore not remarkable that sewape, which contains
the dejecta of men and animals, as well as the washings of consider
able road and other surfaces, should contain micro-organisms and
their spores in large number.
     The fact that animal dejecta and sewage are inoffensively and
gradually resolved into simple chemical compounds by contact with
different kinds of soil has long been known, but this resolution has,
until recently, been attributed to the purifying action of the earth
itself, or of the organisms which it may contain. It is now abundantly
proved that the resolving or purifying agents are, in the main, the
micro-organisms which were originally present in the dejecta them
selves, although undoubtedly organisms derived from the air, and
those already present in the soil, contribute to the change when they
are present.
     The experimental purification of sewage by letting it stand in
tanks filled with flints, gravel, coal, coke or other mineral substances,
proves that there is no special virtue in soil. These experiments,
originally commenced by the State Board of Health, Massachusetts,
in 1887, have been repeated by many public sanitary authorities, and
the results have been abundantly verified ; and in various localities
broken stone, broken slate, broken clay vessels, " ballast," or burnt
clay have been successfully employed in the tanks in place of the
materials which were originally used.
     For the successful and inoffensive treatment of sewage by this
means, a preliminary " priming " of the material is necessary. This
is effected by allowing it to remain immersed in sewage for several
hours daily for a few weeks. Sewage, which is then introduced and
allowed to remain for a few hours in the tank containing the
"primed" coke or other material, has the amount of its putrescible
dissolved matters considerably and rapidly reduced, while its solid,
finely-divided fascal matter is brought into solution, and caused to
undergo, in large measure, resolution into simple inoffensive com
pounds.
     In order that these changes may be completed inoffensively, it is
necessary that the " primed " coke surfaces shall be frequently placed
in contact with air, and the process is therefore an intermittent one.
The coke-bed is first filled with sewage, which is then allowed to
flow out from the bottom and to draw air into the interstices of the
coke. After the coke surfaces have been for several hours in contact
with the air, the cycle of processes is repeated. The treatment of

1900.]                    on Bacteria and Sewage.                    319
fresh quantities of sewage in the same coke-bed may apparently
be continued indefinitely.
    The effluent from one coke-bed undergoes a considerable further
purification if it is made to undergo similar treatment in a second
coke-bed ; and if this second contact with the coke surfaces is followed
by ordinary sand filtration, such as is usually applied to river-wat9r
which is to be used for drinking purposes, an effluent of extraordinary
purity is obtained.
    The original method introduced by the Massachusetts experi
ments, and known as the intermittent aerobic treatment, is sometimes
preceded by a preliminary anaerobic treatment. This consists in
allowing the sewage to remain quiescent in, or to flow very slowly
through, a large tank or channel. A thick, tough scum soon forms
npon its surface, and protects the liquid from the air. Under these
conditions many of the solid suspended particles of an organic nature
pass into solution, and are thus rendered rapidly resolvable by
subsequent aerobic intermittent treatment.
    The above general description of the bacterial treatment of sewage
has been subjected to modification as to details to suit the conditions
of particular localities. Thus the sewage is in some places sub
divided by suitable mechanical arrangements into drops, and allowed
to fall continuously like rain upon the surface of the coke-bed. The
bed never becomes full of liquid, since when the sewage has trickled
through the coke, and has been exposed to the coke surfaces and to
the interstitial air, it is at once allowed to flow away from the bottom
of the bed.
    That these methods of purifying sewage are correctly described
as bacterial has been placed beyond doubt. Any conditions which
are unfavourable to bacterial life at once retard the purification,
while any treatment of the sewage which sterilises it arrests the
purification entirely.
    The bacteria in the sewage are considered to be the active agents,
and to produce the changes either directly, or indirectly through
their products or enzymes. Bacteria and their spores are found to be
present in great numbers in sewage. London sewage has been shown
by Dr. Houston and others to contain very large numbers of bacteria,
varying from about three to six million per cubic centimetre. It
seems probable that many of these bacteria form films, or " swarming
islands," on the coke surfaces, similar to those which are produced
by their growth upon the surface of a gelatine film (Fig. 1) ; the
period of formation of these films may be assumed to be the period of
" priming " already referred to. Probably the coke-bed aids bacterial
action largely by furnishing surfaces of attachment to the bacteria,
upon which they may alternately be exposed to air and to the
sewage. The useful effect of solid surfaces in promoting bacterial
action in the case of other similar changes is well known, and it may
be connected with the effect which the surfaces exert in preventing the
settling of the bacteria to the bottom of the liquid.

320                        Professor Frank Clowes                     [March 9,
     Fewage contains many different species of bacteria, some of which
have been described and figured by Dr. Houston.* As is seen in
Figs. 2, 3, 4, some of these bacteria possess motile tail-like flagella,
and by the movement of these the minute organisms maintain a
rapid progress through the liquid. Bacteria which are devoid of
flagella and which cannot traverse free paths in the liquid are shown
in Figs. 5, 6, 7, 8. In Fig. 6 the spores of these minute vegetable
organisms are seen interspersed among the organisms themselves.
The organisms have two methods of multiplying, by fission and by
producing spores ; the spores have the power of retaining vitality
under conditions which are fatal to the organisms themselves. It is
found that none of these are selectively retained by a coarse coke-bed
during the treatment, but that all the species make their appearance in
only slightly diminished numbers in the purified effluent from the
coke-bed. The average reduction in the number of the bacteria in the
sewage by one treatment in a coarse coke-bed amounted to only 27' 7
per cent. It would therefore appear that the different species of
bacteria assist one another in the purifying action, and by producing
either contemporaneous or consecutive effects upon the sewage secure
its purification : in bacteriological language, their action is either
symbiotic or metabiotic, or possibly of both kinds. The organisms
s em to establish and maintain a condition of equilibrium amongst
themselves in the coke-bed, since attempts to artificially increase the
number of certain species have thus far failed.
     It appears that in the above processes there is no separation of the
bacterial action which takes place in the presence of air from that
which occurs only in the absence of air, and both processes probably
proceed side by side in the open coke-bed. The anaerobic, or so-
called " septic " treatment, during which cellulose is slowly resolved
with separation of hydrogen and methane, is, however, sometimes
made to precede the more truly aerobic treatment.
     One result of the anaerobic treatment is the liberation of large
volumes of combustible gas, and this gas has been employed at some
works for illuminating purposes on the incandescent principle.
     The general products from both processes of bacterial action are
carbon dioxide, water, ammonia, nitrogen, hydrogen and methane ;
and in the aerobic changes the ammonia is subsequently oxidised into
nitrite and nitrate.
     The experience obtained from several years' experimental
bacterial treatment of the sewage from several of our largest cities
has recently been published.
     In 1893 the London County Council constructed an acre coke-
bed about three feet in depth at the Barking Outfall of the North
    * The illustrative figures in this article have been selected from Reports on
' The Bacteriology of London Crude Sewage ' and on ' The Bacterial Treatment
of Crude Sewage,' by Dr. Clowes and Dr. Houston, issued by the London County
Council (F. S. King and Son), and were originally produced from mierophoto-
graphs taken by Dr. Norman from Dr. Houston's cultivations.

Km 1. Proleut vulgurit. Impression preparation from "swarming Ulands "
         on gelatine ; 20 hours' growth at 20° C. x 3000. (Houston.)
Fio. 2.—" Sewage JVofeun." Microscopic preparation stained by V. Ermengein's
     method, showiTig one flagellum at the end of each rod ; from a 24 hours'
     growth agar culture at 20° C. x 1000.



Fio. 4.— B. meseiitericus. Sewage variety L Microscopic preparation stained
    by V. Ermengem's method, showing numerous flagtlla ; from a      hours'
    a^'nr culture at 20° C. x 1000.

Fio. 6.—Bacillus submit, x 1500.


     Fin. T.—Ii. tublilimmut. Impression preparation from a gelatine plate
                                 culture x 1000.
Fio. S.—li. mesenteric™. Sewage variety E. Microscopic preparation from
                   20 hours' Agar culture at 20° C. X 1000.

1900.]                   on Bacteria and Sewage.                      321
London Sewage. This bed has been receiving screened and sodi-
mented sewage up to the present time, the process of sedimentation
having been assisted by the addition of a small proportion of
solutions of lime and of ferrous sulphate. Two years ago the bed
was deepened to about six feet. Its purifying action, as measured
by the amount of oxidisable matter present in the raw sewage and
in the clear effluent, amounts to 92 per cent, and if the purification
is calculated from the clear sewage and effluent, it amounts to 84
per cent. More recent experiments have proved that the treatment
of raw roughly-screened sewage in such coke-beds is satisfactory,
but that the capacity of the bod becomes continuously reduced by
                       Fio. 9.—Proteus vulgaris, x 1000.
  the deposition upon the coke of mineral matter from road detritus,
  of particles of straw, chaff and woody matter from the horse-traffic
  and from the wood pavements. It was, therefore, evident that these
  matters must be deposited by sedimentation before the sewage was
  brought into the coke-beds. A comparatively rapid process of sedi
   mentation suffices to remove these matters, since even the cellulose
   matters arrive in the sewage in a heavy and waterlogged condition.
       It was found advantageous to use coke in comparatively largo
   fragments, about the size of walnuts, since this facilitated the rapid
   draining of the liquid from the coke, and at the same time increased
    the sewage capacity of the bed and promoted its efficient aeration.
    The depth of the beds has been augmented from 4 to 13 feet, and
    the increase of depth seems to be attended with increase of efficiency.

 322                         Professor Frank Clowe*                     [March 9,
 The 13-foot bed has for long periods given a purification from
 dissolved oxidisable matter of over 60 per cent. It has maintained
 a most satisfactory state of aeration, since the air drawn from the
 bottom has contained, on an average, 17 per cent, of oxygen.
     About 60 per cent, of the matter which settles from the sewage
 under ordinary conditions is combustible, and could, therefore, very
 well be dealt with by a destructor.
     The tendency of the coke bacteria beds is undoubtedly to improve
 in their purifying power with age, provided they are not overworked.
 A bed which had given for some time a 50 per cent, purification,
 gradually increased in efficiency until its purifying effect reached
 nearly 70 per cent. The effluent from this bed underwent an
 additional purification of 20 per cent, by treatment in a second
 similar bed.
     The effluent from a single coke-bed worked on the intermittent
 principle was clear and odourless, and remained in this condition
 when it was kept in open or closed bottles in a warm laboratory. It
 maintained the life of gold-fish, roach, dace, and pike indefinitely: it
 was therefore not only well aerated, but was able to maintain its
 aerated condition. This proves that it was free from any rapidly
 oxidisable matter. It was undoubtedly, however, undergoing a
 gradually further purification by the action of the bacteria which it
 contained, and with the assistance of dissolved oxygen. Such an
 effluent would be quite suitable for introduction into the tidal part
 of the river, where the water iB too salt and muddy to be used for
 drinking purposes.
     Bacteria are present in large numbers in the river-water itself,
 and undoubtedly exert a most useful purifying effect upon the water
 during its flow. The relation between the number present in the
 sewage and in the water of the River Thames, below and above
 locks, is shown by the following estimations made by Dr. Houston.
 The number of liquefying bacteria included in the total number of
 bacteria present in one cubic centimetre, and the number of spores
 of bacteria, are also stated :—
                                                              Hacteria Liquefying 1
                                                                        fine!t ri.1 V.
Raw sewage from North London, Feb. to April 1898 . 3,899,259 430,750 332
Raw
  Maysewage
Effluent   Aug.
        tofromfrom
                coke-bed.
                 1898
                    South London,   Feb. to May
                           South London,               Aug.. 3,520,667 400,000 365
                                            April to1898
                                                             6,140,000 860,000 407
  1898                                                       4.437,500 762,500 252
    [Percentage reduction by passing through coke-bed          [27-7]    [11-4] [38]
  1898 Thames
Lower  Thames water,
                  water, Barking,
                         Greenhithe,
                                  low half  Nov. tide,
                                      tide, ebb   1898 Oct.
                                                                10,000                63
                                                                34,400     —          89
  Nov. Thames
Upper                   Twickenham.
        1898 water, between            Nov.and
                                  Sunbury            .
                                             1898Hampton,
                                                                 5,100     —          56
                                                                 3,000                 18

1900.]                 on Bacteria and Sewage.                       323
    The results obtained by the experimental bacterial treatment of
sewage at Manchester during the last two or three years bear out
generally those which have been obtained in London. The treat
ment has differed in some details from that adopted in London. The
particles of coke constituting the coke-beds have been smaller. The
coke-beds have been subjected to a larger number of intermittent
fillings per day ; and the preliminary treatment in an open anaerobic
tank has been carried out with advantageous results. The scientific
experts who have suggested and watched the experiments state their
conviction that bacterial treatment is the treatment which is most
suitable for Manchester sewage, but that in order to secure the most
effective purification, the coke-beds must have sufficiently frequent
and prolonged periods of rest, and must be fed with sewage as free
as possible from suspended matter, and as uniform in quality as may
be. Preliminary anaerobic treatment is referred to as the best means
of securing uniformity in quality of the sewage, and of adapting it
to rapid subsequent aerobic purification. Four fillings in twenty-
four hours have been found suitable, if one day's rest in seven is
given to each coke-bed ; the number of fillings, however, may exceed
this without detriment to the bed or to the character of the effluent.
    Town sewage is found to arrive at the outfalls at an almost con
stant temperature throughout the year. It rarely falls below 13° C.
And this temperature not only prevents the possibility of the coke-
beds being stopped by the freezing of the sewage, but also secures to
the bacteria one condition favourable to their action. When a bed is
too freely aerated by the passage of frosty air constantly through the
interstices of the coke this favourable condition is, however, seriously
interfered with, and the bed may even beoome stopped by the freez
ing of the sewage.
    In the more recent experiments carried out in America by the
State Board of Health, Massachusetts, the tendency has been to use
fine coke, and to allow the effluent from the coke to pass through
sand. The passago of tho liquid has either been allowed to take
place with the outflow widely opened, so that the bed never fills, or
the sewage has been allowed to fill the bed and to remain quiescent
in contact with the coke for a time, as in the English experiments.
The conclusions arrived at seem to be that the degree of purification
obtained by the use of fine coke and sand is vory satisfactory, but
that the volume of sewage dealt with in a given time is smaller than
when larger coke fragments are used, and the tendency seems to be
to adopt the larger coke in order to expedite the more rapid drainage
away of the effluent.
    It will be seen from what has already been said that it is well
not to speak of this system of treatment as one of filtration. Filtra
tion ordinarily implies a process of mechanical separation of material
suspended in a liquid. The fact that the coke-beds only commence
their purifying action after they have been " primed " by repeated
contact with sewage, and that this purifying action keeps increasing

324                       Bacteria and Sewage.                [March 9,
as the bed " matures," is sufficient to show that the action is by no
means of a mechanical nature. It would be well, therefore, to speak
of it as a process of bacterial treatment, and thus to indicate that the
purifying agents are bacteria, which are acting under control, and
are placed under conditions favourable to the development of their
full activity.
    It would be rash to say that the methods of bacterial treatment
have as yet reached their most effective state ; but it is significant
that these methods have secured converts wherever they have received
careful and fair trial, and that those are their warmest advocates who
have had the widest experience of their working. It is even probable
that further improvements will be made in the means of treating
sewage bacterially ; but it is quite certain that the processes at pre
sent in use are able to secure the economical and satisfactory purifi
cation of ordinary town sewage.
                                                               [F. C]

1900.J                       Pictorial Historic Records.              325
                     -WEEKLY        EVENING
                              Friday,             1900.
                                      March 16, MEETING,
   Sib James Chiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer
                        and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                           Sib Benjamin Stone, M.P.
                            Pictorial Historic Records.
In historical documents pictorial delineation of events is probably
the most valuable means of preserving the truest record of passing
and changing scenes. Many ancient drawings and engravings of the
crudest character have been invaluable to the historian, as conveying
more accurately to the mind the subjects of illustration than any
amount of literary description could do, and we are indebted to artists
of former times for presenting to us scenes which we could not
possibly have re-created from merely word description.
       It is true that imagination and artistic instincts have frequently
 transmitted to us exaggerated and distorted representations of what
 was actually seen, but, at the same time, it has not infrequently been
 the case that the most patient efforts have been concentrated on
 minute details, which are most usefully instructive. In estimating
 the value of such work, it only provokes the regret that drawings of
 even this unfinished character are not more generally available.
       In recent years the science of photography has come to the aid of
 the historian, and this ready means of record is now in evidence in
  all directions. Since the discovery of permanent processes the value
  of photographic pictures has been increasingly apparent, and the need
  of well-directed efforts for securing reliable and trustworthy present
  ments of objects and events becomes more and more apparent, especially
  when one sees around such a wasteful expenditure of effort and realises
   the need of systematic collection and preservation.
        Bnt a few years since, labour and money devoted to the collection
   of photographs for historical purposes—owing to their perishable
   qualities—had a most disappointing return ; this is evidenced in
   many minor collections made for special reasons, in which the pictures
   are seen to be fading although possibly in careful keeping.
        It has been only recently that the reproduction of photographs in
    carbon, in platinotype and by mechanical printing processes, has
    justified the hope and expectation of comparative permanency (that
    is, as permanent as the nature of the paper upon which the pictures
     are printed will permit), and which would encourage expenditure in
     forming an important collection. That public opinion is now in
     favour of making such collections is clearly shown from the interest

32G                         Sir Benjamin Stone                   "March 16,
expressed on the subject in so many directions. The public press
generally has accorded it support ; local associations, archneologicaJ
and photographic, have exerted themselves to form collections of
local records ; and during the past few years thousands of pictorial
records of the greatest interest have been deposited in the care of
local authorities.
    One danger seems to threaten the value of such pictures, par
ticularly in the field of work known as " process reproduction,"
where, to suit the supposed demand of the public for faithful records
of events which photography is considered to supply, there is a
lamentable custom resorted to of tampering with photographs either
in the negative or in the process reproduction, so as to insert arti
ficial effects or to correct partial failures in the original negative, and
oftentimes embodying distinctly fraudulent effects.
     This degrading custom cannot be too much regretted, as faithful
historical records would become impossible, and the best pictures
would be valueless, if it were permitted for one moment to take liber
ties of this character.
    It is bad enough for such historical pictures to have suffered from
lens-distortion, which gives an exaggerated appearance and fails to
correctly record that which is actually seen by the eye. The best
lens makers have used their efforts to produce lenses which shall
render scenes in the most faithful manner possible, but hundreds of
views are daily taken and reproduced, in the pictorial newspapers of
the day, which are grotesquely absurd in their aspects and general
proportions, in consequence of this primary fault. It will be apparent,
therefore, that difficulties have to be dealt with in keeping up a high
standard of excellence needed for making a perfectly satisfactory
record of current history.
    The efforts made to formulate the nucleus of a national collection
for preservation in the British Museum, have certainly been in sym
pathetic accord with public opinion, for not only has there been a con
sensus of approval in all directions, but there has been a generous
response to appeals for suitable pictures to add to the collection.
     It would be impossible to refer in detail to the many contributions
which have been made, and I can only indifferently satisfy myself by
making a brief reference to some of them, which, as far as they go,
represent the idea that pictorial records are the most satisfying means
for placing upon record the best representation of current history.
     It may be assumed that such pictures should have explanatory
notes to make them intelligible, for, however good the pictures may
be in themselves, they will be more valuable if used in conjunction
with literary matter, condensed as much as possible, and of a perfectly
reliable character.
    This will be more clearly understood if it is remembered that
photographic pictures, or engravings, or indeed any illustrations—
whether artistic productions in oil and water-colours, lithographs, or
other similar productions—have tenfold more interest when the ob-
jtots or scenes portrayed are recognised and known, inasmuch as tha
whole subject is at once illuminated by the recollections of those

1900.]                 on Pictorial Historic Records.                327
who inspect them. So by comparison does an ordinary pictorial
illustration without a name, title or description, suffer in interest in
the minds of those who look upon it for the first time and who do
not possess a clue to its history or associations. Or, to give another
illustration, how easy it is to create an interest in a most uninviting
subject if an appeal is made to the imagination to clothe it with
historical interest, such for instance as views of the dungeons of the
Tower of London, which cannot have picturesqueness or beauty, but
whose inscriptions on the walls, connected as they are with tragic
episodes of English history, at once give to them a pathetic and
engrossing interest.
     It is true that only a very small number of such pictorial records,
in comparison with the vast numbers of suitable subjects available,
has yet been contributed to the collection, but it is satisfactory
to know that a good beginning has been made, and that the work is
extending in a marked manner. When one considers the possibili
ties of extension, it is almost bewildering to speculate upon what
might be accomplished. To begin with, there are possible workers
everywhere ; few middle class houses or families are now-a-days
without a camera, and the smallest contributions may possibly rank
among the most valuable gifts. Opportunities and subjects abound
in all directions ; it often happens that familiar objects near at hand
are despised by the photographic worker, imagining that scenes novel
to him are better and more desirable subjects for selection.
     To those who live in towns, street scenes and the domestic life of
the inhabitants offer abundant opportunities, for they disclose the
social conditions of the people of to-day. How invaluable would a
comparison be, if similar pictures were available of similar scenes in
former days !
     We are proud of our progress and the well-to-do habitations of
our middle classes ; would that we could compare them with the
picturesque streets, the overhanging houses, the half-timbered dwell
ings, to say nothing of the quaint costumes and artistic surroundings
of Tudor times ; for, with all our pride of modern self-importance, I
think we might possibly learn something from the days when Shake
speare, Lord Bacon, old John Stowe, and others, were living actors
on the scene.
     To dwellers in the country there are limitless possibilities.
There is country life in all its phases, the old manor house, the
way-side inn, perhaps a ruined castle, or the crumbling remains of an
abbey or monastery. The parish church alone may serve to engross
the best efforts : Norman work in the tower, mediaeval additions, the
decay and restoration, all mark events in ecclesiastical or political
history.
     Then there are village costumes, many of them relics of the
remote past, in which again possibly the parish church plays a part ;
and lastly the very tombstones in the churchyard offer fleeting
records worth noting, and which are irrecoverably perishing beforo
our eyes. The evolution of such monuments is a delightful study in
itself, from the early monolith and cromloch of pre-historic days to

328                      Pictorial Historic Records.           [March 16,
the box tomb of our grandfathers' time, there is a progressive story
 which is clearly discernible in these churchyard memorials.
      If remarkable or special objects are sought for, our cathedrals
 and the mansions of our old nobility provide endless material. A
 single cathedral may wholly occupy the attention of a devoted worker
 for years ; its architectural details, picturesque vistas, monumental
 effigies, tombs and inscriptions, old and modern alike, are worth notice ;
 whilst such noble sanctuaries as St. Paul's or Westminster Abbey are
 of surpassing interest and possess inexhaustible associations.
      In addition to these varied objects of interest, there are scattered
throughout the country a great number of historical documents, in
the shape of transfer deeds, charters, manuscript letters, and other
records of national or local value. As all such precious evidence is
liable to destruction by fire or other accidents, it is of the greatest
value to duplicate them by photographs. Such desirable work offers
a largo field to those who have patience to undertake such labour.
      There are innumerable ancient State and Ecclesiastical records of
historical interest stowed away in the deed chests of private families
which have never been transcribed or copied ; to say nothing of
stores possessed by cathedral chapters, by church authorities, and
various corporations, the contents of which are absolutely unknown.
 These, by duplication, by photography, and circulation amongst those
who are interested in such matters, would permit of their being
carefully studied pending publication, and would throw much ad
ditional light on passages of past history.
     Theso observations would not be complete without reference to
the excellent photographic record work already done in several parts
of the United Kingdom. The efforts of the Warwickshire Photo
graphic Survey Council have resulted in making a fine collection of
upwards of 2000 pictures of that county, which are now deposited in
the Birmingham Reference Library, and the names of Mr. Jerome
Harrison, F.G.S., Mr. J. H. Pickhard, Mr. E. C. Middleton, Mr.
James Simkins, Mr. C. J. Fowler, Mr. Harold Baker, and others, are
honourably associated with this first distinct effort to collect records.
     The example of Warwickshire has been followed in many parts
of the country, and local collections are now in progress in the
hundred of Wirrall (Cheshire), in Yorkshire, in Worcestershire, in
the Borough of Scarborough, and indeed in many places.
     In conclusion, the National Record Association itself has received
help and encouragement from the learned societies and many associa
tions having historical or literary objects in view. It would be
invidious to mention the names of those who have so far contributed
to make the collection, but the sorvices rendered by Mr.' George
Scamel, the Honorary Secretary, deserve distinct recognition.
     It is sufficient to say that a most promising commencement has
been made towards forming a National Collection, and it is not too
much to expect or hope that at some future time this will be one of
the most valued possessions of the Nation.
                                                                [B. 8.]

 1900.]                 Some Modern Explosives.                      329
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, March 23, 1900.
      His Gbace tae Duke of Nobthumbebland, K.G. F.S.A.,
                         President, in the Chair.
       Sib Andbew Noble, K.C.B. F.R.S. M.Inst.C.E. M.R.I.
                       Some Modern Explosives.
Neably thirty years ago, in the Royal Institution, I had the
honour of describing the great advances which had then recently
been made both in our knowledge of the phenomena which attend
the decomposition of gunpowder, and in its practical application to
the purposes of artillery.
     l described the uncertainty which up to that date had existed
as to the tension developed by its explosion ; the estimates varying
enormously from the 101,000 atmospheres (about 662 tons on the
square inch) of Count Rumford to the 1000 atmospheres (6 . 6 tons
per square inch) of Robins, or, taking more modern estimates,
from the 24,000 atmospheres (158 tons per square inch) of Piobert
and Cavalli to the 4300 atmospheres (about 29 tons per square
inch) of Bunsen and Schischkoff.
     These uncertainties were, I think I may say, set to rest by certain
experiments carried out both in guns and close vessels at Elswick, by
the labours of the Explosive Committee appointed by the War Office,
and by researches conducted by Sir F. Abel and myself. Theso
researches were conducted on ' a large scale, with the view of repro
ducing as nearly as possible in experiment the conditions that exist
in the bore of a gun. You may judge of the magnitude of the
experiments when I tell you that I have fired and completely re
tained in one of my cylinders a charge of no less than 28 lbs. of
ordinary powder.
     The result of the discussion of the whole series of experiments
led to the following conclusions :
     1. That the tension of the products of combustion at the moment
of explosion when the powder practically filled the space in which
it is fired—that is, when the density is about unity—is a little over
40 tons on the squaro inch, or about 6400 atmospheres.
     2. Although changes in the chemical composition of powder, and
even changes in the mode of ignition, cause a very considerable
change in the metamorphosis experienced in explosion—as evidenced
by the proportions of the products, the quantity of heat generated, and
the quantity of permanent gases produced, being materially altered—
it is somewhat remarkable that the tension of the products in relation
     Vol. XVI. (No. 94.)                                        z

330                        Sir Andrew Nuble                 [March 23,
to the gravimetric density is not nearly so much affected as might be
expected from the considerable alteration in the above factors.
     3. The work that gunpowder is capable of performing in expand
ing in the bore of a gun was determined both by actual measurement
and by calculation, and the results were found to accord very closely.
     4. The total potential energy of exploded gunpowder supposed
to be fired at the density of unity was found to be about 332,000
gramme units per gramme, or 486 foot-tons per lb. of powder.
     I must confess that when I gave the lecture I have referred to,
seeing the many centuries during which gunpowder had held its own
as practically the sole propelling agent for artillery purposes, seeing
also that gunpowder differs in certain important points from the
explosives to which I shall presently call your attention, I had
serious doubts as to whether it would be possible so far to modify
these latter as to permit of their being used in large charges and
under the varied conditions required in the Naval and Military
Services.
     Gunpowder is not like guncotton, cordite, nitro-glycerine, lyddite,
and other similar explosives, a definite chomical combination in a
state of unstable equilibrium, but is merely an intimate mixture of
nitre, sulphur and charcoal, in proportions which can be varied to
a very considerable extent without striking differences in result*.
These constituents do not, during the manufacture of the powder,
suffer any chemical change, and being a mixture it cannot be said
under any condition truly to detonate. It deflagrates or burns with
great rapidity, varying very largely with the pressure and other cir
cumstances under which the explosion is taking place ; a train like
 that to which I set fire taking as you see an appreciable time to
burn, while in the bore of the gun a similar length of charge would
be consumed in less than tho hundredth part of a second.
    You will further have observed the heavy cloud of smoke which
has attended the deflagration you have seen. Nearly six-tenths of
the weight of the powder after explosion remains as a finely divided
 solid, giving riso to the so-called smoke familiar to many of you,
 and of which a good illustration is shown in this instantaneous
photograph. By way of comparison I burn similar lengths of gun-
 cotton in the form (1) of cotton, (2) of strand, (3) of rope ; and you
 will observe the different rates at which these varied forms of the
 same material aro consumed, the rate depending in this case upon
 the greater aggregation and higher density, consequently higher
 pressure, of the successive samples.
      Although the names of cordite and ballistite aro probably familiar
 to all of you, the appearance may not be so familiar, and I have here
 on the table samples of the somewhat Protean forms which these
 explosives, or explosives of the same nature, are made to assume.
      Here, for instance, aro forms of cordite, the explosive of the
 Service, for which we are indebted to the labours of Sir F. Abel and
Prof. Dewar. This, which is in the form of fine threads, is used in



1900.]                  on Some Modern Explosives.                    331
small arms ; and here are successive sizes, adapted to successive larger
calibres, until we reach this size, which is that employed for the
charge of the 12-inch 50-ton guns.
    A couple of the smaller cords I burn, both for purposes of com
parison and to draw your attention to the entire absence of smoke.
    The smoke of the gunpowder you see still floating near the ceiling ;
but little or no trace of smoke can be soen from such explosives as
guncotton, cordite or ballistite, their products of combustion being
entirely gaseous.
    You will have observed that in the combustion which you have just
seen there is no smoke, but I must explain, and I shall shortly show
you, that this combustion is not quite the same as that which takes
place, for instance, in the chamber of a gun. Here the carbonic oxide
and hydrogen, which are products of explosion, burn in the air, giving
rise, with the aid of a little free carbon, to the bright flame you see,
and somewhat increasing the rate of combustion. In a gun, however,
owing chiefly to pressure, the cordite is consumed in a very small
portion of a second.
    In order to illustrate the effect of pressure upon the rate of com
bustion, I venture to show you a very beautiful experiment devised
by Sir F. Abel. It has been shown in this room before, but it will
bear repetition.
     In this globe there is a length of cordite. I pass a current through
the platinum wire on which it is resting, and you see the cordite burns.
I now exhaust the air and repeat the experiment. The wire is red-
hot, but the cordite will not burn. That the failure to burn is not
due to the absence of oxygen is shown by plunging lighted cordite
into a jar of carbonic acid, where, although a match is instantly put
out, the cordite continues to burn—but observe the difference. There
is no longer any bright flame, although the cordite is being consumed
at about the same rate as when burned in air ; and when a sufficient
quantity of the C02 is displaced, I can make the inflammable gases
ignite and burn at the mouth of the jar.
     Another illustration is also instructive. I have here a stick of
cordite wrapped round with filter paper ; I dip it in water and light
the end. "You may note that at first you see the bright flame ; but, as
the combustion retreats under the wet filter paper, there appears a
space between the flame and the cordite, the flame finally disappears,
hot gases with sparks of carbon alone showing.
     One other pretty experiment I show. I have here a stick of cor
dite, which I light. When fairly lighted I plunge it in this beaker
of water. The experiment does not always succeed at the first
attempt, but you now see the cordite burning under the water much
as it did in the jar of carbonic acid. The red fumes you observe are
due to the formation of nitric peroxide, caused by the decomposi
tion of the water by the heat.
     I have on the table samples of certain other smokeless explosives
of the same class. Here is a ballistite used in Italy. Here is some
                                                               z 2

332                       Sir Andrea Noble                     [March 23,
Norwegian ballistite. Here, again, is ballistite in the tubular form,
and in these bottles it is seen in the form of cubes. Here is some
gelatinised guncotton in the tubular form, and here are some interesting
specimens with which I have experimented, and which up to a certain
pressure gave good results, but which exhibited some tendency to vio
lence when that pressure was exceeded. Here also are some samples
of the French B.N. powder, consisting of nitrocellulose partially
gelatinised and mixed with tannin, and with barium and potassium
nitrates. Lastly, I show you here a sample of picric acid, a substance
which has been used for many years as a colouring material, but
which will be of interest to you, because it is used as the explosive
of lyddite shell, concerning which I shall presently have more to say ;
it differs from all the other explosives in being, in the crystalline
form, exceedingly difficult to light. I fuse, however, in this porcelain
crucible a small quantity. I pour a little on a slab, and on dropping
a fragment into a red-hot test-tube you see with how much violence
the fragment explodes. I also burn a small quantity, and you will
observe that unlike guncotton, cordite and ballistite, it is not free from
smoke, the smoke in this case being simply carbonaceous matter. You
will observe also how much more slowly it burns.
     The composition of theso various explosives (although in the case
of both cordite and ballistite I have experimented with samples
differing widely in the proportion of their ingredients) may be thus
stated.
     The guncotton I employed was of Waltham Abbey manufacture,
and when dried consisted of 4 '4 per cent, of soluble cotton and
95 ' 6 per cent, of insoluble—as used it contained 2 . 25 per cent, of
moisture.
     The service cordite consists of 37 per cent, trinitro-collulose, with
a small proportion of soluble guncotton, 58 per cent, of nitro
 glycerine and 5 per cent, of the hydro-carbon vaseline.
     Tho ballistite I principally used was composed of 50 per cent.
 dinitro-cellulose (collodion cotton) and 50 per cent, of nitro
 glycerine. The whole of the cellulose was soluble in ether alcohol,
 and the ballistite was coated with graphite.
     The French B.N. powder consisted of nitro-cellulose partly gela
 tinised and mixed with tannin, with barium and potassium nitrates.
 The transformation experienced by some of these explosives is given
 in Table L, while the pressures in relation to the gravimetric densi
 ties of some of the more important are shown in Fig. I.
     The decomposition experienced by these high explosives on boing
 fired is of much greater simplicity than that experienced by the old
 powders, and is, moreover, not subject to the considerable fluctuations
in the ultimate products exhibited by them.
     The products of explosion of gun-cotton, cordite, ballistite, etc. are
at the temperature of explosion entirely gaseous, consisting of carbonic
anhydride, carbonic oxide, hydrogen, nitrogen and aqueous vapour,
with generally a small quantity of marsh gas.



1900.]                     on Some Modern Explosives.                                       333
      The water collected, after the explosion vessel was opened, always
gmelt—occasionally very strongly—of ammonia, and an appreciable
amount was determined in the water.
                                           Table I.
         Constituents.          Cordite.         Ralltatlte.        B.N.            Lyddite.
                                  Vols.            vols.            vols.            vols.
co,                              20-5              29- 1           21 1              12-8
CO                               233               21-4            242               49-7
H                                165               150             16-4              138
X                                14-6              10-1            126               19-6
R.0                              23-6              244             250                8-8
 CH,                               1-5             trace             06               0-3
Quantity of gas in c.c. I       890-5             807             822              960-4
    per gramme . . . . J
 Units of heat                1272              1365            1003               856-3
      In examining the gaseous products of the explosion of various
samples of gunpowder, it was noted that as the pressure under which
the explosion took place increased the quantity of carbonic anhydride
 also increased, while that of carbonic oxide decreased. The same
 peculiarity is exhibited by all the explosives with which I have
 experimented. I show in Table II. the result of a vei-y complete
 series of a sample of guncotton fired under varying pressures, and it
 will be noted that the volumes of carbonic oxide and carbonic an
 hydride are, between the highest and lowest pressures, nearly exactly
 reversed.
                                          Table II.
                                   Under Pressure of Explosion, tons per square inch.
        Constituenis.                         12 tons. 18 tons. 20 tons. 45 tons. 60 tons.
                        2 tons.     8 tons.
  Mis.
  CO.                   21-44       25-06     26-27       27 21 26-75 28 13            29-27
  CO                   29-66        26-31     25-08       25 24 24-53 23-19            22-31
  H .. ..               15-92       15-33     16-03       1456 14-77 14-14             13-56
  N .. ..               13-63       13-80     13-22       1313 13-43 12-99             13-07
  H,0                   19-09       19-09     19-09       19-09 19-09 19-09            1909
                           •26          •41      •31         -77 1-47 2-46               2-70
       There are slight changes as regards the other products, but they
   do not compare in importance with that to which I have referred.
       But before drawing your attention to other points of interest, it is
   desirable to give you an idea of the advances in ballistics which have
   been made both by improvements in the manufacture of the old
   powders and by the introduction of the new.

  334                         Sir Andrew Noble                 [March 23,
      On Fig. II. are placed the results as regards velocity of nine ex
  plosives, commencing with the R.L.G2 powder, which was in use in
  the latter part of the fifties, and terminating with the cordite of the
  present day.
      The experiments I am now referring to were made in a gun of
  100 calibres in length, and were so arranged that in a single round the
  velocities could be measured at 16 points of the bore. The chrono-
  scope with which these velocities were taken has been already de
  scribed, and I will now only say that it is capable of registering
  time to the millionth of a second with a probable error of between two
  and three millionths. One curious fact connected with the mode of
  registration I may mention. In the early experiments with the old
  powders, where the velocities did not exceed 1500 or 1600 foot-
  seconds, the arrangement for causing the projectile to record the time
  of its passing any particular point was effected by the shot knocking
  down a small steel knife or trigger which projected slightly into the
  bore ; but when the much higher velocities, with which l subsequently
  experimented, were employed, this plan was found to be unsatisfactory,
  the steel trigger, instead of being immediately knocked down by the
  shot, frequently preferred instead to cut a groove in the shot, some
  times nearly its whole length, before it acted. Hence another arrange
  ment for cutting the primary wires had to be adopted.
      The diagram I am now showing you is, however, both interesting
  and instructive. The intention, among other points, was to ascertain
  for various calibres in length in a 6-inch gun the velocities and
  energies that could be obtained, the maximum pressures, whether
  mean or wave, not exceeding about 20 tons on the square inch. The
  horizontal line or axis of abscissae represents the travel of the shot in
  feet, the ordinates or perpendiculars from this line to the curve repre
  sents the velocity at that point.
       The lowest curve on the diagram gives, under the conditions I
  have mentioned, the velocities attainable with the powder which was
   used when rifled guns were first introduced into the service ; and you
   will note that with this powder the volocity attained with 100 calibres
   was only 1705 foot-seconds, while with 40 calibres it was 1533 foot-
   seconds. Next on the diagram comes pebble powder, with a velocity
   of 2190 foot-seconds ; next comes brown prismatio, with a velocity of
   2529 foot-seconds.
'      Thehave
   might          powder
            nextarisen to importance
                           is one of considerable
                                       had it not interest, and one by
                                                  been superseded       ex
                                                                     which
   plosives of a very different nature. It is called Amide powder, and
   in it ammonium nitrate is substituted for a large portion (about half)
   of the potassium nitrate, and there is also an absence of sulphur.
   You will observe the velocity in the 100 calibre gun is very good—
   2566 foot-seconds. The pressure also was low, and free from wave
   action. It is naturally not smokeless, but the smoke is much less
   dense and disperses much more rapidly than does the smoke of
   ordinary powder. Its great advantage, however, was, that it eroded

                 VHXRAPOERLNOISMOCIEUNVTPES
               CEWITH
IN
A
IC1ANCHL00IBRE
6 GUN                                                          C40alibres
                                                       ELOCITY
                                                     VCURVES
                                            obtained
                                            by                  50
                                                                Calikrea
                                                                 C75alibres

t
    1900.]                      on Some Modern Explosives.                                       335
    steel veiy much less than any other powder with which I experi
    mented, while its great disadvantage was due to the deliquescent
    properties of ammonium nitrate necessitating the keeping of the
    cartridges in air-tight cases.
         Next on the diagram comes B.N. or Blanche Nouvelle powder,
    an explosive which, while free from wave action, is remarkable, as
    you will note if you follow the curve, in developing a much higher
    velocity than the other powders in the first few feet of motion, and
    less in the later stages of expansion.
         Thus, if you compare this curve with the highest curve on the
    diagram, that of the four-tenths cordite, you will note that the B.N.
    curve for the first eight feet of motion is the higher, and that at
    about eight feet the curves cross, the B.N. giving a final velocity of
    2786 foot-seconds, or 500 feet below the cordite curve.
         Then follows ballistite, which, with much lower initial pressure,
    gives a velocity of 2806 foot-seconds, or somewhat higher than that
    of B.N. Then follow three different sizes of cordite, the highest of
    which gives a muzzle velocity of 3284. foot-seconds, or a velocity
    nearly double that of the early R.L.GS.
         In the somewhat formidable-looking table (Table III.) I have
    placed on the wall, are exhibited the velocities and energies realised in a
    6-inch gun with the various explosives I have named, and the table,
    in addition, shows the velocities and energies in guns of the same
    calibre but of 40, 50, and 75 calibres in length as well as in that
    of 100 calibres.
                                              Table III.
                              6-Inch Gun, 100 Calibbes Long.
                   Velocities and Energies realised with High Explosives.
                                   Weight of Projectile 100 lbs.
                               Length of Bore, Length of Bore, Length of Bore, Length of Bore,
    Nature and Weight of         40 Calibres.       50 Calibres.      ?5 Calibres.         100 Calibres.
          Explosive.
                              Velocity. Energy.  Velocity, Energy. Velocity  Energy.    Velocity. Energy.
                                f. s. ft. tons.    f. s. ft. Ions.   f. s.    ft. tons.   f. s. ft. tons.
Cordite, -4 in. (27-5 lbs.)     2794 5413          2940 5994        3166       6950       3284 7478
Cordite, 0-35 in. (22 lbs.)     2444 4142          2583 4626        2798       5429       2915 5892
Cordite, 0-3 in. (20 lba.)      2495 4316          2632 4804        2821       5518       2914 5888
Ballistite, 0'3 in. cubs.)      2416 4047          2537 4463         2713      5104       2806 5460
   (20 lbs.)               /
French B.N. (25 lbs.)..        2422 4068           2530 4438         270O       5055      2786 5382
Amide prism (32 lbs.) ..        2225 3433          2331 3768         2486       4285      2566 4566
Brown prism (50 lbs.) . .      2145 3190           2257 3532         2435       4111      2529 4485
Pebble powder (36 lbs.)         1885 2464          1980 2718         2110       3087      2190 3326
K.L.Gj (23 lbs.) .. ..          1533 1630          1592 1757         1668       1929      1705 2016
         If you compare the results shown in the highest and lowest lines
    of this table, that is, the results given by the highest and lowest

336                        Sir Andrew Noble                   [March 23,
curves on the diagram, you will see that the velocity of the former is
nearly twice as great as that of the latter, while its energy and
capacity for penetration is nearly four times as great.
    I need hardly remind most of you that in artillery matters it is
the energy developed, not the velocity alone, that is of vital import
ance. I venture to insist upon this point, because so many of those
who desire to instruct the authorities write as if velocity were the
only point to be considered. In a given gun with a given charge, if
the weight of the shot, within reasonable limits, be made to vary, the
ballistic advantage is greatly on the side of the heavier shot, and for
three principal reasons :
    1. More energy is obtained from the explosive.
    2. Owing to tho lower velocity, the resistance of the air is greatly
reduced.
    3. The heavier shot has greater capacity for overcoming the
reduced resistance.
    You will observe that on this velocity diagram, upon which I
have kept you so long a time, is shown, not only the travel of the
shot in feet, but the position of the plugs which gave the velocities.
Further, on the higher and lower curves, the observed velocities are
shown where it is possible to do so. Near the origin of motion the
points are so close that it is not possible to insert them without con
fusing the diagram.
     At the risk of fatiguing you, I show, in Fig. III., curves showing
the pressure existing in the bore at all points, these pressures being
 deduced from the curves of velocity.
     You will note the point to which I drew your attention with
regard to the powder called B.N. You will remember, that in the
 early stages of motion it gave velocity to the shot much more rapidly
 than did the other powders. You seo the effect in the pressure curves,
tho maximum being considerably higher than any of the other pres
sures, while the pressure towards the muzzle is, on the other hand,
considerably below the average.
     I fear you may think I have kept you unnecessarily long with
 these somewhat dry details, but I have had reasons for so doing.
     In the first place, I desire to demonstrate to you the enormous
 advances which have been made in artillery by the introduction of
 the new explosives, and which we in a great measure owe to the dis
 tinguished chemists and physicists who have occupied themselves with
 these important questions.
     Secondly, I desire to show you that the explosive which has been
adopted by this country, and which we chiefly owe to the labours of
 Sir F. Abel and Prof. Dewar, is in ballistic effect inferior to none
of its competitors. I might go further and say that it is decidedly
superior.
     Lastly, at a time when the efficiency of all our arms, and especially
our artillery, is a question which has been deeply agitating tho
country, I may do some good by pointing out that the authorities are

  PRESSURE IN TONS PER SQ. INCH.
PRESSURE IN TONS PER SQ. INCH.


 1900.]                 on Some Modern Explosives.                      337
well aware that any practicable velocity or energy they may desire
for their guns is at their disposal.
     They have such guns— I mean gnns with high velocity and high
 energy. Whether they have enough of them, and whether they are
 always in the right place, is another matter, for which perhaps the
 military authorities are not altogether responsible. But velocity and
 energy is not the only thing that is required under all circumstances
 in war, and I ask jou to believe that if the War Office authorities
 have, for their field guns, fixed on a velocity very much below what
 is possible, they have had sound and sufficient reasons for so doing.
     My firm and I, individually, have had much to do with the intro
 duction of the larger high velocity and quick-firing guns into our own
 and other services, but as an old artillery officer, in no way responsible
 for our field guns, I may perhaps be allowed to say that, whether as
 regards materiel or personnel, our field artillery is inferior to none
 anywhere, and I venture to add that in the present war it appears
 to have been handled in a way worthy of the reputation of the
corps.
     I fear the causes of some of our military failures at the commence
 ment of the war, must be looked for in other directions ; and the
 present unfortunate war will turn out to be a blessing in disguise, if
 it should awaken the Empire to the necessity of correcting serious
 defects in our organisation, possibly the natural result of our consti
 tution, and in that case the invaluable lives that have been lost will
 not have been sacrificed in vain.
     I now pass to points which have to be considered when weighing
 the comparative merits of explosives for their intended ends.
     You will easily understand that between explosives which are
 intended to be used for propelling purposes, and those which are in
 tended to be used, say for bursting shell, a wide difference may exist.
     In the former case, facility of detonation would be an insuperable
 objection. In the latter, the more perfect the detonation the better ;
 certain special cases, to which I have not time to refer, excepted.
     There exists, I think, considerable diversity of opinion as to what
 does, and what does not, constitute true detonation. I find many
 persons speak of a detonation, when I should merely consider that a
very high pressure had been reached. This gun-cotton slab on the
 table affords me, I think, a fair opportunity of explaining my
meaning. Were I to set fire to it, except for the large volume of
flame and the great amount of heat generated, we in this room would
not suffer ; we should probably experience more inconvenience did I
fire a similar slab of gunpowder, as detached burning portions would
probably be projected to some distance.
     But if I fired this same slab with two or three grammes of ful
minate of mercury, a detonation of extreme violence would follow.
The detonation would be capable of blowing a hole in a tolerably
thick iron plate, and would probably put an end to a considerable
proportion of the Managers in the front row.

338                         Sir Andrew Noble                  [March 23,
    I mentioned to you some time ago the time in which a charge
would be consumed in the chamber of a gun—if a charge of 500 lbs.
of these slabs were effectively detonated, this charge would be con
verted into gas in less than the 20,000th part of a second.
    No such result would follow were I to try a similar experiment
with a slub of compressed gunpowder of the same dimensions. I do
not say the experience would be pleasant, but there would be nothing
of the instantaneous violent action which marks the decomposition of
the guncotton.
    To give you an idea of the extraordinary violence which accom
panies detonation, I have fired, for the purpose of this lecture, with
fulminate of mercury, a charge of lyddite in a cast-iron shell, and
those who are sufficiently near, can see for themselves the result By
far the greater part of the cast-iron shell, weighing about 10 lbs., is
reduced to dust, some of which is so fine that I assumed it to be de
posited carbon until I had tested it with a magnet. I may add that the
indentation of the steel vessel by pieces of the iron which were not
reduced to powder would appear to indicate velocities of not less
than 1200 foot-seconds, and this velocity must have been communi
cated to the fragments in a space of less than two inches.
    For the sake of comparison I place beside it a cast-iron shell
burst by gunpowder. You will observe the extraordinary difference.
I also have on the table two small steel shells exploded, one by
a perfectly detonated the other by a partially detonated charge. 1
may remark that in the accounts of correspondents from the seat of
war, frequent mention is made of the green smoke of lyddite. This
appearance is probably due to imperfect detonation—to a mixture
in fact of the yellow picric with the black smoke. I do not Gay
however that imperfect detonation is necessarily an evil.
    To another experiment I draw your attention.
    For certain purposes I caused to be detonated, in the chamber of a
12-pounder, a steel shell charged with lyddite. The detonation was
not perfect, but the base of the shell was projected with great violence
against the breech screw. You may judge of how great that violence
was when I tell you that the base of the shell took a complete im
pression of the recess for the primer, developing great heat in so
doing ; but, what was still more remarkable, the central portion of the
base also sheared, passing into the central hole through which the
striker passes. This piece of shell is upon the table, and open to
 your inspection.
    One other instance, to illustrate the difference' between combustion
 and detonation, I trouble you with. Desiring to ascertain the difference,
if any, in the products of explosion between combustion and deto
nation, I fired a charge of lyddite in such a manner that detonation
did not follow. The lyddite merely deflagrated. But a similar
charge differently fired shortly afterwards detonated with such
 extreme violence as to destroy the vessel in which it was exploded.
 The manner in which the vessel failed I now show you (Fig. IV.);

      Fig. W.
EXPLOSION   VESSEL


1900.]                 on Some Modern Explosives.                    339
and I have on the table the internal crusher gauge which was used,
aud which was also totally destroyed.
     The condition of this gauge is very remarkable, and the action
on the copper cylinder employed to measure the pressure was one
to which I have no parallel in the many thousand experiments I
have made with these gauges. The gauge itself is fractured in the
most extraordinary way, even in some places to which the gas had
no access ; and the copper cylinder, which when compressed usually
assumes a barrel-like form—that is, with the central diameter larger
than that at the ends as shown in the diagram, Fig. V.—in this ex
periment, and in this only, was bulged close to the piston as you
see. It would appear as if the blow was so suddenly given that the
laminae of the metal next the piston endeavoured to escape in the
direction of least resistance, that being easier than to overcome the
inertia of the laminae below.
     The erosive effect of the new explosives is another point of first
rate importance in an artillery point of view. The cordite of the
service is not, if the effect be estimated in relation to the energy
impressed on the projectiles, more erosive than, for example, brown
prismatic, which was itself a very erosive powder ; but as we are
able to obtain, as you have seen, very much higher energies with
cordite than with brown prismatic, the erosion of the former is, for
a given number of rounds, materially higher.
     There is, however, one striking difference. By the kindness of
Colonel Bainbridge, the Chief Superintendent of Ordnance Factorios,
I am enabled to show you a section of the barrel of a large gun
eroded by 137 rounds of gunpowder. Beside it is a barrel of a
4 ' 7-inch quick-firing gun eroded by 1087 rounds of gunpowder and
another eroded by 1292 rounds of cordite. You will observe the
difference. In the former case the erosion much resembles a ploughed
field. In the latter the appearance is more as if the surface were
washed away by the flow of the highly heated gases.
     But take it in what way you please, the heavy erosion of the
guns of the service, if fired with the maximum charges, is a very
serious matter, as with the large guns, accuracy, and in a smaller
degree energy, are rapidly lost after a comparatively small number
of rounds have been fired.
     Cordite was first produced for use in small arms only, where,
owing to the small charges employed, the question of erosion is not
of the same importance as with large guns, but its employment, from
the great results obtained with it, was rapidly extended to artillery ;
and the attention of my friends, Sir F. Abel and Professor Dewar,
has for some time been devoted, in conjunction with myself, to inves
tigating whether it is not possible materially to reduce this most
objectionable erosion.
     I had this
     With       object
           cordite of the
                       I made
                           samethe following prepared
                                dimensions             with varying pro
                                             series of experiments.
portions of nitro-glycerine and gun-cotton.         The nitro-glycerine

340                         Sir Andrew Nolle                  [March 23,
being successively in the proportions of 60, 50, 40, 30, 20 and
10 per cent., and with each of these cordites I determined the follow
ing points :
    1. The quantity of permanent gases generated.
    2. The amount of aqueous vapour formed.
    3. The heat generated by the explosion.
    4. The erosive effect of the gases.
    5. The ballistic energy developed in a gun and the correspond
ing maximum pressure.
    6. The capacity of the cordite to resist detonation when fired with
a strong charge of fulminate of mercury.
    The results of these experiments were both interesting and in
structive.
    To avoid wearying you with a crowd of figures, I have placed on
Fig. VI. the results of the first five series of experiments.
    On the axis of abscissa) are placed the percentages of nitro
glycerine, while the ordinates show the quantities of the gases
generated, the amount of heat developed, the erosive effect of this
explosive, the ballistic energy exhibited in a gun, and the maximum
gaseous pressure.
    You will note that with the smallest proportion of nitro-glycerine
the volume of permanent gases is a maximum, and that the volume
steadily decreases with the increase of nitro-glycerine. On the other
hand the heat generated as steadily increases with the nitro-glycerine,
and if we take the product of the quantity of heat and the quantity
of gas, as an approximate measure of the potential energy of the
explosive, the higher proportion of nitro-glycerine has an undoubted
advantage ; but in this case, as in the case of every other explosive
with which I have experimented, the potential energies differ less
than might be expected from the changes in transformation, as the
effect of a large quantity of gas is to a great extent compensated by a
great reduction in the quantity of heat generated.
    This effect is, of course, easily explained, and was very strikingly
exhibited in the much more complicated transformation experienced
by gunpowders of different compositions, a long series of which were
very fully investigated by Sir F. Abel and myself.
    Looking at this diagram you will have observed that the energy
developed in the gun is very much smaller with the smaller propor
tions of nitro-glycerine, but if you will look at the" corresponding
maximum-pressure curve you will note that the pressures have de
creased nearly in like proportion. Hence it is probable that the
lower effect is mainly due to a slower combustion of the cordite, and
it follows that this effect may be, to a great extent, remedied by
increasing the rate of combustion by reducing the diameter of the
cordite to correspond with the reduction in the quantity of nitro
glycerine.
    To test this point I caused to be manufactured a second series of
cordites of the same composition, but with the diameters successively

         Energy in Foot Tons
         Heat in Units
         Gas in C.C.
 § g § i §  §   i   s  8  §  i i i § | §
-1 1 - -  '      I   I 1  I  I I J I I L.




1900.]                  on Some Modern Explosives.                   341
reduced by ' 03, as you see with the samples I hold, and this diagram
(Fig. VII.) shows at a glance the result. The energies you seo are,
roughly, practically the same, but if you look at the pressure curve
you will observe that I have obtained a curve in which, on the
whole, the pressures vary in the contrary direction, that is to say, in
this case the pressures increase as the nitro-glycerine diminishes.
    Taking the two series into account, they show that by a proper
arrangement of amount of charge and diameter of cord, it would be
possible to obtain the same ballistics and approximately the same
pressure from any of the samples I have exhibited to you.
    But I have to draw your attention to another point. From the
curve showing the quantities of heat you will note that in passing
from 10 per cent, nitro-glycerine to 60 per cent., the heat generated
has increased by about 60 per cent. But if you examine the curve
indicating the corresponding amount of erosion, you will see that while
the quantity of heat is only greater by about 60 per cent., the erosion
is greater by nearly 500 per cent.
    These experiments entirely confirm the conclusion at which I
have previously arrived, viz. that heat is the principal factor in
determining the amount of erosion.
    In experimenting with a number of alloys of steel, the greatest
resistance was shown by an alloy of steel with a small proportion
of tungsten, but the difference between the whole of these alloys
amounted only to about 16 per cent.
    The whole of these cordites were, as I have mentioned, subjected
to detonation tests. None of them, so far as my experiments went,
exhibited any special tendency in this direction.
    I will now endeavour to describe to you a most interesting and
important series of experiments which, I regret to say, is still a long
way from completion.
    The objects of these experiments were (1) to ascertain tho time
required for the combustion of charges of cordite in which the cordite
was of different thicknesses, varying from 0 . 05 inch to 0-6 of an
inch ; (2) the rapidity with which the explosives part with their
heat to the vessel in which the charge is confined ; and (3) to ascer
tain, if possible, by direct measurement, the temperature of explosion
and to determine the relation between the pressure and temperature
at pressures approximating to those which exist in the bore of a gun,
and which are, of course, greatly above any which have yet been
determined.
    As regards tho first two objects I have named, I have had no
serious difficulties to contond with, but as regards the third, I have so
far had no satisfactory results, having boen unable to use Sir W.
Roberts- Austen's beautiful instrument owing to the temperature at the
moment of explosion being greatly too high, high enough indeed to
melt and volatilise the wires of the thermo junction.
    I am, however, endeavouring to make an arrangement by which

342                         Sir Andrew Noble                 [March 23,
I hope to be able to determine these points when the temperature is
so far reduced that the wires will no longer be fused.
     The apparatus I bave used for these experiments is placed on the
table. The cylinder in which the explosives were made is too heavy
to transport here, but this photograph will sufficiently explain the
arrangement. The charge I used is a little more than a kilogramme,
and it is fired in this cylinder in the usual manner.
     The tension of the gas acting on the piston compresses the spring
and indicates the pressure on the scale here shown. But to obtain
a permanent record the apparatus I have mentioned is employed.
     There is, you see, a drum made to rotate by means of a small
motor. Its rate of rotation is given by a chronometer acting on a
relay, and marking seconds on the drum, while the magnitude of the
pressure is registered by this pencil actuated by the pressure gauge
1 have just described.
     To obtain with sufficient accuracy the maximum pressure, and also
the time taken to gasify the oxplosive, two observations, that is two
explosions, are necessary.
     If the piston be left free to move the instant of the commence
ment of pressure, the outside limit of the time of complete explosion
will be indicated, but on account of the inertia of the moving parts
the pressure indicated will bo in excess of the true pressure, and the
excess will be, more or less, inversely as the time occupied by the ex
plosion.
     If we desire to know the true pressure, it is necessary to compress
the gauge beforehand to a point closely approximating to the expected
pressure, so that the inertia of the moving parts may be as small as
possible—the arrangement by which this is effected is uot shown on
the diagram, but the gauge is retained at the desired pressure by a
wedge-shaped stop, held in its place by the pressure of the spring,
and to the stop a heavy weight is attached ; when the pressure is
relieved by the explosion, the weight falls and leaves the spring free
to act.
     I have made a large number of experiments with this instrument,
both with a variety of explosives and with explosives fired under
different conditions. Time will not permit me to do more than to
show you on the screen three pairs of experiments to illustrate tho
 effect of exploding cordite of different dimensions, but of precisely
 the same composition.
     I shall commence with rifle cordite. In this diagram (Pig. VIII.)
 the axis of abscisss has the time in seconds marked upon it, while
the ordinates denote the pressures, and I draw your attention to the
great difference, in the initial stage, between the rod and the blue
curves. Yon will notice that the red curves show a maximum pres
sure some 4£ tons higher than that shown by the blue curve, but
this pressure is not real. It is due to the inertia of the moving
parts. The red and blue curves in a very small fraction of a second
come together and remain practically together for the rest of their









 1900.]                 on Some Modern Explosives.                     343
course. The whole of the charge is consumed in something less than
fifteen thousandths of a second.
     In the case of the blue curve the maximum pressure indicated is
obtained in the way I have described, and is approximately correct—
about nine tons per square inch. The rapidity with which this
considerable charge parts with its heat by communication to the
explosion vessel is very striking. In four seconds after the explosion
the pressure is reduced to about one-half, and in twelve seconds to
about one-quarter.
    l now show you (Fig. IX.) similar curves for cordite 0 . 35 inch in
diameter, or about fifty times the rifle cordite section. Here you seo
that the time taken to consume the charge is longer. The effect of
inertia is still very marked, although much reduced. The true maxi
mum pressure is a little over 8-5 tons, but after the first third of a
second the two curves run so close together that they are indistin
guishable.
     Again you see the pressure is reduced by one-half in four seconds,
and in a little more than twelve seconds again halved.
     The last pair of curves I shall show you (Fig. X.) was obtained
with cordite 0-6 inch in diameter, or nearly 150 times the section of
the rifle enrdite. With this cordite the combustion has been so slow
 that the effect of inertia almost disappears, it is reduced to about half
a ton per square inch ; the maximum being nearly the same as in the
last set of experiments. The time of combustion indicated I havo
called slow, but it is about -06 of a second, and the whole of the
experiments show a most remarkable regularity in their rate of cooling,
the pressures at the same distance of time from the explosion being
in all ca«es approximately the same, as indeed they ought to be, the
density being the same and the explosive the same, the only difference
being the time in which the decomposition is completed.
     It appears to me that, knowing from the experiments I have
described, tho volume of gas liberated, its composition, its density,
its pressure, the quantity of heat disengaged by the explosion, and
knowing all these points with very considerable accuracy, we should
be able, from the study of the curves to which I have drawn your
attention, and which can be obtained from different densities of gus,
to throw considerable light upon the kinetic theory of real, not ideal,
gases, at temperatures and pressures far removed from those which
have been tho subject of such careful and accurate research by many
distinguished physicists.
     The question, as I havo said, involves some very considerable
difficulties, nevertheless I am not without hope that tho experiments
I have been describing may, in some small degree, add to our know
ledge of the kinetic theory of gas.
    That wonderful theory faintly shadowed forth almost from the
commencement of philosophic thought, was first distinctly put for
ward by Daniel Bernoulli early in the last century. In the latter
half of the century now drawing to a close the labours of Joule,

 344                         Sir Andrew Noble                  [March 23,
 Clausing, Clerk Maxwell, Lord Kelvin, and others have placed the
 theory in a position analogous and equal to that held by the undula-
 tory theory of light.
     The kinetic theory has, however, for us artillerists a special charm,
 because it indicates that the velocity communicated to a projectile in
 the bore of a gun is due to the bombardment of that projectile by
 myriads of small projectiles moving at enormous speeds, and parting
 with the energy they possess by impact to the projectile.
     There are few minds which are not more or less affected by the
 infinitely great and the infinitely little.
     It was said that the telescope which revealed to us infinite space
 was balanced by the microscope which showed us the infinitely small ;
 but the labours of the men to whom I have referred have introduced
 us to magnitudes and weights infioitesimally smaller than anything
 that the microscope can show us, and to numbers which are infinite
 to our finite comprehension.
     Let me draw your attention
 the velocity impressed upon the projectile, and let me endeavour to
 describe the nature of the forces which acted upon it to give it its
 motion. I hold in my hand a cubic centimetre, a cube so small that I
 daresay it is hardly visible to those at a distance. Well, if this cube
 were filled with the gases produced by the explosion at 0° C. and
 atmospheric pressure, there would be something over seven trillions,
 that is, seven followed by eighteen cyphers, of molecules. Large as
 these numbers are, they occupy but a very small fraction of the con
 tents of the cubic centimetre, but yet their number is so great that
 they would, if placed in line touching one another, go round many
 times the circumference of tho earth, a pretty fair illustration of
Euclid's definition of a line.
     These molecules however are not at rest, but are moving, even at
the low temperature I have named, with great velocity, the molecules
of the different gases moving with different velocities dependent upon
their molecular weight. Thus, the hydrogen molecules, which have
the highest velocity, move with about 5500 foot-seconds mean velo
city, while the slowest, the carbonic anhydride molecules, have only
 1150 foot-seconds mean velocity, or about the speed of sound.
     But in the particular gun under discussion, when the charge was
exploded there were no less than 20,500 cubic oentimetres of gas,
and each centimetre at the density of explosion contained 580 times
the quantity of gas, that is, 580 times the number of molecules, that
I mentioned. Hence the total number of molecules in the exploded
charge is 8^ quadrillions, or let us say approximately for the total
number eight followed by twenty-four cyphers.
    It is difficult for the mind to appreciate what this immense num
ber means, but it may convey a good idea if I tell you that if a
man were to count continuously at the rate of three a second, it
would take him 265 billions of years to perform the task of counting
them.

1900.]                on Some Modern Explosives.                   345
   ' So much for the numbers ; now let me tell you of the velocities
with which, at the moment of explosion, the molecules were moving.
Taking first the high-velocity gas, the hydrogen, the molecules of
the gas would strike the projectile with a mean velocity of about
12,500 foot-seconds. You will observe I say mean velocity, and you
must note that the molecules move with very variable velocities.
Clerk Maxwell was the first to calculate the probable distribution of
tho velocities. A little more than one-half will have the mean
velocity or less, and about 98 per cent, will have 25,000 foot-seconds
or less. A very few, about one in 100 millions, might reach the
velocity of 50,000 foot-seconds.
     The mean energy of the molecules of different gases at the same
temperature being equal, it is easy from the data I have given to
calculate the mean velocity of the molecules of the slowest moving
gas, carbonic anhydride, which would be about 2600 foot-seconds.
     I have detained you, I fear, rather long over these figures, but I
have done so because I think they throw some light upon the extra
ordinary violence that some explosives exhibit when detonated. Take
for instance the lyddite shell, exploded by detonation, I showed you
earlier in the evening. I calculate that that charge was converted
into gas in less than the one 60,000th part of a second, and it is not
difficult to conceive the effect that these gases of very high density
suddenly generated, the molecules of which are moving with the
 velocities 1 have indicated, would have upon the fragments of the
 shell.
     The difference between the explosion of gunpowder fired in a close
vessel, and that of gun-cotton or lyddite when detonated, is very
striking. The former explosion is noiseless, or nearly so. The
 latter, even when placed in a- bag, gives rise to an exceedingly sharp
metallic ring, as if the vessel were struck a sharp blow with a steel
hammer.
     But I must conclude. I began my lecture by recalling some of
 the investigations I described in this place a great many years ago.
I fear I must conclude in much the same way as I then did, by
thanking you for the attention with which you have listened to a
 somewhat dry subject, and by rogretting that the heavy calls made
 on my time during the last few months have prevented my making
 the lecture more worthy of my subject and of my audience.
                                                             [A. N.]
      Vol. XVI.    (No. 94.)                                 2 a

   346                   Professor J. Arthur Thomson           [March 30,
                   WEEKLY          March 30, 1900.
                          Friday,EVENING       MEETING,
        Alfbed B. Kempe, Esq., M.A., Treas. R.S., Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                  Pbofessok J. Abthub Thomson, M.A.
                            Facts of Inheritance.
  One of the distinctive features of the nineteenth century has been a
  reduction in the number of supposed separate powers or entities—
  the use of William of Occam's razor, in fact. " Caloric " was one of
  the first to be eliminated, yielding to the modern interpretation of
  "heat as a mode of motion ; " " Light " had to follow, when the un-
  dulatory theory of its nature was accepted ; a specific " Vital Force "
  is disowned even by the Neo-vitalists ; " Force " itself has become a
  mere measure of motion ; and so on. In view of this progress
  towards greater precision of phraseology, it cannot be a matter for
 surprise that a biologist should affirm that to speak of the " Principle
 of Heredity " in organisms is like speaking of the " Principle of
  Horologity " in clocks. The sooner we get rid of such verbiage the
 better for clear thinking, since heredity is certainly no power or force,
 or principle, but a convenient term for the relation of organic or
 genetic continuity which binds generation to generation. Ancestors,
 grandparents, parents are real enough ; children and children's
 children are also very real ; heredity is a term for the relation of
 genetic continuity which binds them together. As for such a ques
 tion as this, " Is my grandfather's environment my heredity ? " it
 is an offence against Queen's English as much as against scientific
 phraseology ; it should probably read, " Have the structural changes
 induced by external stimulus on my grandfather's body had any
 effect on my inheritance ? "
      Another distinctive feature in scientific progress has been the
 introduction of precise measurement. It is hardly too much to say
 that in the development of natural knowledge, science begins where
measurement begins. And this is the case in regard to inheritance.
As long as we are content to say, " This child takes after his grand
father," " This pigeon shows a throw-back to its rock-dove ancestry,"
and so on, we may be making interesting remarks, but it is only
when we are able to give precise measurements of the amounts of
resemblance or difference that we make contributions of real import
ance to that department of life-lore which deals with inheritance.
Or, perhaps, instead of measurement, which may be taken in too

1900.]                  on Facts of Inheritance.                      347
narrow a sense, I should say that precision of observation and record
which admits of statistical, mathematical, or some other exact formu
lation. While nothing can take the place of experiment—which is
urgently needed for the further development of our knowledge of
heredity—much has been gained by the application of statistical and
mathematical methods to biological results—a new contact between
different disciplines—which we may particularly associate with the
names of Mr. Francis Galton and Mr. Earl Pearson.
               I. The Physical Basis op Inhebitance.
    What was for so long quite hidden from inquiring minds, or but
dimly discerned by a few, is now one of the most marvellous of
biological commonplaces—that the individual life of the great majority
of plants and animals begins in the union of two minute elements—
the sperm-cell and the egg-cell. These microscopic individualities
unite to form a new individuality, a potential offspring, which will
by and by become like to, and yet different from its parents. If we
mean by inheritance to include all that the living creature is or has
to start with in virtue of its genetic relation to its parents and
ancestors, then it is plain that the physical basis of inheritance is in
the fertilised ovum. As regards property, there is an obvious dis
tinction between the inheritance and the person who inherits, but
there is no such distinction in biology. The fertilised egg-cell m the
inheritance, and is at the same time the potential inheritor. What
might be compared to an inheritance of property as apart from the
organism itself is the store of food which may be inside the egg, or
round about it.
    An organic inheritance means so much, even when we use the
magic word potentiality, that although we are quite sure that the
germ-oells constitute the physical basis of inheritance, we may con
sider for a moment the difficulty which rises in the minds of many
when they remember that the egg-cell is often microscopic, and the
sperm-cell often only nyj^nroth of the ovum's size. Can there be
room, so to speak, in these minute elements for the complexity of
organisation supposed to be requisite? And the difficulty will be
increased if the current opinion be accepted that only the nuclei
within the germ-cells are the true bearers of the hereditary qualities.
Darwin spoke of the pinhead-like brain of the ant as the most
marvellous little piece of matter in the world, but must we not rank
as a greater marvel the microscopic germ-cells which contained
potentially all the inherited qualities of that ant, or of that man ?
    Nowhere more than in biology is one made to feel that a little
may go a long way. A microbic spore invisible even with a fairly
j;ood microscope may kill a man. From one microscopic egg of a
sea-urchin cut into three, Delage reared three larvae. In another
case he says that ho reared an embryo from a ^th fraction of an egg.
                                                            2 A 2

 348                   Professor J. Arthur Thomson           [March 30,
 We know of twin animals developed from one egg, but what shall
 we say of the quadruplets Wilson obtained by shaking apart the
 four-coll stage in the development of the lancelet, or of the " legion
 of embryos which Marcbal describes as developing from a single
 ovum of a peculiar Hymenopterous insect Encyrtus f In development,
 indeed, a half may be as good as a whole.
     In reference to the difficulty raised in some minds by the minute
 ness of the physical basis, it may be recalled that the students of
 physics, who make theories regarding the sizes of atoms and molecules,
 which they have invented, tell us that the image of a Great Eastern
 filled with framework as intricate as that of the daintiest watches
 does not exaggerate the possibilities of molecular complexity in a
 spermatozoon, whose actual size may be less than the smallest dot on
 the watch's face. Secondly, as we learn from embryology that one
 step conditions the next and that one structure grows out of another,
 we are not forced to stock the microscopic germ-cells with more than
 initiatives. Thirdly, we must remember that the development im
plies an interaction between the growing organism and a complex
environment without which the inheritance would remain unexpressed,
and that the full-grown organism includes much that was not inherited
at all, but has been acquired as the result of nurture or external
influence.
     The central problem of heredity is to form some conception of
what we have called the relation of genetic continuity between
successive generations ; the central problem of inheritance is to
measure the resemblances and differences in the hereditary characters
of successive generations, and to arrive, if possible, at some formula,
which will sum up the facts. It is inexpedient to lay on the shoulders
of the student of heredity the burden of problems, which are not in
any special sense his business. It is no doubt interesting to ask how
an organisation supposed to be very complex, may be imagined to find
physical basis in a microscopic germ-cell, but the same sort of question
may be raised in regard to a ganglion-cell. It is not distinctively a
problem of heredity. It is interesting to inquire into the orderly
and correlated succession of events by which the fertilised egg-cell
gives rise to an embryo, but this is the unsolved problem of physio
logical embryology. It raises questions distinct from those of heredity
and inheritance, and apparently much less soluble.
     In the preformationist theories, which held sway in the seven
teenth and eighteenth centuries—theories which asserted the pre-
existence of tho organism and all its parts, in miniature, within the
genu—there was a kerne] of truth well concealed within a thick
husk of error. For wo may still say, as the preformationists did,
that the futuro organism is implicit in the germ, and that the
germ contains not only tho rudiment of the adult organism, but the
potentiality of successive generations as well. But what baffled the
earlier investigators was the question how the germ-cell comes to
have this ready-made organisation, this marvellous potentiality.

1900.]                  on Facts of Inheritance.                       349
Discovering no natural way of accounting for this, the majority fell
back upon a hypothesis of hyperphysical agencies, that is to say, they
abandoned the scientific method and drew cheques upon that bank
where credit is unlimited as long as credulity endures.
    An attempt to solve the difficulty which confronted the preforma-
tionists—the difficulty of accounting for the complex organisation
presumed to exist in the germ-cell—is expressed in a theory which
seems to have occurred at intervals in the long period between
Democritus and Darwin, the theory of pangenesis. On this theory,
the cells of the body are supposed to give off characteristic and
representative gemmules : these are supposed to find their way to the
reproductive elements, which thus come to contain, as it were,
concentrated samples of the different components of the body, and
are therefore able to develop into an offspring like the parent. The
theory involves many hypotheses, and is avowedly unverifiable in
direct sense-experience, but the same might be said about many
other theories. It is perhaps more to the point to notice that there
is another theory of heredity which is, on the whole, simpler, which
seems, on the whole, to fit the facts better, especially the fact that our
experience does not warrant the conclusion that the modifications or
acquired characters of the body of the parent affect in any specific
and representative way the inheritance of the offspring.
    As is well known, the view which many, if not most biologists
now take of the nniqueness of the germ-cells is rather different from
that of pangenesis. It is expressed in the phrase " germinal con
tinuity," and has been independently suggested by several thinkers,
though Weismann has the credit of working it out into a theory.
Let me recall its purport. There is a sense, as Mr. Galton says, in
which the child is as old as the parent, for when the parent's body is
developing from the fertilised ovum, a residue of unaltered germinal
material is kept apart to form the future reproductive cells, one of
which may become the starting-point of a child. In many cases,
scattered through the animal kingdom, from worms to fishes, the
beginning of the lineage of germ-cells is demonstrable in very early
stages before the differentiation of the body-cells has more than
begun. In the development of the threadworm of the horse,
according to Boveri, the very first cleavage divides the fertilised
ovum into two cells, one of which is the ancestor of all the body-
cells, and the other the ancestor of all the germ-cells. In other
cases, particularly among plants, the segregation of germ-cells is
not demonstrable until a relatively late stage. Weismann, generalis
ing from cases where it seems to be visibly demonstrable, maintains
that in all cases the germinal material which starts an offspring,
owes its virtue to being materially continuous with the germinal
material from which the parent or parents arose. But it is not on a
continuous lineage of recognisable germ-cells that Weismann insists,
for this is often unrecognisable, but on the continuity of the germ-
plasm—that is of a specific substance of definite chemical and

350                        Professor J. Arthur Thomson         [March 30,
molecular structure which is the bearer of the hereditary qualities.
In development a part of the germ-plasm, *' contained in the parent
egg-cell, is not used up in the construction of the body of the off
spring, but is reserved unchanged for the formation of the germ-eell3
of the following generation." Thus the parent is rather the trustee
of the germ-plasm than the producer of the child. In a new setae,
 the child is a chip of the old block. Early segregation of tbe gonn-
cells is in many cases an observable fact—and doubtless the list of
 such cases will be added to—the conception of a germ-plasm is
 hypothetical, just as the conception of a specific living stun" or
 protoplasm is hypothetical. In the complex microcosm of the cell,
 we cannot point to any one stuff and say " this is protoplasm " ; it
 may well be that vital activity depends upon several complex staffs
 which, like the members of a carefully constituted firm, are charac
teristically powerful only in their inter-relations. In the same way.
it must be clearly understood that we cannot demonstrate the germ-
plasm, even if we may assume that it has its physical basis in the
 stainable nuclear bodies or chromosomes. The theory has to he
judged, like all conceptual formulas, by its adequacy in fitting facts.
     Let us suppose that the fertilised ovum has certain qualities,
 a, b, c,. . .x, y, z ; it divides and re-divides, and a body is built up ;
the cells of this body exhibit division of labour and differentiation,
losing their likeness to the ovum and to the first results of its cleavage.
 In some of the body-cells the qualities a, b find predominant expres
sion, in others the qualities y, z, and so on. But if, meanwhile, there
be certain germ-cells which do not differentiate, which retain the
qualities a, b, c,...x, y, z, unaltered, which keep up, as one mar
say figuratively, " the protoplasmic tradition," these will be in j
position by and by to develop into an organism like that which bears
them. Similar material to start with, similar conditions in which to
develop : therefore, like tends to beget like.
     May we think for a moment of a baker who has a very precioui
kind of leaven, and some less? precious material on which this may
 work ; he uses both in baking a large loaf; but he so arranges matters
by a clover contrivance that part of the original leaven is always
carried on unaltered, carefully preserved for the next baking. Nature
is the baker, the loaf is a body, the leaven is the germ-plasm, and each
baking is a generation.
                      II. Dual Natube of Inhebitance.
     Apart from exceptional cases, the inheritance of a multicellular
animal or plant is dual, part of it comes from the mother and part
of it from the father : the beginning of the new individuality is i
fertilised egg-cell. The exceptions referred to are cases of aserujl
multiplication by buds or otherwise, as in the freshwater Hydra;
cases of parthenogenesis, as in the case of the unfertilised eggs which

  1900.]                  on Facts of Inheritance.                     351
  develop into green fly in the summer ; and cases like liver-flukes,
  where an animal is both mother and father to its offspring. Apart
  from these exceptions the inheritance does at the start consist of
  maternal and paternal contributions in intimate and orderly union.
      Prof. E. B. Wilson states the general opinion of experts somewhat
 as follows :—As the ovum is much the larger, it is believed to furnish
 the initial capital—including it may be a legacy of food-yolk—for
 the early development of the embryo. From both parents alike comes
 the inherited organisation which has its seat (according to many) in
 the readily stainable (chromatin) rods of the nuclei. From the father
 comes a little body (the centrosome) which organises the machinery of
 division by which the egg splits up, and distributes the dual inherit
 ance equally between the daughter-cells.
     Recent discoveries have shown that the paternal and maternal
 contributions which come together in fertilisation, are for several
 divisions at least exactly divided among the daughter-cells, thus con
 firming a prophecy which Huxley made in 1878 : " It is conceivable,
 and indeed probable, that every part of the adult contains molecules
 derived both from the male and from the female parent ; and that,
 regarded as a mass of molecules, the entire organism may be compared
 to a web of which the warp is derived from the female and the woof
 from the male." " What has since been gained," Prof. Wilson says,
 " is the knowledge that this web is to be sought in the chromatic
 substance of the nuclei, and that the centrosome is the weaver at the
loom."
     In regard to these conclusions I wish to make three remarks, (a)
 Although inheritance is dual, it is in quite as real a sense multiple,
from ancestors through parents, as we shall afterwards see. (b) If
Loeb is able to induce artificial parthenogenesis in sea-urchins' eggs
exposed for a couple of hours to sea-water to which some magnesium
chloridelarvae
normal          from non-nucleated
           has been   added ; if Delage
                                    ovum-fragments
                                         is able to fertilise and toworm
                                                     of sea-urchin,  rear t
and mollusc, we should be chary of committing ourselves definitely to
the conclusion that the nuclei are the exclusive bearers of the heredi
tary qualities, or that both must be present in all cases. Further
more, the fact that an ovum without any sperm-nucleus, or an ovum-
fragment without any but a sperm-nucleus, can develop into a normal
larva points to the conclusion, probable also on other grounds, that
each germ-cell, whether ovum or spermatozoon, bears a complete
equipment of hereditary qualities, (c) It must be carefully observed
that our second fact does not imply that the dual nature of inheritance
must be patent in the full-grown offspring, for hereditary resemblance
is often strangely unilateral, the characters of one parent being " pre
potent " as we say, over those of another.

352                    Professor J. Arthur Thomson           [March 30,
       III. Diffebent Degbees of Hebeditaby Resemblance.
    Before the middle of the century considerable attention was paid
to what might be called the demonstration of the general fact of
inheritance. In a big treatise like that of Prosper Lucas (1847)
many hundreds of pages are devoted to proving what we now take, for
granted—that the present is the child of the past, that our start in
life is no haphazard affair, but is rigorously determined by our
parents and ancestors, that various peculiarities, normal and ab
normal, physical and mental, may re-appear generation after genera
tion, and so on. One step of progress during the Darwinian era has
been the recognition of inheritance as a fact of life which requires no
further proof.
    Yet this aspect of the study of heredity is by no means worked
out. Thus there are some characters, e.g. tendencies to certain
diseased conditions, which are more frequently transmitted than
others, and we ought to have, in each case, precise statistics as to the
probabilities of transmission.
     Again, there are some subtle qualities whose heritability must not
be assumed without evidenoe. Thus it is of very great importance
to students of organic evolution that Prof. Karl Pearson has recently
supplied, for certain cases, definite proof of the inheritance of fecun
dity, fertility and longevity.
     The familiar saying, " like begets like," should rather read, " like
tends to beget like," since variation is quite as important a fact as
complete hereditary resemblance. If it seems to us that in many
cases the offspring is practically a facsimile reproduction of the
parent, this may bo due to absence of variation, or, what comes
almost to the same thing, to great completeness of inheritance ; but
it is more likely to be due to our ignorance, to our inability to detect
the idiosyncrasies.
     But it will be granted by all that the completeness with which
the characters of race, genus, species and stock are reproduced gene
ration after generation, is one of the large facts of inheritance. It is
obvious, however, that this does not sum up our experience, and we
must face the task of considering what may be called the different
degrees of hereditary resemblance. For these a confused classification
and a troublesome terminology have been suggested, to discuss which
would be most unprofitable in the limits of a short lecture.
     I therefore propose to restrict attention to three familiar cases,
which are called blended, exclusive, and particulate inheritance, and
then to say a few words in regard to the phenomena known as
 regression, reversion and atavism.
     A preliminary consideration must be attended to. It is a matter
of observation that there are great differences in the degree in which
offspring resemble their parents ; but it is surely a matter of conjec
ture that laok of resemblance is necessarily due to incompleteness

1900.]                  on Facta of Inheritance.                      353
in the inheritance. Indeed, the fact that the resemblance so often
re-appears in the third generation, makes it probable that the in
completeness is not in the inheritance, but simply in its expression.
The characters which seem to be absent, to "skip a generation,"
as we say, are probably part of the inheritance, as usual. But they
remain latent, neutralised, silenced (we can only use metaphors) by
other characters, or else unexpressed because of the absence of the
appropriate stimulus.
    We can imagine the son of a lavish millionaire reacting to plain
living; we can imagine the superficial supposition that the money
had been lost ; and we can imagine the complete contradiction of
this inference in the third generation.
    (a) In blended inheritance, the characters of the two parents, e.g.
in regard to a particular structure, such as the colour of the hair, may
be intimately combined in the offspring. This is particularly well
seen in some hybrids, where the offspring seems like the mean of the
two parents ; it is probably the most frequent mode of inheritance.
    (6) In exclusive inheritance, the expression of maternal or of
paternal characters in relation to a given structure, such as eye-colour,
is suppressed. Sometimes the unilateral resemblance is very pro
nounced, and we say that the boy is " the very image of his father," or
the daughter " her mother over again " ; though even more frequently
the resemblance seems " crossed," the son taking after the mother,
and the daughter after the father. Our emphasis on the distinction
between inheritance and the expression of inheritance is surely
warranted by cases on record where the young boy rosembled the
mother and the girl the father; but when they came of age, the
likeness was reversed, i.e. formerly obscure resemblances became
dominant.
    (c) It seems convenient to have a third category for cases where
there is neither blending nor exclusiveness, but where in the ex
pression of a given character, part is wholly paternal and part wholly
maternal. This is called particulate inheritance. Thus, an English
sheep-dog may have a paternal eye on one side, and a maternal eye
on the other. Suppose the parents of a foal to be markedly light
and dark in colour ; if the foal is light brown the inheritance in that
respect is blended, if light or dark it is exclusive, if piebald it is
particulate. In the last case there is in the same character an ex
clusive inheritance from both parents.
    The numerous experiments on hybridisation made by botanists,
zoologists, and more practical people, have led us to expect one of
three results when a crossing has a successful issue. (1) The hybrid
may be intermediate between its parents, sometimes so exactly that
we may liken the blending, not merely to warp and woof, but to a
mingling of two colours ; (2) the hybrid may show an exaggeration
of the characters of one parent, often with little apparent realisation
of the peculiarities of the other. These correspond to blended and
exclusive inheritance in ordinary cases of mating within the same

354                    Professor J. Arthur Thomson           [March 30,
 breed. But (3) the hybrid may also be very different from either
 parent, showing features which appear to be quite novel, or which on
 close investigation are seen to be interpretable as the reassertion of
 the characters of a remoter ancestor. In short, it may show either a
 new variation or a reversion. The extraordinary fact is that at least
 two of these different results may be illustrated in one brood or litter
of hybrids.
     The facts above referred to may be considered in another aspect,
 in terms of what is called the quality of prepotency, with which
breeders have been for a long time familiar. The term refers to the
 fact that in the development of a character the paternal or the
 maternal qualities may predominate, as in unequal blending where
 there is relative prepotency, or in exclusive inheritance where the
prepotency in respect to a given character is absolute. It seems
doubtful whether we gain much by using the word, since all these
general terms are apt to form the dust particles of intellectual fog,
but what we havo to do with is the fact that in respect to certain
characters the paternal inheritance seems more potent than the
maternal, or vice versa. Thus in man the father is usually prepotent
in the matter of stature, and breeders give many instances where
certain, even trivial, characters of sire or dam reappear persistently
in the offspring irrespective of the nature of the other parent.
     It seems that one of the ways in which the quality of pre
potency may be developed is by inbreeding, as Prof. Ewart and
others have maintained. " Some breeders say that they can produce
a horse so prepotent, so fixed by interbreeding (inbreeding) that it
will produce its like however mated " ; and there is much evidence
to show that, of two parents, the more inbred—up to a certain limit
of stability —is likely to have the greater influence on the offspring.
     As inbreeding may be frequent in nature, especially among
gregarious and isolated groups, and as it tends to develop prepotency,
wo are able to understand better how new variations may have been
fixed in the course of evolution. And we can better understand the
position maintained by Reibmayr, that the evolution of a human raoo
implies alternating periods of dominant inbreeding, and dominant
cross-breeding. The inbreeding gives fixity to character, the cross
breeding averts degeneracy and stimulates new variations which form
the raw material of progress. The Jews, especially in isolated
colonies, may serve to illustrate persistent inbreeding, which we may
contrast with the complex cross-breeding at present conspicuous in
America.
     Until we have more precise statistical data in regard to blended,
exclusive, and particulate inheritance, we cannot hope to simplify tho
matter with any security. But perhaps a unified view will be found
in the theoretical conception of a germinal struggle in the arcana of
the fertilised ovum—a struggle in which the maternal and paternal
contributions may blend and harmonise, or may neutralise one
another, or in which one may conquer the other, or in which both

1900.]                   on Facts of Inheritance.                       355
may persist without combining. We have extended the wide con
ception of the struggle for existence in many directions ; it may be
between organisms akin or not akin, between plants and animals,
between organisms and their inanimate environment, between the
sexes, between the different parts of the body, between the ova,
between the spermatozoa, between the ova and the spermatozoa, and
Weismann has suggested that it may also be between the constituents
of the germ-plasm.
                              IV. Regbession.
    We have already referred to the fact which stares us in the face
that there is a sensible stability of type from generation to genera
tion. " The large," Mr. Galton says, " do not always beget the
large, nor the small the small ; but yet the observed proportion
between the large and the small, in each degree of size and in every
quality, hardly varies from one generation to another." In other
words, there is a tendency to keep up a specifio average. This may
be partly due to the action of natural elimination, weeding out
abnormalities, often before they are born. But it is to be primarily
accounted for by what Mr. Galton calls the fact of " filial regres
sion." Let me take an instance from Mr. Pearson's ' Grammar of
Science.' Take fathers, of stature 72 inches, the mean height of their
sons is 70 ' 8, we have a regression towards the mean of the general
population. On the other hand, fathers with a mean height of
66 inches give a group of sons of mean height 68 . 3 inches, again
nearer the mean. "The fathor with a great excess of the character
contributes sons with an excess, but a less excess of it ; the father
with a great defect of the character contributes sons with a defect ;
but less of it."
    As Mr. Galton puts it, society moves as a vast fraternity. The
sustaining of the specific averago is certainly not due to each indi
vidual leaving his like behind him, for we all know that this is not
the case. It is due to a regression which tends to bring the offspring
of extraordinary parents nearer tho average of the stock. In other
    Thischildren
words,            tend to
          big average  factdiffer
                             is toless
                                   be from
                                       accounted in terms
                                            mediocrity         thatparents.
                                                       thanoftheir  genetic
continuity which makes an inheritance not dual, but multiple. " A
man," says Mr. Pearson, " is not only the product of his father, but
of all his past ancestry, and unless very careful selection has taken
place, the mean of that ancestry is probably not far from that of the
general population. In the tenth generation a man has [theoretically]
1024 tenth great-grandparents. He is eventually the product of a
population of this size, and their mean can hardly differ from that
of the general papulation. It is the heavy weight of this mediocre
ancestry which' causes the son of an exceptional father to regress
towards the general population mean ; it is the balance of this sturdy

356                        Professor J. Arthur Thomson                 [March 30,
commonplaceness which enables the son of a degenerate father to
escape the whole burden of the parental ill."
     At this point one should discuss reversion or atavism, but it is
exceedingly difficult to get a firm basis of fact. I use the term re
version to include cases where through inheritance there re-appears
in an individual some character which was not expressed in his
parents, but which did occur in an ancestor. I say advisedly " through
inheritance," in order to exclude those cases where the re-appearance
of the character can be accounted for in some other way. The term
thus defined is a very wide one, and not very fortunate, but it is
difficult to get rid of. I use it to refer to abnormal as well as normal
characters, even to include the re-appearance of characters, the normal
occurrence of which is outside of the limits of the race altogether,
i.e. in some phyletically older race. In other words, the character
whose re-appearance is called a reversion may be found within the
verifiable family, within the breed, within the species, or even in a
presumed ancestral species.*
     The best illustrations of reversion are furnished by hybrids.
Thus in one of Prof. Cossar Ewart's experiments a pure white
fantail cock pigeon, of old-established breed, which in colour had
proved itself prepotent over a blue pouter, was mated with a cross
previously made between an owl and an archangel, which was far
more of an owl than an archangel. The result was a couple of
fantail-owl-archangel crosses, one resembling the Shetland rock-
pigeon, and the other the blue rock of India. Not only in colour,
but in shape, attitude and movements there was an almost complete
reversion to the form which is believed to be ancestral to all the
domestio pigeons. The only marked difference was a slight arching
of the tail. Similar results were got with fowls and rabbits.
     But great carefulness is necessary in arguing from the results of
hybridisation, to those of ordinary mating, and even if some of the
phenomena of exclusive inheritance seem to show reversion to a near
ancestor we need a broader basis of fact than we have at present
before we can formulate any law. It is impossible to read the
recorded cases without becoming convinced that many phenomena
are labelled reversions on the flimsiest evidence. Thus the occur
rence of a Cyclopean human monster with a median eye has been
called a reversion to the sea-squirt, and gout has been called a
reversion to the reptilian condition of liver and kidneys. Often
    * Professor Karl Pearson defines a reversion as " the full reappearance in an
individual of a character which is recorded to have occurred in a definite ancestor
of the same race," and atavism as " a return of an individual to a character not
typical of the race at all, but found in allied races supposed to be related to the
evolutionary ancestry of the given race." " In reversion we are considering a
variation, normal or abnormal, from the standpoint of heredity in the individual ;
in atavism we are considering an abnormal variation from the standpoint of the
ancestry of the race." But as the two words seem to be used by some authors in
the converse way, or as equivalent, and as it is surely difficult to define the field
of abnormal variation, I have adhered to the wider usage.

1900.]                     on Facts of Inheritance.                       357
there is not the slightest attempt to discriminate between true
reversion (i.e. the re-expression of latent ancestral characters) and
the phenomena of arrested development, or of abnormalities which
 have been induced from without. Often, too, there has been no
scruple in naming or inventing the ancestor to whom the reversion is
and the vicious
supposed            circle
            to occur,   although
                            is not evidence
                                    unknownofofthearguing    to is
                                                      pedigree      supposed;
                                                                theawanting
ancestor from the supposed reversion, and then justifying the term
reversion from its resemblance to the supposed ancestor. Little
allowance has been made for coincidence, and the postulate of
characters remaining latent for millions of years is made as glibly as
        do not
if itI were      as oonceivable
            justsee  any way outasofa the
                                        throw-back
                                             theory that  great-grandfather.
                                                     to a characters  may lie
latent for a generation or for generations, or in other words that
certain potentiabilities or initiatives which form part of the heritage
may remain unexpressed for lack of the appropriate liberating
stimulus, or for other reasons, or may have their normal expression
disguised. The drone bee has a mother, the queen, but no father,
for the eggs which develop into drones are not fertilised, yet his
structure differs from that of the queen in other points besides those
immediately related with sex, and he may in his turn be the father
of future queens and workers. At the same time it does not follow
that the re-appearance of an ancestral character not soen in the
parents is necessarily due to the re-assertion of latent elements in
the inheritance. It may be a case of ordinary regression ; it may be
a case of arrested development ; it may be an extreme variation
 whose
 it       be an individually
    may resemblance      to an ancestral
                                  acquired characteristic
                                            modification, is  a coincidence;
                                                           reproduced   apart
from inheritance, by a recurrence of suitable external conditions, and
 so on. In short, what are called reversions are probably in many
cases misinterpretations.
                               V. GAlton's Law.
     The most important general conclusion which has yet been
reached in regard to inheritance is formulated in Galton's Law. Mr.
Galton was led to it by his studies on the inheritance of human
qualities, and more particularly by a series of studies on Basset hounds.
It is one of those general conclusions which have been reached
statistically, and I must refer for the evidence and also for its
strictest formulation to the revised edition of Mr. Pearson's ' Grammar
of Science.'
     As we have seen, it is useful to speak of a heritage as dual, half
derived from the father and half from the mother. But the heritable
material handed on from each parent was also dual, being derived
from the grandparents. And so on, backwards. We thus reach the
      that a heritage
ideaThough              is not with
              a comparison      merely
                                    the dual,
                                         inheritance
                                              but in aof property
                                                       deeper       multiple.
                                                              sensecannot  be

358                     Professor J. Arthur Thomson         [March 30.
exact, we may fancy a youth inheriting an estate, in regard to which
it might be said that half of it had belonged to his father, and half
of it to his mother, yet one with a full knowledge of the family
history and the gradual acquisition of the property, might be able to
make the story of the heritage much more interesting by showing how
this meadow was due to a grandmother and that forest to a great
grandfather.
     To appreciate the possible complexity of our mosaic inheritance
we must recall the number of our ancestors. We have two parents,
four grandparents, eight great-grandparents, about sixteen great-great-
grandparents, and so on. " If," as Prof. Milnes Marshall said, " we
allow three generations to a century, ihere will have been twenty-five
since the Norman Invasion, and a man may be descended not merely
from one ancestor who came over in 1066, but directly and equally
from over sixteen million ancestors who lived at or about that date."
But on these, theoretical lines the existence of one man to-day would
involve the existence of nearly seventy thousand millions of millions
of ancestors at the commencement of the Christian era. Which is
absurd, for it overlooks the frequent occurrence of close inter
marriage, of cousins for instance.
     The problem of reduction in the number of ancestors has been
very carefully discussed by genealogists like Prof. Lorenz and Dr. F.
T. Richter, but we should soon lose ourselves in the discussion. We
must be content to take one example. Theoretically, Kaiser Wilhelm
II. might have had in the direct line the number of ancestors indicated
in the upper row of the following scheme ; the second row indicates
the number actually known, on to the twelfth generation ; the third
row gives the number of those possible ancestors of whose existence
there is deficient record ; and the fourth row gives the probable total.
  Generations. I. II. III. IV. V. VI. VII.    VIII. ix. x. xi. xn.
(1) Theoreti. \2i 8 16 32 64 128               256 512 1024 2048 4096
  cal Number /
(2) Actual 1
       number > 2 4 8 14 24 44           74    111  162 206   225   275
       known )
(3) Inadequately known                           5   15  50   117   258
(4) Probable total                          .  116  177 256   342    533
     According to Galton's law, " the two parents between them con
tribute on the average one-half of each inherited faculty, each of
them contributing one-quarter of it. The four grandparents contri
bute between them one-quarter, or each of them one-sixteenth ; and
so on, the sum of the series, £ + i + i + rV+ etc-> Deing equal to
1, as it should be. It is a property of this infinite series that each
term is equal to the sum of all those that follow : thus £ = i + i 4-
-jlg + etc. ; i = i + r6 + etc-> ane* s0 on- The prepotencies or
subpotencies of particular ancestors, in any given pedigree, are
eliminated by a law that deals only with average contributions, and

   1900.]                    on Facts of Inheritance.                        359
  the varying prepotencies of sex in respect to different qualities are
  also presumably eliminated."
      This law of ancestral inheritance, which states that each parent
  contributes on an average one-quarter, each grandparent one-sixteenth
  and so on, rests on researches on human stature, etc., and on colour
  in Basset hounds, but Prof. Earl Pearson trusts it even more because
  of its success in predicting results. He is very enthusiastic on the
  subject, and finishes a paper on Galton's law with the following
  words : " It is highly probable that it is the simple descriptive
  statement which brings into a simple focus all the complex lines of
  hereditary influence. If Darwinian evolution be natural selection
  combined with heredity, then the single statement which embraces
  the whole field of heredity must prove almost as epoch-making to
  the biologist as the law of gravitation to the astronomer." *
      The aim of this lecture has been to present in brief compass a
  statement of the leading facts of inheritance, which should be clear
  in the minds of all. I have said nothing in regard to the transmissi-
  bility of acquired characters, for this cannot be ranked at present as
  an established fact, and I have left some other doubtful points un-
  mentioned. Allow me in conclusion to make this simple remark.
  The study of inheritance leaves a fatalistic—almost paralysing—
  impression on many minds, especially perhaps if it be believed that
  the acquired results of experience and education—of " nurture," in
  short, cannot be entailed upon the offspring. To some extent this,
 fatalistic impression is justified, but it is well that it should rest upon
  a sound basis of fact and not on exaggerations. In a sense we can
 never get away from our inheritance. As Heine said half bitterly,
"half laughingly, " A man should be very careful in the selection of his
 parents." On the other hand, although the human organism changes
 slowly in its heritable organisation, it is very modifiable individu
 ally, and " nature " can be bettered by " nurture." If there is little
 scientific warrant for our being other than sceptical at present as to
 the inheritance of acquired characters, this scepticism lends greater
 importance than ever, on the one hand, to a good " nature " to secure
 which for offspring is part of the problem of careful mating ; and, on
 the other hand, to a good " nurture " to secure which for our children
 and children's children is one of tho most obvious of duties, the hope
 fulness of the task resting upon the fact that, unlike the beasts that
 perish, man has a lasting external heritage, capable of endless modi
 fication for the better.
                                                                  [J. A. T.]
     * Reference should, however, be mado to Mr. Pearson's recent paper (P. Roy.
 Soc. lxvi., 1900, pp. HO-161) on The Law of Reversion.

360                        General Monthly Meeting.                      [April 2,
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, April 2, 1900.
  Sib .Tames Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer and
                        Vice-President, in the Chair.
                  Richard Tetley Glazebrook, Esq. F.R.S.
                  Edward J. Humphrey, Esq.
                  Hiram Stevens Maxim, Esq.
                  Saxton W. Armstrong iioble, Esq.
                  William F. Snell, Esq. B.A.
                  William John Tennant,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Chairman announced that the Managers had this day awarded
the Actonian Prize of One Hundred Guineas to Sir William Huggins,
K.C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S. and Lady Huggins for their work, ' An Atlas
of Representative Stellar Spectra.'
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Mrs. West
and Mrs. F. Colenso, for their present of a portrait of their father,
the late Sir Edward Frankland, K.C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S., Professor of
Chemistry at the Royal Institution from 1863 to 1868.
     The Pbesbntb received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FBOM
The Lord* of (he Admiralty—The Nautical Almanac for 1903. 8vo.
The Meteorological Office—Hourly Means for 189t>. 4to. 1899.
   Meteorological Observations at Stations of tbe Second Order for 1896. 4to
     1899.
Accademia dei Lineei, Reale, Boma—Classe di Scienze Fisicbe, Matematiche e
     Naturali. Atti, Serie Quinta: Bendiconti. 1° Semestre, Vol. IX. Fasc. 4, 5.
     Classe di Scienze Morali, Storiche, etc. Vol. VIII. Fasc. 11, 12. 8vo. 1899-
     1900. Academy of Arts and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XXXV. Nos. 8, 9
American
     8vo. Geographical
American    1899.       Society—Bulletin, Vol. XXXII. No. 1. 8vo. 1900.
Atiatie Society of Bengal—Proceedings, 1899, Nos. 8-11 ; 1900, No. 1. 8vo
  Journal, Vol. LXVIII. Part 2, Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1899-1900.
Associationfor the Advancement of Medicine by Besearch—Experiments on Animals.
     By S. Paget. 8vo. 1900.
Agronomical Society, Boyal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LX. Nos. 4, 5. 8vo. 1899
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XXI. Part 3. 8vo. 1900.
Boston Public Library—Monthly Bulletin, Vol. V. No. 3. 8vo. 1900.
Boiton Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Vol. IV. No. 6. 8vo. 1899.

1900.]                             General Monthly Meeting.                                361
British Architect*, Royal Institute of—Journal, 3rd Series, Vol. VII. No. 9. 4to.
     1900.
British Astronomical Association—Journal, Vol. X. No. 5. 8vo. 1900.
California, University of—The International Competition for the Phoebe Hearst
     Architectural Plan for the University of California. 4to. 1899.
Camera Club—Journal for March, 1900. 8vo.
Canada. Geological Survey of—Contributions to Canadian Paltnontology, Vol. IV.
     Part 1. 8vo. 1899.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XIX. No. 2. 8vo. 1900.
Chemical Society—Proceedings, Nos. 220, 221. 8vo. 1900.
  Journal for March, 1900. 8vo.
Cracovie, VAcademie des Sciences—Bulletin International, 1900, No. 1. 8vo.
Duckeit, Sir O. F. Bart.—Conscription and Voluntary Enlistment, 1900. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for March, 1900. 8vo.
  Analyst for March, 1900. 8vo.
  Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for March, 1900. 8ro.
  Chemist
  Chemical
  Appointments
  Athenaeum
  Brewers'
  Bimetallist
   Author for Journal
              News
             and March,
                 forDruggist
                     Gazette
                      March,
                       forforMarch,
                                March,
                            1900. 1900.
                                  for  March,
                                        8vo.
                                          1900.
                                             1900.
                                               8vo.1900.
                                               4to.     8vo. 8vo.
                                                     4to.
               Review forforMarch,
  Electrical Engineer              March,1900.  1900. 8vo. fol.
  Electrioity for March, 1900. 8vo.
  Invention
  Industries
  Homoeopathic
  Engineering
  Engineer for
  Horological  and
               for for
                  Journal
                   March,
                    March,
                     Review
                      Iron
                        March, for
                              for
                                1900.
                                1900.
                                  for
                                   March,
                                    March,
                                    1900.
                                      March,     fol.
                                                 1900.
                                                    1900.fol.
                                            fol.1900.       8vo.8vo.
                the British
  Journal of State      Medicine  Dental       Association
                                         for March,                  March, 1900. 8vo.
                                                          1900.for 8vo.
  Law
  London
   Lightning
        Journal
  Machinery     for
            Technical
                Market
                    for
                     March,
                        March,
                            for 1900.
                                 March,
                           Education 1900.8vo. 1900.
                                                  8vo. 8vo.
                                              Gazette     for March, 1900.
   Nature
  New      for March,
        Church             1900.for4to.
                    Magazine              March, 1900. 8vo.
   Public
   Photographio
   Popular
   Physical
   ScienceHealth
            Abstracts,
            Sittings
             Science
             Review   Engineer
                        for
                        Monthly
                     NewsforVol.
                              March,
                              for
                               March,
                                   Maroh,
                                   III.    Part
                                            March,
                                            1900.
                                     forfor1900.
                                              March,
                                                 1900.
                                                   3. 8vo.
                                                       8vo.
                                                       1900.
                                                         8vo.
                                                         1900.    8vo.
                                                           8vo. 1900.
   Telephone
   Travel       Magazine
           for March,      1900.      8vo. 1900.
                                for Feb.
  Tropical Agriculturist for Feb. and March 1900. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for March, 1900. 4to.
Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, Vol. XXIX. No. 143. 8vo. 1900.
Florence, Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale—Bollettino, No. 341. 8vo. 1900.
Franklin Institute—Journal for March, 1900. 8vo.
Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for March, 1900. 8vo.
Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for March, 1900.
Johns Hopkins University—American Journal of Philology, Vol. XX. Part 4.
     8vo. 1899.
   American     Chemical Journal for March, 1900. 8vo.
Leighton, John, Esq. M.R.I.—Journal of the Ex-Libris Society for March, 1900. 4to.
     Vol. XVI. (No. 91.)                                                               2 b

 362                             General Monthly Meeting.              •         [April 2,
 Mechanical Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings, 1899, No. 4. 8vo.
 Navy League—Navy League Journal for March, 1900. 8vo.
 North of England Institute of Mining awl Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
       Vol. XL VIII. Parts 5, 6; Vol. XLIX. Parts 1, 2. 8vo. 1899.
    Annual Report.
 Odontological            8vo. 1899. - Vol. XXXII. Nos. 4, 5. 8vo. 1900.
                   Society—Transactions,
 Paris, Hociiit Framaise de 1'hysique—Seances, 1899, i'asc. 3. 8vo.
    Bulletin, No. 144. 8vo. 1900.
 Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for March, 1900. 8vo.
 Phene', Dr. J. S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Old Loudon in pre-Roman Times. 8vo.
       1890.
   On some Early Settlers near Conway. 8vo. 1 897.
 Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
 Queensland, The Agent-Generalfor—The Garden of Queensland. By G. E. Evans.
      8vo. 1899.
   Pamphlets relatina to Queensland.
Rome, Ministry of Public Works—Giornale del Genio Civile, 1899, Fasc. 12. 8vo.
      1899.
Royal College of Physicians—List. 8vo. 1900.
   Philosophical
Royal                 London—YearVol.
         Society of Transactions,          CXCIV.
                                       Book,             Nos. 253, 254. 4to. 1899.
                                              1900. A,8vo.
   Proceedings, Nos. 425, 428. 8vo. 1900.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—
   Mathematisch-Physische Classe—
      Ahhandlungen, Band XXVI. No. 1. 8vo. 1900.
Scottish Microscopical Society—Proceedings, Vol. II. No. 4. 8vo. 1898-99.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes for March, 1900. 8vo.
Smithsonian Inst tution—Report of U.S. National Museum, Part 1. 8vo. 1899.
Society of Arts—Journal for March, 1900. 8vo.
Tacchini, Prof. P. Hon. Mem. R.I. (the Author)—Memorie della Societa degli
      Spettroscopisti Italiani, Vol. XXVIII. Disp. 12a. 4to. 1899.
Thurston. R. H. Esq. (the Author)—Evolution of Technical Education. 8vo. 1900.
 Tommasina, M. T. Esq. (the Author)—Sur la cristallisation métallique par trans
      port electrique de certains métaux dans l'eau distillee. 8vo. 1899.
          ServiceDepartment
United Statu                        Agriculture—Experiment
                    Institution,ofRoyal—Journal                  Station8vo.
                                                    for March, 1900.      Record, Vol. XI.
      Nos. 5-7. 8vo. 1899-1900.
   Monthly
United    States"Weather
                  Geological
                          Review
                              Survey—^ineteeuth       4to.
                                    for Dec. 1899. Annual      Report, Part 2. 4 to. 1899.
   Twentieth
 United           Patent Office—Official
          States Annual                        2 vols. Vol.
                           Report, Part 6. Gazette,               Nos. 8-12. 8vo. 1900.
                                                         4to.XC.1899.
 Verein zur Beforderung des Gewertifleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1900,
      HeftGeological
 Vienna,     2. 8vo. Institute, Imperial—Verhandlung' n, 1900, Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
 Washington Academy of Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. II. pp. 1-30. bvo. 1900.
 Washington National Academy of Sciences—Memoirs, Vol. VIII. No. 4. 4to.
      1899.
 Wright, Messrs. J. A Co. (the Publishers)—The Medical Annual for 1900. 8vo.
 Yorkshire Philosophical Society—Annual Report for 1899. bvo.

 1900.]        On the Dynamical Theory of Heal and Light.             363
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, April 27, 1900.
       Sib Fbbdebiok Bbamwell, Babt., D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.8.,
                       Vice-President, in the Chair.
           The Right Hon. Lobd Kelvin, G.C.V.O. D.C.L.
                           LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
       Nineteenth Century Clouds over the Dynamical Theory of
                             Heat and Light.
 [In the present article, the substance of the lecture is reproduced—
 with large additions, in which work commenced at the beginning of
last year and continued after the lecture, during thirteen months up
to the present time, is described—with results confirming the con
clusions and largely extending the illustrations which were given in
the lecture. I desire to take this opportunity of expressing my
obligations to Mr. William Anderson, my secretary and assistant, for
the mathematical tact and skill, the accuracy of geometrical drawing,
and the unfailingly faithful perseverance in the long-continued and
varied series of drawings and algebraic and arithmetical calculations,
explained in the following pages. The whole of this work, involving
the determination of results due to more than five thousand individual
impacts, has been performed by Mr. Anderson.—K., Feb. 2, 1901.]
    SI. The beauty and clearness of the dynamicnl theory, which
asserts heat and light to be modes of motion, is at present obscured
by two clouds. I. The first came into existence with the undulatory
theory of light, and was dealt with by Fresnel and Dr. Thomas Young ;
it involved the question, How could the earth move through an elastic
solid, such as essentially is the luminiferous ether ? II. The second
is the Maxwell-Boltzmann doctrine regarding the partition of energy.
    § 2. Cloud I.—Relative Motion ot Etheb and Pondebable
Bodies ; such as movable bodies at the earth's surface, stones, metals,
liquids, gases ; the atmosphere surrounding the earth ; the earth itself
as a whole ; meteorites, the moon, the sun, and other celestial bodies.
We might imagine the question satisfactorily answered, by supposing
ether to have practically perfect elasticity for the exceedingly rapid
vibrations, with exceedingly small extent of distortion, which constitute
light ; while it behaves almost like a fluid of very small viscosity,
and yields with exceedingly snail resistance, practically no resistance,
to bodies moving through it as slowly as even the most rapid of the
heavenly bodies. There are, however, many very serious objections
                                                            2 b 2

 364                               Lord Kelvin                        [April 27,
 to this supposition ; among them one which has been most noticed,
 though perhaps not really the most serious, that it seems incompatible
 with the known phenomena of the aberration of light. Referring to it,
 Fresnel, in his celebrated letter * to Arago, wrote as follows :
     "Mais il parait impossible d'expliquer l'aberration des etoiles
 " dans cette hypothese ; je n'ai pu jusqu'a present du moins concevoir
 " nettoment ce phenomene qu'en supposant que l'ether passe librement
 " au travers du globe, et que la vitesse communiquee a ce fluide subtil
 " n'est qu'une petite partie de celle de la terre ; n'en excede pas le
 " centieme, par exemple.
     " Quelque extraordinaire que paraisse cette hypothese au premier
 " abord, elle n'est point en contradiction, ce me semble, avec l'idee
 " que lea plus grands physiciens se sont faite de l'extreme porosite dos
 " corps."
     The same hypothesis was given by Thomas Young, in hig cele
 brated statement that ether passes through among the molecules or
 atoms of material bodies like wind blowing through a grove of
 trees. It is clear that neither Fresnel nor Young had the idea that
 the ether of their undulatory theory of light, with its transverse
 vibrations, is essentially an elastic solid, that is to say, matter which
resists change of shape with permanent or sub-permanent force.
If they had grasped this idea, they must have noticed the enormous
difficulty presented by the laceration which the ether must experience
if it moves through pores or interstices among the atoms of matter.
     § 3. It has occurred to me that, without contravening anything we
know from observation of nature, we may simply deny the scholastio
axiom that two portions of matter cannot jointly occupy the same
space, and may assert, as an admissible hypothesis, that ether does
occupy the same space as ponderable matter, and that ether is not
displaced by ponderable bodies moving through space occupied by
ether. But how then could matter act on ether, and ether act on
matter, to produce the known phonomena of light (or radiant heat),
generated by the action of ponderable bodies on ether, and acting on
ponderable bodies to produce its visual, chemical, phosphorescent,
thermal, and photographic effects? There is no difficulty in answer
ing this question if, as it probably is, ether is a compressible and
dilatable f solid. We have only to suppose that the atom exerts force
on the ether, by which condensation or rarefaction is produced
within the space occupied by the atom. At present j I confine myself,
    * ' Annales de Chimie,' 1818 ; quoted in full by Larmor in hie recent book,
'Either and Matter,' pp. 320-322.
    t To deny this property is to attribute to ether infinitely great resistance
against forces tending to condense it or to dilate it—which seems, in truth, an
infinitely difficult assumption.
    J Farther developments of the suggested idea have been contributed to the
Boyal Society of Edinburgh, and to the Conpres International de Physique,
held in Paris in August. (Proe. B.8.E. July 1900 ; vol. of reports, in French, of
the Cong. Inter. ; and Phil. Mat;., Aug., Sept.. 1900.)

1900.]          on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.                    365
for the sake of simplicity, to the suggestion of a spherical atom pro
ducing condensation and rarefaction, with concentric spherical surfaces
of equal density, but the same total quantity of ether within its
boundary as the quantity in an equal volume of free undisturbed
ether.
     § 4. Consider now such an atom given at rest anywhere in space
occupied by ether. Let force be applied to it to cause it to move in
any direction, first with gradually increasing speed, and after that
with uniform speed. If this speed is anything less than the velocity
of light, the force may be mathematically proved to become zero at
some short time after the instant when the velocity of the atom be
comes uniform, and to remain zero for ever thereafter. What takes
place is this :
     § 5. During all the time in which the velocity of the atom is being
augmented from zero, two sets of non-periodic waves, one of them
equi-voluminal, the other irrotational (which is therefore condensa-
tional-rarefactional), are being sent out in all directions through the
surrounding ether. The rears of the last of these waves leave the
atom, at some time after its acceleration ceases. This time, if the
motion of the ether outside the atom, close beside it, is infinitesimal,
is equal to the time taken by the slower wave (which is the equi-
voluminal) to travel the diameter of the atom, and is the short time
referred to in §4. When the rears of both waves have got clear
of the atom, the ether within it and in the space around it, left clear
by both rears, has come to a steady state of motion relatively to the
atom. This steady motion approximates more and more nearly to
uniform motion in parallel lines, at greater and greater distances from
the atom. At a distance of twenty diameters it differs exceedingly
little from uniformity.
     § 6. But it is only when the velocity of the atom is very small in
comparison with the velocity of light, that the disturbance of the ether
in the space close round the atom is infinitesimal. The propositions
asserted in § 4 and the first sentence of § 5 are true, however little
the final velocity of the atom falls short of the velocity of light. If
this uniform final velocity of the atom exceeds the velocity of light,
by ever so little, a non-periodic conical wave of equi-voluminal
motion is produced, according to the same principle as that illustrated
for sound by Mach's beautiful photographs of illumination by electric
spark, showing, by changed refractivity, the condensational-rarefac-
tiumvl disturbance produced in air by the motion through it of a rifle
bullet. The semi-vertical angle of the cone, whether in air or ether,
is equal to the angle whose sine is the ratio of the wave velocity to
the velocity of the moving body.*
    * On the same principle we see that a body moving steadily (and, with little
error, we may say also that a fish or water-fowl propelling itself by fins or web-
feet) through culm water, either floating on the surfaoe or wholly submerged at
some moderate distance below the surface, produces no wave disturbance if its

3G6                                 Lord Kelvin                          [April 27,
     § 7. If, for a moment, we imagine the steady motion of the atom
to be at a higher speed than the wave velocity of the condensational-
rarcfactional wave, two conical waves, of angles corresponding to the
two wave velocities, will be steadily produced ; but we need not occupy
ourselves at present with this case, because the velocity of the condeu-
sational-rurefactional wave in ether is, we are compelled to believe,
enormously great in comparison with the velocity of light.
     § 8. Let now a periodic force be applied to the atom so as to cause
it to move to and fro continually, with simple harmonic motion. By
the first sentence of § 5 we see that two sets of periodic waves,
one equi-voluminal, the other irrotational, are continually produced.
Without mathematical investigation we see that if, as in ether, the
condensational-rarefactional wave velocity is very great in comparison
with the equi-voluminal wave velocity, the energy taken by the con
densational-rarefactional wave is exceedingly small in comparison
with that taken by the equi-voluminal wave ; how small we can find
easily enough by regular mathematical investigation. Thus we seo
how it is that the hypothesis of § 3 suffices for the answer suggested
in that section to the question, How could matter act on ether so as
to produce light ?
     § 9. But this, though of primary importance, is only a small part
velocity is less than the minimum wave velocity due to gravity and surface
tension (being about 23 cms. per second, or -44 of a nautical mile per hour,
whether for sea water or fresh water) ; and if its velocity exceeds the minimum
wave velocity, it produces a wave disturbance bounded by two lines inclined on
eaoh side of its wake at angles each equal to the angle whose sine is the minimum
 wave velocity divided by the velocity of the moving body. It is easy for anyone
 to observe this by dipping vertically a pencil or a walking stick into still water
in a pond (or even in a good-sized band basin), and moving it horizontally, first
with exceeding small speed, and afterwards faster and faster. I first noticed it
nineteen years ago, and described observations for an experimental determination
of the minimum velocity of waves, iu a letter to William Kroude, published in
 'Nature' for October 26, and in the Phil. Mag. for November 1871, from which
 the following is extracted. " [Recently, in the schooner yacht Lalla RookhJ,
 " being becalmed in the Sound of Mull, I had an excellent opportunity, with the
 "assistance of Professor Helmholtz, and my brother from Belfast [the late
 " Professor James Thomson], of determining by observation the minimum wave-
 " velocity with some approach to accuracy. The fishing-line was hung at a distance
 " of two or three feet from the vessel's side, so as to cut the water at a point not
 " sensibly disturbed by the motion of the vessel. The speed was determined by
 " throwing into the tea pieces of paper previously wetted, and observing their
 " times of transit across parallel planes, at a distance of 912 contimetres asunder,
 " fixed relatively to the vessel by marks on the deck and gunwale. By watching
 " c.irefully the pattern of ripples and waves which connected the ripples in
 " front with the waves in rear, I had seen that it included a set of parallel waves
 " slanting off obliquely on each side and presenting appearances which proved
 " them to be wuves of the critical length and corresponding minimum speed of
 " propagation." When the speed of the yacht fi ll to but lit tle above the critical
 velocity, the front of the ripples was very nearly perpendicular to the line of
 motion, and when it just fell below the critical velocity the ripples disappeared
 altogether, and there was no perceptible disturbance on the surface of the water.
 The sea was " glussy " ; though there was wind enough to pro]>el the schooner
 at speed varying between J mile and 1 mile per hour.

1900.]          on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.                      367
of the very general question pointed out in § 3 as needing answer.
Another part, fundamental in the undulatory theory of optics, is,
How is it that the velocity of light is smaller in transparent ponder
able matter than in pure ether ? Attention was called to this
particular question in my address to the Royal Institution, of last
April ; and a slight explanation of my proposal for answering it was
given, and illustrated by a diagram. The validity of this proposal is
confirmed by a somewhat elaborate discussion and mathematical
investigation of the subject worked out since that time and communi
cated under the title, ' On the Motion produced in an Infinite Elastic
Solid by the Motion through the Space occupied by it of a Body
acting on it only by Attraction or Repulsion,' to the Royal Society
of Edinburgh on July 17, and to the Congres International de
Physique for its meeting at Paris in the beginning of August.
     § 10. The other phenomena referred to in § 3 come naturally
under the general dynamics of the undulatory theory of light, and the
full explanation of them all is brought much nearer if we have a satis
factory fundamental relation between ether and matter, instead of the
old intractable idea that atoms of matter displace ether from the space
before them, when they are in motion relatively to the other around
them. May we then suppose that the hypothesis which I have
suggested clears away the first of our two clouds ? It certainly would
explain the " aberration of light " connected with the earth's motion
through ether in a thoroughly satisfactory manner. It would allow
the earth to movo with perfect freedom through space occupied by
ether without displacing it. In passing through the earth the ether,
an elastic solid, would not be lacerated as it would be according to
Fresnel's idea of porosity and ether moving through the pores as if it
wero a fluid. Ether would move relatively to ponderables with the
perfect freedom wanted for what we know of aberration, instead of the
imperfect freedom of air moving through a grove of trees suggested by
Thomas Young. According to it, and for simplicity neglecting the
comparatively very small component due to the earth's rotation (only
'46 of a kilometre per second at the equator where it is a maximum),
and neglecting the imperfectly known motion of the solar system
through space towards the constellation Hercules, discovered by
Herschel,* there would be at all points of the earth's surface a flow
    * The splendid spectroscopic method originated by Hugging thirty-three years
ago, for measuring the component in the line of vision of the relative motion of the
earth, and any visible star, has been carried on since that time with admirable
perseverance and skill by other observers, who have from their results made
estimates of the velocity and direction of the motion through space of the centre
of inertia of the solar system. My Glasgow colleague, Professor Becker, has
kindly given me the following information on the subject of these researches :
    "The early (1888) Potsdam photographs of the spectra of 51 stars brighter than
2i magnitude have been employed for the determination of the apex and velocity
of the solar system. Kempf (Astronomische Nachrichten, vol. 132) finds for the
apex : right ascension. 206° ± 12° ; declination, 46° ± 9° ; velocity, 1 9 kilometres
per second ; and Risteen (Astronomicaljournal, 1893) finds practically the same

368                                Lord Kelvin                         [April 27,
of ether at the rate of 80 kilometres per second in lines all parallel to
the tangent to the earth's orbit round the sun. There is nothing
inconsistent with this in all we know of the ordinary phenomena of
terrestrial optics ; but, alas ! there is inconsistency with a conclusion
that ether in the earth's atmosphere is motionless relatively to the
earth, seemingly proved by an admirable experiment designed by
Michelson, and carried out, with most searching care to secure a
trustworthy result, by himself and Morley.* I cannot see any flaw
either in the idea or in the execution of this experiment. But a
possibility of escaping from the conclusion which it seemed to prove,
may be found in a brilliant suggestion made independently by
Fitzgerald f and by Lorentz J of Leyden, to the effect that the motion
of ether through matter may slightly alter its linear dimensions,
according to which if the stone slab constituting the sole plate of
Michelson and Morley's apparatus has, in virtue of its motion through
space occupied by ether, its lineal dimensions shortened one one-
hundred-millionth I in the direction of motion, the result of the ex
periment would not disprove the free motion of ether through space
occupied by the earth.
     §11. I am afraid we must still regard Cloud No. I. as very
denso.
     § 12. Cloud II.—Waterston (in a communication to the Royal
Society, now famous, which, after lying forty-five years buried and
almost forgotten in the archives, was rescued from oblivion by Lord
Bayleigh and published, with an introductory notice of great interest
and importance, in the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1892)
enunciated the following proposition : " In mixed media the mean
" square molecular velocity is inversely proportional to the specific
"weight of the molecule. This is the law of the equilibrium of vis viva."
Of this proposition Lord Rayleigh in a footnote % says, " This is the first
" statement of a very important theorem (see also Brit. Assoc. Rep.,
" 1851). The demonstration, however, of § 10 can hardly be defended.
" It bears some resemblance to an argument indicated and exposed
" by Professor Tait (Edinburgh Trans., vol. 33, p. 79, 1886). There
" is reason to think that this law is intimately connected with the
" Maxwellian distribution of velocities of which Waterston had no
" knowledge."
     § 13. In Waterston's statement, the " specific weight of a mole-
quantities. The proper motions of the fixed stars assign to the apex a position
which may be anywhere in a narrow zone parallel to the Milky-way, and ex
tending 20° on both sides of a point of Right Ascension 275° and Declination
+ 30°. The authentic mean of 13 values determined by the method* of Arge-
lander or Airy gives 274° and + 35° (Andre", ' Traité d Astronomie Stellairo ')."
    * Phil. Mag., December 1887.
    t Public Lectures in Trinity College, Dublin.
    X Versuch einer Theorie der electrischen und optischeu Erscheinungen in
boweeteu Korpern.
    || This being the square of the ratio of the earth's velocity round the sun
(30 kilometres per sec.) to the velocity of light (300,000 kilometres per sec.).
    1 Phil. Trans. A, 1892, p. 16.

 1900.]          on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.                  369
 cule " means what we now call simply the mass of a molecule ; and
 " molecular velocity " means the translational velocity of a molecule.
 Writing on the theory of sound in the Phil. Mag. for 1858, and
 referring to the theory developed in his buried paper,* Waterston
 said, " The theory .... assumes .... that if the impacts produce
 " rotatory motion the vis viva thus invested bears a constant ratio to
 " the rectilineal vis viva." This agrees with the very important prin
 ciple or truism given independently about the same time by Clausius
 to the effect that the mean energy, kinetic and potential, due to the
 relative motion of all the parts of any molecule of a gas, bears a
constant ratio to the mean energy of the motion of its centre of inertia
 wheu the density and pressure are constant.
      § 14. Without any knowledge of what was to be found in Water-
ston's buried paper, Maxwell, at the meeting of the British Association
at Aberdeen, in 1859 f gave the following proposition regarding the
motion and collisions of perfectly elastic spheres : " Two systems of
 " particles move in the same vessel ; to prove that the mean vis viva
 " of each particle will become the same in the two systems." This is
precisely Waterston's proposition regarding the law of partition of
energy, quoted in § 12 above ; but Maxwell's 1860 proof was certainly
 not more successful than Waterston's. Maxwell's 1860 proof has
always seemed to me quite inconclusive, and many times I urged my
colleague, Professor Tait, to enter on the subject. This he did, and
in 1886 ho communicated to the Royal Society of Edinburgh a paper J
on the foundations of the kinetic theory of gases, which contained a
critical examination of Maxwell's 1860 paper, highly appreciative
of the great originality and splendid value, for the kinetic theory of
gases, of the ideas and principles set forth in it ; but showing that the
demonstration of the theorem of the partition of energy in a mixed
assemblage of particles of different masses was inconclusive, and
successfully substituting for it a conclusive demonstration.
      § 15. Waterston, Maxwell, and Tait, all assume that the particles
of the two systems are thoroughly mixed (Tait, § 18), and their
theorem is of fundamental importance in respect to the specific heats
of mixed gases. But they do not, in any of the papers already referred
to, give any indication of a proof of the corresponding theorem,
regarding the partition of energy between two sets of equal particles
separated by a membrane impermeable to the molecules, while permit
ting forces to act across it between the molecules on its two sides, ||
    * 'On the Physics of Media that are Composed of Force and Perfectly
Elastic Molecules in a State of Motion." Phil. Trans. A, 1892, p. 13.
    t ' Illustrations of the Dynamical Theory of Gases.' Phil. Mag., January and
July 1860, and collected works, vol. i. p. 378.
    X Phil. Trans. R.S.B., ' On the Foundations of the Einetio Theory of Gases,'
May 14 and December 6, 1886, and January 7, 1887.
    || A very interesting statement is given by Maxwell regarding this subject in
his latest paper regarding the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine. ' On Boltzmann's
Theorem on the Average Distribution of Energy in a System of Material Points,'
Camb. Phil. Trans., May 6, 1878 ; Collected Works, vol. ii. pp. 713-741.

370                              Lord Kelvin                       [April 27,
which is the simplest illustration of the molecular dynamic* of
Avogadro's law. It seems to me, however, that Tait's demonstration
of the \\ aterston-Maxwell law may possibly be shown to virtually
include, not only this vitally important subject, but also the very in
teresting, though comparatively unimportant, case of an assemblage of
particles of equal masses with a single particle of different mass
moving about among them.
     § 16. In §§ 12, 14, 15, " particle" has been taken to mean what
is commonly, not correctly, called an elastic sphere, but what is in
reality a Boscovich atom acting on other atoms in lines exactly through
its centre of. inertia (so that no rotation is in any case produced by
collisions), with, as law of action between two atoms, noforce at disianct
greater than the sum of their radii, infinite force at exactly this dislane*.
None of the demonstrations, unsuccessful or successful, to which I have
referred would be essentially altered if, instead of this last condition, we
substitute a repulsion increasing with diminishing distance, according
to any law for distances less than the tum of the radii, subject only to
the condition that it would be infinite before the distance became zero.
In fact the impact, oblique or direct, between two Boscovich atoms thus
defined, has the same result after the collision is completed (that is to
say, when their spheres of action get outside one another) as collision
between two conventional elastic spheres, imagined to have radii
dependent on the lines and velocities of approach before collision
(the greater the relative velocity the smaller the effective radii) ; and
the only assumption essentially involved in those demonstrations is,
that the radius of each sphere is very small in comparison with the
average length of free path.
     § 17. But if the particles are Boscovich atoms, having centre of
inertia not coinciding with centre of force ; or quasi Boscovich atoms,
of non-spherical figure ; or (a more acceptable supposition) if each par
ticle is a cluster of two or more Boscovich atoms ; rotations and changes
of rotation would result from collisions. Waterston's and Clausing'
leading principle, quoted in § 13 above, must now be taken into
account, and Tait's demonstration is no longer applicable. Waterston
and Clausius, in respect to rotation, both wisely abstained from saying
more than that the average kinetic energy of rotation bears a constant
ratio to the average kinetic energy of translation. With magnificent
boldness Boltzmann and Maxwell declared that the ratio is equality ;
Boltzmann having found what seemed to him a demonstration of this
remarkable proposition, and Maxwell having accepted the supposed
demonstration as valid.
      § 18. Boltzmann went further * and extended the theorem of
 equality of mean kinetic energies to any system of a finite number of
 material points (Boscovich atoms) acting on one another, according to
 any law of force, and moving freely among one another ; and finally,
     * 'Stndien iiber daa Gleiohgewicht der lebendigen Kraft zwisehen bewepten
 materiellen Punkten.' Sitzb. K. Akad. Wien., October 8, 1868.

1900.]           on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.                    871
Maxwell * gave a demonstration extending it to the generalised
Lagrangian co-ordinates of any system whatever, with a finite or
infinitely great number of degrees of freedom. The words in which
he enunciated his supposed theorem are as follows :
     " The only assumption which is necessary for the direct proof is
"that the system, if left to itself in its actual state of motion, will,
" sooner or later, pass [infinitely nearly f] through every phase which is
" consistent with the equation of energy ' (p. 714) and, again (p. 716).
     " It appears from the theorem, that in the ultimate state of the
" system the average J kinetic energy of two portions of the system must
" be in the ratio of the number of degrees of freedom of those portions.
     " This, therefore, must be the condition of the equality of tem-
" perature of the two portions of the system."
     I have never seen validity in the demonstration || on which Max
well founds this statement, and it has always seemed to me exceed
ingly improbable that it can be true. If true, it would be very
wonderful, and most interesting in pure mathematical dynamics.
Having been published by Boltzmann and Maxwell it would be worthy
of most serious attention, even without consideration of its bearing on
thermo-dynamics. But, when we consider its bearing on thermo
dynamics, and in its first and most obvious application we find
it destructive of the kinetic theory of gases, of which Maxwell was
one of tho chief founders, we cannot see it otherwise than as a cloud
on the dynamical theory of heat and light.
     § IS). For the kinetic theory of gases, let each molecule be a cluster
of Boscovich atoms. This includes every possibility ("dynamical,"
or "electrical," or " physical," or " chemical ") regarding the nature
and qualities of a molecule and of all its parts. The mutual forces
between the constituent atoms must be such that the cluster is in
stable equilibrium if given at rest ; which means, that if started from
    * 'On Boltzmann'a Theorem on the Average Distribution of Energy in a
System of Material Points.' Maxwell's Collected Papers, vol. ii. pp. 713-741,
and Camb. Phil. Trans., May 6, 1878.
    t I have inserted these two words as certainly belonging to Maxwell's
meaning.—K.
    X The average here meant is a time-average through a sufficiently long time.
    | The mode of proof followed by Muxwell, and its connection with antecedent
considerations of his own and of Boltzmann, imply, as included in the general
theorem, that the average kinetic energy of any one of three rectangular com
ponents of the motion of the centre of inertia of an isolated system, acted upon
only by mutual forces between it- parts is equal to the average kinetic energy of
each generalised component of motion relatively to the centre of inertia. Con
sider, for example, as " parts of the system " two particles of masses m and m' free
to move only in a fixed straight line, and connected to one another by a massless
spring. The Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine asserts that the average kinetic energy
of the motion of the inertial centre is equal to the average kinetic energy of the
motion relative to the inertial centre. This is included in the wording of
Maxwell's stab-merit in the text if, but not unless, m = m'. See footnote on
§ 7 of my paper ' On some Test-Cases for the Boltzmann-Maxwell Doctrine
regarding Distribution of Energy." Proc. Roy. Soc., June 11, 1891.

372                             Lord Kelvin                         [April 27,
equilibrium with its constituents in an^ state of relative motion, no
atom will fly away from it, provided the total kinetic energy of the
given initial motion does not exceed some definite limit. A gas is a
vast assemblage of molecules thus defined, each moving freely through
space, except when in collision with another cluster, and each retain
ing all its own constituents unaltered, or only altered by interchange
of similar atoms between two clusters in collision.
     § 20. For simplicity we may suppose that each atom, A, has a
definite radius of activity, a, and that atoms of different kinds, A, A',
have different radii of activity, a, a' ; such that A exercises no force on
any other atom, A', A", when the distance botween their centres is
greater than a + o' or a + a". We need not perplex our minds with
the inconceivable idea of " virtue," whether for force or for inertia,
residing in a mathematical point * the centre of the atom ; and with
out mental strain we can distinctly believe that the substance (the
" substratum " of qualities) resides, not in a point, nor vaguely
through all space, but definitely in the spherical volume of space
bounded by the spherical surfaco whose radius is the radius of
activity of the atom, and whose centre is the centre of the atom. In
our intermolecular forces thus defined, we have no violation of the old
scholastio law, " Matter cannot act where it is not," but we explicitly
violate the other scholastic law, " Two portions of matter cannot simul
taneously occupy the same space." We leave to gravitation, and
possibly to electricity (probably not to magnetism), the at present
very unpopular idea of action at a distance.
     § 21. We need not now (as in § 16, when we wished to keep as
near as we could to the old idea of colliding elastic globes) suppose
the mutual force to become infinite repulsion before the centres of two
atoms, approaching one another, meet. Following Boscovich, we
may assume the force to vary according to any law of alternate
attraction and repulsion, but without supposing any infinitely great
force, whether of repulsion or attraction, at any particular distance ;
but we must assume the force to be zero when the centres are coin
cident. We may even admit the idea of the centres being absolutely
coincident, in at all events some cases of a chemical combination of
two or more atoms ; although we might consider it more probable
that in most cases the chemical combination is a cluster, in which the
volumes of the constituent atoms overlap without any two centres
absolutely coinciding.
     §22. The word "collision" used without definition in § 19 may
now, in virtue of §§ 20, 21, be unambiguously defined thus :
Two atoms are said to be in collision during all the time their
volumes overlap after coming into contact. They necessarily in
virtue of inertia separate again, unless some third body intervenes
with action which causes them to remain overlapping ; that is to say,
    * See Math, and Phya. Papers, vol. iii. art. xctil ' Molecular Constitution
of Matter,' §14.

1900.]         on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.                     373
causes combination to result from collision. Two clusters of atoms
aro said to be in collision when, after being separate, some atom or
atoms of one cluster come to overlap some atom or atoms of the other.
In virtue of inertia the collision must be followed either by the two
clusters separating, as described in the last sentence of § 19, or by
some atom or atoms of one or both systems being sent flying away.
This last supposition is a matter-of-fact statement belonging to the
magnificent theory of dissociation, discovered and worked out by
Sainte-Clair Deville without any guidance from the kinetic theory
of gases. In gases approximately fulfilling the gaseous laws (Boyle's
and Charles'), two clusters must in general fly asunder after collision.
Two clusters could not possibly remain permanently in combination
without at least one atom being sent flying away after collision be
tween two clusters with no third body intervening.*
    § 23. Now for the application of the Boltzman-Maxwell doctrine
to the kinetic theory of gases : consider first a homogeneous single
gas, that is, a vast assemblage of similar clusters of atoms moving and
colliding as described in tho last sentence of § 19 ; the assemblage
being so sparse that the time during which each cluster is in collision
is very short in comparison with the time during which it is unacted
on by other clusters, and its centre of inertia, therefore, moves uni
formly in a straight line. If there are t atoms in each cluster, it
has 3t freedoms to move, that is to say, freedoms in three rectangular
directions for each atom. The Boltzman-Maxwell doctrine asserts
that the mean kinetic energies of these 3t motions are all equal,
whatever be the mutual forces between the atoms. From this,
when the durations of the collisions are not included in the time-
averages, it is easy to prove algebraically (with exceptions noted
below) that the time-average of the kinetic energy of the component
translational velocity of the inertial centre, | in any direction, is equal
to any one of the St mean kinetic energies asserted to be equal to one
another in the preceding statement. There are exceptions to the
algebraic proof corresponding to the particular exception referred
to in the last footnote to § 18 above ; but, nevertheless, the general
 Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine includes the proposition, even in
 those cases in which it is not deducible algebraically from the
 equality of the 3t energies. Thus, without exception, the average
 kinetic energy of any component of the motion of the inertial centre
is, according to the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine, equal to i of the
                                                                        ot
 whole average kinetic energy of the system. This makes the total
average energy, potential and kinetic, of the whole motion of the
 system, translational and relative, to be 8t (1 -\- P) times the mean
    * See Kelvin's Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. iii. art. xcvu. §33. In this
reference, for " scarcely " substitute " not."
    t This expression I use for brevity to signify the kinetic energy of the whole
 mass ideally collected at the centre of inertia.

 374                            Lord Kelvin                    [April 27,
 kinetic energy of one component of the motion of the inertial centre,
 where P denotes the ratio of the mean potential energy of the relative
 displacements of the parts to the mean kinetic energy of the whole
 system. Now, according to Clausius' splendid and easily proved
 theorem regarding the partition of energy in the kinetic theory of
  gases, the ratio of the difference of the two thermal capacities to the
 constant-volume theimal capacity is equal to the ratio of twice a single
  component of the translational energy to the total energy. Hence, if
 according to our usual notation we denote the ratio of the thermal
 capacity pressure-constant to the thermal capacity volume-constant by
 k, we have,
      § 24. Example 1.—For first and simplest example, consider a
 monatomic gas. We have t = 1, and according to our supposition
 (the supposition generally, perhaps universally, made) regarding
 atoms, we have P = 0. Hence, k — 1 = §.
     This is merely a fundamental theorem in the kinetic theory of
 gases for the case of no rotational or vibrational energy of the mole
 cule ; in which there is no scope either for Clausius' theorem or for
 the Boltzmauu-Maxwell doctrine. It is beautifully illustrated by
 mercury vapour, a monatomic gas according to chemists, for which
 many years ago Kundt, in an admirably designed experiment, found
 k — 1 to be very approximately § ; and by the newly discovered gases
argon, helium, and krypton, for which also k — 1 has been found to
have approximately the same value, by Raylcigh and Ramsay. But
each of these four gases has a large number of spectrum lines, and
therefore a large number of vibrational freedoms, and therefore, if
the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine were true, It — 1 would have some
exceedingly small value, such as that shown in the ideal example of
§ 26 below. On the other hand, Clausius' theorem presents no difficulty ;
it merely asserts that i — 1 is necessarily less than § in each of theso
four cases, as in every case in which there is any rotational or vibra
tional energy whatever ; and proves, from the values found experi
mentally for k — 1 in the four gasep, that in each case the total of
rotational and vibrational energy is exceedingly small in comparison
with the translational energy. It justifies admirably the chemical
doctrine that mercury vapour is practically a monatomic gat, and it
proves that argon, helium, and krypton, are also practically monatomic,
though none of these gases has hitherto shown any chemical affinity or
action of any kind from which chemists could draw any such conclusion.
     But Clausius' theorem, taken in connection with Stokes' and
Kirchoff 's dynamics of spectrum analysis, throws a new light on what
we are now calling a " practically monatomic gas." It shows that,
unless we admit that the atoms can be set into rotation or vibration
by mutual collisions (a most unacceptable hypothesis), it must have
satellites connected with it (or ether condensed into it or around it)

  1900.]        on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.              375
  and kept, by the collisions, in motion relatively to it with total energy
  exceedingly small in comparison with the translational energy of the
  whole system of atom and satellites. The satellites must in all pro
  bability be of exceedingly small mass in comparison with that of the
  chief atom. Can they be the " ions " by which J. J. Thomson explains
  the electric conductivity induced in air and other gases by ultra-violet
  light, Rontgcn rays, and Becquerel rays ?
      Finally, it is interesting to remark that all the values of k — 1
  found by Rayleigh and Ramsay are somewhat less than f ; argon -64,
  .61; helium • 6 1 2" ; krypton '666. If the deviation from "667 were
  accidental they would probably have been some in defect and some in
* excess.
      Example 2.— As a next simplest example let i = 2, and as a very
  simplest case let the two atoms be in stable equilibrium when con
  centric, and be infinitely nearly concentric when the clusters move
  about, constituting a homogeneous gas. This supposition makes
  P = £, because the average potential energy is equal to the average
  kinetic energy in simple harmonic vibrations ; and in our present case
  half the whole kinetic energy, according to the Boltzmann-Maxwell
  doctrine, is vibrational, the other half being translational. We find
  h - 1 = | = -2222.
      Example 3.—Let t = 2 ; let there be stable equilibrium, with the
  centres C, C of the two atoms at a finite distance a asunder, and let
  the atoms be always very nearly at this distance asunder when
  the clusters are not in collision. The relative motions of the two
  atoms will be according to three freedoms, ono vibrational, consist
  ing of very small shortenings and lengthenings of the distance
  C C, and two rotational, consisting of rotations round one or other of
  two lines perpendicular to each other and perpondicnlar to C C
  through the inertial centre. With these conditions and limitations,
  and with the supposition that half the average kinetic energy of the
  rotation is comparable with the average kinetic energy of the vibra
  tions, or exactly equal to it as according to the Boltzmann-Maxwell
  doctrine, it is easily proved that in rotation the excess of C C above the
  equilibrium distance a, due to centrifugal force, must be exceedingly
  small in comparison with the maximum value of C C — o due to the
  vibration. Hence the average potential energy of the rotation is
  negligible in comparison with the potential energy of the vibration.
  Hence, of the three freedoms for relative motion there is only one
  contributory to P, and therefore we have P = \. Thus we find
  Jb- 1 = J = -2857.
      The best way of experimentally determining the ratio of the two
  thermal capacities for any gas is by comparison between the observed
  and the Newtonian velocities of sound. It has thus been ascertained
  that, at ordinary temperatures and pressures, k — 1 differs but little
  from ' 406 for common air, which is a mixture of the two gases nitrogen
  and oxygen, each diatomic according to modern chemical theory ; and
  the greatest value that the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine can give for
  a diatomic gas is the '2857 of Ex. 3. This notable discrepance

 376                            Lord Kelvin                       [April 27,
 from observation, suffices to absolutely disprove the Boltzmann-
 Maxwell doctrine. What is really established in respect to partition
 of energy is what Clausius' theorem tells us (§ 23 above). We
 find, as a result of observation and true theory, that the average
 kinetic energy of translation of the molecules of common air is . 609
 of the total energy, potential and kinetic, of the relative motion of
 the constituents of the molecules.
     § 25. The method of treatment of Ex. 3 above, carried out for a
 cluster of any number of atoms greater than two not in one line,
j + 2 atoms, let us say, shows us that there are three translational
 freedoms ; three rotational freedoms, relatively to axes through the
 inertial centre; and 3j vibrational freedoms. Hence we have
P = , J -, and we find k — 1 =                 . The values of k — 1 thus
      J+2                           3(1+./)
 calculated for a triatomio and tetratomic gas, and calculated as above
 in Ex. 3 for a diatomic gas, are shown in the following table, and
 compared with the results of observation for several such gases :
                                    Vtlu« of* - 1
                      Ou.
                             According to the       By
                              B.-M. doctrine.  Observation.
                     Air
                     NH,
                     N„0       f = -2857           -406
                     H,        ft      1•          ,40
                     0,        tt      tt          .41
                     CI,       tt      tt          '82
                     CO        *t      tt          '39
                     NO        tl      tt          '39
                     CO,                           •30
                               i= -1667
                               Tt      t*          '331
                               i = 1111
    It is interesting to see how the dynamics'311   of Clausius' theorem is
verified by the results of observation shown in the table. The values
of k — 1 for all the gases are less than §, as they must be when
there is any appreciable energy of rotation or vibration in the mole
cule. They are different for different diatomic gases ; ranging from
 '42 for oxygen to *32 for chlorine, which is quite as might be
expected, when we consider that the laws of force between the two
atoms may differ largely for the different kinds of atoms. The
values of k — 1 are, on the whole, smaller for the tetratomic and
triatomic than for the diatomic gases, as might be expected from
consideration of Clausius' principle. It is probable that the differ
ences of k — 1 for the different diatomic gases are real, although
there is considerable uncertainty with regard to the observational
results for all or some of the gases other than air. It is certain that

1900.]          on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.                   377
the discrepancies from the values, calculated according to the Boltz
mann-Maxwell doctrine, are real and great ; and that in each case,
diatomic, triatomic, and tetratomic, the doctrine gives a value for
k — 1 much smaller than the truth.
     § 26. But, in reality, the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine errs enor
mously more than is shown in the preceding table. Spectrum
analysis showing vast numbers of lines for each gas makes it certain
that the numbers of freedoms of the constituents of each molecule is
enormously greater than those which we have been counting, and
therefore that unless we attribute vibratile quality to each in
dividual atom, the molecule of every one of the ordinary gases must
have a vastly greater number of atoms in its constitution than those
hitherto reckoned in regular chemical doctrine. Suppose, for example,
 there are forty-one atoms in the molecule of any particular gas ; if
the doctrine were true, we should have/ = 39. Hence there are 117
vibrational freedoms, so that there might be 117 visible lines in the
 spectrum of the gas ; and we have k — 1 = —^- = ' 0083. There is,
in fact, no possibility of reconciling the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine
 with the truth regarding the specific heats of gases.
      § 27. It is, however, not quite possible to rest contented with the
mathematical verdict not proven, and the experimental verdict not
true, in respect to the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine. I have always
felt that it should be mathematically tested by the consideration of
some particular case. Even if the theorem were true, stated as it
was somewhat vaguely, and in such general terms that great difficulty
has been felt as to what it is really meant to express, it would be very
desirable to see even one other simple case, besides that original one
of Waterston's, clearly stated and tested by pure mathematics. Ten
years ago,* I suggested a number of test cases, some of which have been
courteously considered by Boltzmann; but no demonstration either of
the truth or untruth of the doctrine as applied to any one of them has
hitherto been given. A year later, I suggested what seemed to me
a decisive test case disproving the doctrine ; but my statement was
quickly and justly criticised by Boltzmann and Poincare ; and more
 recently Lord Rayleigh f has shown very clearly that my simple test
 case was quite indecisive. This last article of Rayleigh's bas led me
 to resume the consideration of several different classes of dynamical
 problems, which had occupied me more or less at various times during
 the last twenty years, each presenting exceedingly interesting features
in connection with the double question : Is this a case which admits
 of the application of the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine ; and if so, is
 the doctrine true for it ?
     * ' On some Test Cases for the Maxwell-Boltzmann Doctrine regarding Dis
 tribution of Energy.' Proc. Roy. Soo., June 11, 18al.
     t Phil. Mag., vol. xxxiii. 1892, p. 356. ' Remarks on Maxwell's Investigation
 respecting Boltzmann's Theorem.'
      Vol. XVI. (No. 94.)                                             2 o

 378                            Lord Kelvin                     [April 27,
     § 28. Premising that the mean kinetic energies with which the
 Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine is concerned are time- integrals of ener
 gies divided by totals of the times, we may conveniently divide the
 whole class of problems, with reference to which the doctrine comes
into question, into two classes.
     Class I. : Those in which the velocities considered are either con
 stant or only vary suddenly—that is to say, in infinitely small times —
 or in times so short that they may be omitted from the time-integra
 tion. To this class belong :
     (a) The original Waterston-Maxwell case and the collisions of
ideal rigid bodies of any shape, according to the assumed law that the
translatory and rotatory motions lose no energy in the collisions.
     (6) The frictionless motion of one or more particles constrained
to remain on a surface of any shape, this surface being either closed
(commonly called finite though really endless), or being a finite area
of plane or curved surface, bounded like a billiard table, by a wall or
walls, from which impinging particles are reflected at angles equal to
the angles of incidence.
     (c) A closed surface, with non-vibratory particles moving within it
freely except during impacts of particles against one another or
against the bounding surface.
     (d) Cases such as (a), (b), or (c), with impacts against boundaries
and mutual impacts between particles, softened by the supposition of
finite forces during the impacts, with only the condition that the dura
tions of tho impacts are so short as to be practically negligible, in
comparison with the durations of free paths.
     Class II. : Cases in which the velocities of some of the particles
concerned sometimes vary gradually ; so gradually that the times
during which they vary must be included in the time-integration. To
this class bolong examples such as (d) of Class I. with durations of
impacts not negligible in the time-integration.
     § 29. Consider first Class I. (6) with a finite closed surface as the
field of motion and a single particle moving on it. If a particle is
given, moving in any direction through any point I of the field, it will
go on for ever along one determinate geodetic line. The question
that first occurs is, does tho motion fulfil Maxwell's condition (see
§ 18 above) ; that is to say, for this case, if we go along the geo
detic line long enough, shall we pass infinitely nearly to any point Q
whatever, including I, of the surface an infinitely great number of
times in all directions? This question cannot be answered in the
affirmative without reservation. For example, if the surface be exactly
an ellipsoid it must be answered in the negative, as is proved in the
following §§ 30, 81, 32.
     § 30. Let A A', B B', C C, be the ends of the greatest, mean,
and least diameters of an ellipsoid. Let U1 U, D3 U4 be the
umbilics in the arcs A C, C A', A' C, C A. A known theorem in
the geometry of the ellipsoid tells us, that every geodetic through
U, passes through U3, and every geodetic through U3 passes through

1900.]        on the Dynamical Tlieory of Heat and Light.            379
TJ4. This statement regarding geodetic lines on an ellipsoid of
three unequal axes is illustrated by Fig. 1, a diagram showing
for the extreme case in which the shortest axis is zero, the exact
construction of a geodetic through Uj which is a focus of the ellipse
shown in the diagram. D3, C, U4 being infinitely near to TJV C, U2
respectively are indicated by double letters at the same points.
Starting from Ul draw the geodetic Ui Q U3 ; the two parts of which
T71 Q and Q U3 are straight lines. It is interesting to remark that
in whatever direction we start from U, if we continue the geodetic
through U3, and on through TJl again and so on endlessly, as indicated
in the diagram by the straight lines        Q D3 Q'    Q" U3 Q'", and so
on, we come very quickly to lines approaching successively more
and more nearly to coincidence with the major axis. At every point
                                  Fio. 1.
 where the path strikes the ellipse it is reflected at equal angles to
 the tangent. The construction is most easily made by making the
 angle between tho reflected path and a line to one focus, equal to the
 angle between the incident path and a line to the other focus.
     § 31. Returning now to the ellipsoid :—From any point I, between
 U, and U3, draw the geodetic I Q, and produce it through Q on the
 ellipsoidal surface. It must cut the arc A' C A at some point
 between U3 and U(, and, if continued on and on, it must cut the
 ellipse A 0 A' C A successively between Ul and U2, or between U3 and
 U4 ; never between U3 and U3, or U4 and Uv This, for the extreme
 case of the smallest axis zero, is illustrated by the path I Q Q' Q" Q'"
 Q" QT in Fig. 2.
    § 32. If now, on the other hand, we commence a geodetic through
                                                            2 c 2

380                             Lord Kelvin                    [April 27,
any point J between TJ1 and U4, or between U2 and U3, it will never
cut the principal section containing the umbilics, either between U1
and U2 or between U3 and           This for the extreme case of C C = 0
is illustrated in Fig. 3.
    § 33. It seems not improbable that if the figure deviates by ever
so little from being exactly ellipsoidal, Maxwell's condition might be
fulfilled. It seems indeed quite probable that Maxwell's condition
(see §§ 13, 29, above) is fulfilled by a geodetic on a closed surface
of any shape in general, and that exceptional cases, in which the
question of § 29 is to be answered in the negative, are merely par
ticular surfaces of definite shapes, infinitesimal deviations from which
will allow the question to be answered in the affirmative.
     § 34. Now with an affirmative answer to the question—is Max
well's condition fufillod ?—what does the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine
assert in respect to a geodetic on a closed surface ? The mere
 wording of Maxwell's statement, quoted in § 13 above, is not applic
 able to this case, but the meaning of the doctrine as interpreted from
 previous writings both of Boltzmann and Maxwell, and subsequent
 writings of Boltzmann, and of Rayleigh,* the most recent supporter
of the doctrine, is that a single geodetic drawn long enough will not
only fulfil Maxwell's condition of passing infinitely near to every
point of the surface in all directions, but will pass with equal
frequencies in all directions ; and as many times within a certain
infinitesimal distance + 8 of any one point P as of any other point P
                        * Phil. Mag., January 1900.

1900.]          on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.             381
anywhere over the whole surface. This, if true, would be an exceed
ingly interesting theorem.
     § 35. I have made many efforts to test it for the case in which
the closed surface is reduced to a plane with other boundaries than
an exact ellipse (for which as we have seen in §§30, 31, 32, the
investigation fails through the non-fulfilment of Maxwell's prelimi
nary condition). Every such case gives, as wo have seen, straight lines
drawn across the enclosed area turned on meeting the boundary,
according to the law of equal angles of incidence and reflection, which
corresponds also to the case of an ideal perfectly smooth non-rotating
billiard ball moving in straight lines except when it strikes the
boundary of the table ; the boundary being of any shape whatever,
instead of the ordinary rectangular boundary of an ordinary billiard
table, and being perfectly elastic. An interesting illustration, easily
seen through a large lecture hall, is had by taking a thin wooden board,
cut to any chosen shapo, with the corner edges of the boundary
smoothly rounded, and winding a stout black cord round and round
it many times, beginning with one end fixed to any point, I, of the
board. If the pressure of the cord on the edges were perfectly
frictionless, the cord would, at every turn round the border, place
 itself so as to fulfil the law of equal angles of incidence and reflection,
 modified in virtue of the thickness of the board. For stability, it
 would be necessary to fix points of the cord to the board by staples
 pushed in over it at sufficiently frequent intervals, care being taken
 that at no point is the cord disturbed from its proper straight line by

382                            Lord Kelvin                    [April 27,
the staple. [Boards of a considerable variety of shape with cordis thus
wound on them were shown as illustrations of the lecture.]
    § 36. A very easy way of drawing accurately the path of a particle
moving in a plane and reflected from a bounding wall of any shape,
provided only that it is not concave externally in any part, is fur
nished by a somewhat interesting kinematical method illnstrated by
the accompanying diagram (Fig. 4). It is easily realised by using
two equal and similar pieces of board, cut to any desired figure, one of
them being turned upside down relatively to the other, so that when
the two are placed together with corresponding points in contact,
each is the image of the other relative to the plane of contact re
garded as a mirror. Sufficiently close corresponding points should
be accurately marked on the boundaries of the two figures, and this
allows great accuracy to be obtained in the drawing of the free path
                                 Fio. 4.
after each reflection. The diagram shows consecutive free paths
74-6—82-9 given, and 32-9—54-7, found by producing 74 -6-32 -9
through the point of contact. The process involves the exact measure
ment of the length (Z)—say to three significant figures—and its in
clination (6) to a chosen line of reference X X'. The summations 2 1
cos 2 6 and 5 / sin 2 6 give, as explained below, the difference of time
integrals of kinetic energies of component motions parallel and per
pendicular respectively to X X', and parallel and perpendicular
respectively to K K', inclined at 45° to X X'. From these differ
ences we find (by a procedure equivalent to that of finding the
principal axes of an ellipse) two lines at right angles to one another,
such that the time-integrals of the components of velocity parallel
to them are respectively greater than and less than those of the com
ponents parallel to any other line. [This process was illustrated by
models in the lecture.]

 1900.]        on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.              388
     § 37. Virtually the same process as this, applied to the case of a
 scalene triangle A B C (in which B C = 20 centimetres and the angles
 A = 97°, B = 2'J°-5, C = 53° -5), was worked out in the Royal Insti
 tution during the fortnight after the lecture, by Mr. Anderson, with
 very interesting results. The length of each free path (I), and its
 inclination to B C (ff), reckoned acute or obtuse according to the
 indications in the diagram, Fig. 5, were measured to the nearest
 millimetre and the nearest integral degree. The first free path was
 drawn at random, and the continuation, after 599 reflections (in all
 600 paths), were drawn in a manner illustrated by Fig. 5, which
 shows, for example, a path P Q on one triangle continued to QR on
 the other. The two when folded together round the line A B show
 a path P Q, continued on Q R after reflection. For each path I cos
 2 6 and I sin 2 6 were calculated and entered in tables with the proper
                                 Fio. 5.
algebraic signs. Thus, for the whole 600 paths, the [following
summations were found :
      SI = 3298; 2Icos2 0 = +128-8; 2 Z sin 2 0 = -201-9.
Remark, now, if the mass of the moving particle is 2, and the velocity
one centimetre per second, 2 I cos 2 9 is the excess of the time-inte
gral of kinetic energy of component motion parallel to B C above that
of component motion perpendicular to B C, and 2 I sin 2 6 is the
excess of tho time-integral of kinetic energy of component motion
perpendicular to K K' above that of component motion parallel to K K';
K K1 being inclined at 45° to B (3 in the direction shown in the diagram.
Hence the positive value of 2 Z cos 2 6 indicates a preponderance of
kinetic energy due to component motion parallel to B C above that
of component motion perpendicular to B C ; and the negative sign
of 2 1 sin 2 6 shows preponderance of kinetic energy of component

                                                                             -
384                              Lord Kelvin                     [April 27,
motion parallel to K K', above that of component motion perpendicular
to K K'. Deducing a determination of two axes at right angles to
each other, corresponding respectively to maximum and minimum
kinetic energies, we find L L', being inclined to K K' in the direction
shown, at an angle = £ tan- 1 128 ^ - 8 , is what we may call the axis of
maximum energy, and a line perpendicular to L L' the axis of mini
mum energy ; and the excess of the time-integral of the energy of
component velocity parallel to L L' exceeds that of the component
perpendicular to L L' by 239-4 being „/128 -82 + 201 -93. This is
                                    Fio. 6.
7 ' 25 per cent, of the total of 2 I which is the time-integral of the total
energy. Thus, in our result, we find a very notable deviation from
the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine, which asserts for the present case
that the time-integrals of the component kinetic energies are the same
for all directions of the component. The percentage which we have
found is not very large ; and, most probably, summations for several
successive 600 flights would present considerable differences, both of
the amount of the deviation from equality and the direction of the
axes of maximum and minimum energy. Still, I think there is a strong
probability that the disproof ' of the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine

 1900.]          on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.                   385
 is genuine, and tho disdrepance is somewhat approximately of the
 amount and direction indicated. I am supported in this view by
 scrutinising tho thirty sums for successive sets of twenty flights :
 thus I find 2 I cos 2 6 to be positive for eighteen out of thirty, and
 2 1 sin 2 6 to be negative for nineteen out of the thirty.
     § 38. A very interesting test-case is represented in the accompany
ing diagram, Fig. 6—a circular boundary of semicircular corrugations.
 In this case it is obvious from tho symmetry that the time-integral
 of kinetic energy of component motion parallel to any straight line
must, in the long run, be equal to that parallel to any other. But the
 Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine asserts, that the time-integrals of the
 kinetic energies of the two components, radial and transversal,
 according to polar co-ordinates, would be equal. To test this, I
 have taken the case of an infinite number of the semicircular corruga
 tions, so that in the time-integral it is not necessary to include the
 times between successive impacts of the particle on any one of the
 semicircles. In this case the geometrical construction would, of
course, fail to show the precise point Q at which the free path would
cut the diameter AB of the semicircular hollow to which it is ap
proaching ; and I have evaded the difficulty in a manner thoroughly
suitable for thermodynamic application such as the kinetic theory
of gases. I arranged to draw lots for 1 out of the 199 points divid
 ing AB into 200 equal parts. This was done by taking 100 cards,*
 0, 1 .... 98, 99, to represent distances from the middle point, and,
 by the toss of a coin, determining on which side of the middle point
 it was to be (plus or minus for head or tail, frequently changed to
 avoid possibility of error by bias). The draw for one of the hundred
 numbers (0 . . . . 99) was taken after very thorough shuffling of
 the cards in each case. The point of entry having been found, a
 large scale geometrical construction was used to determine the
 successive points of impact and the inclination 6 of the emergent path
 to tho diameter AB. The inclination of the entering path to the
 diameter of the semicircular hollow struck at the end of the flight,
 has the same value 6. If we call the diameter of the large circle
 unity, tho length of each flight is sin 6. Hence, if the velocity is unity
 and the mass of the particle 2, the time-integral of the whole
 kinetic energy is sin 6 ; and it is easy to prove that the time-integrals
 of the components of the velocity, along and perpendicular to the
 lino from each point of the path to the centre of the large circle, are
 respectively 6 cos 6, and sin 6 — 6 cos 6. The excess of the latter
    * I had tried numbered billets (small squares of paper) drawn from a bowl,
but found this very unsatisfactory. The best mixing we could make in the bowl
seemed to be quite insufficient to secure equal chances for all the billets. Full
sized cards like ordinary playing cards, well shuffled, seemed to give a very
fairly equal chance to every card. Even with the full-sized cards, electric
attraction sometimes intervenes and causes two of them to stick together. In
using one's fingers to mix dry billets of card, or of paper, in a bowl, very con
siderable disturbance may be expected from electrification.

                     Lord Kelvin                   [April 27,
above the former is sin 6 — 2 6 cos 6.     By summation for
143 flights we have found,
           2sin0 = 121-3; 220cos0 = 108-3;
whence,
                2sin0 - 220cos0 = 13-0.
    This is a notable deviation from the Boltzmann-
Maxwell doctrine, which makes 2 (sin 6 — 6 cos 6) equal
to 2 6 cos 6. We have found the former to exceed the
latter by a difference which amounts to 10 -7 of the whole
2 sin 6.
    Out of fourteen sets of ten flights, I find that the time-
integral of the transverse component is less than half the
whole in twelve sets, and greater in only two. This
seems to provo beyond doubt that the deviation from the
Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine is genuine ; and that the
time-integral of the transverse component is certainly
smaller than the time-integral of the radial components
    § 39. It is interesting to remark that our present
result is applicable (see § 38 above) to the motion of a
particle, flying about in an enclosed space, of the same
shape as the surface of a marlin-spike (Fig. 7). Symmetry
shows, that the axes of maximum or minimum kinetic
energy must be in the direction of the middle line of
the length of the figure and perpendicular to it. Our
conclusion is that the time-integral of kinetic energy is
maximum for the longitudinal component and minimum
for the transverse. In the series of flights, corresponding
to the 143 of Fig. 6, which we have investigated, the
number of flights is of course many times 143 in Fig. 7,
because of the reflections at the straight sides of the
marlin-spike. It will be understood, of course, that we
are considering merely motion in one plane through the
axis of the marlin-spike.
    § 40. The most difficult and seriously troublesome
statistical investigation in respect to the partition of
energy which I have hitherto attempted, has been to find
the proportions of translational and rotational energies
in various cases, in each of which a rotator experiences
multitudinous reflections at two fixed parallel planes
between which it moves, or at one plane to which it is
brought back by a constant force through its centre of
inertia, or by a force varying directly as the distance
from the plane. Two different rotators were considered,
one of them consisting of two equal masses, fixed at the
ends of a rigid massless rod, and each particle reflected
on striking either of the planes ; the other consisting of

1900.]          on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.            387
two masses, 1 and 100, fixed at the ends of a rigid massless rod, the
smaller mass passing freely across the plane without experiencing
any force, while the greater is reflected every time it strikes. The
second rotator may be described, in some respects more simply, as a
hard massless ball having a mass = 1 fixed anywhere eccentrically
within it, and another mass = 100 fixed at its centre. It may be
called, for brevity, a biassed ball.
    § 4 L. In every case of a rotator whose rotation is changed by an
impact, a transcendental problem of pure kinematics essentially
occurs to find the time and configuration of the first impact ; and
another such problem to find if there is a second impact, and, if so,
to determine it. Chattering collisions of one, two, three, four, five or
more impacts, are essentially liable to occur, even to the extreme case
of an infinite number of impacts and a collision consisting virtually
of a gradually varying finite pressure. Three is the greatest number
of impacts we have found in any of our calculations. The first of
theso transcendental problems, occurring essentially in every case,
consists in finding the smallest value of 6 which satisfies the equation
                         6- i = ^(1 -sin6);
                                  v
where 'u is the angular velocity of the rotator before collision ; a is
the length of a certain rotating arm ; i its inclination to the reflecting
plane at the instant when its centre of inertia crosses a plane F,
parallel to the reflecting plane and distant a from it ; and v is the
velocity of the centre of inertia of the rotator. This equation is, in
general, very easily solved by calculation (trial and error), but more
quickly by an obvious kinematic method, the simplest form of which
is a rolling circle carrying an arm of adjustable length. In our
earliest work we performed the solution arithmetically, after that
kinematically. If the distance between the two parallel planes is
moderate in comparison with 2 a (the effective diameter of the
rotator), j for the beginning of the collision with one plane has to be
calculated from the end of the preceding collision against the other
plane by a transcendental equation, on the same principle as that
which we have just been considering. But I have supposed the
distance between the two planes to be very great, practically in
finite, in comparison with 2 a, and we have therefore found t by
lottery for each collision, using 180 cards corresponding to 180° of
angle. In the case of the biassed globe, different equally probable
values of i through a range of 360° was required, and we found them
by drawing from the pack of 180 cards and tossing a coin for plus or
minus.
    § 42. Summation for 110 flights of the rotator, consisting of two
equal masses, gave as the time-integral of the whole energy, 200 - 03,
and an excess of rotatory above translatory, 42-05. This is just
21 per cent, of the whole ; a large deviation from the Boltzmann

388                            Lord Kehin                     [April 27,
Maxwell doctrine, which makes the time-integrals of translatory
and rotatory energies equal.
     § 43. In the solution for the biassed ball (masses 1 and 100), we
found great irregularities due to " runs of luck " in the toss for plus
or minus, especially when there was a succession of five or six pluses
or five or six minuses. We therefore, after calculating a sequence of
200 flights with angles each determined by lottery, calculated a
second sequence of 200 flights with the equally probable set of angles
given by the same numbers with altered signs. The summation for
the whole 400 gave 555-55 as the time-integral of the whole energy,
and an excess, 82 • 5, of the time-integral of the translatory, over the
time-integral of the rotatory energy. This is nearly 15 per cent.
We cannot, however, feel great confidence in this result, because the
first set of 200 made the translatory energy less than the rotatory
energy by a small percentage (2-3) of the whole, while the second
200 gave an excess of translatory over rotatory amounting to 35 - 9
per cent, of the whole.
     § 44. All our examples considered in detail or worked out, hitherto,
belong to Class I. of § 28. As a first example of Class II., con
sider a case merging into the geodetic line on a closed surface S.
Instead of the point being constrained to remain on the surface, let
it be under the influence of a field of force, such that it is attracted
towards the surface with a finite force, if it is placed anywhere very
near the surface on either side of it, so that if the particle be placed
on 8 and projected perpendicularly to it, either inwards or outwards,
it will be brought back before it goes farther from the surface than
a distance h, small in comparison with the shortest radius of curvature
of any part of the surface. The Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine asserts
 that the time-integral of kinetic energy of component motion normal
 to the surface, would be equal to half the kinetic energy of component
 motion at right angles to the normal ; by normal being meant, a
 straight line drawn from the actual position of the point at any time
 perpendicular to the nearest part of the surface S. This, if true,
 would be a very remarkable proposition. If h is infinitely small, we
 have simply the mathematical condition of constraint to remain on
 the surface, and the path of the particle is exactly a geodetic line.
 If the force towards 8 is zero, when the distance on either side of 8 is
  + h, we have the case of a particle placed between two guiding
 surfaces with a very small distance, 2 h, between them. If S, and
 therefore each of the guiding surfaces, is in every normal section
 convex outwards, and if the particle is placed on the outer guide-
 surface, and projected in any direction in it, with any velocity, great
 or small, it will remain on that guide-surface for ever, and travel
 along a geodetic line. If now it be deflected very slightly from
 motion in that surface, so that it will strike against the inner guide-
 surface, we may be quite ready to learn, that the energy of knocking
 about between the two surfaces, will grow up from something very
 small in the beginning, till, in the long run, its time-integral is

1900.]         on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.               389
comparable with the time-integral of the energy of component motion
parallel to the tangent plane of either surface. But will its ultimate
value be exactly half that of the tangential energy, as the doctrine
tells us it would be ? We are, however, now back to Class I. ; we
should have kept to Class II., by making the normal force on the
particle always finite, however great.
    § 45. Very interesting cases of Class II., § 28, occur to us readily
in connection with the cases of Class I. worked out in §§ 38, 41,
42, 43.
    § 46. Let the radius of the large circle in § 38 becomo infinitely
great : we have now a plane F (floor) with semicircular cylindric
hollows, or semicircular hollows as we shall say for brevity ; the
motion being confined to one plane perpendicular to F, and to the
edges of the hollows. For definiteness we shall take for F tho plane
of the edges of the hollows. Instead now of a particle after collision
flying along the chord of the circle of § 38, it would go on for ever
in a straight line. To bring it back to the plane F, let it be acted on
either (a) by a force towards the plane in simple proportion to the dis
tance, or (/J) by a constant force. This latter supposition        presents
to us the very interesting case of an elastic ball bouncing from a cor
rugated floor, and describing gravitational parabolas in its successive
flights, the durations of the different flights being in simplo proportion
to the component of velocity perpendicular to the plane F. The sup
position (a) is purely ideal ; but, it is interesting because it gives a
half curve of sines for each flight, and makes tho times of flight from
F aftor a collision and back again to F the same for all the flights,
whatever be the inclination on leaving the floor and returning to it.
The supposition (/?) is illustrated in Fig. 8, with only the variation
that the corrugations are convex instead of concave, and that two
vertical planes are fixed to reflect back the particle, instead of allowing
it to travel indefinitely, either to right or to left.
    § 47. Let the rotator of §§ 41 to 43, instead of bouncing to and fro
between two parallel planes, impinge only on one plane F, and let it
be brought back by a force through its centre of inertia, either (a)
varying in simple proportion to the distance of the centre of inertia
from F, or (j3) constant. Here, as in § 46, the times of flight in case
(a) are all the same, and in (/J) they are in simple proportion to the
velocity of its centre of inertia when it leaves F or returns to it.
    § 48. In the cases of §§ 46, 47, we have to consider the time-
integral for each flight of the kinetic energy of the component
velocity of the particle perpendicular to F, and of the whole velocity of
the centre of inertia ot the rotator, which is itself perpendicular to F.
If q denotes the velocity perpendicular to F of the particle, or of the
centre of inertia of the rotator, at the instants of crossing F at
the beginning and end of the flight, and if 2 denotes the mass of the
particle or of the rotator so that the kinetic energy is the same as
the square of the velocity, the time-integral is in case (a) £ j2 T and in
case (/?) q - T, the time of the flight being denoted in each case by T.

 390                           Lord Kelvin                  [April 27,
 In both (a) and (/?), § 46, if we call 1 the velocity of the particle,
 which is always the same, we have q1 = sin2 6, and the other com
 ponent of the energy is cos2 6. In § 47 it is convenient to call
re-
 the total energy 1 ; and thus 1 — g2 is the total rotational energy,
 which is constant throughout the flight. Hence, remembering that
 the times of flight are all the same in case (a) and are proportional

1900.]           on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.             391
to the value of g in case (/3) ; in case (a), whether of § 46 or § 47, the
time-integrals of the kinetic energies to be compared are as £ 2 g2
to 2 (1 — g2), and in case (/?) they are as ^ 2 g3 and 2 q (1 — g2).
     § 49. Hence with the following notation—
  T s       I time-integral of kinetic energy perpendicular to F, = V
  An9 °\               „           „            parallel to        F, = U
                                 translatory energy = V
  In §47 |                      rotatory      „      =R
we have                       I — 2 g2 — 1) in case (o)
                      V - U        2(1 -ig2)
                      v+u       - *(t g3 - g)
                                                       (fi)
                                   2(g-?g3)
                                = S(fgj-1)
                                                  „ («)
                      V - R        2(1 -£g2)
                      V + R = S(lg'-g) » 08)
                                   2(g-?g3)
     § 49. By the processes described above, g was calculated for the
 single particle and corrugated floor (§ 46), and for the rotator of
 two equal masses each impinging on a fixed plane (§§ 41, 42), and
 for the biassed ball (central and eccentric masses 100 and 1 respec
 tively, §§ 41, 43). Taking these values of g, summing g, g2 and
 g3 for all the flights, and using the results in § 48, we find the
 following six results :
      Single particle bounding from corrugated floor (semicircular
 hollows), 143 flights :—
          V — U ( = + -197 for isochronous sinusoidal flights.
          V -f- U ( = + ' 136 for gravitational parabolic „
      Rotator of two equal masses, 110 flights : —
             — R ( = — •- 150
          V -f.                       gravitationalsinusoidal
                             179 for isochronous                  „
                                                    parabolic flights.
      Biassed ball, 400 flights :—
          V — R ( = + • 025 for isochronous sinusoidal flights.
          V + R \ = — -014 for gravitational parabolic            „
      The smallness of the deviation of the last two results from what
 the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine makes them, is very remarkable
 when we compare it with the 15 per cent, which we have found
 (§ 43 above) for the biassed ball bounding free from force, to and
 fro between two parallel planes.
              -'
               i

 392                            Lord Kelvin                   [April 27,
      § 50. The last case of partition of energy which we have worked
 out statistically, relates to an impactual problem belonging partly
 to Class I., § 28, and partly to Class II. It was designed as a
 nearer approach to practical application in thermodynamics than
 any of those hitherto described. It is, in fact, a one-dimensional
 illustration of the kinetic theory of gases. Suppose a row of a vast
 number of atoms, of equal masses, to be allowed freedom to move only
 in a straight line between fixed bounding planes L and K. Let P
 the atom next K be caged between it and a parallel plane C, at a
 distance from it very small in comparison with the average of tho
free paths of the other particles ; and let Q, the atom next to P, be
 perfectly free to cross the cage-front C, without experiencing force
from it. Thus, while Q gets freely into the cage to strike P,
 P cannot follow it out beyond the cage-front. The atoms being all
 equal, every simple impact would produce merely an interchange of
 velocities between the colliding atoms, and no new velocity could
be introduced, if the atoms were perfectly hard (§ 16 above), because
this implies that no three can be in collision at the same time. I do
 not, however, limit the present investigation to perfectly hard atoms.
 But, to simplify our calculations, we shall suppose P and Q to be
 infinitely hard. All the other atoms we shall suppose to have the
 property defined in § 21 above. They may pass through one another
 in a simple collision, and go asunder each with its previous velocity
 unaltered, if the differential velocity be sufficiently great; they
 must recoil from one another with interchanged velocities if the
initial differential velocity was not great enough to cause them to
 go through one another. Fresh velocities will generally be intro
duced, by three atoms being in collision at the same time, so that even
if the velocities were all equal, to begin with, inequalities would
supervene in virtue of three or more atoms being in collision at the
same time ; whether the initial differential velocities be small enough
to result in two recoils, or whether one or both the mutual approaches
lead to a passage or passages through one anothor. Whether the
distribution of velocities, which must ultimately supervene, is or is
not according to the Maxwellian law, we need not decide in our
minds ; but, as a first example, I have supposed the whole multitude
to be given with velocities distributed among them according to that
law (which, if they were infinitely hard, they would keep for ever
after) ; and wo shall further suppose equal average spacing in
different parts of the row, so that we need not be troubled with the
consideration of waves, as it were of sound, running to and fro along
the row.
     § 51. For our present problem we require two lotteries, to find the
influential conditions at each instant, when Q cntors P's cage—
lottery I. for the velocity (p) of Q at impact ; lottery II. for the
phase of P's motion. For lottery I. (after trying 837 smidl squares
of paper with velocities written on them and mixed in a. bowl, and
finding the plan unsatisfactory), we took nine stiff cards/, numbered

       1900.]         on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.                 393
       1, 2 ... . 9, of the size of ordinary playing cards, with rounded
       corners, with one hundred numbers written on each in ton linos of
       ten numbers. The velocities on each card are shown on the following
       table. The number of times each velocity occurs was chosen to
                                                                                 - ¦*
       fulfil as nearly as may be the Maxwellian law, which is C d v < *
        = the number of velocities between v + ^ d v and v — ^ d v. We
       took h = 1, which, if d v were infinitely small, would make the mean
       of the squares of the velocities equal exactly to ' 5 ; we took d v = . 1
       and C d v = 108, to give, as nearly as circumstances would allow, the
            Table showing the Numbeb of the Diffebent Velocities on the
                                      Diffebent Cabds.
  Velodty. -i                                12 13 14     1-6 1-7    1-9 , 2 0 21 2-2
  Card 1 IDii
     „ 2      7
     „ 3         lti
         4
    „ 5 ,               si
         6
    „ 7                        57
         8                            40 29
    n 9                                   3     19 15 1 1                             2t>
 Sums of i                     57 -IS 10 82
velocities/ 107 108  92 84 75                   19 15 11                              900
      Maxwellian law, and to make the total number of different velocities
      900. The sum of the squares of all these 900 velocities is 468*4,
      which divided by 900 is '52. In the practice of this lottery, the
       numbered cards were well shufBed and then one was drawn ; the
       particular one of the hundred velocities on this card to be chosen was
      found by drawing one card from a pack of one hundred numbered
       1, 2. . . 99, 100. In lottery II. a pack of one hundred cards is used to
      draw one of ono hundred decimal numbers from '01 to 1-00. The
      decimal drawn, called a, shows the proportion of the whole period of
      P from the cage-front C, to K, and back to C, still unperformed at
      the instant when Q crosses C. Mow remark, that if Q overtakes P in
      the first half of its period, it gives its velocity, v, to P and follows it
      inwards ; and therefore there must be a second impact when P meets
      it after reflection from K and gives it back the velocity t which it
      had on entering. If Q meets P in the second half of its period, Q
           Vol. XVI. (No. 94.)                                         2d

394                            Lord Kelvin                    [April 27,
will, by the first impact, get P's original velocity, and may with this
velocity escape from the cage. But it may be overtaken by P before
it gets out of the cage, in which case it will go away from the cage
with its own original velocity v unchanged. This occurs always if,
and never unless, u is less than v a ; P's velocity being denoted by «,
and Q's by v. This case of Q overtaken by P can only occur if the
entering velocity of Q is greater than the speed of P before collision.
Except in this case, P's speed is unchanged by the collision.
Hence we see, that it is only when P's speed is greater than Q's
before collision, that there can be interchange, and this interchange
leaves P with less speed than Q. If every collision involved inter
change, the average velocity of P would be equalised by the collisions
to the average velocity of Q, and the average distribution of different
velocities would be identical for Q and P. Non-fulfilment of this
equalising interchange can, as we have seen, only occur when Q's
speed is less than P's, and therefore the average speed and the
average kinetic energy of P must be less than the average kinetic
energy of Q.
    § 52. We might be satisfied with this, as directly negativing the
Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine for this case. It is, however, interesting
to know, not only that the average kinetic energy of Q is greater than
that of the caged atom, but, further, to know how much greater it is.
We have therefore worked out summations for 300 collisions between
P and Q, beginning with u2 = -5 (a = '71), being approximately
the mean of v2 as given by the lottery. It would have made no
appreciable difference in the result if we had begun with any value of
«, large or small, other than zero. Thus, for example, if we had
taken 100 as the first value of u, this speed would have been taken by
Q at the first impact, and sent away along the practically infinite row,
never to be heard of again ; and the next value of « would have been
the first value drawn by lottery for v. Immediately before each of
the subsequent impacts, the velocity of P is that which it had from Q
by the preceding impact. In our work, the speeds which P actually
had at the first sixteen times of Q's entering the cage were -71, -5, -3,
 •2, -2, -1, -1, -2, -2, -5, -7, -2, -3, -6, 1-5, -5— from which we
see how little effect the choice of -71 for the first speed of P had on
those that follow. The summations were taken in successive groups
of ten ; in every one of these 2 »3 exceeded 2 u2. For the 300 we
found 2 »3 = 148-53 and Ju! = 61-62, of which the former is 2-41
times the latter. The two ought to be equal according to the
Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine. Dividing 2 »2 by 300 we find -495,
which chances to more nearly the -5 we intended than the -52 which
is on the cards (§ 51 above). A still greater deviation (2-71 instead
of 2-41) was found by taking 2»3 and 2 u'2 v to allow for greater
probability of impact with greater than with smaller values of v ; u!
being the velocity of P after collision with Q.
    § 53. We have seen in § 52 that 2 «2 must be less than 2 t>2,
but it seemed interesting to find how much less it would be with

1900].          on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.           395
some other than the Maxwellian law of distribution of velocities.
We therefore arranged cards for a lottery, with an arbitrarily chosen
distribution, quite different from the Maxwellian. Eleven cards,
each with one of the eleven numbers 1, 3 ... . 19, 21, to correspond
to the different velocities . 1, . 3 . . . . 1 ' 9, 2 ' 1, were prepared
and used instead of the nine cards in the process described in § 51
above. In all except one of the eleven tens, 2 »2 was greater than
2»5, and for the whole 110 impacts we found 2»2 = 179-90, and
2u2 = 97*66 ; the former of these is 1-84 times the latter. In this
case we found the ratio of 2 v3 to 2 u'2 v to be 1 ' 87.
     § 54. In conclusion, I wish to refer, in connection with Class II.
§ 28, to a very interesting and important application of the doctrine,
made by Maxwell himself, to the equilibrium of a tall column of
gas under the influence of gravity. Take, first, our one-dimensional
gas of § 50, consisting of a straight row of a vast number of equal
and similar atoms. Let now the line of the row be vertical, and let
the atoms be under the influence of terrestrial gravity, and suppose,
first, the atoms to resist mutual approach, sufficiently to prevent
any one from passing through another with the greatest relative
velocity of approach that the total energy given to the assemblage
can allow. The Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine (§ 18 above) assert
ing as it does that the time integral of the kinetic energy is the
same for all the atoms, makes the time-average of the kinetic energy
the same for the highest as for the lowest in the row. This, if true,
would be an exceedingly interesting theorem. But now, suppose two
approaching atoms not to repel one another with infinite force at any
distance between their centres, and suppose energy to be given to
the multitude sufficient to cause frequent instances of two atoms
passing through one another. Still the doctrine can assert nothing
but that the time-integral of the kinetic energy of any one atom is
equal to that of any other atom, which is now a self-evident pro
position, because the atoms are of equal masses, and each one of them
in turn will be in every position of the column, high or low. (If in
the row there are atoms of different masses, the Waterston-Maxwell
doctrine of equal average energies would, of course, be important and
 interesting.)
     § 55. But now, instead of our ideal one-dimensional gas, consider
a real homogeneous gas, in an infinitely hard vertical tube, with an
infinitely hard floor and roof, so that the gas is under no influence
from without, except gravity. First, let there be only two or three
atoms, each given with sufficient velocity to fly against gravity from
floor to roof. They will strike one another occasionally, and they
 will strike the sides and floor and roof of the tube much more fre
 quently than one another. The time-averages of their kinetic
 energies will be equal. So will they be if there are twenty atoms, or
 a thousand atoms, or a million, million, million, million, million
 atoms. Now each atom will strike another atom much more fre
 quently than the sides or floor or roof of the tube. In the long run
                                                             2 d 2

 896                              Lord Kelvin                         [April 27,
 each atom will be in every part of the tube as often as is every other
 atom. The time-integral of the kinetic energy of any one atom will
 be equal to the time-integral of the kinetic energy of any other atom.
 This truism is simply and solely all that the Boltzmann-Maxwell
 doctrine asserts for a vertical column of a homogeneous monatomio
 gas. It is, I believe, a general impression that the Boltzmann-
 Maxwell doctrine, asserting a law of partition of the kinetic part of
 the whole energy, includes obviously a theorem that the average
 kinetic energy of the atoms in the npper parts of a vertical column of
 gas, are equal to those of the atoms in the lower parts of the column.
Indeed, with the wording of Maxwell's statement, § 18, before us,
we might suppose it to assert that two parts of our vertical column
of gas, if they contain the same number of atoms, must have the same
kinetic energy, though they be situated, one of them near the bottom
of the column, and the other near the top. Maxwell himself, in his
 1866 paper (' The Dynamical Theory of Gases '),* gave an independent
synthetical demonstration of this proposition, and did not subsequently,
so far as I know, regard it as immediately deducible from the
partitional doctrine generalised by Boltzmann and himself several
years after the date of that paper.
     § 56. Both Boltzmann and Maxwell recognised the experimental
contradiction of their doctrine presented by the kinetic theory of
gases, and felt that an explanation of this incompatibility was
imperatively called for. For instance, Maxwell, in a lecture on the
dynamical evidence of the molecular constitution of bodies, given to
the Chemical Society, Feb. 18, 1875, said : " I have put before you
" what I consider to be the greatest difficulty yet encountered by the
" molecular theory. Boltzmann has suggested that we are to look for
" the explanation in the mutual action between the molecules and the
" ethereal medium which surrounds them. I am afraid, however, that
" if we call in the help of this medium we shall only increase the
" calculated specific heat, which is already too great." Itayleigh, who
has for the last twenty years been an unwavering supporter of the
Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine, concludes a paper ' On the Law of
Partition of Energy,' published a year ago in the Phil. Mag., Jan.
1900, with the following words : " The difficulties connected with
" the application of the law of equal partition of energy to actual gases
" have long been felt. In the case of argon and helium and mercury
"vapour, the ratio of specific heats (1 - 67) limits the degrees of freedoms
" of each molecule to the three required for translatory motion. The
" valuo (1 • 4) applicable to the principal diatomic gases, gives room for
"the three kmds of translation and for two kinds of rotation. Nothing
" is left for rotation round the line joining the atoms, nor for relative
" motion of the atoms in this line. Even if we regard the atoms as
" mere points, whose rotation means nothing, there must still exist
     * Addition, of <iate December 17, 1866. Collected works, vol. ii. p. 76.

1900].          on the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light.           397
" energy of the last-mentioned kind, and its amount (according to law)
" should not be inferior.
    " We are here brought face to face with a fundamental difficulty,
" relating not to the theory of gases merely, but rather to general
"dynamics. In most questions of dynamics, a condition whose violation
" involves a large amount of potential energy may be treated as a
" constraint. It is on this principle that solids are regarded as rigid,
" strings as inextensible, and so on. And it is upon the recognition
" of such constraints that Lagrange's method is founded. But the law
" of equal partition disregards potential energy. However great may
" be the energy required to alter the distance of the two atoms in a
"diatomic molecule, practical rigidity is never secured, and the kinetio
" energy of the relative motion in the line of junction is the same as if
"the tie were of the feeblest. The two atoms, however related, remain
" two atoms, and the degrees of freedom remain six in number.
    " What would appear to be wanted is some escape from the
" destructive simplicity of the general conclusion."
    The simplest way of arriving at this desired result is to deny the
conclusion ; and so, in the beginning of the twentieth century, to lose
sight of a cloud which has obscured the brilliance of the molecular
theory of heat and light during the last quarter of the nineteenth
century.
                                                                 [K.]

     398                             Annual Meeting.                         [May 1,
                                Tuesday, May
                            ANNUAL                1, 1900.
                                              MEETING,
                Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.E.S.,
                     Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
         The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
     1899, testifying to the continued prosperity and efficient management
     of the Institution, was read and adopted, and the Report on the Davy
     Faraday Research Laboratory of the Royal Institution, which accom
     panied it, was also read.
         Sixty-three new Members were elected in 1899.
         Sixty Lectures, Seventeen Evening Discourses and two Centenary
     Commemoration Lectures were delivered in 1899.
         The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1899 amounted to about
     280 volumes, making, with 672 volumes (including Periodicals bound)
     purchased by the Managers, a total of 952 volumes added to the
     Library in the year.
         Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and the Honorary
     Secretary, to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the
     Professors, for their valuable services to the Institution during the
     past year.
          The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
     for the ensuing year :
          Pbesident—The Duke of Northumberland, E.G. F.S.A.
          Tbeasubeb—Sir James Crichton-Browne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
          Secbetaby—Sir William Crookes, F.R.S.
                  Managebs.                                    Visitobs.
Sir Frederick Abel, Bart. K.C.B. D.C.L. LL.D.  Charles Edward Beeror, M.D. F.R.C.P.
    F.R.S.                                     William Henry Bennett, Esq. F.R.C.S.
 Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart. D.C.L. LL.D.    W. A. B. Burdett-Coutts, Esq. M.P. M.A.
    F.R.S. M.Inst.C.E.                         Joseph G. Gordon, Esq. F.C.S.
Thomas Buzzard, M.D. F.R.C.P.                  Maures Horner, Esq. J.P. F.R.A.S.
Sir William James Farrer, M.A. F.S.A.          Sir Alexander Campbell Mackenzie, Mus.Doc.
Hugh Leonard, Esq. F.S.A. M.Inst.C.E.          Henry Francis Makins, Esq. F.R.G.S.
The Right Hon. Lord Lister, M.D. D.C.L.        Carl Edward Melchers, Esq.
   LL.D. Pres.R.S. F.R.C.S.                    John Callander Ross, Esq.
Frank McClean, Esq. M.A. LL.D. F.R.S.          William James Russell, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.
   F.R.A.S.                                    Alan A. Campbell Swinton, Esq. M.Inst.C.E.
 Raphael Meldola, Esq. F.R.S. F.R.A.S.         Sir James Vaughan, B.A. J.P.
Ludwig Mond, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.                 John Jewell Vezey, Esq. F.R.M.S.
Sir Andrew Noble, K.C.B. F.R.S. M.Inst.C.E.    Colonel H. Watkin, C.B. R.A.
Alexander Siemens, Esq. M.Inst.C.E.            James Wimshurst, Esq. F.R.S.
Basil Woodd Smith, Esq. F.R.A.S. F.S.A.
 William Hugh Spottiswoode, Esq. F.C.S.
The Hon. Sir James Stirling, M.A. LL D.
 Sir Henry Thompson, Bart. F.R.C.S. F.R.A.S.
1

1900.]                  Pottery and Plumbism.                        399
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 4, 1900.
        Sib William Cbookes, F.R.S., Honorary Secretary and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
     Pbofessob T. E. Thobpe, Ph.D. LL.D. D.Sc. F.E.S. M.R.I.
                         Pottery and Plumbism.
 When I came in here this afternoon to see to the arrangement of the
 specimens with which I wish to illustrate what I have to bring before
 you to-night, I was so forcibly impressed with the unwonted appear
ance of this table—an appearance, it seemed to me, of domesticity
 bordering on the commonplace, that I feel that something almost in
 the nature of an apology is due to you. I venture, however, to
 remind you that the subject of my discourse is precisely of that
 character which the eminent founder of this Institution had in view
 when he established it. Count Rumford created the Royul Institution
 with the object " of diffusing a knowledge and facilitating the general
 introduction of useful mechanical inventions and improvements ; and
 for teaching, by courses of philosophical lectures and experiments, the
 application of science to the common purposes of life."
     I need hardly tell you that the craft of the potter largely depends
 upon the intelligent application of scientific principles. Whether,
 however, science has entered into it to the extent that might be
 desired is, perhaps, open to question. At all events, I shall have
 failed in my object to-night if I do not succeed in showing you that
 the application of simple chemical principles may largely obviate one
of the evils with which that craft, as practised in this country, is
attended.
     Many in this room are, no doubt, aware that within recent times
public attention has been pointedly drawn to the serious amount of
lead poisoning which follows the use of compounds of lead in various
operations in the manufacture of pottory. This lead poisoning is
mainly to be attributed to the solubility of these compounds in the
secretions of the body, as in the saliva, mucus, and especially in the
gastric juice. The lead may be introduced into the system in a
variety of ways— thus, it may be breathed as dust derived from the
dried and finely-divided glazing material, or from pigments used in
decoration ; or it may be conveyed to the mouth by eating food with im
perfectly washed hands, and in other ways which I need not particu
larise. It is not necessary to trouble you with any account of the

400                     Profetsor T. E. TJiorpe                 [May 4,
digressing nature of lead poisoning ; of the total or partial paralysis,
sometimes ending in death, to which it gives rise ; of the blindness,
debility, and prolonged misery which, even in its less acute forms, it
occasions. Nor do I care to dwell upon the statistics the authorities
have been able to collect respecting its prevalence. It is sufficient to
say that it is allowed by all to have existed to an extent which con
stitutes a grave reflection upon the conduct of one of the most
important of our staple industries, and public sentiment has demanded
that some steps shall be taken to remove the evil.
    A very few words will serve to explain to you how the mischief
arises. Without attempting to be comprehensive or to enter into too
great detail, I may say that, broadly speaking, the articles of pottery
with which I shall concern myself to-night, in order to explain the
position, group themselves into the two main classes of earthenware
and china or porcelain.
    Earthenware is made of a mixture of so called ball-clay, china-
clay, china-stone, and flint. The ball-clay and china-clay are sub
stantially more or less pure silicate of alumina, derived from the
decomposition of felspar; the china-stone is a silicate of alumina
containing more or less undecomposed felspar ; and flint is practically
pure silica. These substances, in various proportions, and intimately
commingled, constitute the paste from which the article of earthen
ware is fashioned. The various modes of fashioning the article,
whether by throwing on the wheel, pressing, or casting, I need not
stop to explain.
    The articles so made, after a preliminary drying, are packed in
large earthenware vessels made of fireclay, technically known as
" saggers," and are heated to a temperature, depending on their
nature, in an oven. In this form the fired ware is known as
" biscuit." It is hard and sonorous, but is pervious to liquids,
and on account of its slightly roughened surface, would rapidly
collect dust, and thereby become soiled. For most purposes, there
fore, it requires to be glazed—that is, coated with some sufficiently
fusible material capable of rendering it impervious to liquids.
    The greater part of the ]>orcelain made in this country is of the
variety known as soft-paste porcelain, and differs essentially from
that made in China or in various Continental countries. Chinese
and Continental porcelains consist mainly of mixtures of china-clay
and felspar. English porcelain is composed of china-clay and china-
stone, mixed with nearly their joint weight of bone-ash or phosphate
of lime. The English porcelain or bone " biscuit," like earthenware
" biscuit," is pervious to liquids, and therefore requires to be glazed.
    The glazing of both varieties is done in substantially the same
manner— that is, the articles are dipped in a thin cream-like fluid
containing, in a state of suspension, finely divided double silicates,
or silico-boiates of alumina, alkalis and alkaline-earths, associated
for the most part with lead compounds in amount often reaching to
half the weight of the glazing material.

 1900.]                 on Pottery and Plumbism.                    401
      The capillarity of the porous biscuit draws in a certain amount
 of the cream-like liquid, causing the deposition upon its surface of
 a thin film of the glazing material. The article is then allowed to
 dry, is trimmed or cleaned, if necessary, to remove any aggregation
 or superfluity of the glazing material from its edges, or other pro
jecting parts, and again placed in the " saggers," and re-heated in
another oven, technically known as a " glost oven," so as to cause
 the glazing material to fuse, and spread evenly over the body of
 the ware as a transparent vitreous covering. If the article is
 decorated by a coloured design, this is usually done before dipping,
 the " biscuit " being either painted in so-called underglaze colours,
or the design transferred to it from a lithographic print, or other
 wise manipulated, depending on the character of the decoration.
     (The lecturer here exhibited several slides upon the screen of
 photographs lent by the Rev. Malcolm Graham, vicar of St. Paul's,
 Burslem, and Mr. J. H. Walmsley, H.M. Inspector of factories, Stoke.
 These showed groups of workpeople engaged in the various processes
of the manufacture of pottery in which lead is used.)
     Proceeding, he said :—Some judgment is required in the selec
 tion of the materials needed to form an appropriate glaze. The
glaze to be efficient should be clear, transparent and lustrous.
It should not only be without injurious action on any colours it
may have to cover, but ought, if possible, to enhance their brilliancy.
It must be sufficiently thin, and of a proper degree of fusibility, so
as not to interfere with or impair any modolling on the ware. It
must be sufficiently hard and insoluble to resist a fair amount of
wear, especially in culinary articles-, or those intended for general
domestic use ; and it must not be attacked by such acids as may be
found in food. Lastly, it must not " craze " : that is, it must have
substantially the same thermal expansibility as the body of the
article to which it adheres, otherwise it will chip off, or break up
into cracks. Crazing not only renders the ware unsightly, but causes
it, in the course of time, especially in the case of culinary and table
ware, to absorb oils and fats, &c., and thus to become unclean, and,
it is said, to harbour even the ubiquitous microbe.
     These conditions are, on the whole, fairly well realised in
ordinary earthenware. It is, however, in hard porcelain, and more
especially in the masterpieces of Oriental manufacture, and in the
produce of the leading Continental factories, and, to a large extent
in the soft porcelain made in this country by the best makers, that
the finest results are obtained. This, in the case of hard porcelain,
is due mainly to the circumstance that the chemical nature of the
glaze more nearly approaches that of the body of the ware than is
the case with earthenware, and that at the high temperature at which
the porcelain is fired, there is a more complete interfusion of the
glaze and the biscuit.
     Moreover, the glaze of hard porcelain, being practically fused
felspar, is harder even than glass, and much more resistant to the

402                      Professor T. E. Thorpe                  [May 4,
action of ordinary acids and alkalis. For this reason the analytical
chemist prefers to use vessels of hard porcelain rather than of glass
in operations in which it is desirable to exclude minute portions of
foreign substances. At the same time, experience has shown that the
susceptibility of glass to the action of water, or solutions of alkalis,
acids and salts, may be considerably modified by due regard to its
composition.
    By far the greater portion of the domestic and sanitary ware and
china made in this country, together with a great variety of articles,
such as glazed bricks, wall- and hearth-tiles, so-called " china furni
ture"—door-knobs, finger-plates, escutcheons, bell-handle fittings,
discs for water-taps, &c.,—electrical sundries, as insulators and fittings
for electric-light installations—and countless other articles employed
partly for use and partly for ornament, are glazed with materials
containing compounds of lead.
    The lead may be present in the dipping tub as white lead or
red lead, together known technically as " raw " lead, or these sub
stances or litharge may be previously heated with some form of
sufficiently pure silica—usually in this country calcined and pow
dered flint—whereby a fusible lead silicate is formed, which is then
powdered and mixed with the other materials of the glaze. Or
the red lead or litharge may be added to a mixture of powdered flint
and china-stone, or china-clay and felspar, and the whole fused
together to form what is substantially a double silicate of lead and
alumina, with, it may be, small quantities of admixed lime and
alkalis, this fritt being added as before, in the requisite proportion
to the rest of the glazing materials, such as borax, chalk, flint,
china-stone, also, for the most part, previously fritted together ;
or, lastly, the whole materials of the glaze may be melted together,
so as to form a vitreous, homogeneous mass.
    The practice diners in different works, and is, for the most part,
purely empirical ; each manufacturer adhering as closely as he can
to the composition which he finds by experience gives what he is
content to regard as satisfactory when used in conjunction with the
particular mixture of ball-clay, china-stone, china-clay and flint, &c.,
he employs for the body of the ware, and when fired or otherwise
manipulated as he deems best. Hence it follows that no two manu
facturers use a glaze of precisely the same proximate or ultimate
chemical composition, unless, indeed, they have been supplied, as not
infrequently happens, with their glazing material from a professional
glaze-maker.
    The amount of lead, calculated as lead oxide, and on the dry
material of the glaze, in the case of earthenware or ordinary English
china, may vary from 12 or 13 per cent, to as much as 21 or 22 per
cent. That used for covering tiles, especially the decorated and
coloured varieties, may contain upwards of half its weight of lead
oxide. This lead oxide may either be as " raw " lead—that is, white
lead or occasionally red lead ; or it may be " fritted " lead—that is,

1900.]                 on Pottery and Plumbism.                      403
a simple silicate of lead containing about 70 per cent, of lead oxide ;
or it may be as a double or compound silicate of lead, alumina and
lime, &c., containing from 20 to 50 per cent., or even more, of oxide
of lead.
    There must, of course, be some advantage attending the use of lead
compounds in earthenware and soft china glazes, otherwise their
employment would not be practically universal. There can be no
question that lead glazes do, on the whole, fairly fulfil the properties
needed in a glaze. They are transparent and lustrous, have no hurt
ful action on such colour-producing oxides as are used in decoration ;
they are sufficiently hard, unless the amount of lead is excessive, and
hence stand a reasonable amount of wear ; they are not absolutely
unattacked by acids, but provided that the amount of lead is not too
large, vinegar and the acids which may be present in food are without
any very marked solvent action. Lastly, unless the covering is very
thick, or its composition is such as to constitute an injudicious adapt
ation to that of the body, the glazing does not, as a rule, " craze " to
an inconvenient extent. To these advantages must be added that of
ready fusibility ; hence the " glost oven " may be fired at a relatively
low temperature, which means not only economy in time and fuel, but
less risk of loss by deformation of the ware.
    Unfortunately, as you have been told, these advantages have been
purchased at the cost of a good deal of human suffering, and, as you
have learned, of late years the evil of plumbism in the potteries has
grown to such an extent as to constitute a grave scandal. The Homo
Office, with whom is vested the superintendence of the execution of the
Factory and Workshops Acts, has more than once attempted to deal
with this evil. A section of the Press has roused the attention of the
public to its magnitude, and Parliament has at length intervened and
demanded that something shall be done to arrest it
    About a couple of years ago the Home Secretary determined to in
stitute a special inquiry into the hygienic question involved in the uso
of lead compounds in pottery processes, with a view of ascertaining—
    (1) How far the danger might be diminished or removed by sub
stituting for the " raw " lead ordinarily used either a less soluble
compound of lead or a " leadless " glaze.
    (2) Whether such substitutes lent themselves to the varied
practical requirements of the manufacturers.
    (3) What other preventive measures could be adopted.
    From the report, which was made in the spring of last year, and
which is printed as a Parliamentary paper, it appears that the workers
in all departments of the manufacture in which lead compounds are
used, are liable to become, as it is called, " leaded." Among these
operatives were the glaze-dippers and their assistants ; those who
clean or trim the dipped ware, and those who place it in the glost
oven ; majolica paintresses, and others, men and women, engaged in
various ways in colouring and decorating the ware with pigments
containing lead compounds.

 404                      Professor T. E. Thorpe                  [May 4,
     Compounds of lead have been employed by the potter in one form
 or other from time immemorial : they are such valuable adjuncts that it
 is not to be supposed that he will lightly abandon their use. Indeed
 absolute prohibition of lead compounds in the pottery industry is
 hardly practicable, for there are certain branches of the manufacture
 in which it appears to be impossible to dispense with them. Moreover,
 no such prohibition is in force among Continental manufacturers who
 compete with our own producers, not only at home, but in almost every
 foreign market.
     Lead poisoning among pottery manufacturers is not unknown on
 the Continent ; but it is by no means so common as with us. This
 fuct at once seems to show that it is rather the manner in which the
 lead compounds are used than their actual use which occasions the
mischief. When we inquire what it is in Continental procedure that
 occasions this marked difference, we are at once struck with the fact
 that what is known as "raw" lead—that is, the white lead or red
 lead - is comparatively seldom employed on the Continent in the
mixture in the glaze-tub. In the greater number of well-organised
 Continental factories the lead employed is mainly " fritted," that is, it
is used in the form of a double silicate. The fact that " fritted " lead
is, as a rule, more innocuous than " raw " lead is not unknown to the
pottery world, and in an inquiry which was instituted by the Home
Office in 1893, manufacturers whose names deservedly carry authority
in the pottery districts strongly urged the substitution of " fritted "
lead for " raw " lead in all glazes. Unfortunately, however, this
recommendation was not enforced. This may have been due, partly
at least, to the circumstance that cases of plumbism occurred from time
to time in works where " fritted " lead was exclusively used. The
fact is, there is " fritted " lead and " fritted " lead. And now I come
to the first of the two main points of my lecture.
     You are aware that the toxic action of lead depends upon its
solubility in the system, especially by the aid of the gastric juice. I
wish, therefore, to explain to you, as shortly as possible, the results of
a recent inquiry into the conditions which determine the case with
which lead may be dissolved out from a " fritt " by dilute acids, such
as are present in gastric juice. The conditions which determine its
solubility may be said to determine its toxic action.
     In the course of this inquiry I have, with the assistance of Messrs.
Simmonds, More, and Fox, assistants in the Government laboratory,
analysed a considerable number of Continental and English " fritts,"
and have determined the relative ease with which they may be attacked
by a dilute acid comparable in strength with that existing in normal
gastric juice. In the first place, I found that, speaking generally, such
English " fritts " as I could obtain yielded a far largor amount of
lead to solvents than those made in Holland, Belgium, Germany, or
Sweden. Indeed, some English specimens of "fritted" lead were
found to be hardly less soluble than " raw " lead. This may be seen
from the following :—

1900.]                      on Pottery and Plumbism.                                     405
     Table showing Oiat from certain kinds of fritts and glates, lead oxide it
        dissolved by 0' 25 per cent. HCl to practically the same extent as from
        "rate" lead.
                                                                 Lead oxide dissolved,
                                                               expressed as percentage
                                                             of total lead oxide present.
             Lead siloato O,                                               99 6
                     „ O,                                                  996
             Glaze 8, made with lead silicate                              99 . 2
             Glaze H,       „          „                                   99 6
             Various forms of (^25                                       100 0
                  raw lead .. white lettd                                100.0
    Next the inquiry showed that there was no necessary relation
between the amount of lead oxide in a " fritt " and the extent to which
it would yield lead to solvents comparable as regards their action with
animal secretions. Some of the compounds richest in lead were, in
fact, among those least attacked by solvents.
     Tables showing that the amount of lead oxide dissolved from a fritt by
        0-25 per cent. HCl bears no direct relation to the amount of lead
        oxide in the fritt.
           L—Solubility practically the same ; amounts of lead oxide in the
        fritt very different.
                                                Percentage        Solubility
                                             of Lead oxide In per cent. on
                                                   fritt.            fritt.
              Maastricht fritt (preparation)       52-3            Traces
              Fritt B 103a (preparation) ..        40- 4           Traces
                                                   22-4              0-7
                                                   41- 3             0-7
                ,. B 2a (preparation)              18-0
           II.—Solubilities very different; amounts of lead 0-4       oxide in fritt
        practically the same.
                                                Percentage        Solubility
                                             of Lead oxide In per cent. on
                                                   trltt.            fritt.
                                                  37-9               280
                                                  36-2                 1-4
                                                  458                10-8
                                                  441                 21

406                          Professor T. E. Thorpe                             [May 4,
    Table showing that in fritts high percentages of lead are compatible witii
                          relatively low solubility of the lead.
                                                   Percentage        Solubility
                                                of Lead oxide In per cent. on
                                                      fritt.             fritt.
           Fritt M,                                  36-2               1-4
              „ Ms                                   364                2-3
              „ B 103a                               40-4               0-2
                                                     40-7               0-2
              „ B 103                                41-3               0-7
                                                      411               3-0
              „ B102                                 41-4               0-8
              „ A                                    441                21
                  B3a                                47-5               0-2
              „ B3                                   493                1-5
              „ B2a                                  52-3               0-4
              „ B2                                    53-2              2-0
              „ Bl                                    593               51
    Further inquiry elicited the fact that the extent to which the fritt
gave up lead to the solvent depended upon two conditions—
    (1) The existence of a definite numerical relation between the
basic and acidic oxides in the fritt, and
    £2) Complete chemical union.
    The proof of the first fact is seen in the following table :
    Table thawing dependence of amount of lead oxide dissolved from a fritt
                by 0 , 25 per cent. HCl upon the value of the ratio—
                                 Basic oxides (as PbO)
                                Acidic oxides (as SiOj)
           _ Sum of equivalent percentages of basic oxides (as PbO)
               Sum of equivalent percentages of acidic oxides (as SiO,)
                  —                          Percentage of      Solubility
                                              Lead oxide.      per ceut. of     Ratio.
                                                                   fritt.
Maastricht fritt (preparation)                   180              traces        1-34
                                                 21-8            traces         1-44
                                                 190                1-2         1-50
                                                 22-4               07          1-52
                                                 441                2-1         1-56
                                                 240                0-2         1-57
                                                 40-4               0-2         1-68
                                                 245                0-6         1-70
                                                 47-5               0-2         1-78
                                                 40-7               0-2         1-77

1900.]                    on Pottery and Plumblsm.                                 407
                  —                       Percentage of  Solubility
                                           Lead oxide.  per cent. of        Ratio.
                                                           fritt.
                                             362            14              1-79
                                             413            0-7             1-80
                                              16-2          1-7             1-82
                                             523            0-4             1-83
  „ B 102                                    41 4           0-8             1-87
                                             364            2-3             1-87
                                              411           30              1-91
  " B,'                                      49-3            1-5            1-92
                                              532           20              1-97
                                              45-8         10-8             261
Fritt B,                                      59-3          51              2-79
                                              379          280              2-92
                                              70-4         67-3             3-26
                                              71-2         70-0             3-80
    It will be seen that, provided the ratio obtained by dividing the
sum of equivalent percentages of acidic oxides, calculated as Si02
into the sum of equivalent percentages of basic oxides, calculated as
PbO, does not exceed 2, the amount of lead dissolved, whilst in the
main tending slightly to increase with the increase of the ratio, seldom
exceeds 2 per cent., calculated on 100 parts of the fritt, and that the
amount of lead dissolved bears no relation to the quantity of lead
present.
     Another fact which came to light was that, provided the ratio of
acids to bases is below about 2, the nature of the basic oxides has
little or no effect upon the amount of the lead oxide dissolved. This
is seen from the following table :
     Table thawing that the nature of the batic oxides hat little or no effect
         on the amount of lead oxide dittolved from a fritt by 0-25 per cent.
         hydrochloric acid.
                —                    Lfad                                    Solubility
                                    oxide.     Alumina. Lime.      Alkalis.   per cent.
                                                                              on friit.
                                                  81     9-0
                                                         0-9         4-9        1-2
                                    16-2         103     85          9-2        1-7
Almstrom's fritt                    44-1
                                    19-0          55                 34         21
     The solubilities, it will be seen, differ but slightly, although the
relative proportion of the basic oxides and their nature vary
considerably.

 408                          Professor T. E. Thorpe                        [May 4,
      Table thawing that the amount of lead oxide dissolved from a fritt by 0 ' 25
         per cent, hydrochloric acid dies not depend simply upon the amount of
         silica in the fritt.
               I.—Solubility practically the same ; amounts of silica very
         different.
                                                Percentage     Solubility
                                                of Silica in  per cent. on
                                                    fritt.        fritt.
             Fritt B 101                           39-9
                                                   48-4           0 6
                                                   529            0- 8
                                                                  07
                                                   42-3
                                                   53-2           1- 2
                                                                   1-5
              II.—Solubilities very different ; amounts of tilica approximating
         to equality.
                                                Percentage     Solubility
                                                of Silica in  per cent, on
                                                    fritt.       fritt.
                                                                   1-5
             Fritt
             EnglishO, fritt                       39-9
                                                   376           28-0
                                                   29-8            51
                                                   251           673
     A remarkable illustration of this fact is to. be seen in the case
of flint glass, which is substantially a double silicate of lead and
alkali. It is practically unacted upon by dilute acids, yet each of its
proximate constituents—lead silicate and alkali silicate—is readily
attacked.
     The second consideration, which seems to affect the ease with
which lead is yielded to solvents, is complete chemical union. Merely
to flux together the ingredients of a fritt, with no regard to its com
position as a definite chemical compound, and with no regard to the
time or temperature needed to complete the chemical changes for the
formation of chemical compounds, is not the proper way to make a
fritt. The analogy of the practice of the glass workers may again
be quoted in support of this fact.
     But I think I can offer, in addition, direct chemical testimony from
a study of the fritts themselves. I found, very early in the course of
the inquiry, that the Continental fritts, which conformed to the ratio
and were distinguished by their comparative insolubility, were very
difficult to break up by the action of strong acids, and yielded only
relatively minute portions of soluble matter, much of which, however.

1900.]                 on Pottery and Plumbism.                            409
consisted of lead, whereas the English fritts were for the most part
very easily decomposed by the same treatment, and gave up the
greater part of their lead to solution.
    This led to the surmise that the Continental fritts consisted, for
the most part, of comparatively stable chemical compounds, the
minute quantity of lead dissolved being due to some lead compound
—oxide or silicate—in a state of incomplete or unstable chemical
nnion. Experiment showed that this surmise was correct. By treating
a fritt, compounded so as to be within the limiting ratio, with acid, by
far the greater proportion of the soluble or incompletely fixed lead
may be removed, and an almost absolutely insoluble lead double
silicate is left.
                      Pbepabations fbom Fbitts.
    The powdered fritt shaken for six hours with a solution of 0 . 25
per cent, hydrochloric acid ; insoluble residue (a) tested for solubility
of lead.
                  —                    Solubility.  Ratio.   Lead oxide In Fritt
                                                                  per cent.
                                          20        1  97          53-20
                                          04        1  83          52-30
                                          1-5       1  92          49-31
                                          0-2       1  73          47-46
                                          0-6       1  70          24-47
                                          0-2       1  57          24-02
 No. 102                                  0-8       1  87          41-38
 No. 102a                                 0-2       1  77          40-66
                                          0-7       1  80          41-26
                                          0-2       1  68         40-44
    These results have so far strengthened the hands of the Home
Secretary that he has felt justified in now requiring the potters to
abandon the use of " raw " lead, and he has given them a definite time
in which to make the change to " fritted " lead. But he has gone
further than this.
    He has also indicated to them that, after a further interval, a
standard of safety must be definitely fixed by special rules, and that
in order to allow them ample time in which to provide themselves with
glazes answering to such a standard as is prescribed in a circular letter
which he has caused to be sent to the whole trade, the Secretary of
State proposes to allow an interval of two years before bringing it
compulsorily into force.
    I am gratified to be able to tell you that a number of manufacturers
and professional fritt makers, acting in conformity with the sug
gestions which have been put forward, and in response to the invita-
    Vol. XVI. (No. 94.)                                        2 b

410                     Professor T. E. Thorpe                  [May 4,
tion of the Home Secretary to have their glazes tested in the Govern
ment laboratory, are now producing lead fritts, the solubility of which
is even below the standard provisionally suggested in the Home Office
circular.
    I am not sufficiently sanguine, however, to suppose that the
adoption of these measures will altogether stamp out plumbism in the
potteries, even as regards glazes. We may possibly have scotched
the evil, but I fear we have not absolutely killed it.
    For it must be clearly understood that complete immunity from
lead poisoning can never be obtained so long as lead compounds
continue to be used.
    The question may be asked—Are lead compounds actually
necessary to the potter ?
    I unhesitatingly reply that as regards glazes they are not.
    Leadless glazes of sufficient brilliancy, covering power, 'and
durability, and adapted to all kinds of table, domestic, and sanitary
ware, are now within the reach of the manufacturer.
    Leadless glazes can be applied without difficulty to the large and
varied class of ware which is known as "china furniture." They
are equally applicable to white, cream, buff, and printed tiles. Insu
lators and electric fittings of the most varied kind can readily be
coated with leadless glaze.
    It was pointed out in the report to the Home Secretary, to which
I have alluded, that much of the ware supplied to the order of various
Government Departments, such as the Post Office, the Office of
Works, the Admiralty, the War Office, the India Office, &c., could be
dipped in leadless glaze, if so specified, without detrimont to its
character, and with no increase to its cost. The articles supplied to
the various School Boards, the croekery and sanitary ware furnished
to Poor-Law Unions, Asylums, and Hospitals, could also, if so specified,
be coated with leadless glaze.
    As the result of this representation, wares made with leadless
glaze are now in actual use by some departments of the Government,
and steps are being taken by other departments for their introduc
tion.
    Lord Reay informs me that the London School Board has resolved
to insert a clause in all specifications for new works strictly pro
hibiting the use of any pottery goods involving lead glaze wherever
practicable. I can only hope that this example will be widely
followed.
    There can be no doubt that if the public insisted on being sup
plied with leadless-glazed ware its demands would be met.
    The fact that the use of leadless glazes has passed beyond the
experimental stage is so obvious that the Secretary of State now
proposes to relax the special rules issued by the Factory Department
in regard to the pottery industry in the case of factories or processes
in which no compounds of lead are used.
    Any manufacturer who decides to abandon the use of lead in any

1900.]                 on Pottery and Plumbism.                     ill
form will be released from the obligations imposed by certain rules,
and only those will be enforced which are aimed at the prevention
of danger from dust or at securing general cleanliness.
    Leadless glazes have the disadvantage of being less fusible than
those containing a relatively large quantity of oxide of lead, and
hence require a higher temperature in the glost oven. But it may
be doubted, even in this case, whether sufficient regard has been paid
to the circumstance that mixtures of silicates melt at a lower
temperature than the mean melting-point of their constituents. A
properly compounded glaze does not melt as a whole to begin with ;
one portion only softens in the outset, and gradually acts as a flux
towards the rest. Much, too, depends upon the fineness to which
the glazing material has been ground.
    Every intelligent potter will concede that there is an ample field
for investigation, by modern methods of attack, on problems con
nected even with the first principles of his art, and that it is not
unlikely such investigations would lead to far-reaching results in
practice.
    I see little prospect at present that such investigations will be
made. The schoolmaster may be abroad among the potters, but the
science master, I am afraid, is not.
    Such laboratories as are to be met with in association with works
like the Aluminia factory at Copenhagen, or that of Villeroy and Boch
at Dresden, are altogether unknown or undreamt-of in Staffordshire.
    There is probably no industry in the world—certainly none in
England—which is so conservative in its operations as that of the
potter. It is true that the best of English earthenware still enjoys,
by common consent, the pre-eminence which the skill and aptitude
of Wedgwood and his immediate followers imparted to it. The great
potter was fully abreast—as, indeed, his letters to Priestley abun
dantly show—of the physical science of his day, and was quick to
test or take advantage of any discovery which seemed to promise to
be of service to his art. But, whilst his methods, or some of them,
may still be used, it is, perhaps, open to doubt whether the spirit of
Wedgwood has altogether descended to his successors, for there can
be no question that the exercise of his spirit—that is, the intelligent
application of simple chemical principles —would, years ago, have
obviated, to a large extent at least, this evil of plumbism among the
pottery workers.
    At the conclusion of the lecture Professor Thorpe exhibited
numerous specimens of leadless-glazed ware, which, through the
kindness of several well-known manufacturers, who have adopted the
process, had been forwarded to him for the purpose of illustrating
his address.
                                                          [T. E. T.]
                                                          2 e 2

412                           General Monthly Meeting.                    [May 7,
                  GENERAL     Monday,    May 7th, 1900.
                                     MONTHLY          MEETING,
     His Grace The Duke of Nobthumbebland, K.G. President,
                                     in the Chair.
                  Mrs. Elizabeth Sarah Beale,
                  Ernest Callard, Esq.
                  Edward J. Duveen, Esq.
                  Ernest Pearson, Esq.
                  Lord Russell of Killowen, G.C.M.G. LL.D.
                  Jules Alphonse Thierry, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The special thanks of the Members were returned to Professor
F. Clowes for his donation of £20 to the Fund for the Promotion of
Experimental Research at Low Temperatures.
     His Grace the President announced that he had nominated the
following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year : Sir F. Bramwell,
The Right Hon. Lord Lister, Dr. Ludwig Mond, Sir A. Noble, Mr.
A. Siemens, Hon. Sir J. Stirling, Sir J. Crichton-Browne, Treasurer,
and Sir W. Crookes, Hon. Secretary.
     The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The Lords of the Admiralty—Greenwich Observations for 1897. 4to. 1899.
  Cape Catalogue of 3007 Stars, Equinox 1890, 1885-1895. 4to. 1890.
  Cape Catalogue of 2798 Zodiacal Stars, Epoch 1900. 8vo. 1899.
  Cape Observatory Annals, Vol. II. Part 2. (Reference Catalogue of Southern
     Double Stars by R. T. A. Innes.) 4to. 1899.
The Secretary of State for India—A List of Photographic Negatives of Indian
     Antiquities in the Collection of the Indian Museum and the India Office.
     8vo. 1900.
  General   Report on Public Instruction in Bengal for 1898-99. 8vo. 1899.
  Progress Report of the Archteological Survey of Western India for year ending
     June, 1899.
   Geological       fol. of India : Palteontologia Indica, Ser. XV. Vol. I. Part 2 ;
               Survey
     New Series, Vol. 1. Nos. 1, 2. 4to. 1899.
Accademia dei Lineei, Reale, Boma—Classe di Scienze Fisiohe, Matematiche e
      Naturali. Atti, Serie Quinta: Rendioonti. 1° Semestre, Vol. IX. FasC. 7.
     8vo. 1900.
Agricultural  Society of England, Royal—Journal, Vol. XI. Part 1. 8vo. 1900.
Anliquariet, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. XVII. No. 2. 8vo. 1900.
   ArchiBologia, Vol. LVI. Part 2. 4to. 1899.

 1900.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                           413
 Aiiatie Society, Royal—Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LX. No. 6. 8vo. 1900.
 Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XXI. Part 4. 8vo. 1900.
 Basel, Naturforschende Gesellschaft —Verhandlungen, Band XII. Heft 2. 8vo.
      1900.
      XXI.Royal
 Batavia,          Magnetical Volume.
             and Supplement               4to. 1899.Observatory—Observations, Vol.
                                and Meteorological
   Bainfall Tables, 1898. 8vo. 1899.
 Boston Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Vol. IV. No. 7. 8vo. 1900.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, Third Series, Vol. VII. Nos. 11-12.
      4to. Club—Journal
 Camera      1900.        for April, 1900. 8vo.
 Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XIX. No. 8. 8vo. 1900.
 Chemical Society—Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.
    Proceedings, No. 222. 8vo. 1900.
 Civil Engineers, Institution of—Minutes and Proceedings, Vol. CXXXIX. 8vo.
      1900.
 Comite   International des Poids et Mesures—Proces-Verbaux des Seances de 1899.
      8vo. 1899.
 Cracovie, L'AcacUmie des Sciences—Bulletin, 1900, No. 2. 8vo.
 Cust, Robert Needham, Esq. LL.D.—Memoirs of Past Years of a Septuagenarian.
      (Printed for Private Circulation.) 8vo. 1899.
 Dax, Societi de Borda—Bulletin, 1899, Deuxieme et Troisieme Trimestre. 8vo.
      1899.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Analyst for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Astrophyaioal Journal for April, 1900.
   Athenwum for April, 1900. 4to.
   Author for April, 1900. 8vo.
    Bimetallist for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Brewers' Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Chemical News for April, 1900. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for April, 1 900. 8vo.
   Education for April, 1900.
   Electrical Engineer for April, 1900. fol.
   Electrical Review for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Electricity for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Engineer for April, 1900. fol.
   Engineering for April, 1900. fol.
   Homoeopathic Beview for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Horological Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Industries and Iron for April, 1900. fol.
   Invention for April, 1900.
   Journal of the British Dental Association for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Journal of Physical Chemistry for Feb. and March, 1900. 8vo.
   Journal of Stato Medicine for April, 1900. 8vo.
' Law Journal for April. 1900. 8vo.
   Life-Boat Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Lightning for April, 1900. 8vo.
   London Technical Education Gazette for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Machinery Market for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Motor Car Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Nature for April, 1900. 4to.
   New Church Magazine for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Nuovo Cimento for Jan. and Feb. 1900. 8vo.
   Photographio News for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Physical Review for Apiil, 1900. 8vo.
   Popular Science Monthly for April, 1900. 8vo.

414                              General Monthly Meeting.                             [May 7,
   Public
   Science Health
             Abstracts,
Editors—continued.    Engineer
                           Vol. III.
                                   for Part       8m 8vo.
                                       April,4.1900.     1900.
   Science
   Terrestrial
   Telephone
   Travel
   Tropical
   Zoophilist
            for
            Sittings
                 for
               Agriculturist
                 April,
                 Magazine
                 Magnetism
                     April,
                       for1900.
                              1900.
                               for
                            April,
                                for8vo.
                                    April,
                                     March,
                                     April,
                                     1900.
                                       4to. 1900.
                                              1900. 8vo.
                                             1900.     8vo.
Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, No. 144. 8vo. 1900.
Franklin Institute—Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.
Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.
Harlem, Societe HoUandaise des Sciences—Archives Néeriandaises, Tome III.
      Livr. 3-4. 8vo. 1900.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XXIV. 8vo. 1900.
Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for April, 1900.
Imperial South African Association—The British Case against the Boer Republics.
      8vo. Messrs.
Layton,       1900. 0. and E. (the Publishers)—The Insurance Register for 1900.
      8vo.
Leighton, John, Esq. M.R.I.—Ex-Libris Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.
Levinstein, I. Esq. (the Author)—British Patent Legislation and British Industries.
      8vo. School
Liverpool      1900. of Tropical Medicine—Report of the Malaria Expedition to
Manchester
Madras        Africa.
                Geological
      WestObservatory—Madras
                 LiteraryBySociety—Transactions,
                              and
                              R. Ross, Meridian
                                         H. E. Annett
                                     Philosophical Cirole
                                                      Society—Memoirs
                                                         Vol.
                                                          and
                                                          Observations,
                                                               E. E. Austen.
                                                              XXVI.      VoL
                                                                       Partand
                                                                            13.IX.
                                                                                4to.
                                                                                  Proceedings,
                                                                                   8vo.     1900.
                                                                                             1899.
                                                                                     4to.1900.
      Vol. XLIV.
Microscopical         Part Royal—Journal,
                  Society,   2. 8vo. 1900. 1900, Part 2. 8vo.
MontpeUier, Acade-mie des Sciences et Lettres—Mémoires, 2, Série, Tome IL No. 5.
Navy8vo.       1898.
        League—Navy         League Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for March, 1900. 8vo.
Quekett Microscopical Club—Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.
Rockecliouart, La Societe let Amis des Sciences et Arts—Bulletin, Tome IX.
      Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1898.
Rome, Minutry of Public Works—Giornale del Genio Civile, Jan.-Feb. 1900.
      8vo.
RoyalVol.   CXCII.
         Society       B. No. 182. 4to. 1900.Transactions, Vol. OXCrV. A. No. 255;
                   of London—Philosophical
    Proceedings, Nos. 428, 429. 8vo. 1900.
 Sanitary Institute—Journal, Vol. XXI. Part 1. 8vo. 1900.
 Saxon Society of Sciences, lloyal—
    Mathematisch-Physische Classe—
      Abhandlungen, Band XXVI. No. 2. 8vo. 1900.
      Berichte, 1900, No. 1. 8vo.
   Philologisch-Historische Claste—
      Berichte, 1900, No. 1. 8vo.
 BeJborne Society—Nature Notes for April, 1900. 8vo.
 Societe Archeologique du Midi de la France, Toulouse—Bulletin, No. 23. 8vo.
       1899.
 Statistical Society, lloyal—Journal, Vol. LXIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1900.
 Suxdish Academy of Sciences—Ofveraigt, Band LVI. 8vo. 1900.
 Taechitti, Prof. P. Hon. Mem. R.I. (the Author)—Memorie della Societa degli
      Spettroscopisti Italiani, Vol. XXIX. Disp. 1t. 4to. 1900.
 Teyler Museum, HatUrn—Archives, Série II. Vol. VI. Part 5. 8vo. 1900.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.

 1900.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                        415
 United States Department of Agriculture—Monthly Weather Review for Jan.
     1900.
 United  States8vo.Geological Survey—Nineteenth Annual Report, Parts 3, 5 (and
     Atlas). 4to. 18H9.
   Twentieth Annual Report, Part 1. 4to. 1899.
 United States Patent Office—Official Gazette, Vol. XC. No. 13; Vol. XCI. Nos. 1-3.
     8vo. 1900.
Upsal, L'Observatoire Mete'orologique—Bulletin Mensuel, 1899. 8vo.
Verein zur Beforderung des Qewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1900,
     Heft 3. Arademy
Washington       8vo. of Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. II. pp. 31-40. 8vo. 1900.
Yorkshire Archaeological Society—Yorkshire Archaeological Journal, Parts 5-9.
     8vo. Society
Zoological  1900. of London—Proceedings, 1899, Part 4. 8vo. 1900.

 416                         Mr. Sidney Let                 [May 11,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 11, 1900.
        The Hon. Sib James Stibling, M.A. LL.D., Manager
                    and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                           Sidney Lee, Esq.
                   Shakespeare and True Patriotism.
 Mr. Lee said the suggestion had been made that an English national
 £8te day should be instituted, but the champions of the proposed
festival had not yet perfected their programme. Some urged that
a fitting date would be April 23, the day consecrated in the calen
dars of the Roman and Greek churches to St. George, who was
popularly reckoned the tutelary saint of England. St. George had
been identified with two shadowy figures in history. The single
fact about them that was uncontradicted was that neither of them
was an Englishman or had any connection with England. They
were both natives of Cappadocia, in Asia Minor, some 1500 years
 ago. Gibbon, perhaps, wrongly identified the tutelary saint with a
 disreputable St. George of Cappadocia—" an odious stranger," Gibbon
called him—who, having exhausted the varied possibilities of the
careers of army contractor and tax-gatherer, ventured on the experi
ment of becoming an Archbishop, but his flock marked their resent
ment at this change of profession by tearing him limb from limb.
 The reputed encounter with the dragon was mythical, and it seemed
 eccentric to associate with cobwebs of romantic myth the annual
celebration of the greatness of a nation which prided itself on its
practical common sense and love of solid fact It was a happy
coincidence that had identified St. George's day with the birth of
a hero by no means fabulous, William Shakespeare. If at the be
ginning of a new century a patron saint was chosen anew, and the
choice lay between a mythical native of Cappadocia and Shakespeare,
the native of Stratford-on-Avon, the straitest of cosmopolitan in
tellects among us could hardly defy the sentiment that gave the
preference to the Englishman. The cosmopolitan might argue that
Shakespeare was the property of the world. The Germans treated
Shakespeare as one of themselves, and the only complaint that they
had been known of late years to make of him was that he had the
bad taste to be born an Englishman. In France, too, the elder
Dumas gave pointed expression to his faith in Shakespeare's pre
eminence in the pantheon not of a single nation, but of the universe.

 1900.]            on Shakespeare and True Patriotism.              417
 Dumas set Shakespeare next to God in the cosmic system, saying
 " After God, Shakespeare has created most." If assertion of the
 fact that Shakespeare was an Englishman were a weakness of English
 flesh, it was a weakness beneficial to the Englishman's mental health
 to yield to. Personally, Shakespeare had homely ambitions. Bacon
 bequeathed his name and memory to foreign nations. Shakespeare
 made no testamentary disposition of his name and memory, and by
 his default, his name and memory were the heritage of the English-
 speaking race, his next of kin. Patriotism manifested itself nowhere
 more safely or more sanely than in the due recognition of those
 heroes of a nation's past, whose achievements had helped to confer
 on it its title to the respect of other nations. A large part of this
 nation's prestige— its intellectual prestige—was due to its kinship
 with Shakespeare. Thirty-five years ago, Cardinal Wiseman had
 promised to deliver a Friday evening discourse on Shakespeare at
 the Royal Institution. His death interrupted the design, but the
 notes prepared for the lecture survived. There the Cardinal pointed
 out how Shakespeare and Sir Isaac Newton had given England the
 sovereignty respectively of literature and science in the civilised
 world. Without Newton and Shakespeare Englishmen would lack
 much of the consideration they now enjoyed in the sight of the
 world.
     Coming more closely to his special subject, Mr. Lee said the
 Shakespearian drama illustrated how the patriotic instinct might be
virtuously trained, and how the morbid symptoms incident to its
excess or defect might be averted. The play of 1 Coriolanus ' proved
how the presence of patriotic instinct in some form or other was
 needed to the proper conduct of life. Bolingbroke in 1 Richard II.'
 showed how a sincere love of one's country softened harshness of
character and purified ambition. Henry Y. deprecated vaunts, in
the name of patriotism, of the superiority of the English over the
French. His patriotism, though stiffened by war, was not unmind
ful of the interests of peace. The warlike play of ' Henry V.' ended
,with a powerful appeal to France and England to cherish " neigh
bourhood and Christianliko accord." The true patriot was en
couraged by Shakespeare to speak out boldly when he thought his
country erred. Shakespeare exposed freely and with good-humoured
cynicism the failings and errors of his countrymen. Extravagance
of dress, the contemptuous ignorance of foreign languages, addiction
to excess, as in drink, the nation's patronage of undignified shows
and sports, the want of balance that commonly infects the popular
judgment, all came under Shakespeare's condemnation. The his
torical plays of Shakespeare illustrated the blittleness rather than
the brilliance of kingly glory, and inferentially of national glory.
The glory of a nation, as of a king, was only stable when the nation,
as the king, lived soberly, virtuously, and wisely, and was courageous,
magnanimous, and ambitious of knowledge. In the most eloquent
of all the direct avowals of patriotism in Shakespeare's plays, in

418      Mr. S. Lee on Shakespeare and True Patriotism.      [May 11,
the great dying speech of John of Gaunt, we were warned that all
the greatness and glory with which nature and history had endowed
England ran a risk of dissipation, if her rulers proved selfish and
frivolous, and unequal to the responsibilities that a great past laid
on their shoulders.
    In two ways we seemed to be neglecting opportunities of doing
outwardly and visibly our Shakespearian duty. It became us to
encourage the study of Shakespeare's works, to bring his work
prominently to the nofice of all. It could not be brought more
prominently to the notice of the nation at large than on the stages
of our theatres. Yet less was now done for the interpretation of
Shakespeare's work in our theatres than was done by former genera
tions in England, or than was being done at the moment in the
theatres of France and Germany. One of the causes of the practical
suppression of Shakespeare on the London stage was due to the
current fallacy, that the Shakespearian drama required spectacular
magnificence which involved managers in expenses not easily borne.
The interpretation of Shakespeare must chiefly depend on the acting.
The relations between the Shakespearian and the modern drama were
something like those subsisting between Westminster Abbey and a
" desirable " suburban villa. The scheme of decoration that fitted
the one was ridiculously out of place in the other. To establish a
Shakespearian theatre in London where the Shakespearian drama
should be represented constantly and in its variety, with efficient
actors, and with the scenery subordinated to the dramatic interest,
would be a very welcome and profitable manifestation of true
patriotism. We failed, too, in our filial piety to Shakespeare in
indifferently permitting so many of the original editions of his
works to leave our shores. Valuable Shakcspeariana now passed
almost automatically, when offered for sale here, to our cousins in
America. These Shakespearian volumes should be treated as national
heirlooms, and heirlooms only passed to cousins when the direct line
was extinct. With regard to the First Folio, of which very few, less
than twenty, quite perfect copies were known, it was greatly to be
wished that, when copies henceforth came into the market, they
might be acquired, through the private munificence of true patriots,
by one or other of the great public libraries in the great centres of
population.
                                                            [S. L.]

1900.]      Professor J. A. Ewing on The Structure of Metals.       419
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 18, 1900.
          Ludwio Mond, Esq., Ph.D. F.R.S., Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
           Pbofkssob J. A. Ewino, M.A. F.R.S. M.Inst.C.E.
                         The Structure of Metals.
Mcoh information has been obtained regarding the structure of
metals by the methods of microscopic examination initiated by Sorby,
and successfully pursued by Andrews, Arnold, Martens, Osmond,
Roberts-Austen, Stead and others. When a highly polished surface
of metal is lightly etched and examined under the microscope,
it reveals a structure which shows that the metal is made up, in
general, of irregularly shaped grains with well defined bounding
surfaces. The exposed face of each grain has been found to consist
of a multitude of crystal facets with a definite orientation. Seen
under oblique illumination, these facets exhibit themselves by
 reflecting light in a uniform manner over each single grain, but in
 very various manners over different grains, and when the angle of
 incidence of the light is changed one or another grain is seen to flash
 out with a uniform brightness over its whole surface, while other
 grains which were bright before become dark.
     These grains are deformed when the metal is severely strained in
 any way, such as by stretching in the testing machine, or cold-rolling,
 or wire-drawing. On polishing and etching a strained piece, the
 grains are found to be on the whole longer in the direction in which
 the metal has been extended. But when the piece is sufficiently
 heated, a reformation of structure occurs, and the grains are found to
 have assumed forms in which there is no direction of predominating
 length. This process of recrystallisation is what gives rise to the
 change in mechanical quality associated with annealing.
     The grains are apparently produced in the first instance, while
 the metal is solidifying from a liquid state, by crystallisation pro
 ceeding more or less simultaneously from many different centres or
 nuclei. The irregular boundaries between one grain and another
 are due to the casual meeting of these various crystal growths. Each
 grain is, in fact, a crystal, with all its elementary parts oriented in
 one way, but its boundaries give no indication of its crystalline
 character. When polished and etched the true crystalline character
 of each grain is demonstrated in several ways, notably by tho

 420                      Professor J. A. Ewing                [May 18,
 uniform brightness of the grain under oblique light, the sudden
 variations of brightness which occur as the direction of the incident
  light is changed, and the evidence which high power microscopic
  examination gives of geometrical forms in the texture of the grain.
 In many cases^the etching produces pits here and there on the grain,
  and in each grain these pits have one and the same orientation.
 Numerous lantern slides of micro-photographs were exhibited in
 illustration of these points, and the experiment was shown of directly
 projecting on the screen the light reflected from grains of a piece
 of iron, prepared by Mr. Stead and lent to the lecturer by Sir W.
  Roberts-Austen, in which the granular structure was exceptionally
 large.
      The lecturer proceeded to give an account of recent researches
 made by him in conjunction with Mr. W. Rosenhain, in which the
 effects of straining and the subsequent influence of temperature in
 causing partial annealing were particularly examined.
      By watching the polished surface of the metal during straining,
 it was seen that as soon as the elastic limit was passed and the metal
 began to take " permanent set," a large number of lines appeared on
 the surface of each grain. Seen under vertical illuminations, these
 were black, and looked like crevasses, but oblique illumination showed
 them to be really steps or abrupt changes of level. It was shown
 that these were produced by sudden slips occurring on cleavage or
 " gliding " planes in the crystal. Plastic yielding on the part of the
 metal took place by means of these slips, which in cases of severe
 strain were seen to occur on two, three, four, or perhaps more sets of
 independent planes. Micro-photographs were exhibited, showing the
 slips in iron, lead, gold, copper and other metals. In many cases,
 severe straining was also found to develop twin crystals.
     Twin crystals were also a usual characteristic of metal, which,
 after being severely strained in the process of manufacture, had been
 more or less annealed. This was readily seen by examining rolled
copper after it had been softened by heat. But perhaps the most
 striking instance was to be found in sheet lead. Ordinary plumbers'
lead usually showed a very large crystalline structure, with many
brilliant examples of twin crystals. This led the lecturer and his
colleague to suspect that prolonged exposure to atmospheric temper
ature was sufficient to cause crystalline growth to occur in lead, and
they succeeded in verifying this supposition. The growth which
goes on after severe straining is a function of the time as well as of
the temperature to which the metal is exposed. At comparatively
high temperature it occurs fast, and the metal quickly reaches an appa
rently stable state. At lower temperature, it goes on more slowly,
and its progress may be traced for weeks or months.
     Photographs were exhibited illustrating the gradual process of re-
orystallisation in pieces of lead which were severely strained by com
pression, and were then kept under observation at various constant
temperatures, ono of which was tho ordinary temperatuie of a room.

 1900.]                on The Structure of Metalt.                  421
It was shown that certain crystals, more aggressive than their neigh
bours, grew by absorbing other crystals, the process of growth usually
taking place by a crystal's throwing out skeleton arms to form a net
work, the detail of which became filled up later as the process of
growth continued.
    Professor Ewing concluded by stating a theory which Mr. Rosen-
hain had advanced to explain the process of crystalline growth in a
solid metal. According to this, the action occurs through solution of
the metal into and deposit from the film of eutectio alloy, which forms
a cement between one crystal and another. This eutectio is due to
the presence of impurities. It appears probable that the action is
electrolytic, for it is only after straining has broken the films of
eutectic, and has brought the crystals into contact, that the process of
growth occurs. This theory received much support from what was
observed to happen in the case of welds. Two freshly scraped sur
faces of lead could readily be welded cold, by application of severe
pressure. When subsequently heated the weld showed no crystal
growth across it. But when a few fragments of some metallic im
purity, capable of forming a eutectic with the lead, were introduced
before the weld was made, subsequent heating was found to make
crystals grow readily across the plane of the weld. This confirmed
tho view that a film of eutectio alloy was an essential intermediary
in the process by which one crystal grew at the expense of another.
                                                           [J. A. E.]

                            Mr. Franeit Fox                  [May 25,
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, May 25, 1900.
     His Gbaob the Duke of Nobthumbebland, E.G. F.S.A.,
                       President, in the Chair.
              Fbanois Fox, Esq., M. Inst. C.E. M.R.I.
                      The Great Alpine Tunnels.
The subject for this evening's discourse is that of the three great
tunnels through the Alps—viz., the Mont Genis, the St. Gothard, and
that which is now in course of construction, the Simplon.
    But before dealing with the details of these particular works, it
will be desirable to consider what tunnelling is, and also some of the
more remarkable instances of it in bygone days.
    One great drawback in connection with the subject—so far as a
discourse is concerned—is its unsuitability for the photographic art.
Unlike a battleship, or a splendid bridge, or a grand block of build
ings, which can be made into fine views and pictures, the work of the
mole is hardly adapted to the sensitive plate. I therefore propose
to make use of the " language of the pencil," and to make a few
rough sketches on the blackboard : by these means I trust I may
be able to explain some of the difficulties which have to be en
countered, and also show how a tunnel is constructed. The child's
definition of drawing, " first you think, and then you draw a line
round your think," will come to our aid.
    The art of tunnelling dates back to very remote ages, and there
are records of such works which were constructed 500 to 600 years
before the Christian era.
    An interesting account is given by one of your most distinguished
members, in an article in the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica,' of the
tunnel under the river Euphrates at Babylon. This city, similar in
some respects to London, lay half on one side and half on the other
side of the river. High walls, penetrated by occasional gates, sur
rounded the city, and lined each of the banks of the river. These
gates (of which a pair of the great hinges can be seen in the British
Museum) were closed at night and during war ; and a tunnel was
constructed below the bed of the river by means of what is techni
cally known as the " cut-and-cover " system. In those days the
Greathead shield was unknown, and consequently the river had to be
diverted, so that the excavation could be made in the dry bed and

1900.]                   on the Great Alpine Tunnels.                         423
cut open to daylight, the arch being built, the ground restored, and
the river allowed to resume its former course. The tunnel is said to
have been 15 feet in width, and 12 feet in height, built of brick.
     Herodotus gives an account of the diversion of the river into a
great excavation or artificial lake 40 miles square, and states that the
besieging enemy, so soon as the water was drawn off, entered into the
city by the river bed. It is believed that this same excavation was
made ubo of for the construction of the tunnel. It is, however, de
sirable to state that doubts have been thrown on the subject, and it
is possible that it may have to be relegated to mythology.
     The next instance of a tunnel is that referred to by Herodotus in
the Island of Samos,* and it is satisfactory to know that although
very considerable doubts were expressed as to the accuracy of his
statements, recent investigations prove that he was exactly correct.
The description given by him, when expressed in English words and
figures, is as follows : " They have a mountain which
is 910 feet in height ; entirely through this they
have made a passage, the length of which is 1416
yards. It is, moreover, 8 feet high, and as many
wide. By the side of this there is also an artificial
canal, which in like manner goes quite through the
mountain ; and though only 3 feet in breadth, is
80 feet deep. This, by the means of pipes, conveys
to the city the waters of a copious spring."
     The commentators on this passage say that
Herodotus must have made a mistake, but the
Rev. H. F. Tozer, in his book ' The Islands of the
JEgeaa,' page 167, gives the results of a personal
visit.
     He says the tunnel is 7 to 8 feet in width ; that
two-thirds of its width is occupied by a footpath,
the other third being a water-course, 30 feet deep
at one end. He and other writers consider that
insufficient allowance was made for the fall of
the water, and that the water channel had to be
deepened. To describe it in more modern language, Fio. 1.—Cross
the resident engineer evidently made a mistake in Section of- the
his levels, necessitating a much deeper excavation Aqueduct of
than was at first anticipated.                                    Eupalinos, in
                                                                  the Island of
    Another, and, if possible a more interesting, Samos.
instance of tunnelling is that described in the ' Pro
ceedings of the Palestine Exploration Society,' in connection with
the Pool of Siloam, made by Hezekiah, b.o. 710, 2 Kings, xx. 20.f
(See Fig. 2.)
    About 710 b.c. a tunnel was driven from the spring to the well—
       * Herodotus, iii. p. 60.    t 'Palestine Exploration,' 1882, p. 178.

  424                          Mr. Francis Fox                     [May 25,
 by actual tunnelling—the work being commenced at the two ends, and
 by shafts, and the workmen met in the middle. The tunnel was only
 2 feet in width, and 3 feet in height, except at the probable point of
 meeting, where the height is 4 feet 6 inches. The length is 1708 feet,
 .and there is a fall of 1 foot in this distance. About the middle of
 its course there are apparently two false cuts, as if a wrong direction
 had been taken : but possibly these were intentional, and provided
 passing places for the workmen and material.
             Fio. 2.—Plan of Tunnel from Spring to Pool of Siloam.
     On the soffit of the tunnel is carved an inscription, of which the
 following is a translation :—
     " Behold the excavation. Now this had been the history of the
 excavation. While the workmen were still lifting up the pick, each
 towards his neighbour, and while 3 cubits (4 feet 6 inches) still re
 mained to cut through, each heard the voice of the other, who called
to his neighbour, since there was an excess of rock on the right hand
and on the left. And on the day of the excavation the workmen
struck each to meet his neighbour pick against pick, and there flowed
the waters from the spring to the pool for a thousand two hundred
cubits (1820 feet), and a hundred cubits (151 feet) was the height of
the rock over the head of the workmen."
     A Roman engineer gives an account of a tunnel which was being
driven under his directions for an aqueduct. And as he was only
able to visit the work occasionally, he describes how on one of his
visits he found the two headings had missed each other, and he says
that had his visit been deferred much longer there would have been
two tunnels.
     The accurate meeting of the headings or driftways of a tunnel can
only be attained by the exercise of great care, both as regards direc
tion as well as level.
     We need not go very far to find instances of such an error as in
accurate meeting, but there is one well-known case on an important
main line in the Midland Counties where the engineers failed to meet,
and to this day reverse curves exist in the tunnel to overcome the
difficulty.
     To attain this accurate meeting fine wires are hung down the
shafts of a tunnel, with heavy plumb-bobs suspended from them in

 1900.]               on the Great Alpine Tunnels.                   425
buckets of water, or of tar, to bring their oscillations to rest ; the
accurate direction being given by means of a theodolite or transit
instrument on the surface.
     The wires are capable of side movement by means of a delicate
instrument [which is on the table], and are gradually brought exactly
 into the same vertical plane : hence, if thoy are correct at " bank,"
 or surface, they must also be correct below ground. The engineers
 below have to drive the galleries or headings so that only one wire
 is visible from their instrument : so long as one wire exactly eclipses
 the other wire, the gallery is being driven in the right direction.
     As regards accuracy in levels, this is done by ordinary levelling ;
 but it will be seen at once how much depends on care being devoted
 to both these operations.
     Assume two shafts, 1000 yards apart, between which a gallery has
 to be driven ; and, allowing a distance of 10 feet between the wires,
 which are ^th inch in diameter, an error of the diameter of the wire
 at the shaft will cause a mistake of nearly 4 inches at the point of
meeting, or of      inches if a similar error occurs at the other shaft
in the opposite direction. The trickling of water down the wires
increases their diameter so appreciably, and therefore conduces to
further inaccuracy, that it is found necessary to fix a small shield or
umbrella on the wire to deflect the water. [This shield is to be seen
on the table.]
     Some years ago, a tunnel which had been commenced, but not
finished, had to be completed. The first thing to be done by the
engineers was to make an accurate survey of the then condition of
the work—this rough sketch (see Fig. 3) indicates what was dis
covered. The explanation given by the former " ganger " was, that
he found the rock too hard, and he thought that by bearing round
 somewhat to the right, he might get into more easily excavated
 material !
                               Fio. 3.—Plan.
     When the wires are hung down the shaft it is sometimes almost
impossible to prove that they are not touching, and consequently
being deflected from the true vertical line by some rope or pipe,
staging or timber in the shaft. To overcome this, an electrical
current was passed down the wire—a galvanometer being in circuit.
If the wire proved absolutely silent, and no deflection was obtained
     Vol. XVI. (No. 94.)                                     2 f

426                          Mr. Francis Fox                        [May 25,
in the galvanometer, the conclusion could be safely drawn that the
wire was hanging freely and truly.
     In driving the necessary adit or heading for drainage purposes
beneath a sub-aqueous tunnel, a rising gradient from the shaft
bottom of 1 in 500 is allowed, to enable the water at the " face " to
flow away from the workmen to tho pumps in the " sump " or shaft
bottom (see Fig. 4).
   Theodotil*
       Fio. 4.—Diagrammatic Section to illustrate Method of Constructing
                          Tunnel below River Bed.
     When the heading is driven sufficiently forward to justify the
commencement of the main tunnel, a fresh difficulty presents itself.
This main tunnel has to be driven down hill, and consequently the
water collects at the working face A : the bottom cannot therefore
be removed until a bore-hole is put down from A to a. When this
is done the remaining excavation can be taken out, and a further
length of tunnel driven to B. A bore-hole is now sunk from B to b,
 whilst that from A to a can be plugged up : and thus the tunnel is
gradually advanced.
     By the adoption of the Greathoad shield much of this difficulty
can be avoided ; but one sub-aqueous tunnel through water-bearing
strata, at considerable depth, is sufficient for a lifetime.
     As an illustration of tho danger to which men are exposed in such
work, it is stated, with much regret, that in a certain tunnel, notwith
standing every precaution being taken, all the men engaged in driving
the drainage heading by means of a tunnelling machine have died ;
and in tho case of the first Vyrnwy tunnel crossing of the river
Mersey— driving by Greathead shield under pressure—the mortality
was great.

 1900.]                 on the Great Alpine Tunnels.                         427
     Having explained in very general terms some of the difficulties of
 tunnel construction, we will proceed to the case of the great tunnels
 through the Alps, and for the purpose of rendering the subject more
 easily intelligible, the following particulars may be given :—
                                  St. Gothard. Mont Cents. Arlberg.    Slmplon.
 Length of tunnel in miles            9-3        7-98       6-36       12-26
 North or east portal above sea-1     3(539      3766       4296        2254
 South or west portal above sea-l     3757       4161       3998        2080
                                      3788       4248       1300        2314
 Maximum grade in tunnel perl         5-82        30          15           7
   1000                         /
 Maximum height of mountain!          5598       5428        2362       7005
 Possible maximum temperature!         85°        85°         65°        104°
   of rock, deg. Fahr           J
                            Mont Cenis Tunnel.
     The Mont Cenis, or as it is more accurately called, the Frejus
 Tunnel, is nearly 8 miles in length. It is for a double line of way—
 width being 26 feet, and height above rails 20 feet 6 inches. The
 construction is of excellent character, and it is lined throughout with
 either masonry or brickwork, except for two lengths of 100 metres
 and 70 metres respectively. In these two lengths solid white quartz
 was encountered, and two years were occupied in penetrating it.
 The gallery of direction is straight throughout the actual tunnel,
 being curved away to the portals.
     The system of setting out will be described in more detail when
we come to consider the case of the Simplon, but in passing we may
remark one peculiarity which does not attach to the other tunnels,
viz. that the gallery of direction on the Italian side is shut off by a
massive grating from the railway tunnel, and is occupied by guns
and Gatlings and by a detachment of artillery, the French portal
being commanded by an armour-plated fort.
     The approaches to the tunnel, both on the Italian and French
sides, are severe, amounting to 80 per thousand or 1 in 33 on the
former, and 25 per thousand or 1 in 40 on the latter.
     Owing to an alteration during construction on the Bardonnechia
side, it became necessary to introduce an ascending gradient for about
1 kilometre in length at the Italian end of the tunnel, and this has
resulted in seriously compromising the ventilation.
    A rough diagram will serve to give an idea of the gradients and
the consequent difficulty in working the traffic.
    Trains coming from France with an ascending gradient of 1 in
                                                                 2 r 2

428                         Mr Francis Fox                    [May 25,
40 against them for a length of 7 kilometres, when followed by a
current of air in the same direction, produce a most disastrous state
of things. In this, as in all other steep tunnels, engines having a
heavy load behind them, go through with their regulator full open,
ejecting great volumes of smoke and steam which travel concurrently
with the train, and the inconvenience and discomfort produced are
very great.
    At each kilometre in the tunnel a refuge or " grande chambre,"
is provided for the men, and this is supplied with compressed air,
fresh water, a telephone in each direction out, a medicine chest,
barometer, and thermometer.
    The custodians of the tunnel go in pairs, and if one man is
affected by the want of oxygen or dense smoke, the other can render
assistance or telephone for further help. The men can retire into
these chambers, close the door, turn on the air, and wait either for
the tunnel to clear or for a locomotive to fetch them out.
    The temperature in the middle of the tunnel remains nearly
constant, summer and winter, and is about 19° to 20° C. = 66° to
68° Fahr.
    The altitude of the tunnel is 4248 feet above sea-level, and the
height of the mountain above the tunnel is 5428 feet : the tempera
ture of the rock is greatly influenced by this latter fact.
    The question of the temperature of the rocks passed through in
the construction of a tunnel is one of great interest, as it depends
upon several conditions: (1) the character of the rock; (2) the in
clination of the beds—those which attain a vertical or nearly vertical
position being less able to confine the heat than those which are more
or less horizontal ; (3) the height of the mountain above the tunnel,
or in other words, the thickness of the blanket.
    A diagram is shown (see Fig. 5), giving the temperature actually
encountered in the St. Gothard and Arlberg Tunnels, and from these,
aided by the carefully prepared geological section along the centre
line of the Simplon Tunnel, an approximate line (in red) is given
of the temperatures which are expected.
    The possibility of cooling the rocks and the air of the tunnel will
be dealt with later on, but there is in addition a permanent lowering
of the temperature after the tunnel is complete, particulars of which
will be given under the description of the St. Gothard.
    For each 144 feet of superincumbent rock or earth the increase is
found to be 1° Fahr.
                       The St. Gothabd Tunnel.
    This, which is at present the longest railway tunnel in the world,
is 9*3 miles in length, and constituti s the summit of the " Gothard
Whn," that is, the railway which runs from Lucerne to Ohiasso on
the Italian frontier. There are about 100 tunnels in all, most of

  1900.]                  on the Great Alpine Tunnels.                   429
                                     oepth for re
            tie/res 3000     10   20 30 90 SO to       90  eoUetres
                     ooo  MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF
                          THE MOOHTAIH AsOVE
                          THE SIMPIOH TUMHEL
                     too
                      Too
                     too
                     BOO
                     tOO
                     •300
                     no
                      100
                    tooo
                     300
                     too
                     TOO
                     too
                     MO
                     too
                              UU&crai / * APLBERG
                     300
                     too
                      wo
                    tooo
                    900
                    too
                                       SIMPIOH
                     m                    105 Haim
                    600
Fio. 5.—Curves showing Depths corresponding to an Increase in Temperature
    of 1° C. for the Mont Cenis, Gothard, and Arlberg Tunnels (with ourve of
    probable temperature for the Simplon Tunnel).

430                           Mr. Francis Fox                                 [May 25,
which are for double line of way, the permanent way being very
heavy, the rails weighing 100 lbs. to the yard.
    The altitude of the tunnel at its north portal is 3639 feet, and at
its south portal 3757 feet above the sea. A gallery of direction was
driven throughout, and the gradient of the rails is only such as to
provide for efficient drainage, viz. 5-82 per thousand, or about 1
in 172.
     The following table may be of interest, giving the result of in
vestigations as to the cooling of the rocks.
          Temfehatcbe of the Rock in the St. Gothaed Tunnel.
                        7-3 kilo, from ihe North PortaL 7 05 kilo, froin the Souih P tal
          Hate.                      Succes>lve.
                                          Lowering.                         Lowering.
                       Temperature.                     Temperature.
                                                 Total.                Successive. Total.
 April and May, 1880,                     o         o                       o         o
   the year when the      30?4(5          "                30?53
   tunnel was pierced
 June, 1882     ..  ..    23 73         6-73               23-39          7-14
 July, 1883     ..  ..    22 20         1-53      8-20     231            0-29      7-43
                              Above are Centigrade.
     Although the works were carried on with energy, and with all
 the best appliances then known, the time occupied was ten years ; but
 the most serious feature of the work was the heavy mortality amongst
 the men : no less than 600 deaths occurred, including those of both the
 Engineer and Contractor.
     From the experience then gained, great improvements have been
 introduced into the works of the Simplon, as will be described later
 on ; but the heavy loss of life in the St. Gothard was due to insuffi
 cient ventilation ; the high temperature ; the exposure of the men to
 the Alpine climate after emerging from the tunnel ; the want of care
 as to the changing of the men's wet mining clothes ; and the poor
 character of the food with which the men supplied themselves. All
 this has been greatly ameliorated, and even in English tunnels
 certain improvements have been introduced, which were brought
 from Switzerland.
     The traffic through the tunnel has so largely increased that the
 question of ventilation became of pressing importance, and the system
 of Signor Saccardo, the well known Government Inspector of Kail-
 ways and Engineer of Bologna, has been installed, which is an
 ingenious application of the Injector system. One of the first intro
 ductions of this method was in the case of the Pracchia tunnel, on

1900.]                on the Great Alpine Tunnels.                  431
the main line between Florence and Bologna, through the Aponnines.
This is a railway of single line, and was built many years ago by
the late Mr. Brassey. There are 52 tunnels in all, but those on the
eastern side are of comparatively little importance. On the western
slope the gradient nearly throughout is 25 por thousand (or 1 in 40),
and it is here the greatest difficulty exists. There are several tunnels
whose lengths approximate to 1000, 2000, and 3000 yards, and the
traffic is both heavy and frequent, the locomotives very powerful,
with eight wheels coupled.
     Under any conditions of wind the state of the longest tunnel is
bad, but when the wind is blowing in at the lower end at the same
time that a heavy goods or passenger train is ascending the gradient,
a state of affairs is produced which is almost insupportable, and one
might as conveniently travel in a furnace flue.
                    1 '             PLAN.
            Fio. 6.—The Saccardo System of Ventilating TunneK
     A heavy train of dining and sleeping carriages, with two engines,
conveying one of the crowned heads of Europe and suite, arrived at
the exit of Pracchia tunnel with both engine-men and both firemen
insensible : and in other cases passengers have been seriously affected.
     Owing to the height of the mountain no shafts are available ; but
Signor Saccardo places a ventilating fan near the mouth of the
tunnel, and blows air into it through the annular space which exists

 432                             Mr. Francis Fox                  [May 25,
 between the arch of the tunnel, and the gauge of maximum
 construction (see Fig. 6). The results are remarkable ; the volumes
 of air thrown into the tunnel per minute being as follows :—
                                                              cub. ft.
        Direct from the fan                                 161.860
        Induced draught through open tunnel mouth             48,140
                                     Total                  210,000
                          Or 100 cubic metres per second.
     The temperature of the tunnel air before the fan was started was
 107° F., with 97 per cent, of moisture, whereas, after the fan had been
 running a few minutes the temperature was 81° F., or a lowering of
 26° F., and the tunnel was cool and free from smoke and vapour.
     One can travel through with both windows open and feel no in
convenience, the only remark of the brakesman riding on the top of
the wagons and carriages being that he finds it almost too cold.
     This application is without doubt the solution of the difficult
 problem of tunnel ventilation under high mountains, and elsewhere
where shafts are not available, and where electric traction is not
applicable.
     This system has within the last twelve months been brought into
operation on the St. Gothard, with the most satisfactory results.
Careful experiments are being made, but there is no doubt that the
problem has been solved.
     In addition to these tunnels, the Saccardo system has been
applied to the Giovi Tunnel near Genoa—3300 metres in length—
and is being installed on the Giovi Tunnel on the Genoa-Ronco
Railway, 8303 metres in length, besides on some seven other tunnels
in Italy ; and plans are being prepared for the Mont Cenis.
                            The Simplon Tunnel.
     This tunnel is now in rapid course of construction, the total length
of gallery driven up to end of April being as follows :—
                                                             yards.
         On the north or Brigue side of the Alps             3228
          On the south or Iselle     „      „                2350
     Or over three miles in little more than 18 months, including the
necessarily slow progress at the commencement.
    The total distance between the two portals will be 21,564 yards,
or 12-26 miles. A gallery of direction has been driven at both
ends' until the actual tunnels are reached, so as to form a directly
straight lino for the accurate alignment of the work, from end to end.
    This great undertaking will consist of two single-line tunnels
running parallel one to the other, at a distance apart from centre









 1900]                 on the Great Alpine Tunnels.                  433
 to centre of 55 feet 9 inches ; and one of the chief features is the
 much lower altitude of tho rails above sea level than any of the
 other Alpine tunnels. This altitude is at its highest point 2314 feet,
 being 1474 feet lower level than that of the St. Gothard, 1934 feet
 lower than that of the Mont Cenis, and 1986 feet than that of the
 Arlberg. This is a matter of great importance in the question of
 haulage of all the traffic.
     The tunnel enters the mountain at the present level of the rail
 way at Brigue, so that no costly approaches are requisite on this
 side ; but on the Iselle side, the connecting line with the existing
 railway at Domo d'Ossola necessitates heavy work with one helical
 tunnel. The gradient on the northern portion of tho tunnel will
only be that sufficient for drainage, viz. 1 in 500, but on the southern
 portion the gradient will be 7 per 1000, or 1 in 142.
     Admirable arrangements have been made for the welfare of the
men, to avoid the heavy death-rate which occurred on the St.
 Gothard, and it may be interesting to state what some of these are.
 For every cubic foot of air sent into the latter tunnel, fifty times
as much will be delivered into the Simplon. Special arrangements
are made for cooling the air by means of fine jets of water and spray.
     The men on emerging from their work, wet through and fatigued,
are not allowed to go from the warm headings into the cold Alpine
air outside, but pass into a large building which is suitably warmed,
and where they change their mining clothes and are provided with
hot and cold douche baths. They put on warm dry clothes, and
can obtain excellent food at a moderate cost before returning to their
homes. Their wet and dirty mining clothes are taken charge of by
appointed custodians, who dry and clean them ready for the morrow's
work. These and other precautions are expected to reduce the death-
rate to a very great extent.
    With a view to the rapid advancement of the work, the late M.
Brandt, whose death is greatly to be deplored, devised after his long
experience on the St. Gothard, his now well-known drill. As details
of this have been published, and as they would be too technical for
this evening's discourse, it will only be necessary to refer to them
briefly. This drill is non-percussive, nor is it armed with diamond.
It is a rotatory drill 3 inches in diameter with a pressure on the
cutting points of 10 tons moving at slow speed, but capable of being
accelerated at pleasure, and of being rapidly withdrawn. It is armed
with a steel tool with 3 cutters, of which samples are on the table.
The carriage on which it is mounted enables it to work in any direc
tion. The face of the tunnel is attacked by 10 to 12 holes in the
case of the hardest rock, those in the centre being 3 feet 3 inches in
depth, whilst those round the circumference are 4 feet 7 inches. The
drills are driven by hydraulic pressure of 100 atmospheres or 1470 lbs.
to the inch, and the cutter having a |-inch hole along its centre, all
the waste water is discharged right on to the cutting edges, thus
keeping them cool, and washing out the debris.

 434                              Mr. Francis Fox                     [May 25,
     The time taken for each portion of the attack in the hard Anti-
 gorio gneiss, is as follows :—
           Bringing up and adjustment of drilla            20 minutes.
           Drilling                                        1 J to 2£ hours.
           Charging and firing                             15 minutes.
           Clearing away debris                            2 hours.
 or a total of between 4£ to 5£ hours, resulting in an advance of
 3 feet 9 inches, or a daily advance of nearly 19 feet 6 inches.
     The progress of each of the two faces during the month of April
 last has averaged 17 feet 3£ inches per day, and is a remarkable
 corroboration of the speed estimated by the engineers four years ago.
 The estimate was as follows :—
        1st year, the daily progress at each face would be           8-85 feet
        2nd „            „          „           „                   17-22 „
        3rd „            .,         „           „                   19-18 „
        ^th „            |(         „           (T                  21*32 „
        5th „            „         „            „                   31 16 „
     The work is now in its second year, so that the estimated speed
is being exceeded. In other words, the tunnel is being driven
through granite at a higher speed than is attained in London clay.
     Water power is abundant, and the waters of the Rhone are har
nessed to the work, whilst those of the " Diveria " provide the power
at Iselle.
     Views are given of the intake from the Rhone, the concrete
aqueduct, the metallic conduit pipes, 3 feet, and 3 feet 3 inches in
diameter, which carry a pressure of 250 lbs. to the inch. The
further necessary increase in pressure is obtained by high pressure
pumps in the power house.
     It was at one time intended to sink a 20-inch bore-hole from the
village of Berisal to the tunnel, a depth of some 2400 feet, for the
purpose of delivering water at high-pressnre for the works. This
may still be done, but the meandering of the tool might result in the
awkward dilemma of having to search for it, in solid rock, below
ground.
     Some few years ago a rather amusing incident occurred in con
nection with a tunnel, which is worth recording. A certain railway
company were constructing a tunnel beneath and nearly at right
angles to an existing tunnel of one of the large English railway
companies. As the legal formalities were not actually completed the
ongineers were requested to stay proceedings until all was in order,
and they instructed the contractors accordingly, but the latter were
anxious not to incur any delay, and they quietly and surreptitiously
continued to drive their heading through. The engineer of the
existing railway suspected this, and sank a bore-hole on the centre
line of the new work, expecting his tool would, at the correct level,
drop into the heading, at a depth of 70 feet. The contractors looked



1900.]                 on the Great Alpine Tunnels.                 435
for a similar result, and therefore placed a sheet of steel on the roof
of their drift, so that the tool, when it encountered the steel plate,
would simply grind away on the top.
    But, to the mutual surprise of both the engineer of the existing
company and of the contractors for the new work, no drill was en
countered, although it had gone to a lower depth than was necessary,
some 90 feet. The engineer thereupon lowered, in a foolhardy
manner, an explosive charge, and blew in the side of the heading, the
tool having meandered several feet to one side. Fortunately no one
was hurt, but the engineer was still in ignorance as to what had
happened. A bright idea struck him—namely, to lay on the town
fire-supply of water down the hole to see if he could fill it. The
result was he nearly washed the men away in the heading I
    Electric Traction.—It is desirable to point out how very necessary
it may be, in the case of this and other long tunnels, that electric
traction should be adopted. Abundant power close at hand already
exists ; the air of the tunnel would not bo vitiated—a matter of great
importance where briquet fuel is used—and the rapidity of conducting
the traffic would be improved.
    In Baltimore an electric locomotive is attached to the through
expresses, which takes them through, steam engine and all, at fifty
to sixty miles an hour. No stoppage of the express is required at
the further end, the electrical locomotive running ahead into a siding ;
and some of the very heaviest freight trains, including the locomotive
and tender (far heavier than are ever seen in Great Britain), are
hauled against a gradient of 1 in 138 at fifteen miles an hour.
    In fact, in England, we are most lamentably backward in the
employment of electricity, and unless the Central and the Local
Authorities can be aroused from their lethargy, and from their oppo
sition to all such enterprises, England will continue to lag in the
rear of other nations, instead of, as in past years, teaching them a
more perfect method.
    In conclusion, may I ask for the sympathy, nay more, for a
silent prayer on behalf of our tunnel and railway heroes, when we
are passing along some of the great railway works of the country,
or of the world.
    Need I refer to that young Resident Engineer who, when a length
of a certain tunnel during construction through quicksand fell in,
burying eleven men, volunteered at the risk of his life, in conse
quence of the men being panic-stricken, to go down the shaft and
rebuild the damaged work with his own hands and alone ? And to
that ganger who, having held back for a time, seeing that the engineer
was determined to do the work, jumped into the bucket with some
strong languago to the effect " that he wouldn't see the master killed
alone," and went down, and they two completed the next length before
the men would return to work.
    There are heroes on our railways as there are in our army and
navy, and they deserve better recognition. May I plead on behalf

436            Mr. F. Fox on the Great Alpine Tunnels.        [May 25,
of our inspectors and superintendents of our great railway stations,
who are in many cases almost worked to death, and yet have to be
attentive and courteous to all ; albeit, except in certain honourable
exceptions, they are unable to make proper provision for old age ?
And should it be necessary for a station-master, after six years' work
at a great railway junction, to drop into his grave with the simple
epitaph " tired out " ?
                                                             [F. P.]

1900.]                Sir Henry Eoscoe on Bunsen.                    437
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING.
                          Friday, June 1, 1900.
  Ludwig Mond, Esq., Ph.D. F.R.S., Vice-President, in the Chair.
            Sib Hknbt Robooe, Ph.D. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
                                  Bunsen.
I hope that none of my audience will fall into the mistake of con
fusing the chemist Bunsen with the chevalier of the same name.
This happened at a garden party when I was present, at the late
Mr. Gassiot's in 1862, and at which Bunsen and Kirchhoff were
honoured guests. A lady addressing the former, asked, ' Pray sir,
have you yet completed your great work on God in History 1 " Alas !
no," replied the chemist, with the genial humour which was one of
his chief attractions, " Alas ! no, madam, my untimely death prevented
me from completing my task."
     For more than fifty years, Bunsen, the great investigator, the
great teacher, devoted himself solely to the advancement of his
science. Born in a German university town, Gottingen, in 1811, he
spent his life in discharging the quiet duties of a German University
Professor ; dying in August, 1899, at Heidelberg. To such men,
life passes away in an outwardly uneventful manner. A scientific
excursion to Iceland, or holiday visits to Italy or Switzerland, may
occasionally break the monotony of the yearly recurring course of
lectures, or of the still more tiresome perfunctory duties of a Uni
versity Examiuer. But the inner life of a man like Bunsen, is full
of events of great and even of phenomenal interest. The discovery
of a fact which changes or overthrows our ideas on a whole branch
of science ; the experimental proof of a law hitherto unrecognised ;
the employment of known facts in a new and happy combination to
effect results of general applicability and usefulness : these are some
of the peaceful victories of the man of science, which may by many
seem to outweigh the popular achievements of the more public pro
fessions. Such things come to all in greater or lesser degree—who,
like Bunsen, devote themselves unselfishly and completely to the
furtherance of the knowledge of nature—and to him they came in
rich abundance.
     To give more than an idea of the unbroken scientific work of
half a century in sixty minutes is an impossible task. I must there
fore content myself with referring to a few of the more salient points
of Bunsen's discoveries, and attempt, in I fear a most incomplete way,

 438                        Sir Henry Roscoe                   [Jane 1,
 to make known to yon what manner of man he was—how he worked
 and taught, so that yon may understand the feelings of admiration
 and affection with which all those who came under his influence
 regarded him, and why they look back upon his memory as that of one
 whom it has been a privilege to know. Many people—even some
 chemists I fear—have heard of the Bunsen Burner, and the Bunsen
 Battery, but have no further knowledge of the great work which he
 accomplished.
     Let me, to begin with, give you an idea of Bunsen's personality,
 and show you his likeness when he was in the height of his strength,
 in 1862, and again in 1887, when age had mellowed but not weakened
 his features. It has been well said, you know, that Davy's greatest
 discovery was Faraday—so too we may add was Bunsen's discovery
 of Kirchhoff ; for this brought about one of the greatest steps in the
 progress of modern science—the foundation of spectrum analysis.
     It was in the autumn of 1852 that I first became acquainted with
 the man who afterwards—for nearly fifty years—was one of my most
 intimate friends, to whom I owo more than I can tell. At that time
 Bunsen was at the height of his power, both physical and mental ;
 he had just been called to the Chair of Chemistry at Heidelberg, and
 was facile princeps amongst the active workers and teachers of the
 science. He stood fully six feet high, his manner was simple yet
 dignified, and his expression of rare intelligence and of great kind
 ness. This first impression of his bearing and character only became
 stronger as my knowledge of him was more intimate, and the feelings
 of respect and affection with which I regarded him, were only ex
pressive of the attitude of all with whom he came in contact. His
singular amiability was not a sign of weakness but of strength of
character. His modesty was natural and in no degree assumed. In
his lectures, when giving an account of some discovery he had made,
or some new apparatus or method of work which he had instigated,
I never heard him mention himself. It was always " man hat dies
gefunden," or " os hat sioh so herausgestellt." In his old age, and
looking back on his life-work, he writes to me that he " feels as
keenly as ever how modest and contemptibly small is the amount
which I have added to the building of science." And yet the con
tributions of this man , have been equalled by few. He was the
pioneer in some of the most important scientific discoveries of the
century. His work was not only of a truly original character, but
to use an expression which has lately come into vogue, it reached the
bed-rock of the subject. He laid the foundations of many branches
of chemical science. In pure chemistry, in chemistry applied to the
arts and industry, in physical chemistry, and in chemical geology his
researches have long ranked as classics, and will thus remain for
time to come.
    Let me give you a few examples. But first I would ask you to
look in at his laboratory at Heidelberg and see him at work. At
eight o'clock every morning he lectured on General Chemistry.

1900.]                        on Bunsen.                             439
These lectures were, like everything he touched, marked by origin
ality of treatment. He did not attempt to catch the attention of his
audience by brilliancy of style or by firework experiments ; but his
exposition was luminous, and his experiments, always made with
his own hands, exactly illustrative of the matter under discussion.
If during a lecture he had occasion to refer to his own discoveries,
no hint—as I have said—as to its origin escaped his lips ; but the
students were well aware of the fact, and gave him a warm round of
applause as he concluded his discourse. Then he would bow, smile
as acknowledging the compliment, and quickly retire. As soon as
the lecture was over, Bunsen went into his laboratory. There he
would find about a hundred men waiting for his assistance and advice,
and there he spent the whole of his day, superintending the practical
work of the students. To work with Bunsen was a real pleasure,
and to every student who showed interest in his work this pleasure
came. He did not confine his attention merely to those who were
engaged in original work ; even the beginner had the benefit of seeing
how the master worked, and some of the most elementary operations in
analytical chemistry would be performed by the Professor, standing
at the working bench of the pupil. Thus, he taught us not only by
precept, but by example, and from him we learnt what accurate work
meant. We saw how to eliminate errors of experimentation, and to
find out where more errors lay. It was this complete devotion to
his science and to his students, that drew men from all quarters of
the globe to work under him ; and no one who cared to benefit from
his teaching was ever sent empty away, and all who had worked in the
Heidelberg laboratory, looked back upon the time spent there as one
of the most fruitful of their lives. But it was specially to the
advanced students engaged in original investigation that Bunsen's
heart went out, and to them he gave unstintedly his time and labour.
For to these men he knew the future of the science belonged, and it
was they who would hand down, burning more or less brilliantly, the
torch of progress. There would be, perhaps, twenty men thus en
gaged, not, as in many laboratories, all working on closely cognate
subjects, but each one on matters differing widely from the other, and
therefore requiring much greater grasp and attention on the part of
the teaoher, to whom the initiation and often the general conduct of
the research was due. This constant presonce of the master, this
participation by him in the work of the pupils both young and old,
bore in on the minds of all the lesson that it is the personal and
daily contact with the leader which creates a successful school j and
that whilst fine buildings and well-equipped laboratories are good
things in their way, they are as tinsel and dross, unless accompanied
by the devotion and collaboration of the teacher, illustrating the truth
of the proverb that ' mind is greater than matter.'
    How, it may well be asked, could Bunsen thus devoted to super
vising the work of others in the laboratory ; who had to deliver a
lecture every day, and had much perfunctory university business to

  440                       Sir Henry Boscoe                     [June 1,
  transact as well,- how could he possibly find time to carry on
  laborious experimental investigations of his own? for it must be
 remembered that he never kept an assistant to work at his re
 searches for him, but did all the experimental work with his own
  hands. Well, it is always the busy man who has most time for
  work—or, at least who does most — and so it was with Bunsen.
  Spending the whole day in the laboratory he was often able to
  spare an hour or two to devote to his own work, either of devising
 and testing some new form of apparatus, of separating the rare earth
 metals, or of preparing and determining the crystalline form of a
 series of salts. Then he was an early riser, and when I lived with
 him, I know that it was his habit to riso often before dawn in the
 summer, to complete an experiment or to edit a research. The long
 summer holiday again was a great time for work. We often spent a
 few weeks together in excursions in Switzerland or the Tyrol to rub
 off the fatigues of the session, but we soon returned to Heidelberg,
 and in those quiet days wo got through much experimental work, for
 I had the good fortune for many years to be associated with Bunsen
 in a research on Photochemical Measurements, about which I shall
 say a few words later on.
      Let me now glance rapidly at some of his more important in
 vestigations.
      The research which stamped Bunsen as a first rate experimentalist,
 was his investigation on the cacodyl compounds, on which he laboured
 for six years. It is remarkable as an example of how the most
 difficult and dangerous problems of experimental chemistry can be
 solved by a master hand. It was a frightfully difficult and dangerous
 research, because the compounds are both poisonous and explosive.
In 1846 Bunsen was nearly killed and poisoned when examining the
properties of cacodyl cyanide. " It is remarkable," he says, " that when
one is exposed to the smell of these compounds the tongue becomes
covered with a black coating, and the smell produces giddiness and
even insonsibility." I therefore do not propose now to illustrate
these properties experimentally.
     The cacodyl research claims our interest, not only because it
furnishes us with the first example of an isolable radicle, but also
because it assisted Frankland and Kekule in more exactly illus
trating the term " chemical valency." For it is not too much to say
that the subsequent researches of Frankland on the organo-metallio
bodies, and on the so-called alcohol radicles, as well as those of the
French chemists, and, I may add, those of Baeyer, received their first
impulse from the cacodyl investigation. This indebtedness was
acknowledged by one whose voice and face, once familiar to this
audience, we all of us now sadly miss—the late Sir Edward Frankland
—in the graceful and modest words which appear in the dedication of
the volume of his collected researches :—
     " To my friend and teacher, Robert William Bunsen, whose re
searches on cacodyl, on the gases of the iron furnaces, and on the

1900.]                         on Bunsen.                              441
volcanic phenomena of Iceland, I Lave always regarded as models of
investigation in pure, applied and physical chemistry, I dedicate
these pages, both as a testimony of my regard and in gratitude f >r
the teaching whereby he imbued me with the necessity for thorough
ness and accuracy in all scientific work. Would that they were more
worthy of such a high standard."
     Thus it is seen that although this remarkable research is the only
one of any importance which was carried out by Bunsen in the domain
of organic chemistry, it was destined to exert such an influence on the
later developments of that branch of the science, that he may with
truth be regarded as one of the pioneers of modern organic chemistry.
     The next research to which I shall refer is one of a totally different
character, but not of less importance than the last. It is interesting
as the first attempt, and a successful one, to introduce accurate scien
tific methods and inquiry into so important an industry as that of iron
smelting. Up to 1845 the production of cast iron in the blastfurnace
was carried on mainly in ignorance of the scientific principles upon
which it depends. The waste of fuel was enormous, amounting
often to 80 per cent, of the whole. Bunsen, by analysing the escap
ing gases, showed how this loss could be made good ; how the heat of
 the burning gases could be utilized, and, in conjunction with the late
 Lord (then Lyon) Playfair, he conducted a series of experiments which
 have resulted in economies the value of which may be reckoned by
 millions rather than by thousands of pounds. But in other divisions
 clear light was thrown upon the chemistry of the blast furnace by
 these researches. Thus the formation of cyanogen in the furnace was
 unknown until discovered accidentally, as thus described by Playfair.
 " Bunsen was engaged below," at the blast furnaces at Alfreton, in
 Derbyshire, " and I above, passing the gases through water to collect
 any soluble producls, when I was alarmed by being told that my
 friend had become suddenly ill. I ran down and saw white fumes
 coming out of a lateral tube, and Bunsen apparently recovering from
 a faiuting condition. I applied my nose to the orifice and smelt the
 vapour of cyanide of potassium, which gave an entirely new light to
 the processes of the furnace."
     These important results could not have been achieved if Bunsen
 had not previously elaborated an accurate method of gas analysis.
 These processes enabled him to do what had hitherto been impossible
 for want of exact methods. No one could before his time undertake
 accurate determinations of the several constituents of a gaseous
 mixture. His book on gasometry—the only book he ever wrote—is
 a remarkable one. For originality of conception, fur success in over
 coming difficulties, for ingenuity in the construction of apparatus, and
 for accurate methods, this book as a record of experimental work is,
 I believe, unequalled. It was always a matter of congratulation with
 the Heidelberg student when he was set to learn the process of gas
 analysis, for then he came into direct contact with the master, who
 would spend half the morning in the gas-analysis room going through
     Vol. XVI. (No. 94.)                 "        "             2o

 442                        Sir Henry Roscoe                   [June 1,
 all the detailed manipulation of the exact measurement and separation
 of the various constituents of a sample of coal-gas, and pointing out
 how the calculations are to be made.
     Many were the physical properties of gases which formed the
 subject of Bunsen's investigation. He devised new methods of
 attack; he invented novel instruments for effecting his object, and
 was then able to study with accuracy the phenomena of gaseous
 diffusion and absorption. All these researches were masterpieces of
 experimental skill and of accurate and pains-taking work.
     Of all Bunsen's useful and ingenious inventions, that of the gas-
 burner which bears his name is the most widely known and valued.
 There is scarcely a household or a manufactory where this little
 lamp is not in daily use for one purpose or another. About its
 discovery an interesting tale can be told.
     Some short time before the opening of the new laboratory in 1856,
 the town of Heidelberg was for the first time lighted with gas, and
 Bunsen had to consider what kind of gas-burner he would use for
 laboratory purposes. Returning from my Easter vacation in London,
 I brought back with me an Argand burner with copper chimney and
wire-gauze top, which was the form commonly used in English
laboratories at that time for working with a smokeless flame. This
arrangement did not please Bunsen in the very least ; the flame was
flickering, it was too large, and the gas was so much diluted with air
that the flame-temperature was greatly depressed. He would make a
burner in which the mixture of gas and air would burn at the top of
the tube without any gauze whatsoever, giving a steady, small and
hot, non-luminous flame under such conditions that it not only would
burn without striking down when the gas supply was turned on full,
but also when the supply was diminished until only a minute flame
was left. This was a difficult, some thought it an impossible problem
to solve ; but, after many fruitless attempts and many tedious trials,
he succeeded, and the " Bunsen burner " came to light.
     In this burner an important principle is involved. The mixture
of air and gas in the tube must never reach the point at which an
explosive mixture is produced, viz. one volume of gas to about ten
volumes of air, oithcr when the supply of gas is full on or turned
nearly off.
     This can only bo effected by varying the volume of the aspirated
air in proportion to that of the issuing gas, and this is done auto
matically by variation in a zone of diminished pressure caused by the
flow of the issuing gas. This same principle is illustrated by
Faraday's well-known experiments with the two cards.
     The carbon-zinc battery (1841) which goes by his name is one of
Bunsen's best known discoveries. The carbon cylinders, which
replace the platinum of Grove, rendered this form of battery the
cheapest and most reliable source of electricity until the genius of
Faraday rendered the dynamo possible. It is interesting to remember
that as early as 1843 Bunsen foreshadowed the production of light

  1900.]                        on Bunsen.                          443
 by electricity, and made the first step towards the modern system of
 arc lighting. In 1852 Bunsen turned his attention to applying his
 battery to the electrolytic production of metals, the reduction of
 which had hitherto baffled the attacks of the chemist. Magnesium
 first yielded, next came the metals of the alkaline earths—calcium,
 strontium, and later on cerium, lanthanum and didymium. In 1856
 Bunsen and I determined the actinic value of the light of burning
 magnesium ; we found that this was so great that it might be used for
 photographic purposes, and the first photographic portrait by the
 magnesium light was taken by myself in this room on May 6, 1864,
 when, during a lecture which I gave, Faraday was photographed as he
 sat, and also Sir Henry Holland, who presided on that occasion.
      Another well-known instrument invented by Bunsen (1844) is
 his photometer, used now almost exclusively for measuring the
 illuminating power of coal gas. The essential feature of this appa
 ratus is a disc of paper having a grease spot in the centre, a
 comparison of the luminous intensity being made when by the ap
 proximation of the source of light to the illuminated disc the
 spot becomes invisible. When this instrument was shown and
 explained to the late Emperor Frederick he remarked, " For the first
 time in my life I now know the value of a spot of grease."
     The only relaxation from his scientific labours which Bunsen
 throughout life allowed himself was travelling, and this he thoroughly
 enjoyed. During many autumn vacations, I had the pleasure of
 accompanying him in rambles throughout Switzerland and the Tyrol.
 He walked well, and had a keen appreciation of natural beauty,
 especially of mountain and woodland scenery, whilst he took great
interest in the geology and physical characteristics of the districts
through which he passed, and this it was that led him to turn his
mind to chemico-geological studies. So early as 1844, in company
with Pilla and Matteucci, he visited and carefully examined the car
boniferous deposits occurring in the well known fumerole districts
of the Tuscan Maremma, and in 1816 he undertook his journey to
Iceland, where he spent three and a half months, and the outcome of
which was the well-known series of investigations on the volcanic
phenomena of that island. No doubt it was the eruption of Hecla in
1845 which served as the incentive to this expedition, for he desired
not only to examine the composition of the Icelandic rocks, which
are entirely of volcanic origin, but especially the pseudovolcanic
phenomena which present themselves in greater force immediately
after a period of activity than at other times.
     The expedition to Iceland was an official one promoted by the
Danish Government. Bunsen was accompanied by Sartorius von
YValtershausen and Bergman, both colleagues at Marburg, as well as
by the French mineralogist Des Cloizenux. They left Copenhagen
on May 4, 1846, reaching Eeykiavik after a short but stormy passage
of eleven days. The party spent ten days at the foot of Hecla, where
Bunsen collected the gases emitted by the fumeroles, and investigated
                                                          2 6 2

444                         Sir Henry Roscoe                    [June 1,
the changes which these gases effect on the volcanic rocks with which
they come into contact. Eleven more days were given to the investi
gation of the phenomena of the geysers, and at the end of August
Bunsen left the island, having in the short space of about three
months collected a mass of material the working up of, which, as he
writes to Berzelius, " will tax all my energies for some length of
time"— a prediction which was subsequently fully realised.
     To enlarge upon this research is beyond the province of the
present discourse. Suffice it to say that Bunseu's original investigation
lies at the foundation of modern petrology, and has opened out an
unbounded field for research, the cultivation of which has already
yielded great results and will in future yield still greater ones.
Tyndall's remarkable experimental illustration of Bunsen's geyser
theory will be remembered by many of the older members of this
Institution.
     Of all Bunsen's researches the one which will undoubtedly stand
out pre-eminent as time rolls on is that on spectrum analysis. The
most important discovery made by Bunsen during the short duration
of his residence in Breslau was, as I have said, the discovery of
Kirchhoff, who was then Professor of Physics in that University, and
whoso great ability the elder man at once recognised. No sooner had
Jolly removed to Munich, in 1854, than Bunsen took care that Kirch
hoff should be his successor in the Heidelberg Chair of Physics.
And thus came about that great twin research which has made the
name of these men known through the wide world. To dilate upon
the importance of the discovery is unnecessary ; to follow out the
growth of this branch of science in its height and depth and breadth
is here impossible. All that is now possible is to remind you of
KirchhofTs great discovery—namely, the full explanation of Fraun-
hofer's lines in the solar spectrum, pointing the way to a knowledge
of the chemical composition of the sun and fixed stars—and that of
Bunsen's application of the principles of spectrum analysis to the
examination of terrestrial matter.
     On March 1, 1861, I had the honour of bringing before a Royal
Institution audience the results of these discoveries—viz., those of
Kirchhoff and Bunsen, made in the autumn of 1859 ; those of Bunsen,
in 1860 and 1861. In that discourse I gave an account of the two
new metals caesium and rubidium. I ventured to say whilst these
researches were in their earliest infancy, that the dawn of a new
 stellar and terrestrial chemistry had been announced, thus opening
 out for investigation a bright prospect of vast fields of unexplored
truth. And the subsequent work of forty years, and of many investi
 gators, has not falsified this prediction.
     In a letter to me dated April 10, 1860, Bunsen writes as
 follows :—
     " Do not be annoyed with me, dear Roscoe, that I have done nothing
 with our light investigation. I have left everything untouched, be
 cause 1 have obtained full certainty, by means of spectrum analysis,

1900.]                           on Bunsen.                                  445
that besides Ka, Na, and Li, a fourth alkali metal must exist, and
all my time has been occupied in endeavouring to isolate some com
pounds of the new substance. Where the presence of this body is
mdicated, it occurs in such minute quantity that I almost give up hope
of isolating it unless, indeed, I am lortuuate enough to find a material
which contains it in larger amount."
    On November 6, I860, Bunscn describes to me his further work on
the new metal as follows :—
    " I have been very fortunate with my new metal. I have- got
50 grams of the nearly chemically pure chloro-platinio compound.
It is true that this 50 grams has been obtained from no less than
40 tonshave
bonate         beenmineral
          of the     prepared
                            water,
                                by afrom
                                      simple  process
                                          which    2-5 as          lithium car-I
                                                         lbs.a ofby-product.
am calling the new metal " cassinm," from " ctesius," blue, on account of
the splendid blue line in its spectrum. Next Sunday I hope to find
time to make the first determination of the atomic weight."
     The rare combination of mental and manual dexterity charac
teristic of Bunsen is nowhere more strikingly shown than in the
investigation of the ciesium compounds. From these 17 grams of
cassium chloride, obtained as above described, he not only succeeded
in preparing and analysing all the more important compounds, but in
crystallising the salts in such a form that he was able to determine
their crystallographic constants, and then to supply all the necessary
data for fixing the position of this new element and its compounds in
relation to its well-known relatives potassium and sodium.
     All the world knows that, shortly atter his discovery of Cfesium,
the birth of another new alkali-metal, rubidium,* was announced by
Bunsen, and the application of spectrum analysis led to the isolation
 of thallium in 1861, indium in 1863, germanium in 1866, gallium in
 1875, and scandium iu 1879, but alongside of these came announce
ments of the discovery of other new metals whose existence was
more than doubtful. Concerning these he writes to mys If: "The
frivolous way in which new metals are now discovered by dozens, and
sent forth into the world duly christened, is certainly no gain to science ;
only later inquirers will be able to decide what remains now and
serviceable out of this chaos of material."
     I had the good fortuno to be associated with Bunsen for many
 years in a somewhat difficult and most interesting research on the
 measurement of the chemical action of light. So long ago as April 4,
 1856, I brought before a Royal Institution audience the first fruits
 of this work, and on May 22, 1863, and again, June 1, 1866, I
 explained the further results which we had obtained. It is impossible
 for me to do more on the present occasion than to remind you by an
 experiment that it is the more refrangible rays of the solar spectrum
 which have the greatest power of setting up chemical change, and to
                        » Berlin Monatsh. 1861, vi. 273.

446                        Sir Henry Roscoe                       [Jane 1,
give you an idea of the value attached by chemists to the results of
this investigation by quoting the opinion of one eminently qualified
to judge, namely, Professor Ostwald of Leipzig:—
    " In no other research in this domain of science," says Ostwald,
" do we find exhibited such an amount of chemical, physical and mathe
matical dexterity, of ability in devising experiments, of patience and
perseverance in carrying them out, of attention given to the minutest
detail, or of breadth of view as applied to the grander meteorological
and cosmical phenomena of nature."
    In this connection I think that the following letter from Bnnsen
to myself, now published for the first time, may interest my audience.
It requires only a word or two of explanation. On my return to
England from Heidelberg for the Christmas holidays, 1855—6, I
heard for the first time of Draper's previous work on a chlorine and
hydrogen " tithonometer," and, somewhat downcast by this discovery,
I wrote to Bunsen on the subject. His wise and encouraging words
put new heart into me, and I returned to work at Heidelberg deter
mined to do my best to prove equal to the task that lay before me.
                                        " Heidelbebg, ISth January, 1856.
"My deab Fbiend,
        " I think that Draper's experiments will not require to bo
repeated by us any more than Witwer's. Independently of much
that appears to me to be inexplicable in them, the pressuro to which
the luting liquid saturated with H and CI is subjected constantly
changes. I therefore conclude that Draper's instrument will not
indicate proportionality, etc., especially as the volume of the insolated
gas is so small compared with that of the luting liquid. At any
rate I see no grounds for interrupting our experiments, still less do
I consider that it is a misfortune that the results which we have
obtained should have been to some extent previously described by
him. It appears to me that the value of an investigation is not to
bo measured by whether something is described in it for the first
time, but rather by what means and methods a fact is proved beyond
doubt or cavil, and in this respect I think that Draper has left plenty
for us to do. Do not, therefore, let your discovery of Draper's work
disconcert you. I am now busy getting my Eudiometry ready for
press, and I hope by Easter to have made an end of it. My best
greetings to Williamson, in hearty friendship,
                                               Yours,
                                                      R. W. Bunsen."
    In 1889 Bunsen retired from active University life, resigning his
professorship, and therefore his official residence, and retiring to a
pretty little villa in " Bunsen Strasse," which he had purchased,
where he spont the remainder of his days in quiet repose. His chief
relaxation and enjoyment throughout his life in Heidelberg was to

 1900.]                        on Bunsen.                           447
 wander with Kirchhoff or Helmholtz, or some other of his intimate
 friends, through the chestnut woods which cover the hills at the foot
 of which the town lies. As the infirmities of age increased, and his
 walking powers diminished, he was obliged to take to driving through
 the woods along the charming roads which intersect the hills in all
 directions. Writing became a difficulty, and in his latter days the
 news of him came to me through our mutual friends, Quincke and
 Konigsberger. One of the last letters I received from him is dated
 June 4, 1890:—
     " .... I have been suffering for weeks from the after-effects of
influenza, and I am still so weak that I have to spend my days on the
 sofa, and have scarcely strength to walk the few yards to dinner at
the Grand Hotel. When I think that next March I enter on my
eightieth year, I must resign myself to the fact that such a state
of things is inevitable. My hearing, too, becomes more and more
difficult, and my eyes are worse, so I have to deny myself all social
intercourse, and only see now and then one of my old friends who
comes to look me up. But in spite of all this, I can still feel the
humour of life."
     Earely at any time or place has a University enjoyed the presence
of so remarkable a galaxy of eminent men as wus enjoyed for many
years by the Carola Euperto from about the middle of the present
 century. The central figure of this illustrious band was Bunsen ;
 round him were grouped, to name only some of his colleagues and
friends in the faculty of science, Kirchhoff, and after him Quincke;
Helmholtz, and after him Kiihne ; Fuchs, and after him Leo Konigs
berger ; and last, but not least, Hermann Eopp and Bosenbusch, and
tho ever-to-be-lamented Victor Meyer ; whilst in other faculties were
 Schlosser, Gervinus and Hausser, the historians and statesmen ; von
Mohl, the jurist and diplomatist ; Zeller, the theologian ; Vangerow,
the great Pandectanist ; and other scarcely less distinguished men who
at that time adorned the faculties of Philosophy, Medicine and Law
in the University of Heidelberg.
     Almost up to the last Bunsen continued to take a vivid interest in
the progress of scientific discovery, and, though suffering from pain
and weakness, ever preserved the equanimity which was one of his
lifelong characteristics. Three days before his death, so Quincke
writes to me, he lay in a peaceful slumber, his countenance exhibiting
tho fine intellectual expression of his best and brightest days. Thus
passed away, full of days and full of honours, a man, equally beloved
for his great qualities of heart as he is honoured for those of his
fertile brain, the memory of whom will always remain green amongst
all who were fortunate enough to number him amongst their friends.
                                                           [H. E. E.]

                          Dr. Allan Macfadyen                    [Jane 8,
                  WEEKLY       EVENING
                           Friday,           MEETING,
                                    June 8, 1900.
     Sib James Cbichton-Bkowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer
                    and Vice-President, in the Chair.
Allan Macfadyen, M.D. B.Sc., Director of the Jenner Institute of
                           Preventive Medicine.
             The Effect of Physical Agents on Bacterial Life.
                                 (Abstract.)
The fact that life did not exist upon the earth at a remote period of
time, the possibility of its present existence as well as the prospect
of its ultimate extinction, can be traced to the operation of certain
physical conditions. These physical conditions upon which the main
tenance of life as a whole depeno's are in their main issues beyond
the coutrol of man. We can but study, predict and it may be
utilise their effects for our benefit. Life in its individual manifesta
tions is, therefore, conditioned by the physical environment in which
it is placed. Life rests on a physical basis, and the main -springs of
its energies are derived from a larger world outside itself. If these
conditions, physical or chemical, are favourable, the functions of life
proceed ; if unfavourable, they cease—and death ultimately ensues.
These factors have been studied and their effects utilised to conserve
health or to prevent disease. It is our purpose this evening to study
some of the purely physical factors, not in their direct bearing on man,
but in relation to much lower forms in the scale of life—forms which
constitute in number a family far exceeding that of the human species,
and of which we may produce at will in a test-tube, within a few
hours, a population equal to that of London. These lowly forms of
life—the bacteria— belong to the vegetable kingdom, and each indivi
dual is represented by a simple cell.
     These forms of life are ubiquitous in the soil, air and water, and
are likewise to be met with in intimate association with plants
and animals, whose tissues they may likewise invade with injurious
or deadly effects. Their study is commonly termed bacteriology —a
term frequently regarded as synonymous with a branch of purely
medical investigation. It would be a mistake, however, to suppose
that bacteriology is solely concerned with the study of the germs of
disease. The dangerous microbes are in a hopeless minority in com
parison with the number of those which are continually performing
varied and most useful functions in the economy of nature. Their
wide importance is due to the fact that they ensure the resolution and

 1900.]     on the Effect of Physical Agents on Bacterial Life.         449
 redistribution of dead and effete organic matter, which if allowed to
 accumulate would speedily render life impossible on the surface of the
 earth. If medicine ceased to regard the bacteria, their study would
 still remain of primary importance in relation to many industrial
 processes in which they play a vital part. It will be seen, therefore,
 that their biology presents many points of interest to scientific workers
 generally. Their study as factors that ultimately concern us really
 began with Pasteur's researches upon fermentation. The subject of
 this evening's discourse, the effect of physical agents on bacterial life,
 is important not merely as a purely biological question, though this
 phase is of considerable interest, but also on account of the facts I have
 already indicated, viz. that micro-organisms fulfil suoh an important
 function in the processes of nature, in industrial operations, and in
 connection with the health of man aud animals. It depends largely on
 the physical conditions to be met with in nature whether the micro
 organisms exercise their functions, and likewise whether they die or
remain inactive. Further, the conditions favouring one organism may
be fatal to another, or an adaptability may be brought about to unusual
conditions for their life. To tho technologist the effect of physical
agents in this respect is of importance as a knowledge of their mode of
action will guide him to the means to be employed for utilising the
micro-organisms to the best advantage in processes of fermentation.
The subject is of peculiar interest to thoso who are engaged in com
bating disease, as a knowledge of the physical agents that favour or
retard bacterial life will furnish indications for the preventive measures
to be adopted. With a suitable soil and an adequate temperature
the propagation of bacteria proceeds with great rapidity. If the
primary conditions of soil and an adequate temperature are not
present, the organisms will not multiply, they remain quiescent or they
die. The surface layers of the soil harbour the vast majority of the
bacteria, and constitute the great storehouse in nature for these forms
of life. They lessen in number in the deeper Liyers of the soil, and
few or none are to be met with at a depth of 8-10 feet. As a matter
of fact, the soil is a most efficient bacterial filter, and the majority of
the bacteria are retained in its surface layers and are to be met with
there. In the surface soil, most bacteria find the necessary physical
conditions for their growth, and may be said to exist there under natural
conditions. It is in the surface soil that their main scavenging
functions are performed. In the deeper layers, the absence of air and
the temperature conditions prove inimical to most forms.
     Amongst pathogenic bacteria the organisms of lockjaw and of
malignant oedema appear to be eminently inhabitants of the soil.
As an indication of the richness of the surface soil in bacteria, I may
mention that 1 gramme of surface soil may contain from several
hundred thousand to as many as several millions of bacteria. The
air is poorest in bacteria. The favouring physical conditions to be met
with in the soil are not present in the air. Though bacteria are to be
met with in the air, they are not multiplying forms as is the case in

450                      Dr. Allan Mac/adyen                   [June 8,
the soil. The majority to be met with in air are derived from the
soil. Their number lessens when the surface soil is moist, and it in
creases as the surface soil dries. In a dry season the number of air
organisms will tend to increase.
    Town air contains more bacteria than country air, whilst they
become few and tend to disappear at high levels and on the sea. A
shower of rain purifies the air greatly of bacteria. The organisms
being, as I stated, mainly derived from the surface of the ground,
their number mainly depends on the physical condition of the soil,
and this depends on the weather. Bacteria cannot pass independ
ently to the air, they are forcibly transferred to it with dust from
various surfaces. The relative bacterial purity of the atmosphere
is mainly, therefore, a question of dust. Even when found floating
about in the air the bacteria are to be met with in much greater
number in the dust that settles on exposed surfaces, e.g. floors,
carpets, clothes and furniture. Through a process of sedimenta
tion the lower layers of the air become richer in dust and bacteria,
and any disturbance of dust will increase the number of bacteria in
the air.
     The simple act of breathing does not disseminate disease germs
from a patient, it requires an act of coughing to carry thera into the
air with minute particles of moisture. From the earliest times great
weight has been laid upon the danger of infection through air-bomc
contagia, and with the introduction of antiseptic surgery the en
deavour was made to lesson this danger as much as possible by
meaus of the carbolic spray, etc. In the same connection numerous
bacteriological examinations of air have been made with the view of
arriving at results of hygienic value. The average number of micro
organisms present in tho air is 500-1000 per 1003 litros ; of this
number only 100-200 are bacterid, and they are almost entirely
harmless forms. The organisms of suppuration have been detected in
the air, and the tubercle bacillus in the dust adhering to the walls of
rooms. Investigntion has not, however, proved air to be one of the
important channels of infection. The bactericidal action of sunlight,
desiccation and the diluting action of the atmosphere on noxious
Fubstances will always greatly lessen the risk of direct aerial in
fection.
     Tho physical agents that promote tho passage of bacteria into tho
air are inimical to their vitality. Thus, the majority pass into the
air not from moist but from dry surfaces, and the preliminary drying
is injurious to a large number of bacteria. It follows that if the air
is rendered dust-free, it is practically deprived of all the organisms
it may contain. As regards enclosod spaces, the stilling of dust and
more especially the disinfection of surfaces liable to breed dust or
to harbour bacteria are more important points than air disinfection,
and this fact has been recognised in modern surgery. In an investi
gation, in conjunction with Mr. Lnnt, an estimation was arrived *t
of tho ratio existing between the number of dust particles and bacteria

1900.]      on the Effect of Physical Agents on Bacterial Life.     451
in the air. We used Dr. Aitken's Dust-counter, which not only
renders the dust particles visible, but gives a means of counting
them in a sample of air. In an open suburb of London we found
20,000 dust particles in 1 cubic centimetre of air ; in a yard in the
centre of London about 500,000. The dust contamination we found
to be about 900 per cent, greater in the centre of London than in a
quiet suburb. In the opon air of London there was on an average
just one organism to every 38,300,000 dust particles present in the
air, and in the air of a room, amongst 184,000,000 dust particles, only
one organism could be detected.
     These figures illustrate forcibly the poverty of the air in micro
organisms even when very dusty, and likewise the enormous dilution
they undergo in the atmosphere. Their continued existence is
rendered difficult through the influence of desiccation and sunlight.
Desiccation is one of naturo's favourite methods for getting rid of
bacteria. Moisture is necessary for their development and their vital
processes, and constitutes about 80 per cent, of their cell-substance.
 When moisture is withdrawn most bacterial cells, unless they pro
duce resistant forms of the nature of spores, quickly succumb. The
organism of cholera air-dried in a thin film dies in three hours.
The organisms of diphtheria, typhoid fever and tuberculosis show
more resistance, but clio in a few weeks or months.
     Dust containing tubercle bacilli may be carried about by air
currents, and the bacilli in this way transferred from an affected to a
healthy individual. It may, however, be said that drying attenuates
and kills most of these forms of life in a comparatively short time.
The spares of certain bacteria may, on the other hand, live for many
years in a dried condition, e.g. the spores of anthrax bacilli which
ai e so infective for cattle and also for man (wool-sorters' disease).
Fortunately few pathogenic bacteria possess spores, and, therefore,
drying by checking and destroying their life is a physical agent that
plays an important role in the elimination of infectious diseases.
This process is aided by the marked bactericidal action of sunlight.
Sunlight, which has a remarkable fostering influence on higher plant
life, does not exercise the same influence on the bacteria. With few
exceptions we must grow them in the dark in order to obtain succes-
fid cultures ; and a sure way of losing our cultures is to leave them
exposed to the light of day. Direct sunlight is the most deadly
agent, and kills a large number of organisms in the short space of
one to two hours ; direct sunlight proves fatal to the typhoid bacillus
in half an hour to two hours, to the diphtheria bacillus in half an
hour to one hour, and to the tubercle bacillus in a few minutes to
several hours. Even anthrax spores are killed by direct light in
three and a half hours. Diffuse light is also injurious, though its
action is slower. By exposing pigment-producing bacteria to sun
light colourless varieties can be obtained, and virulent bacteria so
weakened that they will no longer produce infection. The germicidal
action of the sun's rays is most marked at tho blue end of the spec

 452                       Dr. Allan Macfadyen                   [June 8,
 trum, at the red end there is little or no germicidal action. It is
 evident that the continuous daily action of the sun along with desic
 cation are important physical agents in arresting the further develop
 ment of the disease germs that are expelled from the body.
     It has been shown that sunlight has an important effect in the
 spontaneous purification of rivers. It is a well-known fact that a
 river, despite contamination at a given point, may show little or no
 evidence of this contamination at a point further down in its course.
 Buchner added to water 100,000 colon bacilli per cubic centimetre,
 and found that all were dead after one hour's exposure to sunlight,
 lie also found, that in a clear lake the bactericidal action of sunlight
 extended to a depth of about six feet, bunlight must therefore he
taken into account as an aiient in the purification of waters, in ad
dition to sedimentation, oxidation and the action of alga).
     Air or the oxygen it contains has important and opposite effects on
 the life of bacteria. In 1861, Pasteur described an organism in con
 nection with the butyric acid fermentation which would only grow in
 the absence of free oxygen. And since then a number of bacteria,
 showing a like property, have been isolated and described. They
 are termed anaerobic bacteria as their growth is hindered or stopped
 in the presence of air. The majority of the bacteria, however, are
 aerobic organisms inasmuch as their growth is dependent upon a free
 supply of oxygen. There is likewise an intermediate group of
 organisms, which show an adaptability to either of these conditions,
 being able to dovelop with or without iree access to oxygen. Pre
eminent types of this group are to be met with in the digestive tract
 of animals, and the majority of disease-producing bacteria belong to
 this adaptive class. When a pigment-producing organism is grown
 without free oxygen its pigment production is almost always stopped.
 For anaorobic forms IS and H2 give the best atmosphere for their
 growth, whilst C02 is not favourable and may be positively injurious,
as e.g. in the case of the cholera organism.
     The physical conditions favouring the presence and multiplica
tion of bacteria in water under natural conditions are a low altitude,
warmth, abundnnco of organic matter and a sluggish or stagnant
condition of the wutor. As regards water-borne infectious diseases
such as typhoid or cholera, their transmission to mau by water may
be excluded by simple boiling or by an adequate filtration. The
freezing of water, whilst stopping the further multiplication of
organisms, may conserve the life of disease germs by eliminating the
destructive action of commoner competitive forms. Thus the typhoid
bacillus may romain frozen in ice for some months without injury.
Employment of ordinary cold is not therefore a protection against
dangerous disease germs.
     As regards electricity, there is little or no evidence of its direct
action on bacterial life, the effects produced appear to be of an
indirect character duo to the development of heat or to the products of
electrolysis.

1900.]     on the Effect of Physical Agents on Bacterial Life.      453
    Ozone is a powerful disinfectant, and its introduction into polluted
water has a most marked purifying effect. The positive effects of
the electric current may therefore be traced to the action of the
chemicnl products and of heat. I am not aware that any direct action
of the X-rays on bacteria has up to the present been definitely
proved.
    Mechanical agitation, if slight may favour, and if excessive may
hinder bacterial development. Violent shaking or concussion may
not necessarily prove fatal so long as no mechanical lesion of the
bacteria is brought about. If, however, substances likely to produce
triturating effects are introduced, a disintegration- and death of the
ceils follows. Thus Rowland, by a very rapid shaking of tubercle
bacilli in a steel tube with quartz sand and hard steel balls, produced
their complete disintegration in ten minutes.
    Bacteria appear to be very resistant to the action of pressure.
At 3U0-450 atmospheres putrefaction still takes place, and at 600
atmospheres the virulence of the anthrax bacillus remained unim
paired. Of the physical agents that affect bacterial life, tempera
ture is the most important. Temperature profoundly influences
the activity of bacteria. It may favour or hinder their growth, or
it may put an end to their life. If we regard temperature in
the first instance as a favouring agent, very striking differences
are to be noted. The bacteria show a most remarkable range of
temperature under which their growth is possible, extending from
zero to 70° C. If we begin at the bottom of the scale we find
organisms in water and in soil that are capable of growth and
developmental zero. Amongst these are certain species of phosphor
escent bacteria which continue to emit light even at this low tempera
ture. At the Jenner Institute we have met with organisms growing
and developing at 34—40' F. The vast majority of interest to us find
however the best conditions for their growth from 15° up to 37° C.
Each species has a minimum, an optimum and a maximum tempera
ture at which it will develop. It is important in studying any given
species that the optimum temperature for their development be
ascertained, and that this temperature be maintained. In this
respect we can distinguish three broad groups. The first croup
includes those for which the optimum temperature is from 15-20° C.
The second group includes the parasitic forms, viz. those which grow
in the living bodv and for which the optimum temperature is at
blood heat, viz. 37° C. Wo have a third group for which tho
optimum temperature lien as high as 50-55° C. On this account
this latter group has been termed thermophilic on account of its
growth at such abnormally high temperatures—temperatures which
are fatal to other forms of hfe. They have been the subject of
personal investigation in conjunction with Dr. Blaxall. We found
that there existed in nature an extensive group of such organisms to
which the term thermophilic bacteria was applicable. Their growth
and development occurred best at temperatures at which ordinary

  454                       Dr. Allan Macfadyen                    [June 8,
  protoplasm becomes inert or dies. The best growths were always
  obtained at 55—65° C. Their wide distribution was of a striking
  nature. They were found by us in river water and mud, in sewage,
  and also in a sample of sea water. They were present in the
  digestive tract of man and animals and in the surface and deep layers
  of the soil as well as in straw and in all samples of ensilage examined.
  Their rapid growth at high temperatures was remarkable, the whole
  surface of the culture medium being frequently overrun in from fifteen
 to seventeen hours. The organisms examined by us (fourteen forms
 in all) belonged to the group of the Bacilli. Some were motile,
  some curdled milk, and some liquefied gelatin in virtue of a
 proteolytic enzyme. The majority possessed reducing powers upon
 nitrates and decomposed proteid matter. In some instances cane
 sugar was inverted and starch was diastased. These facts well
 illustrate the full vitality of the organisms at these high tempera
 tures, whilst all the organisms isolated grew best at 55°-65° 0. A
 good growth in a few cases occurred at 72° C. Evidence of growth
 was obtained even at 74° C. They exhibited a remarkable and unique
 range of temperature, extending as far as 30° of the Centigrade
 scale.
      As a concluding instance of the activity of these organisms we
may cite their action upon cellulose. Cellulose is a substance that
 is exceedingly difficult to decompose, and is therefore used in the
laboratory for filtering purposes in the form of Swedish filter paper,
on account of its resistance to the action of solvents. We allowed
these organisms to act on cellulose at 60° C. The result was that in
ten to fourteen days a complete disintegration of the cellulose had
taken place, probably into C02 and marsh gas. The exact conditions
that may favour their growth, even if it be slow at subthermophilic
temperatures, are not yet known—they may possibly be of a chemical
nature.
     Organisms may be gradually acclimatised to temperatures that
prove unsuited to them under ordinary conditions. Thus the anthrax
bacillus with an optimum temperature for its development of 37° C,
may be made to grow at 12° C, and at 42° C. Such anthrax
bacilli proved pathogenic for the frog with a temperature of 12° C,
and for the pigeon with a temperature of 42° C.
     Let us in a very few words consider the inimical action of tem
perature on bacterial life. An organism placed below its minimum
temperature ceases to develop, and if grown above its optimum
temperature becomes attenuated as rogards its virulence, etc., and
may eventually die. The boiling point is fatal for non-sporing
organisms in a few minutes. The exact thermal death-point varies
according to the optimum and maximum temperature for the growth
of the organism in question. Thus for water bacteria with a low
optimum temperature, blood heat may be fatal ; for pathogenic bacteria
developing best at blood heat, a thermophilic temperature may be
fatal (60° C.) ; and for thermophilic bacilli any temperature above

1900.]     on the Effect of Physical Agents on Bacterial Life.       455
75° C. These remarks apply to the bacteria during their multiply
ing and vegetating phase of life. In their resting or spore stage
the organisms are much more resistant to heat. Thus the anthrax
organism in its bacillary phase is killed in one minute at 70° C. ; in
its spore stage it resists this temperature for hours, and is only killed
after some minutes by boiling. In the soil there are spores of
bacteria which require boiling for sixteen hours to ensure their death.
These are important points to be remembered in sterilisation or
disinfection experiments, viz. whether an organism does or not
produce these resistant spores. Most non-sporing forms are killed at
60° C. in a few minutes, but in an air-dry condition a longer time is
necessary. Dry heat requires a longer time to act than moist heat :
it requires 140° C. for three hours to kill anthrax spores. Dry heat
cannot therefore be used for ordinary disinfection on account of its
destructive action. Moist heat in the form of steam is the most
effectual disinfectant, killing anthrax spores at boiling point in a few
minutes, whilst a still quicker action is obtained if saturated steam
under pressure be used. No spore, however resistant, remains alive
after one minute's exposure to steam at 140° C. The varying thermal
death-point of organisms and the problems of sterilisation cannot be
better illustrated than in the case of milk, which is an admirable soil
for the growth of a large number of bacteria. The most obvious
example of this is the souring and curdling of milk that occurs after
it has been standing for some time. This change is mainly due to
the lactic acid bacteria, which ferment the milk sugar with the pro
duction of acidity.
    Another class of bacteria may curdle tho milk without souring
it in virtue of a rennet-like ferment, whilst a third class precipitate
and dissolve the casein of the milk, along with the development of
butyric acid. The process whereby milk is submitted to a heat of
65° to 70° C. for twenty minutes is known as pasteurisation, and the
milk so treated is familiar to us all as pasteurised milk. Whilst
the pasteurising process weeds out the lactic acid bacteria from the
milk, a temperature of 100° C. for one hour is necessary to destroy
the butyric acid organisms: and even when this has been accom
plished there still remain in the milk the 8pores of organisms which
are only killed after a temperature of 100° C. for three to six hours.
It will therefore be seen that pasteurisation produces a partial, not
a complete sterilisation of the milk as regards its usual bacterial
inhabitants. The sterilisation to be absolute would require six
hours at boiling point. But for all ordinary practical purposes
pasteurisation is an adequate procedure. All practical hygienic re
quirements are likewise adequately met by pasteurisation, if it is
properly carried out, and the milk is subsequently cooled. Milk
may carry the infection of diphtheria, cholera, typhoid and scarlet
fevers as well as the tubercle bacillus from a diseased animal to the
human subject. For the purpose of rendering the milk innocuous,
freezing and the addition of preservatives are inadequate methods

456                       Dr. Allan Macfadyen                   [June 8,
of procedure. The one efficient and trustworthy agent we possess is
heat. Heat and cold are the agents to be jointly employed in the
process, viz. a temperature sufficiently high to be fatal to organisms
producing a rapid decomposition of milk, as well as to those which
produce disease in man ; this to be followed by a rapid cooling to
preserve the fresh flavour and to prevent an increase of the bacteria
that still remain alive. The pasteurising process fulfils these
requirements.
     In conjunction with Dr. Hewlett, I had occasion to investigate in
how far the best pasteurising results might be obtained. We found
that 60° to 68° C. applied for twenty minutes weeded out about
90 per cent, of the organisms present in the milk, leaving a 10 per
cent, residue of resistant forms. It was found advisable to fix the
pasteurising temperature at 68° C, in order to make certain of killing
any pathogenic organisms that may happen to be present. We
passed milk in a thin stream through a coil of metal piping, which
was heated on its outer surface by water. By regulating the length
of the coil, or tho size of the tubing, or the rate of flow of the milk,
almost any desired temperature could be obtained. The temperature
we ultimately fixed at 70° C. The cooling was carried out in similar
coils placed in iced water. The thin stream of milk was quickly
heated and quickly cooled as it passed through the heated and cooled
tubing, and whilst it retained its natural flavour, the apparatus ac
complished at 70° C. in thirty seconds a complete pasteurisation,
instead of in twenty minutes, i.e. about 90 per cent, of the bacteria
were killed, whilst the diphtheria, typhoid, tubercle and pus or
ganisms were destroyed in the same remarkably short period of
time, viz. thirty seconds. This will serve to illustrate how the
physical agent of heat may be employed, as well as the sensitiveness
of bacteria to heat when it is adequately employed.
     Bacteria are much more sensitive to high than to low tempera
tures, and it is possible to proceed much further downwards than
upwards in the scale of temperature, without impairing their vitality.
Some will even multiply at zero, whilst others will remain alive
when frozen under ordinary conditions.
     I will conclude this discourse by briefly referring to experiments
recently made with most remarkable results upon the influence of
low temperatures on bacterial life. The experiments were conducted
at the suggestion of Sir James Crichton-Browue and Professor Dewar.
 The necessary facilities were most kindly given at the Royal Institu
 tion, and the experiments were conducted under the personal super
 vision of Professor Dewar. The action of liquid air on bacteria was
first tosted. A typical series of bacteria was employed for this
 purpose, possessing varying degrees of resistance to external agents.
 The bacteria were first simultaneously exposed to the temperature of
liquid air for twenty hours (about — 190° C). Iu no instance could
any impairment of the vitality of the organisms be detected as regards
their growth or functional activities. This was strikingly illustrated

Juno 8, 1900.]       Dr. Allan Maefadyen on Bacterial Life.          457
in tho caso of the phosphorescent organisms tested. The cells emit
light which is apparently produced by a chemical process of intra
cellular oxidation, and tho phenomenon ceases with the cessation of
their activity. These organisms therefore furnished a very happy
test of the influence of low temperatures on vital phenomena. These
organisms when cooled down in liquid air became non-luminous, but
on re-thawing the luminosity returned with unimpaired vigour as tho
cells renewed their activity. Tho sudden cessation and rapid re
newal of the luminous properties of the cells despite the extreme
changes of temperature was remarkable and striking. In further
experiments the organisms were subjected to the temperature of
liquid air for seven days. The results were again nil. On re-thawing
the organisms renewed their life processes with unimpaired vigour.
We had not yet succeeded in reaching the limits of vitality. Prof.
Dewar kindly afforded the opportunity of submitting the organisms
to tho temperature of liquid hydrogen—about — 250° C. The same
series of organisms was employed, and again the result was nil. This
temperature is only 21° above that of the absolute zero, a temperature
at which, on our present theoretical conceptions, molecular movement
ceases and the entire range of chemical and physical activities with
which we are acquainted either cease, or it may be, assume an entirely
new role. This tomperature again is far below that at which any
chemical reaction is known to take place. The fact then that life
can continue to exist under such conditions affords new ground for
reflection as to whether after all life is dependent for its continuance
on chemical reactions. We, as biologists, therefore follow with tho
keenest interest Prof. Dewar's heroic attempts to reach the absolute
zero of temperature ; meanwhilo his success has already led us to re
consider many of the main issues of the problem. And by having
afforded us a new realm in which to experimeut, Prof. Dewar has
placed in our hands an agent of investigation from the effective use of
    Vol. XVI.      (No. 91.)                                  2 H

458                        General Monthly Meeting.                     [Jane 11,
                  GENERAL   Monday,    June 11, 1900.
                                   MONTHLY          MEETING,
  Sib James Cbiohton-Bbownk, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                         Vice-President, in the Chair.
                      Charles E. Baxtor, Esq.
                      Cyril Coward, Esq.
                      August Dupre, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.
                      Lowis Veruon Harcourt, Esq.
                      \V. C. Prescott, Esq.
                      Mrs. Mary F. Thorno,
were elected Members of tho Royal Institution.
     Tho Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Mr. Harold
Swithinbank, for his donation of £50 to the Fund for the Promotion
of Experimental Research at Low Temperatures.
     The Managers reported, that at their Meeting held this day the
following Resolution was unanimously agreed to :—
    "Tho Managers of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, on the occasion of
the retirement of Sir Frederick Bramwell from the office of Honorary Secretary,
dcsire to place on permanent record an expression of their high appreciation of
tho admirable way in which he has performed the duties of that oftice and of his
signal services to the Institution generally.
    "Elected a Member of the Roxal Institution in 1876, Sir Frederick Bramwell
has since then delivered seven Friday Evening Discourses on subjects cognate to
that branch of npplied science with the progre.-s of which in this country, during
the Victorian Era, bis name must ever remain honourably associated.
    " Having joined the Board of Managers in 1879, be was induced in 1885, not
withstanding professional engagements of the most onerous nnd responsible
character, to undertake the additional burden of the duties of Honorary Secretary
to the Institution. Kor fifteen years these duties have absorbed no inconsiderable
proportion of his time, and have been discharged with incomparable energy,
business ability and courtesy. Himself a generous patron of tho Institution, and
foremost to support every project for its advantage, he has been able to suggest
improvements in the administration of its property which have added to its
material resnuro' s. Mainly concerned in the arrangement of the courses of
Lectures and Friday Evening Discourses, he hns succeeded with no small
expenditure of labour in maintaining these at a high level of educational value
nnd in making them attractive and popular nnd representative of every modern
advancement in the arts and sciences. While extending the usefulness of the
Institution in every direction, a: d introducing into it many new members, he has
by his gcDial personality done much to promote smoothness nnd harmony of
working in its several departments.
    "Tue Managers feel that tho Koynl Institution has been singularly fortunate
in having so long enjoyed the services of Sir Frederick Bramwell in the capacity

1900.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                               459
of Honorary Secretary, and they rejoice to know that although he is no longer to
fill that office, thoy are still to have the benefit of his counsels at their Board.
Sir Frederick Bramwell's name is indelibly stamped upon the history of the Royal
Institution for the last qunrter of the nineteenth century. He will always he
gratefully remembered by its Members, but the Managers wish to add to personal
remembrance this formal record of their cordial recognition of bis merits."
      The Pbesents received since the last Meeting wero laid on the
table,   and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. : —
      FROM
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Rnma—Classe di Scienze Pisiche, Matematiche e
      Naturali. Atti, Seiie Quinta: Rendiconti. 1° Semestre, Vol. IX. Fasc. 8.
      ClasseAcndemy
American               of Arts
              di Scienze  Murali,
                               andStoriche.
                                    Sciencet—Proceedings,   Vol. 1,XXXV.
                                            etc. Vol. IX. Fasc.                  10-15.
                                                                    2. 8vo.Nos.1900.
      8vo. 1899-1900.
American Geographical Society—Kulletin, Vol. XXXII. No. 2. 8vo. 1900.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XXXVIII. No. 160. 8vo.
      1899.
Astronomical Society, Roi/al—Monthly Notices, Vol. I,X. No 7. 8to. 1900.
Bankers, Institute of- Journal, Vol. XXI. Part 5. 8vo. 1900.
Berlin, Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences—Sitzungaberichte, 1900, Nos. 1-22.
      Svo. 1900.
Blyth, Sir James, Bart. J.P. M.R.I.—The Microcosm of London. 3 vols. 4to. n.d.
Bollock, Uon, Esq. (the Author)—The Blue Language ; an International Practical
      Language. 8vo. 1900.
Ronton Public Library—Monthly Bulletin, Vol. V. No. 5. 8vo. 1900.
Boston Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Vol. IV. No. 8. 8vo. 1900.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, 3rd Series, Vol. VII. Nos. 13, 14.
      4to. 1900.
British Astronomical Association—Memoirs, Vol. VIII. Part 3 ; Vol. IX. Part 1.
      8vo. 1900.
   Journal, Vol. X. Nos. 6. 7. 8vo. 1900.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. X. Part 5. 8vo. 1900.
Camera Club—Journal for May, 1900. 8vn.
Cheniical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XIX No. 4. 8vo. 1900.
Chemical Society—Proceedings, Nos. 223, 224. 8vo. 1900.
   Journal for May, 1900. 8vo.
Crarovie, VAcademie des Sciences—Bulletin International, 1900, No. 3. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for May, 1900. 8vo.
   Analyst for May, 1900. 8vo.
   Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for May, 1900. Svo.
   Actrophysical Journal for May, 1900. Svo.
   Athenasum for May, 1900. 4to.
   Author for May, 1900. 8vo.
   Bimetallist for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Brewers' Journal for May, 1900. 8vo.
   Chemical News for May, 1900. 4 to.
   Chemist aial Druggist for May. 1900. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for May, 1900. fol.
   Electrical Review for May, 1900. 8vo.
   Electricity for May, 1900. Svo.
   Engineer for May. 1900. fol.
   Engineering for May, 1900. fol.
   Homoeopathic Keview for May, 1900. 8vo.
   Horological Journal for May, 1900. Svo
   Invention for May, 1900.
   Journal of the Hritish Dental Association for May, 1900. 8vo.
   Journal of State Medicine for May, 1900. Svo.
                                                                       2 h 2

4G0                         General Monthly Meeting.                  [June 11,
Editors—continued.
  Law Journal for Mav. 1900. 8vo.
  Lightning for May, 1900. 8vo.
   London Technical Education Gazette for May, 1900.
  Machinery Market for May, 1900. 8vo.
  Nature for May, 1900. 4to.
  New Church Magazine for May, 1900. 8vn.
  Nnovo Cimento for March, 1900. 8vo.
  Photographic News for May, 1900. 8vo.
  Popular Science Monthly for May, 1900.
  Public Health Engineer for Mav. 1900. 8vo.
   Science Abstracts, Vol. III. Part 5. 8vo. 1900.
   Science Sittings for May, 1900. 8\*o.
   Telephone Magazine for April, 1900.
  Travel for May, 1900. 8vo.
  Tropical Agriculturist for May, 1900. 8vo.
  Zoophilist for May, 1900. 4to.
Edinburgh, Royal College of Fhysiciam—Reports from the Laboratory, Vol. VII.
     8vo. 1900.
Edwatdt, F. G. Esq. (the Author)—Chemistry, an exact Mechanical Philosophy.
     8vo. Engineers,
Electrical 1900.       Institution of—Journal, Vol. XXIX. No. 145. 8vn. 1900.
Florence, Hade Accademia dei Georgofili -Atti, Vol. XXII. Disp. 3, 4. 8vo. 1899.
Franklin Institute—Journal for May, 1900. 8vo.
Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for May. 1900. 8vo.
Great Eastern Railway Co.—Guide to Yarmouth and the Broads.
  Wat. r Ways of Norfolk and Suffolk. 8vo. 1900.
  Holiday Haunts on East Anglian Coast. 1900.
  Interesting Dovercnurt. 4to. 1899.
  Eastern Counties Pictorial Guide 4to.
Harlem, SocietC Hollandaise des Sciences—Archives Nderlandaises, Scrio II.
     Tome III. Livr. 5. 8vo. 1900.
Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for May, 1900.
Jnhns Hopkins University—American Chemical Journal for May, 1900. 8vo.
Leighton, John, Esq. M.R.I.—Journal of the Ex-Libris Society for May, 1900.
     4to.
Life-Boat Institution, Royal National—Annual Report for 1900. 8vo.
Linnean Society—Journal,
Manchester    Literary and No.    178. 8vo. Society—Memoirs
                               Philosophical 1900.            and Proceedings,
     Vol. XLIV. Part 3. 8vo. 1900.
Manchester Steam Users' Association—Boiler Explosions Acts. Reports, Nos. 1121-
      1188. 8vo.Institute
Massachusetts       1899. of Technology—Technology Quarterly, Vol. XIII. No. 1.
     8vo. 1900.
Mendeleejf, Professor       Hon. M.R.I, (the Author)—Rechcrches experimentales
     sur les oscillations de la Balance. 4to. 1900.
Mexico, Socii'dad Cic.ntifica "Antonio Alzate"—Memorias, Tomo XIV. Nos. 1, 2.
     8vo. 1899.
Arar;/ league—Navy League Journal for May. 1900. 8vo.
Numismatic Society—Numismatic Chronicle, 1900, Part 1.
Odontological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXXII. No. 6. 8vo. 1900.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for May, 1900. 8vo.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.
Physical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XVII. Part 1. 8vo. 1900.
Rome, Ministry of Public Works—Giornale del Genio Civile, 1900, Fast 3. 8vo.
Royal Irish A'ademy—Proceedings, Vol. V. No. 4. 8vo. 1900.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Proceedings, Vol. XXII. No. 7 ; Vol. XXIII. No. 1.
     8vo. li>00.
  Transactions, Vol. XXXIX. Part 3. 4to. 1900.

1900.]                         General Monthly Meeting.                            461
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CXCII. B, Nos. 183,
     184. 4to. 1900.
   Proceedings, No. 429. 8vo. 1900. i
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—
   PhilologUchHistorisrhe Clause—
     Beriehte, 19u0, No. 2. 8vo.
Srlborne Society—Nature Notes for May, 1900. 8vo.
Society of Arts—Journal for May, 19n0. 8vo.
Stoedith Academy of Sciences, Royal—Handliugar, Band XXII. 4to. 1899-
     1900.
Tacchini, Prof. P. Hon. Mem. R.I. (the Author)—Memorie dclla Societa degli
     Spettroseopisti Italiani, Vol. XXIX. Disp. 2. 4to. 1900.
Toronto, University of—Studies: Psychological Series, Nos: 2, 3. 8vo. 1899.
Unted States
United  ServicePatent
                  Institution,
                         t'ffice—Official
                                Royil—Journal          May, 1900.Nos.8vo.
                                           Gazette,forVol.XCI.        4-7. 8vo. 1900.
Verein zar Befbrdrrung des GeirerbfieUses in Preuesen—Verhanrtlungen, 1900,
     Heftliev.
 Waugh,          F. G. (the Author)—The Athenaeum Club and its Associations.
           4. 8vo.
     (Privntely Printed.) 8vo.
Yerkes Observatory—Publications, Vol. I. 4to. 1900.
Zurich, Naturforschende Gesellschaft—VierteljahrsBchrift, 1839, Heft 3, 4. 8vo.
     1900.
   Neujahrsblatt, 1900. 8vo.
                    GENERAL   Monday,      July 2nd, 1900.
                                       MONTHLY            MEETING,
    Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer
                        and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                                 George Livesey, Esq.
was elected a Member of the Royal Institution.
     The special thanks of the Members were returned to Dr. Ludwig
Moud, F.R.S. for his donation of £150 to the Fund for the Promotion
of Experimental Research at Low Temperatures.
     The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The Lords of the Admiralty—Nautical Almanac Circular, No. 18. 8vn. 1900.
27te British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of the Hindi, Punjabi und Hindustani
   Catalogue
     MSS. By
   Facsimiles  ofofCuneiform
                   J.
                   Drawings
                    Autographs,by
                      F. Blnmhardt.
                                Tablets.
                                   British
                                   Fifth 4to.
                                         Series,
                                           Artists.
                                          Vol.      fol.
                                                     8»o.
                                               V.1899.    L.1899.
                                                              Binyon. Vol, II. 1900.
                                                       By 1899.
   Handbook to the Coins of Gieut Britain and Ireland. By II. A. Grueber. 8vo.
     1899.
   Catalogue of Sede, Vol. VI. 8vo. 1900.
   Descriptivo List of Bymio and Karshuui MSS. acquired since 1893. By G.
     Margoliouth. 8vo. 1899.
   Index to the Charters and Rolls in Dpt. MSS. Edited l>v H. J. Ellis and
     V. B. Bickley. Vol. I. 8vo. 1900.

462                         General Monthly Meeting.                      [July 2,
Accademia del Lined, Reale, Roma—Closse di Scicnze Fisiohe, Mutematiche e
     Naturali. Atti. Serie Quinta: Bendioonti. l» Seinestre, VoL IX. Fan.
     10, 11.Academy
American             1900.
               8vo. of  Arte and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XXXV. Noe. 17-19.
     8vo. 1900.
Agronomical Society, Royal—Memoirs, Vols Lit. LUI. 4tn. 1899.
Bankert, In>titute ©/—Journal, Vol. XXI. Part 6. 8vo. 1900.
Boston Public Library—Bulletin for June, 1900. 8vo.
Boston Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Vol. IV. No. 9. 8vo. 1900.
British Architectt, Royal Institute of—Journal, Third Series, Vol. VII. Nos. 15, 16.
     4to.Astronomical
British     1900.      Association—Journal, Vol. X. No. 8. 8vo. 1900.
CnmMdge Philosophical Society—Transactions, Vol. XIX. Part 1. 4to. 1900.
Cambridge University Library— Beport of the Library Syndicate for 1899. 4to.
     1900.
Camera Club—Journal for June, 1900. 8vo.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Jourunl, Vol. XIX. No. 5. 8vo. 1900.
Chemical Society—Journal foi June, 1900. 8vo.
  Proceedings, No. 225. 8vo. 1900.
Chicago, Field Columlnan Museum—Annual Beport. 1898-99. 8vo. 1899.
Chicago, John Crerar Library— Fifth Annual Bepnrt. 8vo. 1900.
Cornwall Polytechnic Society, Royal—Annual Re|K>rt, 1899. 8vo. 1900.
Cutter, E. Esq. and Cutter, J. A. Esq. (the Authors)—On Galvanism : Food
      Primer; Food Causation of Caturaot; Cancor; Diabetes and Locomotor
      Ataxia. 8vo. 1900.
Editors—Aeronautical Journal for April, 1900. 8vo.
   American Journal of Science for June, 1900. 8vo.
   Analyst for June, 1900. 8vo.
   Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for June, 1900. 8vo.
   Athenamm for June, 1900. 4to.
   Author for June. 1900. 8vo.
   Bimetallist for June, 1900. 8vo.
   Brewers' Journal for June, 1900. 8vo.
   Chemical News for June, 1900. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for Juue, 1900. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for June, 1900. fol.
   Electrical Beview for June, 1900. 8vo.
   Electricity for June, 1900. 8vo.
   Engineer for Juue, 1900. fol.
   Engineering for June, 1900. fol.
   Homoeopathic Beview for June, 1900. 8vo.
   Horologica! Jonrnnl for May, 1900. 8vo.
   Industries and Iron for June, 1900. fol.
   Invention for June, 1900.
   Journal of the British Dental Association for June, 1900. 8vo.
   Journal of Physical Chemihtry for April, 1900. 8vo.
   Journal of State Medicine for June, 1900. 8vo.
   Law Journal for Juue, 1900. 8vo.
   Lightning for June, 1900. 8vo.
   London Technical Education Gazette for June, 1900. 8vo.
   Machinery Market for June, 1900. 8vo.
    Motor Car Journal for June, 1900. 8vo.
    Nature for June, 1900. 4to.
    New Church Magazine for June, 19:M). 8vo.
   Nuovo Cimenfr> for April, 1900. 8vo.
    Photographic News for June, 1900. 8vo.
    Physical Beview for May-June, 1900. 8vo.
    Popular Soienco Monthlv for June, 1900. 8vo.
    Public Health Engineer' for Juue, 1900. 8vo.

1900.]                         General Monthly Meeting.                      463
Editors—continued.
   Telephone
   Travel for
   Science  Sittings
                June,
                Magazine
            Abstracts,tor
                       1900.
                         Vol.
                           June, 8vo.
                                 June,
                                   1900.
                             forIII.       6. 8vo.
                                     Part1900.  8vo. 1900.
   Tropical Agriculturist for June, 1900.
   Zoophilist for June. 1900. 4to.
Florence, Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale—Bolletino, No. 347. 8vo. 1900.
Franklin Institute—Journal for June, 1900. 8vo.
Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for June, 1900. 8vo.
Geolojical Society— Quarterly Journal, No. 22'J. 8vo. 1900.
   Geological Literature during 1X99. 8vo. 1900.
Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for June. 1900.
Juhns Hopkins University— University Studies, Series XVII. Nos. C-12 ; Series
   University
      XVIII. Journal
   American    No*
                Circular,
               Chemical
                     1-4.ofJournal
                            No.
                             Philologv,
                             8vo.143.1899-1900.
                                      for4to.
                                          Vol. XXI.
                                          June.  1900. Purt
                                               1900.     8vo.1. 8vo. 1900.
Kew Observatory—Re\wrt tor 1899. 8vo. 1900.
Leighton, John, Esq. M.R.I.—Kx-Libris Journal for June, 1900. 8vo.
Leipzig, Furstlich Jablonowskische Gesellschafl—Preisschriften, No. XXXV.
     8vo. 19D0.
London County Council Tedmv-al Education Hoard—Annual Beport, 1899-1900.
     8vo. 1900.
Madras Government Museum—Bulletin, Vol. III. No. 1. 8vo. 1900.
Madrid, R. Academia de Ciendns—Aimario, 1900. 8vo.
Mexico, Sociedad Cientifica "Antonio Alzate"—Memorius y Revista, Tomo XIV.
      Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. 1899.
Microscopical Society, Royal—Journal, 1900, Part 3. 8vo.
Nares, Vice-Admiral Sir G. S. K.C.B. F.R.S. [the Conservator)—Beport on tiro
      Navigation of the Eiver Mersey, 1899. 8vo. 1900.
Navy League—Navy League Journal for June, 1900. 8vo.
Neus York Academy of Sciences—Memoirs. Vol. II. Part 1. 4to. 1899.
A'otvt Scotian Institute of Science—Proceedings and Transactions, Vol. X. Part 1.
     8vo. 1899.
Odontologicnl Society—Transactions, Vol. XX.X II No. 7. 8vo. 1900.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for June, 1!100. 8vo.
Philadelphia, Academy of Natural Scietices—Proceedings, 1899, Part 3. 8vo.
      1899.
Photographic Society. Jloyal—Photosrraphic Journal for May, 1900. 8vo.
Rome, Ministry of Pubic Works—Belazione sull' nudamento dei servizi. 8vo.
      1900.
Rosenthal, Jacques, Esq. (the Author)—Incunabula Typographica. 8vo. 1900.
Royal Society of [joudun— Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CXC1V. A, No. 257;
      Vol. CXCIII. B, Nos. 185, 18b\ 4to. 1900.
   Proceedings, No. 430. 8vo. 1900.
Saxon Society if Sciences, Royal—
   Mulhematisch- Physische Clane—
     Beiichte, 1900, No. 2. 8vo.
   Philologisch-Historische Classe—
      Berichte, litOO, No. 3. 8vo.
Sottish Meteoiological Society—Journal, Third Series, Nos. 15, 1C. 8vo. 1900.
Selhorne Soci ly—Nature Noies ''or June 1900. 8vo.
Sldgreaves, Rev. W. (S. J.) (the Director)— Stonyhurst B( suits, 1899. 8vo. 1900.
Tommasina, T. Esq. (the Autlior)—Snr l'auto-decoheration du i hnrbon. 8vo. 1900.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for June, 1900. 8vo.
United States Department of Agriculture— Biological Bulletin, No. 12. 8vo. 1900
   North American Fauna, No. 17. 8vo. 1900.
   Monthly Weather Buview for Feb.-March, 1900. 8vo.

4G4                              General Monthly Meeting.                       [Soy. 5,
United States Patent Office—Official Gazette, Vol. XC. No, 13; Vol. XCL Noa.
      9-12. 8vo. 1900.
University of London—Calendar, 1900-1901. Rvo. 1900.
Urtini-Scuderi. Profetsor G. (the Author)—Musioometro. 4to. 1900.
   Diagrammi Musioometriei. 4to. 1900.
Vtrein zur Berforderung det Geicerhfleitset in Preuisen—Verhandlungen, 1900,
      Heft 5. Kvo.
Wilton, W. B. Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Astronomical and Physical
      Researches made at the Olwervatory, Daraiuona, Ireland. 4to. 1900.
Yoikshire Archaological Society—Yorkshire Arohmologiual Journal, Part 60. 8vo.
      1900.
Zoological Society of London —Proceedings, 1930, Part 1. 8vo.
                     GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, November 5, 1900.
  Sib James Cbiohton-Bhowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                             Vice-President, in the Chair.
               William Henrv Maw, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
               Mrs. Robert Middleton.
               William Henry Perkin, Esq. Ph.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      The Special Thanks of the Members wero retnrned to Dr. Frank
 McClean, F.R.S. for his donation of £50 to the Fund fur the Promo
 tion of Experimental Rosearch at Low Temperatures, and to Dr.
 Rudolph Messol for his present of a Bronze Bust of Sir Humphry
 Davy.
      The Pbesents received since tho last Meeting wero laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
       FROM
 The, Governor-General of India—
    Ge d-igical Survey of India—
       Memoirs, Vol- XXIX. ; Vol. XXX. Part 1. 8vo. 1899-1900.
       Paln?ontologia Indica, Series XV. Himalayan Fossils, Vol. III. Part 1. fol.
          1899.
       I.nri't of Report,
  The General              1899-1900. 8vo.
                  the Admiialty—Report    of Her Majesty's Astronomer at the Capo of
       Good Hope for 18:i9. 4to. 1900.
       Secretory
  TheReport        of Astronomor
              of the  State for India—Archaeological
                                  Royal to ti e Board ofSurvey
                                                          Visitors, 1900. : Lists
                                                                of India    4to. of Anti
       quarian Remains iu His Highness the Nizam's Territories. By H. Cousens.
       4to. 1900.
     A rchaiolop>iral Survey of India : New Series, Vol. XXIX. 8vo. 1899.
  The French Government— Lettres ile Catherine de Médicis, publices par M. lc Cto.
       Baguen.iult de Duchci-se. Tome VII. 1579-1581. 4to. 1899

1900.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                        465
The Trustees of the British Museum—Catalogue of Cretaceous Bryozoa, Vol. I.
      8vo. 1899.
   Cutalugue of Lepidoptera. PhalarrjiE. and Plates. Vol. II. 1900. 8vo.
   Monograph of Chiiatmus IslunU (Indian Uccan). Bv C. W. Andrews. Svo.
      1900.
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Boma—Classe di Sc'enze FW he, Mntematicho e
      Natunili. Atti, Serie Quinta : Rendiionti. 1" Semistre, Vol. IX. Fasc. 12 ;
      2° Seinettre, Vol. IX. Fasc. 1-7. Clause di Scienze Mureli, Storiche, etc.
      Vol. IX. Fasc. 3-5. 8vo. 1900.
Agricultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XI. Parts 2, 3. 8vo 1900.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XXXV. Nos. 19-27 ;
      Vol. XXXVI. Nos. 1-4. 8vo. 1900.
American Association —Proceeding*, 48th Meeting (Columbus), 1899. 8vo. 1899.
American Philosophical Society—Froceedings, Vol. XXXIX. Nos. 161, 162. 8vo.
      1900.
Anderlon, Basil, Esq.—Catalogue of Works on the Fine Arts in the Ncwcastlc-
      npon-Tyne Public Libraries. 8vo. 1900.
Angstrom, Professor Dr. Knot (Die Author)—Intensité de la Radiation Solaire a
      diffe'rentrs altitudes. Rexdierehes faites a TenerifFe, 1895-90. 4to. 1900.
Asiatic Society of Bengal— Proceedings, 1900, Nos. 2-K. 8vo.
   Journal, Vol. LXVill. Part 2, No. 4 ; Vol. LXIX. Part 1, No. 1, Part 2, No.-l.
      8vo. 1900.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal for July nnd Oct 1900. 8vo.
Asiatic Society, Royal (Bombay Branch)—Journal, Vol. XX. No. 55. 8vo.
       1899.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. EX. Nos. 8, 9. 8vo. 1900.
Bankers, Institute ql—Journal, V..1. XXI. Part 7. 8vo. 1900.
Barhforih, Francis, Esq. (the Author)—Experiments made with the Bashforth
      Chronograph. 8vo. 1!j00.
Basle, Aaturforschende Gesellschaft—Verhandlungen, Band XII. Heft 3. 8vo.
Berlin,    Ttoyol Prussian Academy of Sciences—Sitzungsberichte, 1900, Nos. 23-38.
       1900.
      8vo. 1900.
Biclcerton. Professor A. W. (Oie Author)—Cosmic Evolution. Svo. 1900.
Boston Public Library—Monthly Bulletin, Vol. V. Nos. 7-10. Svo. 1900.
    Korly-eighth Annual Report, 1899-1900. 8vo.
Boston'Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Vol. IV. No. 10. Svo. 1900.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, 3rd Series, Vol VII. Nos. 19, 20.
      4to.Astronomical
British       1900.       Association—Memoirs, Vol. VIII. Part 4 ; Vol. IX. Part 2.
       8vo. 1300.
    Journal. Vol X. Nos. 9, 10. 8vo. 1900.
 British South Africa Company—Information as to Mining in Rhodesia, 1900.
 Buenos Aires, Bureau Denwgraphique National—Bulleiin, 1900, No. 3. Svo.
 Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. X. Part 6. Svo. 1900.
 Cambridge University Press—Collected Scientific 1'apers of J. C. Adams, Vol. II.
       4to. 1900.
 Camera Club—Journal for July-Ot. 1900. 8vo.
 Campbell, I'rofessor Lewis (the Translator) —Sophocles: The Seven Plays in
       English Verse. Svo. 1896.
 Canadian Institute—Transactions, Vol. VI. Parts 1. 2. 8vo. 1899.
 Chemical Indwtry, Society of—Journal, Vol XIX. Nos. 6-9. Svo. 1900.
 Chemical Society—Proceedings, No. 226. Svo. 1900.
    Journal for July-Oet. 1900. 8vo.
 Chicago, Field Columbian Museum—Botanical Series, Vol. II. No. 1. 8vo. 1900.
 Civil Engineers, Institution of—Minutes of Proceedings, Vols. CXL. and CXLI.
       Svo. 190(1.
 Clowes, Prifcstor Frank, M.I/. I. (the Author)— Quantitative Chemical Analysis.
       By F. Clowes and J. Bernard Coleman. 5th ed, 16mo. 1900.

4GG                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [Nov. 5,
Colonial Institute, Royal—Proceeding, Vol. XXXI. 8vo. 1900.
Cutee, Kenehn D. Esq. M.A. (the Author)—Social and Imperial Life of Britain,
      Vol. I. 8vo. 1900.
Cracovie, VAcademie des Sciences—Bnllelin International. 1900, Nos. 4-7. 8vo.
Vance, Henry A. Esq. M.R.I.—The Missal of St. Augustine's Abbey, Canterbury.
      8vo. 1»96.
Dax—Societe de Borda—Bulletin, 189°, 4° Trimestre. 8vo. 1899.
Dublin Society, Royal—Transactions, Vol. VII. Nos. 2-7. 4to. 1899-1900.
   Economio Proceedings, Vol. I. Purls 1, 2. 8vo. 1899.
   Scientific Proceedings. Vol. IX. Parts 1, 2. 8vo. 1899-1900.
Dunsink Observatory, Dublin—Astronomical Observations and Researches,
      Part IX. 4to. 1900.
Editors—Aeronautical Journal for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   American Journal of Science for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   Analyst f'r July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   Astrophysical Journal for July-Oct. 19J0. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for July-Oct. 1900. 4to.
   Author for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   Bimetnllist for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   Breviers' Journal for Julv-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   Chemical News lor July-Oct. 1900. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for July-Oct 1900. 8*o.
   Klectrical Engineer for July-i >ct. 1900. fol.
   Electrical Review for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   Electrioity for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   Engineer for July-Oct. 1900. fol.
   Engineering for July-Oct. 1900 fol.
   Homoeopathic Review for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   Horological Journal for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   Invention for July-Oct 1900
   Journal of the British Dental Association for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   Journal of Pnyjical Chemistry for June and Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   Journal of State Medicine for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   Law Journal for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
    Lightning lor July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   London Technical Education Gazette for Juue-Oct. 1900.
    Machinery Market for July-Sept. 1900. 8vo.
    Nature for July-Oct. 1900. 4to.
    New Church Magazine for Julv, 1900. 8vo.
    New Philosophy for July, 1900-. 8vo.
   Nuovo Cimeuto for May-July, 1900. 8vo.
    Photographic News for Sept. 7, 14, 1900. 8vo.
    Physical Ueview for Julv, Auir. Oct. 1900. 8vo.
    Popular Science Monthly for Julv-Oct. 1900.
    Public Health Engineer'for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
    Science Abstracts, Vol. III. Parts 8-10. 8vo. 1900.
    Science Siftings for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
    Telephone Magazine for July-Oct. 1900.
    Terrestrial Magnetism for June, 1900. 8vo.
    Travel for July and Aug. 1900. 8vo.
    Tropical Agriculturist lor July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
    Zoophilist lor July-Oct. 1900. 4to.
 Electrical Engineers, Insiitution nf—Journal, Vol. XXIX. No. 146. 8vo. 1900.
 Florence, Biblioteca Naiionale Centrule—Bollettino, No. 848. 8vo. 1900.
 Florence, Rr.ale Aecademia dei Georgofili—Atti, Vol. XXIII. Disp. 1. Svo. 1900.
 Franklin Institute—Journal for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
 Gate & Polden, Mesnrs. (the Publishers)—Aids to Scouting. By Major-General
       R. S. S. Daden-Powell. 24mo. 1900.

1900]                       General Monthly Meeting.                           467
Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for July -Oct. 1000. 8vo.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, Vol. LVI. Part 3. Svo. 1900.
Harlem, Societe Hollandaise. des Sciences—Archives Néerlandaises, Scrie II.
     Touw IV. Llvr. 1. 8vo. 1900.
Harvey. Thomai D. M.D. (the Author)—Memoir of Hayward Augustus Harvey.
     8vo. 1900.
Hedley. W. S. M.D. (the Author)—Therapeutic Electricity and practical Muscle
      Testing. Svo. 1900.
Hittcsrical Society, ltoyal—The Cely Papers, 1475-1488. Edited by H. Maiden.
     8vo. 1900. (Camden Society, N.8. Vol. I.)
   The Despatches and Correspondence of John, 2nd Earl of Buckinghamshire,
      1762-1705, Vol. I. 8vo. 1900. Edited by A. D. Col Iyer. (Ciuuden Societv,
      N.8. Vol. Society—Journal,
Horticultural    II.)             Vol. XXIII. Part 3. 8vo. 7900.
Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for July-Oct. 1900.
Iron ami Steel Inttitute—Journal, 1900, No. 1. 8vo.
Johns Hoph.ns University—American Chemical Journal for July-Oct. 1900.
     8vo.
   American    Journal of Philology, Vol. XXI. No. 2. 8vn. 1900.
Jordan, W. Leighton, Esq. M.ltlf. (the Author)—Astral Gravitation. '8vo. 1900.
Leighton, John, Esq. M.R.I.—Journal of the Ex-Libria Society lor July-Oct. 1900.
     Svo.
Unman Society— Transactions : Botany, Vol. V. Parts 11, 12 ; Zoology, Vol. VII.
      Parts 9-11. 4to. 1899-1900.
   Journal, Nos. 179, 240. 8vo. 1900.
Literature, Royal Society of—Transactions, Vol. XXI. Part 4. 8vo. 1900.
Madras Government Museum—Kepurt on the Museum and Connemara Public
      I.ihrary. Svo. 1899-1900.
   The Sea Fisheries of Malabar and South Canara. By Edgar Thuistou. 8vo.
      1900.
Mahato, T. Esq. (the Author)—Japanese Notions of European Political Economy.
     3rded. 8vo. 1900.
Manche*ter Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXVI. Parts 14-19. 8vo. 1900.
Manche'ltr Museum, Owens College—Publications, Nos. 30, 31. 8vo. 1900.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology—Technology Quarterly, Vol. XIII. No. 2.
      8vo. 1900.
Mrrluinical Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings, 1900, Nos. 1-3. 8vo.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Medieo-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol.
      LXXXIII. 8vo. 1900.
Menshrugghe, G. Van der, Esq. (the Author) -Sur l'expérience inverse de celle
      du touueau de Pascal. 8vu. 1900.
   Sur lea phénomenes Capillaires. 8vo. 1900.
Mrtropiilitan Asylums Board—Annual Report, 1899. Svo. 1900.
Meteorological Society, Royal—Quarterly Journal, Vol. XXVI. Nos. 113, 114.
      8vo. 1900.
   Record, Vol. XIX. No. 74. 8vo. 1899.
 Mex.co, Sociedad Cientifica "Antonio Alzate"—Memorias, Tomo XIV. Nos. 5-8.
      8vo. 1899.
 Microscopical Society, Royal—Journal, 1900, Parts 4. 5. 8vo.
 Munich. Royal Bavarian Academy if Sciences—Sitzungsberichte, 1900, Heft 2.
 Musical Association—Proceedings, 1899-1900. Svo.
 Navy l.eague—Navy League Journal tor July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
 New South Wales, Agent-General for—Wealth and Progress of New South Wales,
       1898-99. 8vo. 1900.
    The New South Wales Contingents to Soulh Africa. 8vo. 1900.
    New South Wales Statistics, History and Resources. 8vo. 1900.
 Norfolk and Norwich Naturalists' Society—Transactions, Vol. VI. Part 1 ; Vol. VII.
       Part I. Svo. 1895-1900.
 Numismatic Society—Numismatic Chronicle, 1900, Part 2.

4G8                              General Monthly Meeting.                     [Xov. 5,
Odontoloqiml Society—Transactions, Vol. XXXII. No. 8. 8vo. 1900.
0 mes. Prof. H. K.—Communications Nos. 54-57. 8vo. 1900.
Paris, Socicte Francaise de Physique —Seances, 1899, Fuse. 4; 1900, Fasc. 1.
     fivo.
Pharmaceutical Soci-.ty of Great Britain—Journal for July-Oct. l!IOO. 8vo.
PUibidelpUia, Acaiemy of Matural S iences—Prnofr'dingx, 1901), Part 1. 8vr.
Phobujraphic Soc'ely, Royal — Photo^r iphiu Journal lor Juno-Sept. 1900. tvo.
Physical Soriety—Vroce> dinars, Vol. XVII. Part t. 8vo. 1900.
Rio de Janeiro. Observatorio—Anuuario, 1900. 8vo.
     L. Cruls.
   Methodo           deterininar
               paraSvo.     lr>99. us horas das oecultacoes de estrellas pela lua. By
Roehechouart, La Societi les Amis des Sciences el Arte—Bulletin, Tome IX.
     Nos 4, 5.
Itome. Mini-try of Public Works—Giornale del Genio Civile, 1900, Fasc. 4, 5
     (Indix). 8vo.
Pots, Major Ronald (the Antlior)—Malaria et Monstiqups. 8vo 1900.
Riyal Entjinerrt. Corps of— I'rofessiotiid Papers, Vol. XXV. 8vo. 1900.
Royal Irish Academy— Proceedings, Vol. V. No. 5 8vo. 1900.
Roi/al Society of £diW>-Wt—Proceedings, Vol. XXIII. No. 2. 8vo. 1900.
   Transactions. Vul. XXXIX Parts 3, 4. 4to. 1900.
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, A, Nos. 258-264 ; B, Nos.
      187, ISS. 4t>. 1900.
   Proceedings, Nos. 481-436. 8vo. 19 )0.
   lleports to the Malaria Committee, 1S99-1900. 8vo. 1900.
Sabine, Wallace C. Es/. (the Author)—Architectural Acoustics, Part 1, Rever
      beration. 8vo. 1900.
Sanitary Institute Journal, Vol. XXI. Part 2. 8vo. 1900.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—
   MatUematisch-Phyxische Classe—
      Abhandlungen, Band XXVI. No. 3. 8vo. 1900.
      Berichte, 1H00, Nos. 3, 4. 8vo.
   Philologiscli-Hisforische Classe—
     Abhandlungen, Band XX. No. 2. 8vo. 1900.
S-Vborne Society—Nature Notes for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
Society of Arts—Journal for July-Oct. 1900. 8vo.
St. Bartholomews Uoipital—Statistical Tables. 1899. 8vo. 1900.
      Tome IX. Imperial
St. Pelrrsbiirq,                 Tomo X.ofNos.
                   Nos. 1-9;Academy             1, 2. 4to. 1899.Tomo VIII. Nos. 6-10 ;
                                           Sciences—Memure-,
   Bulletin, Tome X. No. 5 : Tome XI. Nos. 1 -5 ; Tome XII. No. 1. 8vo. 1899-
      1900.
Statistical Society, Royal—Jnnn.il. Vol. LXIII. Parts 2. 3. 8vo. 1900.
Sn-edish Acadrmy of S i-wes, Royal— bihang, Band XXV. 8vo. 1900.
Taccltini, I'rof. P. Hon. Mnn. H.I. (the Author)—Memorio della Societa degli
      tipi'ttr.HMVipisti Italiani, Vol. XXIX. Uisp. 3-G. 4to. 1900.
 Tasmania, Royal Society of—Papers) and Proceedings for the years 1898-99.
      8vo. 1900.
 Teyhr Museum, Harlem—Archives, Serie II. Vol. VII. Part 1. 8vo. 1900.
 Toronto, University of—Studies: Psychological Series. Nos. 1, 2. Svo. 1900.
 loulowe, Socie"t( Archeologique du Midi de la France—Bulletin, No. 24. Svo.
      1900.
 United Service Iit'itnlion, Royal—Journal for July-Oct. 1 100. 8vo.
 Unite i States Defjartment of Agriculture—Monthly Weather Review for April-
      Julv, 1900. 4to.
   Year-Book of Agriculture, 1899. 8vo.
   Experiment Station Record, Vol. XI. Nos. 9-11 ; Vol. XII. Nos. 1, 2. Svo.
      1900.
   Experiment Sfatinn Bulletin, Nos. 81, 85. 8vo. 1900.
   Biological Bulletin, No. 13. 8vo. 1900.
   North Americau Fuuna, No. 18. 8vo. 1900.

1900.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                        409
United states Department of the Interior—Nineteenth Annual Report of U.S.
     Geol.ipical Survey, Vols. I.-VI. 4te. 1898.
   Annual Reports of the Department of the Interior. 5 vols. 8vo. 1898.
 United States Geological Survey— bulletins, Nos. 150-162. 8vo. 1898-99.
   Monographs, Nos. 82, Parts 2. 33, 34, 30-38. 4to. 1899.
   Geological Atlas of the United Suites, Parts 38-58. fol. 1897-99.
 United States Patent Office—Official Uazette, Vol. XCII.; Vol. XCHI. Nos. 1-3.
     8vo. 1900.
Upsal. Royal Society of Sciences—Nova Acta, Third Series, Vol. XVIII. Fuse. 2.
     4to. 1900.
 Vertin tur Befbrderung des Geicerbfleis*es m Preutsen—Verhaudlungen, 1900,
     HeftImperial
 Vienna,           Geologicid Institute—Verhandlungen, 1900, Nos. 6-8. 8vo.
           6, 7. 8vo.
   Jahrbuch, 1899. Heft 4; 1900, Heft 1. 8vo. 1900.
Vincents, Joseph, Esq. [the Author)—Prononciation et Phonographie. 8vo. 1900.
 Washington Academy of Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. II. i>p. 41-340. 8vo. 1900.
 Western Society of Engineers (U.S.A.)—Journal of the Western Society of Engi
     neers, Vol. V. Part 2. 8vo. 1900.
 WheatUy & Co. Netsr: G. W. (the Publishers)—Sketch of the Life of Lieutenant
     Wjghorn, R.N.. Pioneer of the Overland Route. 8vo. 1900.
Wimshurst, James, E*q. M.It.L—The Biographer, Vol. III. No. 40.
Yorkshire Archaeological Society—Yorkshire Archaeological Journal, Part CI. 8vo.
     1900.
Zoological
Zurich,    Society—Proceedings,
         Naturforschende           1900,—Vierteljnhrsschrift,
                           Gesellschaft  Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1900, Heft 1, 2. 8vo.
     1900.

470                            General Monthly Meeting.                             [Dec. 3,
                           Monday, MONTHLY
                     GENERAL                               1900.
                                       December 3rd,MEETING,
    Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer
                         and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                         John Aungier, Esq.
                         Kdwyn Barclay, Esq.
                         Rawlinson Tennant Baylis, Esq.
                         Henry Percy Boulnois, Esq.
                         Mrs. Ernest Hills,
                         Richard Taylor, Esq.
wero elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Managers reported that at their Meeting held that day they
had elected Dr. Allan Macfadyen Fullerian Professor of Physiology
for three years (the appointment dating from January 14, 1901).
    The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
     FROM
table,  and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
The Meteorological Office—Report of die International Meteorological Committee,
    St. Petersburg, 11-99. 8vo. 1900.
Accademia dti Lincei, Iieale, lioma—Classe di Scienze Fiaiche, Matcmatioho e
    Kuturali. Atti, Scrie Quinta: Rendiconti. 2" t'omestro, Vol. IX. banc.
    8, 9. 8vo. 1900.
  Clause di Scienze Mnrali, Vol. IX. Fasc. 5, 6. 8vo. 1900.
  Elements
    8vo.
Ames,        1899.
       Profetwr
              of Physics.
                   J. S. lion.ByMem.
                                  H. A.    Inst.—Theory
                                     Roy.Rowland                Physios.8vo.By 1899.
                                                   and J. S.of Amos.            J. S. Ames.
  A Manual of Experiments in Plnsics. By J. S. Ames and \V. A. Blis'i. 1898.
  Rapport snr l'equivaltnt meonnique de la chnleur. By J. S. Ames. 8vo. 1900.
  Scientific Memoir Series. Edited by J. S. Ames. 8vo.
          1. The Free Expansion of Gases. Edited by J. S. Ames. 1898.
          2. Prismatic and Diffraction Spectra. Edited by J. S. Ames. 1898.
          -A. Routgen Rnys. Edited by G. F. Barker. 1899.
          4. The Modern" Theory of Solution. Edited by G. H. Jones. 1899.
          5. The Laws of Gases. Edited by C. Barus. 1899.
          6. The Second Law of Thermodynamics. Edited by W. Magie. 1899.
          7. The Fundamental Laws of Electrolytic Conduction. Edited by 11. M.
                Goodwin. 1899.
          8. The     Effects1899.
                Lewis.        of a Magnetic Field on Radiation. Edited by E. P.
          9. The Laws of Gravitation. Edited by A. S. Mackenzie. 1899.
         12. The Wave
     11, 10.               Theory
                    Discovery   of Induced
                                    of Light.Electric
                                                Edited  by H. Crew.
                                                      Currents.             by J. S. Ames.
                                                                    Edited1900.
                 2 vols. 8vo. 1900.

1903.]                       General Monthly Netting.                         471
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LX. No. 10. 8vo. 1900.
Bonkers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XXI. Part 8. 8vo. 1900.
7Won Puhlic Lihrary—Bulletin fur Nov. 1900. Svo.
Boston Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Vol. V. No. 1. 8vo. 1900.
British Architect!, Royal Inttitute of—Journal, Third Series, Vol. VIII. Nob. I, 2.
      4to. 1900.
British Astronomical Association—Journal, Vol. XI. No. 1. 8vo. 1900.
Brough, B. H. Esq. (the Autltor)—The Nature and Yield of Metalliferous Deposits.
      8vo. 1900.
Camera Cluh— Journal for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
Canada, Royal Society of—Proceedings and Transactions, Second Series, Vol. V.
      8vo. 1S99.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XIX. No. 10. 8vo. 1900.
Chemical Society—Journal fur Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Proceedings, Nos. 227, 228. 8vo. 1900.
Ot'pfZ Engineert, Institution of—Proceedings, Vol. CXLII. Svo. 1900.
Cornwall, Royal,lnstitution of—Journal, Vol. XIV. Part 1. 8vo. 1900.
Dox. Soni'te de Boida —Bullelin, 1900. No. I. 8vo.
Devonshire Association—Report and Transactions, Vol. XXXII. 8vo. 1900.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Analyst tor Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Athtsiiaium for Nov. 1900. 4tu.
   Author lor Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Brewers' Journal for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Chemical News for Nov. 1900. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for Nov. 1900. Svo.
   Electrical Engineer for Nov. 1900. fol.
   Electrical Review for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Electricity for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Engineer'for Nov. 1900. fol.
   Engineering for Nov. 1900. fol.
   Homoeopathic Review lor Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Horological Journal for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
  Industries ami Iron for Nov. 1900. fol.
  Invention for Nov. 1900.
  Journal of the British Dental Assoc ntinn for Nov. 1930. 8vo.
   Journal ol Physical Chemistry for Nov. 1900. 8vo,
   Journal of State Medicine for Nov. 19JO. 8vo.
   Law Journal for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Lightning for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   London Technical Education Gazette for Oct. 1900. 8vo.
   Machinery Market for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Motor Car Journal for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Nature for Nov. 1900. 4to.
   New Church Magazine for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Nuovu Cimento for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Photographic News tor Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Popular Science Monthly for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Science Abstracts, Vol. III. Part 11. 8vo. 1900.
   Science Siftings for Nov. 1900.
   Telephone Magazine for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Travel tor Nov. 1900. 8vo.
   Tropical Agriculturist for Nov. 1900.
   Zoophilist for Nov. 1900. 4to.
Florence, Reale Accademia dei Gcorgofili—Atti, Vol. XXIII. Disp. 2. 8vo» 1900.
Franklin Institute—Journal for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
tleo itapliical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for Nov. 1900. 8vo»
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 224. 8vo. 1900.

472                           General Monthly Meeting.              [Dec. 3, 1900.
Gladstone, Dr. J. II. F.R.S. M.R.I.—The Part borne by the Dutch in the
      Discovery of Anstmlia, 1606-17d5. By J. E. Heeres. fol. 1899.
   Tijdschril't van het K. Ne lerlandsoh Aardrijkakuudig Qenootschap, Deel XVI.
      8vo. 1899.
Hudleston, W. H. Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—The War in South Africa,
      1899-1900. 8vo. 1900.
Imperial Institute—Imperi il Institute Journal for Nov. 1900.
Johns Hopkins Universty—American Chem^-al Journal for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
lieighton, John, Esq. M.R.I.— Ex-Libris Journal for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
Leipzig, Fiirsllich Jablonoiinhische Geselhchaft —Preissehrilton, No. 36. 8vo. 1900.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, Nov. 18JJ to June 1900. 8vo. 1900.
   Journal, Nos. 180, 241. 8vo. 1900.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 115. 8vo. 1900.
   Meteorological Record, No. 75. 8vo. 1900.
Meux, Lady — The Miracles of the Blessed Virgin Mary and the Life of Hanna
      and the Magical Progress of 'Anita Mikael. The Ethiopia Texts edited
      with Translation by E. A. W. Budge. 4to. 1900. (Ludy Meux, MSS.
      Nos. 2-5.)
Moutpellier, Acadimie des Sciences—Mémoires, 2" Perie, Tome II. Nos. 6, 7. 8vo.
      1899-1900.
National Academy of S-iences, Washington—Report for 1899. 8vo. 1900.
Navy League—Navy League Journal tor Nov. 1900. 8vo.
New Jersey Geological Survey—Annual Report. 1899. 8vo. 1900.
Odontologlral Society—Tiansactions, Vol. XXXIII. No. 1. 8vo. 1900.
Onnes, Professor H. K.—Communications, Nos. 59, 6O. 8vo. 1900.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for Oct. 1900. 8vo.
Putnam & Sons, Messrs. G. P. (the Publishers)—T. H. Huxley, His Lifo and
      Work. By P. C. Mitchell. 8vo. 1900.
Quekett Microscipical Club—Journal, No. 47. 8vo. 1900.
Rocheclu>uart, La SocitU les Amis des Sciences—Bulletin, Tome IX. No. 6;
      Tome X. No. 1. 8vo. 1899-1900.
Rome, Minittry of Public Works—Giornale del Oenio Civile, July-Aug. 1900. 8vo.
Jioyal Col&ge of Surgeons—Calendar, 1900. 8vo.
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, A, Nos. 203-2C7; B, Nos.
      187-192. 4to. 1900.
   Proceedings, Nos. 437, 438. 8vo. 1900.
Saxon Society of Science', Royal—
   Philologisch-Hislorische Clasie—
      Berichte, 1900, Nos. 5-7. 8vo.
Sottish Microscopical Society—Proceedings, Vol. III. No. 1. 8vo. 1899-1900.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
Thurston, Professor R. II.—Sixteenth Report of the Director of Sibley College.
      8vo. 1899-1900.
Tommasina, T. Ejq. (the Author)—Sur quelques cfifels photochimiquea produits
      par lo lil railinteur des ondes liertziennes. 4to. 1900.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
United States Department of Agriculture—North American Fauna, No. 19. 8vo.
      1900.
   Atmospheric     Radiation by F. W. Very. 4to. 1900.
   Monthly Weather Review for Aug. 1900. 8vo.
United States Patent Office—Annual Report of the Commissioner of Patents for
      1899. 8vo. 1900.
   Offloial Gazette, Vol. XCIII. Nos. 4-7. 8vo. 1900.
 Verein zur Beforderung des Gewerbflcisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1900.
      Haft 8. 8vo.
 Victoria Institute—Journal, Vol. XXXII. 8vo. 1900.
 Yerkes Observatory, U.S.A.—Bulletin, Nos. 13-15. 8vo. 1900.

                                     473
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING.
                           Friday, April 6, 1900.
         Sib Fbedebick Bbamwell, Babt., D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.,
           Honorary Secretary and Vice-Prosident, in the Chair.
          Pbofessob Dewab, M.A. LL.D. D.Sc. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                              Solid Hydrogen.
  Befobe proceeding to discuss the immediate subject of this lecture,
  it will bo advisable to contrast experimentally some of the pro
  perties of hydrogen, nitrogen and oxygen in the liquid condition.
  The two vacuum cups (Figs. 1 and 2) are charged half full
  respectively with liquid hydrogen and liquid air. When the cup
 containing the liquid air is placed in front of the electric lamp, the
 image thrown on the screen rtveals the continual overflow of a
 dense vapour round the outer walls of the vessel. The saturated
 vapour comiDg from the steady ebullition of liquid air is three times
 denser than the free air of the room, and the result is it falls
 through that air just as if it were a dense gas like carbonic acid or
 ether vapour. To observe this phenomenon, the vacuum cup must
 be shallow, otherwise the vapour gets heatod up before reaching the
 mouth of the vessel, and no difference of density in the air coming off
 is observed. We will now project the image of the cup containing
liquid hydrogen, covered loosely in this caso with a glass plate,
upon the screen ; here, no heavy vapour escaping round the sides is
visible. The vapour of the boiling liquid hydrogen has a density
nearly equal to the air of the room, but as it gets very rapidly
heated up by the glass cover the gas that is escaping is seen to rise
in air like any light gas. On now removing the glass plate, a very
different phenomenon is observed, which contrasts markedly with the
behaviour of the liquid air in the former vessel. The cup and the
air abovo is filled with a dense surging snowstorm of solid air ; the
air coming in contact with the excessively cold hydrogen vapour is
suddenly solidified, and a part of it falls into the liquid hydrogen,
causing more rapid evaporation, thereby intensifying the cloud con
densation. After the mist has disappeared and all the liquid hydrogen
gone, the cup contains a white deposit of solid air. This shortly
melts, and on allowing the nitrogen to boil off, the presence of oxygen
can be shown by the ignition of a red-hot splinter of wood. Such
effects are easily understood when we remember that the boiling-point
     Vol. XVI. (No. 94.)                                      2 i

474                         Professor Dewar                    [April 6,
of hydrogen is proportionally as much below the boiling-point of air
as tho latter is below the ordinary temperature of this room.
    In order to observe the individual behaviour of the constituents
of the air at temperatures below their ordinary boiling-points it is
advantageous to place liquid nitrogen and oxygen in separate vacuum
vessels, so connected that they may be simultaneously exhausted, as
is represented in Fig. 4. On starting the air-pump both liquids enter
into rapid ebullition. As the exhaustion gets higher the temperature
of each liquid gets lower and lower, and it the melting-point is finally
reached in either liquid it must shortly begin to solidify. This con
dition is quickly brought about in the case of the vessel A containing
the liquid nitrogen, which passes rapidly into the condition of a dense
white snow ; but no amount of time spent in maintaining a good ex
haustion {5 to 10 mm. pressure) has any effect in changing the liquid
condition of the oxygen iu B. Oxygen in fact remains liquid at tem
peratures where nitrogen is solid. The snow of solid air produced by
the evaporation of liquid hydrogen, in the previous experiment, might
thus bo made up of solid nitrogen and a liquid rain of oxygen. To
show that the temperature of boiling hydrogen solidifies oxygen,
some of the latter liquid is placed in a vacuum test-tube O (Fig. 3),
and liquid hydrogen 11 is poured on its surface, when the liquid oxygen
is quickly transformed into a clear blue solid ice. Both oxygen and
nitrogen, and we shall see later, hydrogen can be changed into tho
condition of transparent ice as well as into the snowy state. A
closed vessel filled with any gas at atmospheric pressure, of such a
form that a portion of the surface in the shape of a narrow quill
tube, can be cooled in boiling liquid hydrogen like B, Fig. 5, shows
condensation of the gas to the solid state ; the only exceptions being
helium and hydrogen itself. Here are two vessels of the same
shape as A, B, Fig. 5. The first contains helium showing no con
densation when the part B is cooled ; the second is filled with hydro
gen, which equally shows no change of state under the conditions of
tho experiment. It is easy, however, to make the hydrogen vessel
show liquefaction. For this purpose the experiment with the
hydrogen is repeated, only before doing so the part A is heated
to about 300° 0. over a Bunsen burner, in order to increase tho
pressure of gas in the interior to above two atmospheres. Now
liquefaction is seen to take place with great facility. No change
is produced by similarly increasing the pressure in the helium vessel.
     Tho extraordinary command liquid hydrogen gives us over the
transition of state in matter may be best illustrated by the use of
a new kind of cryophorus. Wollnston's celebrated instrument
operates by forcing the evaporation of water in a closed vessel
by condensing its vapour in a part of tho receiver at a distance
from the fluid, thereby causing a lowering of temperature in the
latter until freezing takes place. Henco the name cryophorus or
cold-bearer. Instead of using water we may now show that the same
principle may bo applied to the solidification of nitrogen at a distance,
instead of water. The sole difference in this case is that the

Fiob. 1. '2, 3, 4, 5.

  1900.]                    on Solid Hydrogen.                       475
 liquid nitrogen must be isolated from the influx of heat by being
 placed in a vacuum vessel, and the condensation of its vapour must
 be effected by the use of liquid hydrogen.
      Mo boiling-out operation is necessary with the crvophorus wo ai-o
 about to use. The apparatus is shown in Fig. 6. The vacuum tube
 B contains liquid nitrogen. It is fitted on by an indiarubber joint
 to a wido piece of glass tubing doubly bent at right angles, A D ; and
 in order to allow the gas from the boiling liquid to escape before the
 experiment begins an aperture C is left which can be closed with
 a stop-cock. On closing C, and inserting a part of the tube A into
 a vessel containing liquid hydrogen, the gas within is condensed, and
 thereby the pressure of tho vapour in the interior of the vessel is
 reduced, forcing the liquid nitrogen in the other part of the apparatus
to boil with great violence. In a few minutes the temperature of tho
nitrogen is so much reduced that it passes into the solid state.
Many other liquid gases might be used to replaco the nitrogen in this
experiment. In making a selection, however, it is necessary to tako
only those bod its that possess a reasonably high tension of vapour at
the melting point. The process would not succeed easily with a sub
stance like oxygen, that has no measurable tension of vapour in tho
solid condition.
     In tho autumn of 1898, after the production of liquid hvdrogon
was possible on a small scale, its solidification was attempted by boil
ing under reduced pressure. At this time, to make the isolation of
the hydrogen as effective as possible, the liquid was placed in a small
vacuum test-tube, placed in a larger vessel of the same kind. Ex
cess of hydrogen partly filled the annular spaco between the two
vacuum vessels. On diminishing tho pressure by exhaustion tin
evaporation was mainly thrown on tho liquid hydrogen in the annular
space between the tubes. In this arrangement the outs:dc surface of
the smaller tube was kept at tho same temperature as the inside, so
that tho liquid hydrogen for tho timo was effectually guarded from
influx of heat. With such a combination tho liquid hydrogen was
evaporated under diminished pressure, yet no solidification took place.
Seeing experiments of this kind required a large supply of tho liquid,
other problems were attack' d, and further attempts in the direction of
producing the solid for tho time abandoned. During the course
of tho present year many varieties of electric resistance thermometers
have been under observation, and with some of these the reduction of
temperature brought about by exhaustion was investigated. Ther
mometers constructed of platinum and platinum-rhodium (alloy) wero
only lowered 1£° C. by exhaustion of tho liquid hydrogen, and they
all gave a boiling-point of —245° C, whereas the reduction in tem-
peraturo by evaporation in vacuo ought to be 5° C, and the truo boil
ing-point from —252° C. to — 253^ C. In the course of theso
experiments it was noted that almost invariably a slight leak of air
occurred which became apparent by its being frozen into an air-
snow in the interior of the vessel, where it met the cold vapour of
hydrogen. When conducting wires covered with silk have to pass

476                          Professor Dctear                   [April 6,
through indiarubber corks it is very difficult at these excessively
low temperatures to prevent leaks, when corks get as hard as
a stone, and cements crack in all directions. The effect of this
slight air leak on the liquid hydrogen when the pressure got reduced
below 60 mm., was very remarkable, as it suddenly solidified into a
white froth-like mass like frozen foam. My first notion was that
this body might be a sponge of solid air containing liquid hydrogen.
The ordinary solid air obtained by evaporation in vacuo is a magma
of solid nitrogen containing liquid oxygen. The fact, however, that
 this white solid froth evaporated completely at the low pressure with
out leaving any substantial amount of solid air led to tho conclusion
that the body after all must be solid hydrogen. This surmise was
confirmed by observing that if the pressure, and therefore the tem
perature, of the hydrogen was allowed to rise, the solid melted when
the pressure reached about 55 mm. The failure of the early ex
periment must then have been due to supercooling of the liquid,
which presumably is prevented by contact with metallic wires and
traces of solid air. On the other hand, it is possible the pressure
under which the ebullition took place might never have been low
enough to reach the solid state.
     For the lecture demonstration of solid hydrogen the apparatus
may be most conveniently arranged as is shown in Fig. 7. The small
vacuum tube B, aftor being filled with liquid hydrogen, is immersed in
a larger vessel of the same kind filled with liquid air. By this
arrangement the rate of the liquid hydrogen evaporation is so much
diminished that it does not exceed that of liquid air in the same
vessel when used in tho ordinary way. On gradually applying ex
haustion to the liquid hydrogen it is forced from its effective heat
isolation to pass to a lower temperature, and when the exhaustion
reaches 50 mm. the mass suddenly begins to solidify into a froth-like
material. In order to ascertain the appearance of the hydrogen, made
by cooling the liquid produced in a hermetically closed vessel tho
following experiment was arranged. A flask of about a litre capacity,
to which a long glass tube was sealed, A B, Fig. 5, was filled with puro
dry hydrogou and sealed off. The lower portion B of this tube was
calibrated. It was surrounded with liquid hydrogen placed in a
vacuum vessel arranged for exhaustion. As soon ns the pressure of the
boiling hydrogen got well reduced below that of the atmosphere, per
fectly clear liquid hydrogen began to collect in the tube B, and could
be observed accumulating until the liquid hydrogen surrounding tho
outside of the tube suddenly passed into a solid white foam-like mass,
almost billing the whole space. As it was not possible to see the condi
tion of the hydrogen in the interior of the tube B when it was covered
with a large quantity of this solid, the whole apparatus was turned
upside down in order to see whether any liquid would run down from
B into the flask A. Liquid did not flow down the tube, so the liquid
hydrogen with which the tube was partly filled must have solidified.
By placing a strong light on the side of the vacuum test-tube opposite
the eye, aud maintaining tho exhaustion at about 25 mm., gradually

Kias. 6, 7.

1900.]                       on Solid Hydrogen.                    477
the hydrogen froth became less opaque, and the Folid hydrogen in the
tube B was seon to bo a transparent ice, but the surface looked frothy.
This fact prevented the solid density from heing determined, but the
maximum fluid density has been approximately ascertained. This was
found to be 0*086, the liquid at its b tiling-point having the density
0"07. The solid hydrogen melts when the pressure of the saturated
vapour readies about 55 mm. In order to determine the temperature of
solidification two constant volume hydrogen thermometors were used.
One at 0° C. contained hydrogen under a pressure of 269 ' 8 mm., and
tho other under a pressure of 127 mm. The mean temperature of the
solid was found to be 16° absolute under a pressure of 35 mm. All the
attempts made to get an accurate electric resistance thermometer for
such low temperature observations havo been so far unsatisfactory.
Now that pure helium is definitely proved to be more volatile than
hydrogen, this body, after passing through a spiral glass tube im
mersed in solid hydrogen to separate all other gases, must be com
pared with the hydrogen thermometer. Taking tho boiling-point
as 21° absolute under 760 mm., and the similar value under 35 mm. is
 16° absolute, then the following approximate formula for tho vapour
tension of liquid hydrogen below one atmosphere is derived :—
                    log j) = 6-7341 - 83-28 / T mm.,
 whoro T is the absolute temperature, and p the pressure in mm. This
 formula gives for 55 mm. a temperature of 16 -7° absolute. Tho
 melting-point of hydrogen must therefore be about 16° or 17° abso
 lute. It has to bo noted that the pressure in tho constant volumo
 hydrogen thermocauter, used to determine the temperature of solid
 hydrogen boiling under 35 mm., had been so far reduced that tho
 measurements were made under from one half to one-fourth tho
 saturation pressure for the temperature. When the same thermo
 meters were used to determine the boiling-point of hvdrogen at
 atmospheric pressure, tho internal gas pressure was only reduced
 to one-thirteenth the saturation pressure for the temperatures.
 The absolute accuracy of the boiling-points under diminished pressure
 must be examined in some future paper. The practical limit of
 temperature we can command by tho evaporation of solid hydrogen is
 from 14° to 15° absolute. In passing it may be noted that the critical
 temperature of hydrogen being 30° to 32J absolute, the melting-point
 is about halt' the critical temperature. The melting-point of nitrogen
 is also about half its critic.il temperature. The foam-like appearance
 of tho solid when produced in an ordinary vacuum vessel is duo to the
 small density of tho liquid, and tho fact that rapid ebullition is
 substantially taking place in tho whole mass of liquid. The last
 doubt as to the possibility of solid hydrogen having a metallic
 character has been removed, and for the future, hydrogen must bo
 classed among the non-metallic elements.
      All solid bodies by themselves make very unsatisfactory cooling
 agents unless we can use them to cool somo liquid. Now, with solid
 hydrogen we can cool no liquid other than hydrogen, so that, for

  478                          Profeuqr Devsar                    [April 6,
  effective cooling, we must use the liquid just above its freezing-poiut,
  which is about 16°. It will, however, take a long time to exhaust
  the wide field of investigation which the use of liquid hydrogen
  opens up; so we may proceed to illustrate some of ils further
  applications. In former lectures the relation of electrcal resistance
  to temperature has been discussed, and it was experimentally
  demonstrated that the curves of resistance of the pure metals all
 pointed to this quality disappearing or becoming exceeding small
 at tho absolute zero. This fact has been confirmed, even with tho
 most highly conducting metals, down to the lowest temperature we
 can command. The experiment illustrated in Fig. 9 shows to an
 audience the diminution of resistance of pure copper wire when
 cooled in liquid hydrogen, in contrast to liquid air. An iucan-
 descont lamp C has been placed in circuit with a fine coil of copper
 wire A, immersed in liquid air, the resistances being so adjusted
 that the filament in C is just visible when the current passes under these
 conditions. Now, >>n removing tho coil from theliquid-a:r vessel and
 placing it in another similar vessel filled with liquid hydrogen, a
 great increase in the brilliancy of the lamp is observed. As a matter
 of fact, the sample of copper has its resistance in liquid air reduced
 to about one-twentieth of what it is at the temperature of melting ico,
 whereas in liquid hydrogen the resistance is reduced to one-hundredth
 of tho same amount. In other words, the resistance in liquid
 hydrogen is only about one-fifth of what it is in liquid air. The
 interesting point, however, is that theoretically we should infer, from
 experiments made at higher temperatures, that at a temperature of
 — 223° C. the copper should have no resistance, or it should have
 become a perfect conductor. As this is not tho case, even at the
 temperature of — L'53°, we must infer that the curve co-relating
 resistance and temperature tends to become asymptotic at the lowest
temperatures.
     Liquid hydrogen is a most useful agent for the production of high
vacua and for tho separation of gases from air that may bo more
volatile than oxygen or nitrogen. An experiment illustrating the
production of a high vacuum is shown in Fig. 10 where A is the large
electric discharging tube to which has been attached a narrow glass
tube twico bent at right angles, and terminating in a bulb at the end
for immersion in tho liquid hydrogen. The rapidity with which the
vacuum is attained is shown by the rate at which the striation in
the tube ohan>!es aud the phosphorescent state supervenes. Another
rough illustration of the application of cold to effect tho separation of
a complex mixture of gases is shown in Fig. 8. Coal-gas is passed in
succession through the U-tubes F, G and H made of ordinary gas-
pipe, having small holes at B, C, D and E, in order that a flumo
may be produced beforo and after each vessel is passed. Each
of tho U-tubes is placed in a vacuum vessel, and the first cooling cub-
stance the gas, in its transit meets is solid carbonic acid in F, then
liquid air in G, and finally liquid hydrogen in H. At the tempera
ture of tho carbonic acid bath, all tho easily condensable hydro

Fios. 8, 9, 10.

1900.]                     on Solid Hydrogen.                          479
carbons separate, and consequently the flame C is less luminous
 than B. The liquid air bath condens. s the ethylene and a large
 part of the marsh gas, and allows the carbonic oxide and the hydrogen
to pass through so that flame D is less luminous than (3. Finally,
after the liquid hydrogen bath, nothing escapes condensation but free
hydrogen, the carbonic oxide and any marsh gas being solidified ;
tne result is, the flame E is almost invisible.
     A really practical application of liquid hydrogen is the purification
of helium obtained from the gases emitted by the mineral springs of
Bath. Although the helium only amounts to one-thousandth part by
volume—tho nine huudred and ninety- nine being chiefly nitrogen—ynt
the low temperature method of separation can be successfully applied.
     Now that we know definitely the approximate values of some of the
more important physical constants of liquid hydrogen, it is interesting
to look back at the values that have been deduced —say for such a
constant as the density—by various workers using entirely different
methods. The following table gives some of the more important
values of tho density of hydrogen under the different conditions in
which it enters into organic and inorganic bodies.
               Density op Htdbogen in Diffebent Conditions.
       Knpp .. .. Organic bodies                     0'18
       Amflgnt     .. Limit of piteous compression.. 0-12
       Wroblewski .. Van der AVuala' equation.. .. 0 027 (critical density )
       Vim der Wuala Superior limit of density.. .. 0'82
       Graham      .. Palladium alloy                2 0
       Dowar .. .. Palladium alloy                   0fi3
       Dewar . . . . Liquid hydrogen at B.P          0 • 07
    My density at tho boiling-point agrees substantially with that
which can he deduced from Wroblewski's form of the Van der Waals'
equation. The deduced densities of Kopp for organic bodies and
Amagat for gaseous compression are both about the same value, and
may be taken as a mean to bo twice the observed density of hydrogen
in the liquid state. The conclusions of Graham and myself, touch
ing the density of tho hydrogen in the so-called alloy of palladium,
must be regarded as altogether exceptional. Even my value would
exceed the density of the stuff constituting the real giis molecule, ac
cording to the theory of Van der Waals. In order to harmonise tho
palladium hydrogen results with those deduced from the study of
organic bodies, we must assume that, during the formation of the
so-called hydrogenium, a condensation of the palladium sufficient
to increase its density by one-fifth must take place. This is by
no means an unreasonable hypothesis. Tho mode of determining
the density of hydrogen at its melting-point has been previously
described and found to be 0-086. In tho same way the approxi
mate values for tho densities of nitrogen and oxygen at their melting-
points have been found, their respective values being 1 '07 and 1 -27.
Tho following tablo shows the comparison between my results nnd
those given by Amagat for high gaseous compressions :—

 480                   Pro/. Detoar on Solid Hydrogen.                   [Apr. 6, 1900.
                                         Densities.
           —                        Liquid               Gas.
                                                  3000 Atiuoppherra.     Limiting Value,
                               Mcltnig-pulnt.                          4000 Atmosphere*.
                                    0 086               0 097                 0-12
                                    11                  0 833                 012
                                    1-27                1127                  1-25
     It will bo noted that the density of gaseous hydrogen at 3000
 atmospheres is actually greater than the maximum density of tho
 liquid state ; but neither in the case of nitrogen nor oxygen docs
 the density at the same pressure reach tho fluid density. Amagat's
 limiting value for oxygen under 4000 atmospheres would, however,
 be almost identical with mine.
     During the courso of my inquiries sufficient data have been ac
 cumulated to construct Waterston Formulfe giving tho approximate
 densities of liquid hydrogen, nitrogen and oxygen in each case through
a wide range of temperature. Tho equation for each substance
 is given iu tho following table : —
                               Liqeid Atomic Volumes.
                      Hydrogen = 23-3 - 8-04 log (32° - t)
                      nitrogen = 30 0 - 11-00 log (127° - t)
                      Oxygen = 3^ 6 - 10221og (155° — t)
                                                              Absoluie Observed ai
                                                               Zero. Mvllnig-jionit.
            1. Atomic volume of hydrogen .. .. j _ jn.g                    j^.^
            3.                       nitrogen .. .. =12-8                  13 1
            4.          „            oxygen                = 10 20        12 0
     From these formulae we find the respective hypothetical atomic
volumes of hydrogen, nitrogen and oxygen at the absolute zero to bo
 10-3; 12-8 and 10-2. My observed minimum fluid volumes were
H • 7 ; 13 and 12 • 6. The coefficients of expansion of the liquids,
taken in tho same order at their respective boiling-points are 0-024 ;
0-0056 and 0-0046. Thus liquid hydrogen has a coefficient of expan
sion five times greater than that of liquid oxygen. Further inquiry
will enable the constants in these equations to be determined with
greater accuracy. In the meantime, however, they give us general
ideas of the order of magnitudo of the quantities involved.
     I have to thank Mr. Robert Lennox tor efficient aid in the arrange
ment and execution of tho difficult experiments you have witnessed.
Air. Heath has also heartily assisted in the preparations.
                                                                              [J. D.j
                LONDON: PRINTKD BY WILUAM CLOWSS AND M>NS, LiMrTED,
          GREAT Yi IXDW1LL feTRREr, W., AM) DUKE sTULET, STAll'OBD SiKLET, 6.1.


                                       Patron.
                         HIS H08T EXCELLENT MAJESTY
                            KING EDWARD VII.
 President —Ths Ddke ok Nobthumbebland, K.G. D.C.L. F.R.S.
 Treasurer—Sin James Cuiciiton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.— V.P.
 Honorary Secretary— Sib William Cbookes, F.R.S.— Y.P.
       Managebs.         1901-1902.                   Visitobs.     1901-1902.
Sir Frederick Abe', B:irt. K.C.B.              Sir Andrew Noel Agnow, Bart. M l'.
   G.C.V.O. D.C.L. IX.D. F.R.S.                Charles Edward Becvor, M.D. F.B.C B
Sir William lie W. Abney, K.C.B.
   D.C.L. F U S.- V. P.         -              Sir William Heury Bennett, K.CV 0
Sir James Bivth, Bart. J. P.                      F.R.C.S.
Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart. D.C.L.           Francis Elgar, Esq. LL.D. F. !!>.
   LL.D. F.R.S. M.InsfcC.E.— V.P.                 M. Inst. C.E.
Thomas Buzzard, M.D. F.R.C.P.                  Joseph G. Gordon, Esq. F.C.S.
Viscount Gort.                                 James Dundas Grant, M.D. F.B.C.S.
Donald William Charles Hood, M.D.
   C.V.O. F.R.C.P.                             Lord Greenock, D.L. J.P.
The Rt. Hon. Urd Kelvin, G.C.V.O.              Maures Huruer, Esq. J.P. F.R A 3.
   D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.8.— V.P.
Sir Francis Henry Laking, K.C.V.O.             Henry Francis Makius. Esq. F.R.G.S.
   Ml).                                        Sir Thomas Henry Sanderson, G.O.B.
Hugh Lconard.Esq. F.S.A.M.Iust.C.E.              K.C.M.G.
Frank McClean, Esq. M.A. LL.D.
   F.R.S. F.R.A.S.— V.P.                       Willinui Stevens Squire, Esq. Ph.D.
James Mans.rgU, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.               F.C.S.
George Matthey, Es,l. F.R.S.— V.P.             Harold Swithinbank, Esq. J.P. F.R.G.S.
William Hugh Spottiswoode, Esq.                John Jewell Vezey, Esq. F.H.M.S.
   F.C.S.                                      Roger William Wallace, Esq. K.C.
The Right Hon. Sir James Stirling,
   M.A. LI..D.— V.P.                           James Wimshurst, Esq. F.R.S.
                                  iJ I 0 f f 3 S 0 c s.
Profetsor of Natural Philosophy—The Right Hon. Louu IUylf.ioh, M.A. D.C.L.
     LL.D. D.Sc. F.R.S. Ac.
Fullerian Professor of Chemiitry—jAtita Dewab, Esq. M.A. LL.D. D.Sc.
     F.R.S. &c.
Fullerian Professor of Physiology—Allan Macfadten, M.D. B.Sc.
Keeper of the Library and Assistant Secretary—Mr. Henry Young.
Assistant in the Library—        Herbert C. Fyfe.
Assistants in the Lahoratories—Mr. R. N. Lennox, F.C.S. Mr. J. W. Heath,
     F.C.S. and Mr. G. Gordon.
                  LONDON: rRINTID BI WILLIAM CLOWRS AM] SONS, LIMITRD,
           liRKAT WINUM'LL STBKRT, W., AND OUKK STBkfcT, STAMrOBD STREET, 6.K.

                               HOC EE DINGS
                                         or tux
           IRopl        3nstttution            of iSreat Britain
   Vol. XVI. -Part III.                                                     No. 95
   190L
Jan. 18.      Pbofessob Dewau —Gases at the Beginning and End of tl.es
                 Century                                                         786
          [In consequence of the lamented death of Her MajeUy the Queen,
              the Patron of the Institution, there were no Evening Meeting!
              on January 25 and February 1 ]
Feb. 4.       Genebal Monthly Meeting              ..
Feb. 8.        Pbofessob G. H. Bbyan—History and Progress of Aerial Loco
                 motion       ..     ..     ..     ..
Feb. 15.      The Rt. Rev. Monhionob Gebald Mollot—Electric Waves.
 Feb. 22.     Sis W. Robebts-Austen—Metals us Fuel
March 1. Henby Habdinge Cunynghamb, Esq.—Enamels
March 4. Genebal Monthly Meeting
 Murcb 8. W. A. Shenstone, Esq.—Vitrified Quartz
 March 15. Majob Alfbed St. Hill Gibbons—Through the Heart of Africa
                 from South to North
March 22. Hobace T. Bbown, Esq.—Some Recent Work on Diffusion
 March 29. The Rioht Hon. Lobd Rayleioh—Polish
 April 1.     Genebal Monthly Meeting
April 19. Professob J, J, Thomson—The Existence of Bodies Smalle
                 than Atoms ..      ..     ..      ..    ..
April 26. Hans Gadow, Esq.—Colour in the Amphibia
 May 1.       Annual Meeting ..            ..      ..    ..
May 3.        Chables Mebcies. Esq.—Memory ..
 May (!.      Genebal Monthly Meeting
 May 10.      Pbofessob Jagadis Chindeb Bose—The Response of Inorganio
                 Mutter to Mechanical and Electrical Stimulus . .    ... .
May 17.       Eabl Pebcy, M.P.—Turkish Kurdistan ..            ..
 May 24.      Ricuai.d T. Gi.azebbooe, Esq.—The Aims of the National
                 Physical Laboratory       ..                  .. - -***'
 Muy 31.      A. Henby Sayage Lakpob, Esq.—With Ihe Alhes in China
Juno 3.       Genebal Monthly Meeting              ,, ..- . ..
Juno 7.       Pbofessob Raihael Meldola —Mimetic Insects. .
              Hodgkins Thvst 1'^say, by Miss Agnes M. Cllbke— Low
                 Temperature Research at the Royal Institution, 1893-1900
July I.       Genebal Monthly Meeting
Nov. 4.       Genebal Monthly Meetino
Dec 2.        Genebal Monthly Meeting
              Index                                    * .j , ...       . .',
                          j         LONDON
           ALBEMARLE STREET, PICCADILLY
                                      June 1902
5a.


            lional Institution of (Urtai Britain.
                  GENERAL            February 4, MEETING,
                         Monday,MONTHLY             1901.
 His Grace The Duke of Nobthumbebland, K.G. D.C.L. F.R.S.,
                            President, in the Chair.
                      John Boldero, Esq.
                      John Y. Buchanan, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
                      Augustus Littleton, Esq.
                      John Macfadyen, Esq.
                      Arthur William Reed, Esq. B.A.
                      Major John Middleton Rogers,
                      Dvson Weston, Esq.
                      Thomas Tellyer Whipham, M.D.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The special thanks of the Mombers were returned to Sir Frederick
Abel, Bart., K.C.B., for his donation of £50, and to Professor Dewar
for his donation of £50, to the Fund for the Promotion of Experi
mental Research at Low Temperatures.
     The following Address to the King was read and approved, and
authorised to be signed by His Grace The Duke of Nobthumbeb
land, K.G., the President, on behalf of the Members :—
           TO THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY.
   The humble Address of the Members of the Royal Institution of Great Britain,
    Most Gbaciovs Sovebeion,
         We, your Majesty's most loyal and dutiful subjects, the Members of the
Royal Institution of Great Britain, established for the promotion of Science,
Literature and the Arts, respectfully crave leave to approach your Sacred Person
with expressions of our heartfelt sorrow at the loss sustained by your Majesty,
the Royal Family, the Empire, and the World at large, in the death of your
Majesty's revered Mother, our late most gracious and beloved Sovereign and
Patron of this Institution : and also to testify our unfeigned congratulations
upon your Majesty's Accession to the Throne, as well as our sincere attachment
to your Royal Person.
    That your Majesty may long live in Prosperity and Happiness over a free
and affectionate people is the sincere wish and earnest prayer of
                               Your Majesty's Loyal and Dutiful Subjects,
                         The Members of the Royal Institution of Great Britain.
     The President, in moving a Vote of Condolence on the Death of
     Vol. XVI. (No. 95.)                                            2 k

  482                       General Monthly Meeting.                      [Feb. 4,
  Her late Majesty, remarked that Her Majesty had been for the
 whole of her reign the Patron of this Institution. She had shown
 her keen appreciation of the value of scientific study and research
 by the honours she had conferred from time to time on those
 who followed them. There was one signal act of kindness which
 should be recorded in connection with this Institution, namely that
 she gave to Professor Faraday rooms in Hampton Court Palace,
 and that when he found himself unable to meet the expense of
 necessary repairs she took it upon herself. Her husband and sons
 had been frequent attendants at our Lectures, but perhaps the
 highest debt of gratitude which scientific men owed to our late
Sovereign was that she had by her wisdom and skill secured them
 through a prolonged reign the utmost freedom and tolerance of
 thought and action, combined with complete order and stability of
government, a condition of things most favourable to the pursuit
of Science. He was sure that the Members of the Royal Institution
 shared to the fullest extent the regard which the whole of her
people, from the lowest to the highest, had evinced to her memory.
     The following Resolution, passed by the Managers, was read :—
    Resolved, That the Managers of the Royal Institution desire to record their
sense of the loss sustained hy the Institution in the decease of Mr. Basil Woodd
 Smith, F.R.A.S. F.S.A.
    He became a Member of the Royal Institution in 1853, and was elected a
Visitor in 1876, and a Manager in 1889. He always took a warm interest in
the welfare of the Institution, and for many years as Manager and Vice-Presi
dent he rendered valuable assistance in the transaction of the business affairs
and concerns of the Institution.
    The Managers further desire to offer to the family the expression of the
most sincere sympathy with them in their bereavement.
     The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The Secretary of Statefor India—Archwological Survey of India : Annual Progress
     Report of the Archaeological Survey Circle, N. W.P. and Oudh, for 1900. 8vo.
 The Meteorological Office—Meteorological Observations at Stations of the Second
     Order for 1897. 4to. 1900.
   Report of the Meteorological Council to the Royal Society. 8vo. 1900.
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Classe di bcienze Fisiche, Matematiche e
     Naturali. Atti, Serie Quinta : Rendiconti. 2° Semestre, Vol. IX. Fasc. 10-12.
     Classe di Scienze Morali, Storiche, etc. 1° Semestre, Vol. IX. Fasc. 7, 8 ;
     Vol. X. Fasc. I. 8vo. 1900-1901.
Agricultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XI. Part 4. 8vo. 1900.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XXXVI. Nos. 5-8.
     8vo. 1900.
American Geographical Society—Bulletin, Vol. XXXII. Vos. 4, 5. 8vo. 1900.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XXXIX. No. 163. 8vo. 1900.
                 Royal (Bombay Branch)—The
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal                    8vo. of Bombay. By J. G. de
                                 for Jan. 1901. Origin
     Cunha. 8vo. 1900.

 1901.]                              General Monthly Meeting.                                         483
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LXI. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1900-
        1901.
     Supplementary
        Government
     Total               Expeditions.
             Solar Eclipse        of May
                          Catalogue.      June28,
                                              8vo.18841900.
                                                   1900.     Preliminary
                                                        to June     1898. 8vo.        1900.of the British
                                                                                Reports
 Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XXI. Part 9 ; Vol. XXII. Part 1. 8vo. 1900-
        1901.
 BaptistSir
 Barry,        John Wolfe,
            Union—The        Baptist
                                 K.C.B.Handbook
                                            F.R.S. U.R.I,      (the Author)-streets
                                                       for 1901.       8vo.                 and Traffic of
       London. 8vo. 1899.
 Bathurtt, Frederick, Esq. (the Author)—Electric Wiring Practice. 8vo. 1900.
    The Prevention of Fires due to Leakage of Electricity. 8vo. 1899.
Berlin, Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences—Sitzungaberichte, 1900, Nos. 39-53.
 Boston        1900.Librarv—Monthly Bulletin, Vol. VI. No. 1. 8vo. 1901.
       8vo.Public
    Annual List of Books, 1899-1900. 8vo. 1901.
 Boston Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Vol. V. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1900.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, 3rd Series, Vol. VIII. Nos. 3-6.
British       1900.
       4to.Astronomical      Association—Journal, Vol. XI. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1900.
Burdett-Coutts, W. Esq. M.P. M.R.1. (the Author)—The Sick and Wounded in
       South Africa. 8vo. 1900.
 Gimbridae University Press—A Primer of Astronomy. By Sir Robert Ball. 8vo.
 Camera1900.Club—
Chemical      Society—Proceedings.
                     Journal
             Industry,          for Dec.
                           Society    of—Journal,
                                             1900
                                              Nos.and  Vol.
                                                     229,  231.
                                                         Jan. XIX.
                                                                 1901.
                                                                   8vo.       1900.
                                                                               11, 12. 8vo. 1900.
                                                                        Nos.8vo.
    Journnl for Doc. 1900 and Jan. 1901. 8vo.
       Nos. Field
Chicago,     1, 2. 8vo.        1900. Museum—Zoological Series, Vol. I. No. 18; Vol. Ill
                       Columbian
    Botanical Series, Vol. I. No. 6 ; Vol. II. No. 2. 8vo. 1900.
Chili, Societe- Scientifique de—Actes, Tome VIII. Livr. 5. 8vo. 1899.
Clinical Society—Transitions. Vol. XXXIII. 8vo. 1900.
Clowes, Dr. Frank, M.R.I.—Bacterial Treatment of Crude Sewage. Third
      Report by F. Clowes and J. H. Houston, fol. 1900.
Cracocie, I'Acadrmie des Sciences—Bulletin International, 1900, No. 8. 8vo.
Deutsche Ausstellung der Chemischen Industrie—Exposition collective de l'indus-
      trie allemande des produits chimiques (French and German). 8vo. 1900.
Devxir, Professor, F.R.S.—The Principles of Treatment. By J. Mitchell Bruce.
      8vo. 1899.
Drosten, R. Esq.— Special Catalogue of the Joint Exhibition of German Mechanics
      and Opticians at the Paris Exhibition, 1900. 4to.
Duckuxnrth, Sir Dyce, M.D. M.R.I, (the AuOwr)—On Mental Disorders dependent
      on Toxaemia. 8vo. 1900.
Editors—Aeronautical Journal for Jan. 1901. 8vo.
   American Journal of Science for Dec. 1900 and Jan. 1901. 8vo.
   Analyst for Dec. 1900 and Jan. 1901. 8vo.
   Anthony's Photographic
   Astrophysical                        Nov. andforDec.
                       Journal forBulletin            Dec1900.       8vo. Jan. 1901. 8vo.
                                                              1900 and
   Electrical
   Engineer
   Electro-Chemist
   Author
   Chemical
   Athenreum
   Brewers'
   Chemist
   Electricityand
               Journal
             forfor
                News
                Review
                Engineer
                  for
                  Dec.
                   forDruggist
                     Dec.
                       Dec
                        Dec.
                         for
                          1900
                          and
                           for
                            for
                            1900
                             Dec.
                              for
                               1900
                                Deo.
                                Metallurgist
                                 Dec.
                                 and
                              1900 for
                                    Dec.
                                    and
                                     1900
                                      and
                                       and
                                        Jan.
                                        Dec.
                                        1900.
                                          Jan.
                                         1900
                                           1900
                                            Jan.
                                            Jan.
                                            and
                                              1901.
                                              1900
                                               and
                                                1901.
                                                 8vo.
                                                  and
                                                  for
                                                  Jan.
                                                   1901.
                                                   1901.
                                                     Jan.
                                                     and
                                                      Jan.
                                                       Jan.
                                                       8vo.
                                                          fol.
                                                         1901.
                                                           Jan.
                                                            1901.
                                                            8vo.
                                                             4to.
                                                              1901.
                                                               1901.
                                                                  1901.  8vo.
                                                                          fol.8vo.
                                                                   4to.8vo.

484                                General Monthly Meeting.                                     [Feb. 4,
Editors—continued—
   Engineering for Dec. 1900 and Jan. 1901. fol.
   Homoeopathic Review for Dec. 1900 and Jan. 1901. 8vo.
   Horoloirical Journal for Deo. 1900 and Jan. 1901. 8vo.
   Invention for Dec. 1900 and Jan. 1901.
   Journal of the British Dental Association for Dec. 1900 and Jan. 1901. 8vo.
                 State Medicine
   Journal of Physical         Chemistry       for Dec.
                                        for Dec.             and Jan.
                                                    1900 1900.       8vo.1901. 8vo.
   Machinery
   Law
   Physical
   New
   Nature
   London
   Lightning
   Nuovo
   Photographic
   Popular
   Public
   Tropical
   Science
   Travel
   Telephone
          Church
            Cimento
            Health
             for
         Journal
              Technical
              Abstracts,
               Science
               Agriculturist
                Review
                 Dec.
                 for
                  Dec.
                  Market
                  Magazine
                    Magazine
                     for
                      Dec.
                       Engineer
                         1900
                         for
                         1900
                      NewsDec.
                          Monthly
                          forEducation
                             Vol.
                              for
                              August,
                              1900
                               for
                                Nov.
                                 and
                                 and
                                 for
                                  1900
                                   Dec.
                                   for
                                    for
                                    Dec.
                                     III.
                                      and
                                      for
                                       Dec.
                                       Jan.
                                        and
                                        for
                                        Dec.
                                         Dec.
                                          and
                                          1900
                                           1900.
                                           Part
                                            1900
                                            Jan.
                                           Dec.
                                            Gazette
                                             Dec.
                                              1900.
                                              Dec.
                                              1901.
                                                1900
                                                Jan.
                                                1900
                                                  and;Jan.
                                                  1900
                                                  12
                                                   and
                                                   1901.
                                                     8vo.
                                                     1900.
                                                    1900
                                                      ; and
                                                        1901.
                                                        and
                                                         for
                                                         Vol.
                                                          8vo.
                                                          Jan.
                                                          4to.
                                                           and
                                                            and
                                                              Nov.
                                                              8vo.
                                                              Jan.
                                                                IV.
                                                                1901.
                                                                Jan.
                                                                8vo.
                                                              Jan.
                                                                 1901.
                                                                  8vo.
                                                                  Jan.
                                                                    1901.
                                                                    1901.
                                                                    and
                                                                     Part
                                                                       1901.
                                                                        1901.
                                                                          8vo.
                                                                          Dec.
                                                                            1.8vo.
                                                                         8vo.   8vo.
                                                                                 8vo.
                                                                                 1900. 1900.
                                                                              8vo.
   Zoophilist for Dec. 1900 and Jan. 1901. 4to.
Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, Vol. XXX. No. 147. 8vo. 1900.
Evans, Sir John, K.C.B. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author}—The Origin, Development
      and Aims of our Scientific Societies. 1900.
Florence, Riblioteca Nazionale Centrale—Bolletino, No. 359. 8vo. 1900.
Franklin Institute—Journal for Dec. 1900 and Jan. 1901. 8vo.
Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for Dec. 1900 and Jan. 1901.
      8vo.
 Glasgow,
Green,      Philosophical
         James,    Esq. (the Author)—Causes
                                Society—Proceedings,              WarXXXI.
                                                         of theVol.     in South8vo.     1900.8vo. 1900.
                                                                                    Africa.
 Grey. Henry, Esq. (the Author)—Seventy Years' Reminiscences of Notable Events,
      1831-1900. lUmo. 1900.
Harlem, Societe Hollandaise des Sciencet—Archives Neerlandaises, Série II.
      Tome V. 8vo. 1900.
Horticultural Society—Journal, Vol. XXV. Parts 1. 2. 8vo. 1900.
 Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for Dec. 1900 and Jan. 1901.
 Johnsand
 Iron    Hopkins
             Steel Institute—Journal.
                     University—American             Chemical
                                                 1900,               8vo. for Dec. 1900 and Jan.
                                                          No. 2. Journal
      1901. 8vo.
 Korner, Professor Dr. Hon. M.R.I.—R. Scuola Superiore d'agricoltura in Milano:
      Notizie, Kegolamenti e Prograinmi. 4to. 1900.
 Leighton, John, Esq. M.R.I.—Journal of the Ex-Libris Society for Dec. 1900 and
      Jan. 1901.
 Liebreich,   Professor8vo.Oscar, Hon. M.R.I, (the Editor)—Encyklopaedie der Therapie.
      3 vol. 8vo. 1896-1900.
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology—Technology Quarterly, Vol. XIII. No. 3.
      8vo. 1900.
 Meteorological    Society. Royal—Quarterly Journal, Vol. XXVI. No. 116. 8vo. 1900.
    Record, Vol. XIX. No. 70. 8vo. 1900.
 Mexico, Sociedad Cientifica " Antonio Alzate"—Memorias, Tomo XIV. Nos. 9-12.
      8vo. 1900.
 Microscopical Society, Royal—Journal, 1900, Part 6. 8vo.
 Munich, Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Abhandlungen, Band XX. Abth. 3.
 Natal,        1900.
       4to.Commissioner        for Mines—Report on the Mining Industry of Natal for
       1899. fol. 1900.

1901.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                                    485
Navy League—Navy League Journal for Dec. 1900 and Jan. 1901. 8va
New York Academy of Sciences—Memoirs, Vol. II. Part 2. 4to. 1900.
   Annals, Vol. XII. Parts 2, 3; Vol. XIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1900.
New Zealand, Registrar-General of—New Zealand Official Year Book for 1900.
North8vo.of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineert—Transactions,
Numismatic
Odontological
Pharmaceutical
      Vol. XLVIII.
               Society—Numismatic
                Society—Transactions,
                   Society
                      Partsof7, Oreat
                                8; Vol.Britain—Journal
                                          XLIX.
                                        Chronicle,
                                           Vol. XXXIII.
                                                  Parts
                                                    1901,3-5;
                                                           No.
                                                           for Dec.
                                                          PartsVol.
                                                                2.1, 2.8vo.
                                                                       L.
                                                                        1900 and
                                                                              1900.
                                                                           Part 1. Jan. 1901.
      8vo.
Philadelphia, Academy of Natural Sciences—Proceedings, 1900, Part 2. 8vo.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for Nov. and Dec. 1900. 8vo.
Physical Society—Proceeding*, Vol. XVII. Part 4. 8vo. 1900.
Queensland, Agent-General for—The Great Queensland Winter Trip. 8vo. 1900
Radclife Library—Catalogue of Books added during 1900. 8vo. 1901.
Rambaut, Arthur A. Esq. (the Author)—Underground Temperatures at Oxford in
      the year 1899. 4to. 1900.
    Note on the Unpublished
   Observations                    of 1899. 8vo.
                  of the LeonidsObservations          1899. Observatory between 1774
                                                at RadclirTe
      and 1838. 8vo. 1900.
Rayleigh, The Rt. Hon. Lord, F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Scientific Papers,
      Vol. II. 1881-1887. 8vo. 1900.
Righi, Professor A. (the Author)—lies Ondes Hertziennes. 8vo. 1900.
Rome, Ministry of Public Works—Giomale del Genio Civile, 1900, Fasc. 9-11.
Royal8vo.College of Surgeons—Descriptive and Illustrated Catalogue of the Phy
      siological Series of Comparative Anatomy contained in the Museum. 2nd
      edition, Vol. I. 8vo. 1900.
Royal Irish Academy—Proceedings, Vol. VI. No. 1. 8vo. 1900.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Proceedings, Vol. XXIII. No. 3. 8vo. 1901.
   Transactions, Vol. XXXIX. Parts 3, 4. 4to. 1900.
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, A, Nos. 268-273 ; B, Nog.
      191, 193. 4to. 1900.
    Proceedings, Nos. 439, 440. 8vo. 1900.
    Reports to the Malaria Committee, Third Series. 8vo. 1900.
Sanitary Institute—Journal, Vol. XXI. Part 4. 8vo. 1901.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—
    Mathematisch-Physische Classe —
      Abhandlungen, Baud XXVI. No. 4. 8vo. 1900.
      Berichte, 1900, Nos. 5, 6. 8vo.
    Philologisch-Historische Classe—
      Abhandlungen, Band XIX. Nos. 1, 2; Vol. XX. No. 3. 8vo. 1900.
      Berichte, 1900, No. 8.
Scott, Alexander, Esq. (the Author)—An Introduction to Chemical Theory. 8vo.
       1891.
Scottish Society of Arts, Royal—Transactions, Vol. XV. Part 2. 8vo. 1900.
Selborne Soiiety—Nature Notes for Dec. 19(H) and Jan. 1901. 8vo.
Smithsonian Institution—Annual Report, 1898. 8vo. 1899.
    Annual Report of the U.S. National Museum, 1898. 8vo. 1900.
Society of Arts—Journal for Dec. 1900 and Jan. 1901. 8vo.
 St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Reports, Vol. XXXV. 8vo. 1901.
 St. Petersburg, Imperial Academy of Sciences—Mémoires, Tome X. Nos. 3-6.
       4to. 1900.
 Statistical Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. LXIII. Part 4. 8vo. 1900.
 Tacchiiti. Prof. P. Hon. Mem. R.I. (the Author)—Memorie della Societa degli
      Spettroscopisti Italiani, Vol. XXIX. Disp. 7, 8. 4to. 1900.
 Teykr Museum, Harlem—Archives, Serie II. Vol. VII. Part 2. 8vo. 1900.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for Dec. 1900 and Jan. 1901. 8vo.

486                          General Monthly Meeting.                    [Feb. 4,
United Stales Army, Surgeon-Cfeneral'i Office—Index Catalogue of the Library,
      Second Series, Vol. V. 8vo. 1900.
United States Department of Agriculture—Monthly Weather Review for Sept.-
      Oot. 1900.
   Report             of Weather Bureau, 1898-99, Vol. II. 4to. 1900.
            of Chief4to.
   Experiment Station Record, Vol. XII. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. 1900.
   Farmers' Bulletin, No. 121. 8vo. 1900.
 Jnited States Patent Office—Official Gazette, Vol. XCIII. Nos. 9-13 ; Vol. XCIV.
      Nob. 1-4. 8vo. 1900.
 Verein zur Befbrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1900,
      Nos. 9, 10; 1901, No. 1. 8vo.
 Vienna, Imperial Geological Institute—Verhandlungen, 1900, Nos. 11-16. 8vo.
 Villari, Professor E. Hon. M.R.I, (the Author)—Les charges électriques et les gaz
      ionises. 8vo. 1900.
   Come l'aria ixata perde la sua proprieta scaricatiice. 8vo. 1900.
   Su di un lavoro del F. Kurlbaum. 8vo. 1900.
   Intorno ad un lavoro del E. liiecka. 8vo. 1900.
   Dell' azione dell' elettricita. 8vo. 1900.
 Wagner Free Institute of Science—Transactions, Vol. III. Part 5. 8vo. 1900.
 Washington, Academy of Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. II. pp. 341-676. 8vo. 1900.
 Western Society of Engineers (U.S.A.)—Journal of the Western Society of Engi
      neers, Vol. V. Part 6. 8vo. 1900.
 Wilde, Henry. Esq. D.Sc. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Correspondence in the matter of the
      Society of Arts and Henry Wilde on the award to him of the Albert Medal,
      1900, and on the invention of the Dynamo-Electrio Machine. 8vo. 1900.
 Willing, Messrs. & Co. (the Publishers)—Willing's Press Guide, 1900. 8vo.
Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. XV. Part 5. 4to. 1900.

1901.]          History and Progress of Aerial Locomotion.            487
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 8, 1901.
        Sib William Chooses, F.R.S., Honorary Secretary and
                       Vice-President, in the Chair.
                  Pbofessob G. H. Bbyan, Sc.D. F.R.S.
               History and Progress of Aerial Locomotion.
The early history of artificial flight—or, more generally, of attempts
to solve the problem of directed locomotion through the air—takes us
back to the Egyptian figures of men with wings, closely resembling
those of a modern gliding machine, and the legend of Daedalus, who,
as the inventor of sailing ships, was accredited with having attached
 wings to himself. In succeeding ages we have numerous records—
 some of purely fantastic and visionary ideas—of flying-machines, such
 as the design of the French eighteenth century novelist, Retif de la
 Bretonne, and that of the Portuguese Lourenco ; others, of machines
 constructed, but which proved unsuccessful, such as those of Besnier
 and the Marquis de Bacqueville ; and last, but not least, several de
 scriptions of early attempts at gliding from a height, such as the
 experiments of Dante of Perugia, and of the Turk described by
 Busbequius, which so closely resemble modern gliding experiments
 as to be worthy of credence. Montgolfier's discovery of the balloon,
 by rendering it possible to ascend in the air, diverted attention to
 another method by which to seek the solution of the problem of
 directed aerial locomotion, namely, by adopting the principle of the
 fish rather than that of the bird, and experimenting with machines
 which, by the addition of a gas-bag, are made lighter than the air
 they displace. Now, the difficulty of propelling a balloon through
 the air is due to the fact that, in order to rise in the air, the balloon
 and its load must be lighter than the volume of air they displace ; and
 since air is, in round numbers, one-thousandth of the density of water,
 it follows that if a balloon and a ship are to carry the same total
 weight, the balloon must displace one thousand times the volume of
 air that the ship does of water. The large size of balloons renders
 it very difficult to propel them through the air at the speed necessary
 for travelling in the face of a wind such as is commonly blowing in
 fair weather. There can be no doubt that Count Zeppelin's experi
 ments do actually furnish a solution of the problem of directed loco
 motion through the air ; the rolative velocity attained, viz. 17 miles

488                    Professor G. H. Bryan                      [Feb. 8,
an hour, being sufficient to enable the machine to be driven against
the amount of wind encountered on a fairly calm day, and the machine
having been steered at will und brought back to tbe starting-point.
The only previous record of a similar kind is that of Messrs. Kenard
and Krebs, who, in 1885, performed a journey in their balloon ' La
France,' and returned to the starting-point again. But the speed of
that balloon has been variously described by writers as four and four
teen miles an hour, and, unless the latter figure is the correct one, it is
certain that the balloon could never hold its own against the light
winds blowing even in ordinarv calm weather. The recent experi
ments of Santos Dumont have excited considerable interest ; but we
have not, so far, seen any records of performances by this machine,
 beyond the maintenance, for half a minute, of a relative speed of seven
 miles an hour in the face of a wind blowing at four miles an hour—
 giving for this brief interval a forward velocity of three miles an
hour.
    The chief advantages of the Zeppelin balloon are (1) its division
into seventeen compartments, and (2) the distribution of the load at
two points instead of at the centre. The former feature has not only
the advantage of minimising the danger arising from escape of gas
—in particular as the result of bullet shots in times of war—but,
what is more important, it prevents the gas from " wobbling about "
(for no other phrase is so expressive) in the interior, an action which
would cause the envelope to flap, absorbing energy, and greatly in
creasing the resistance of the air. The agreement between the speed
actually obtained and that previously calculated from theory was
very close indeed. From what has been said above, the balloon,
which carried a load of about ten tons, must have displaced a volume
of air somewhere about equal to the volume of water displaced by a
ship of 10,000 tons, and it is not difficult from the illustrations to
realise that such was the case. In ignorance of this simple property,
many prospectuses are issued of companies for promoting air-ships,
quite impracticable in reality ; and a diagram was exhibited on the
screen of a kind of aerial tramcar, filled with passengers, supported by
three cigar-shaped balloons smaller than the tramcar itself. Another
example of want of knowledge on the part of promoters of air-ship
syndicates was exhibited on the screen, in the form of a design of an
actual patent specification, drawn up not many years ago, for seats on
such " aerial tramcars," containing cavities filled with gas to help
raise the machine. Remembering that a cubic foot of air only weighs
about an ounce, the lifting power would only amount to roughly about
an ounce per cubic foot of cavity, and the diminution of weight would
be far less than that obtained by making the seats of light bamboo.
To obtain an appreciable effect, the cavities must be filled with what
does not exist, namely, " something which is lighter than nothing, and
has a tendency upwards."
    Passing from the mechanically-propelled balloon to the question

1901.]        on History and Progress of Aerial Locomotion.           489
of the flying machine proper, the study of artificial flight by means
of wings, aeroplanes, or aerocurves and propellers, involves the investi
gation of (1) the laws of aerial resistance of plane and curved surfaces
and screws ; (2) the lightest possible motors and sources of energy ;
(3) the conditions of balance and stability of a body in free air, sup
ported by wings or aerocurves. The first of these three directions of
investigation having been dealt with by Lord Rayleigh, in his lecture
last year, we shall devote our chief attention to the second and third.
We may however notice, in passing, Langley's experiments on the
resistance of planes and curved surfaces, which confirmed Duchemin's
law, and showed that the greater the horizontal velocity of a surface
moving through the air the less is the horse-power necessary to sup
port a given weight by it ; Phillips's Wealdstone experiments, on the
advantages of a number of narrow superposed planes (resembling a
Venetian blind), over a single wide plane of equal area, and Fitz
gerald's investigation of the flapping flight of aeroplanes.
    With regard to the question of the motor, the experiments of Lili-
enthal, Pilcher and Chanute, agree in indicating that about two horse
power would be required to convert their downward glides into hori
zontal or slightly upward flights ; and Chanute estimates the possible
maximum weight of the motor required to drive a machine capable of
lifting one man off the ground, at 4 lbs. per horse-power with vertical
screws, 8 lbs. with flapping wings, and 14 lbs. with propeller-driven
aerocurves. Da Pra, from theoretical considerations, allows 15 kilo
grammes per horse-power as the possible weight of the motor in his
design. Regarding the actual weight of motors, as long ago as 1868
Stringfellow gained a prize for a steam-engine and boiler weighing only
13 lbs., and giving rather over one horse-power. Maxim's gigantic
machine had an engine weighing 8 lbs. per horse-power. Langlcy is
reputed to have constructed a one horse-power engine weighing 7 lbs. ;
 Hargreave one weighing 10 lbs. It should, however, be observed that
the heavier the machine the greater is the ratio of horse-power to
total weight necessary to render flight possible, and hence we see how
it is that birds are able to fly although they themselves weigh 150 to
200, and their muscles alone 5 to 20 lbs. per horse-power. For
models similar in form, but of different dimensions, the law commonly
assumed is that the horse-power per lb. of weight is proportional to
the square root of the linear dimensions, if the weight itself (as is
usually the case) is proportional to the cube of the linear dimensions.
     Thus, while the experimenters who attempted to fly, in the eight
eenth and early part ot the nineteenth century, by their own muscular
power, were attempting an impossible task, owing to the fact that the
rate at which a man is capable of working (say about £ horse-power)
is far below the amount required for flight, the difficulties arising from
the question of horse-power in proportion to weight can no longer be
regarded as insuperable. But, even if these purely mechanical diffi
culties are overcome, we are far from having solved the problem of

490                     Professor G. H. Bryan                     [Feb. 8,
flight. There still remain the problems of starting off the ground
and landing safely again, wbich become more difficult as the size of
the machine is increased. Still more intricate is the question of balance
and stability. The very fluctuations of wind-velocity, from which
sailing birds may not improbably derive their supply of energy, vastly
increaso the difficulty of artificial flight. Langley speaks of wind-
velocities suddenly rising to forty miles an hour, and equally suddenly
dropping to a dead calm. With such gusts to contend against, the
danger of a machine suddenly capsizing is a very serious one. Mr.
Wenham relates that, thirty years ago, a gliding model of his, which flew
well from a housetop, was dropped by Glaisher in one of his balloon
ascents, but, after gliding twelve yards, it tripped and whirled over and
over till it reached the earth.
    Our knowledge of the conditions of balance and stability is
largely deduced from experiments in gliding from a height under
gravity. In 1864, Captain Le Bris constructed an " artificial alba
tross," with which he is reported to havo made successful glides up
to 600 feet ; but he broke his leg, and his funds became exhausted, so
that the experiments bad to be discontinued. In recent times, great
advances in the art of gliding have been made by Lilienthal in
Germany, Pilcher in England, and Chanute and Herring in America.
The death of the two former, as the result of accidents with their
machines, will no doubt deter others from working on the same lines.
It is therefore desirable to notice in detail, the points of difference
between the methods adopted by Chanute and Herring, and those of
their less fortunate predecessors.
    Both Lilienthal and Pilcher used broad wings ; the first in his
later experiments using a machine with two superposed surfaces, and
the second always using single-surface machines. Both were depen
dent entirely on the movements of their body for counteracting the
tendency to overturn, produced by gusts of wind ; and, under such
conditions, gliding was of necessity an art requiring considerable
gymnastic agility.
    Mr. Octave Chanute commenced his gliding experiments, in 1896,
by constructing an " albatross machine," based on the design of Le
Bris ; but the large size of the machine necessitated its being flown
from a properly constructed track, and glides could only be made
when the wind was blowing in a particular direction. He next tried
gliding with a machine of the Lilienthal type, but soon discontinued
his experiments in this direction, as he regarded such a machine as
dangerous and difficult of control ; and he became convinced of the
necessity of devising an automatic arrangement by which the appa
ratus should right itself when a gust of wind caused it to heel over.
    His first attempt in this direction was the construction of a
" ladder kite," formed with wings pivoted to a central frame, and held
in place by rubber springs. The kite flew very steadily, and was
used as the basis of a " multiple-winged machine," also with movable

1901.]        on History and Progress of Aerial Locomotion.             491
parts. Seven different forms were tried, the last and most successful
ones having a number of wings, sometimes as many as five pairs
placed one above the other. In the early forms the movements of
the body in balancing amounted to five inches, in the later ones they
were reduced to two inches, and finally to one inch.
     Mr. Chanute worked in conjunction with Mr. Herring, and the
last, and in many ways most successful, machine experimented on was
a two-surfaced machine invented by the latter. This, too, was pro
vided with movable parts for automatically regulating the balance,
and was taken, in 1897, to Dune Park, where the sand-hills formed a
safe experimenting ground. Many glides were made of from 150 to
300 feet, in winds varying up to 31 miles an hour (nearly 1£ times
the greatest wind-velocity in which Lilienthal experimented), and no
accidents occurred, although on three occasions the machine was
struck by gusts of wind from above. The longitudinal balance was
perfect, no movement being required to right the machine when wind-
fluctuations occurred in the line of motion, and in a side wind the
movements of the body were much reduced by the automatic arrange
ment. The best glide was one of 927 feet, performed in 48 seconds
by " quartering," i.e. sailing in a direction parallel to the side of a hill
up which the wind was blowing. Several of Mr. Chanute's friends
tried the machine, and found it easy to glide with.
     These experiments of Messrs. Chanute and Herring bring us nearer
to a solution of the problem of dynamic flight, i.e. directed motion
through air without the'assistance of balloons. It has, no doubt, been
possible for Lilienthal and Pilchcr to balance themselves in the air
by their own agility, but directly we add a motor to a gliding machine
the increased weight makes the effort far more difficult. It is only by
reducing the exertion of balancing to a minimum, that we can hope
to gain the mastery of a machine carrying its own motive power.
On the other hand, the conditions of balance and stability of a
propeller-driven machine may differ essentially from those of a
mere gliding machine. In the latter, the only propelling force, due
to gravity, acts in a direction fixed in space, while the propelling
force due to a motor-driven screw acts in a direction fixed relatively
to the machine.
     Now, all our preconceived notions lead us to think that the
addition of a propelling force of this character, so far from increasing
the difficulty of maintaining equilibrium in the air, may materially
improve the stability of the machine, and Mr. Herring states that
this view has been borne out by experiments which he has made with
models. While automatic balance and stability are the first factors
to be secured in attempts to solve the problem of flight, it is im
portant that these should not be investigated on gravity-propelled
machines alone, but that the effects of a motor should be experi
mentally determined as soon as such experiments can be carried on
in safety.

492            History and Progress of Aerial Locomotion.          [Feb. 8,
    It is the transition from the gliding machine to the mechanically-
propelled machine, carrying its own store of energy, which forms the
chief gap to be bridged at the present time, in the attempt to conquer
the air ; and, as this gap bids fair to be narrowed, in the course of time,
by reducing the difficulty of balancing large machines on the one
hand, and by reducing the weight of motors on the other, we may
hope that the near future may witness an experimental demonstra
tion of the possibility of artificial flight.
                                                             [G. H. B.]

1901.]                       Electric Waves.                          493
                 WEEKLY         February 15,MEETING,
                       Friday,EVENING         1901.
His Gbace The Duke of Nobthumbebland, E.G. D.C.L. F.R.S.,
                         President, in the Chair.
      The Right Rev. Monsionoe Geeald Molloy, D.D. D.Sc.
                              Electric Waves.
Db. Molloy said he had chosen the subject of electric waves, because
he thought it represented one of the most important scientific develop
ments of the closing years of the nineteenth century. He proposed,
as far as might be within the limits of an hour, to give some general
conception of the nature of these waves, to sketch very briefly the
history of their discovery, and to show by a few simple experiments
how their existence might be demonstrated, and their properties
investigated.
     He began by calling attention to the essential characteristics of
wave motion, which ho illustrated by a reference to waves of water,
waves of sound, waves of light and radiant heat. He then said that
the main purpose of his lecture was to bring home to them that
electrical energy was transmitted through space by a motion of this
kind ; and that the medium through which this motion was conveyed
 was the ether, the same medium that served for the transmission of
 light and radiant heat.
     Electric waves are most conveniently produced by a spark dis
charge. It was shown long ago by Professor William Thomson, now
Lord Kelvin, that such a discharge, under certain conditions, was an
 oscillating phenomenon ; that is, that the electric charge swings to and
 fro, like a pendulum, several times before it comes to rest. Each such
 oscillation would presumably involve some disturbance of the ether ;
 these disturbances would be transmitted outwards and away in all
 directions ; and following one another at regular intervals through
 space, would constitute a series of electric waves.
      These ideas, which had been present, more or less vaguely, to
 the minds of scientific men for some time, were put into the form of
 a definite theory, supported by mathematical reasoning, by Professor
 Clerk Maxwell, about the year 1864. According to this theory,
 electrical energy is transmitted through space by vibrations or waves
 of ether ; these vibrations travel with the same velocity as light ;
they are, in fact, vibrations of the same kind as light, differing only
 in the master of wave-length ; and if we could but increase the rate
 of vibration, thereby diminishing the wave-length, they would be

  494            The Right Rev. Monsignor Gerald Molloy           [Feb. 15,
  come at first rays of dark heat, like those emitted by a hot metal plate,
  and then rays of light.
      The truth of Maxwell's theory was experimentally demonstrated
  by Professor Heinrich Hertz, of Germany, in the year 1888, by a
  series of researches almost unrivalled for their brilliancy and
  thoroughness. His experiments, however, were only suitable to the
  laboratory, and various modifications were necessary in order to
  present the results in a sensible form before an audience.
      The apparatus he had provided for this purpose might be said
  briefly to consist of two parts. At one end of the table was an
  arrangement intended to produce the electric waves. It consisted of
 an induction coil, and a pair of discharging rods ending in two brass
  knobs. This part he would call the oscillator. At the other end of
  the table was an arrangement intended to detect and reveal the
  presence of the electric waves. This part, which he called the
  resonator, was somewhat more complicated. First, there was a little
 piece of apparatus called the coherer. The coherer, as they knew,
  was a glass tube holding some metallic filings, which in their normal
 condition were practically a non-conductor of electricity, but which,
 when struck by electric waves, became a fairly good conductor. It
 was here mounted in the circuit of a small battery and an electric
 bell. In its normal condition, it opposed the passing of the current,
 and the bell was silent ; when the electric waves arrived, it became
 a conductor—the current passed and the bell was rung. Thus the
 ringing of the bell would be a signal that the waves were there. A
 gentle tap on the coherer would restore it to its former condition,
 and it would be ready for a new experiment.
      The lecturer now produced a spark in the oscillator, and the bell
 at once began to ring, proving that the electric waves had gone out
 from the oscillator and travelled through space to the resonator. A
 tap on the coherer reduced the bell to silence ; and an assistant now
 proceeded to carry the resonator to various parts of the theatre. In
 every position it responded instantaneously to the spark of the
oscillator ; thus showing that electric waves, like waves of light and
radiant heat, go out in all directions from the source of disturbance.
     In the next experiment, the lecturer used two parabolic brass
reflectors, which had been made many years ago for experiments on
radiant heat. In the focus of one, he mounted a very small oscil
lator, which produced waves of some six or eight inches wave-length ;
while in the focus of the other he mounted a coherer in circuit with
a small battery and bell. He then repeated with the electric waves
produced in the oscillator, the well known experiment of the conjugate
mirrors, and thus proved that the electric waves are subject to the
same laws of reflection as waves of radiant heat and light.
     With the same apparatus, he now tested the transparency and
opacity of various bodies to electric waves—plate glass, sheet iron,
indiarubber, wood. In particular, he called attention to the curious
behaviour of plate glass with respect to waves of ether : it is very

1901.]                     on Electric Waves.                      495
transparent to electric waves ; it is almost quite opaque to the much
shorter waves of dark heat ; it is again transparent to the still
shorter waves of visible light ; and it is again opaque to the shorter
ultra-violet rays, and intensely opaque to the shortest waves of all,
the X-rays.
     The phenomenon of polarisation was next considered. From the
way in which the waves are produced, we should expect to find that
they are polarised at their source. It was shown how this might
be tested by means of a frame over which a series of parallel copper
wires were stretched. If the frame were held in the path of the
waves, with the wires parallel to the spark, the grid would be opaque ;
if it were held with the wires perpendicular to the spark, the grid
would be transparent. The experiment was tried, and the result fell
out as expected. The grid behaved with respect to the electric
waves, just as the analyser in a polariscope behaves with respect to
a beam of plane polarised light.
     The lecturer then called attention to the great variety of ether
waves with which we ore now acquainted, and having pointed out
the position which each group occupies in the scale, said in conclu
sion : " Thus we come to realise that the various forms of energy to
which, in common language, we give the names of electricity, mag
netism, heat, light, chemical action, are all transmitted through
space in the form of waves or vibrations of the ether ; and that these
vibrations are all essentially of the same kind, being distinguished
from one another only by their wave-length. They produce widely
different effects, when they strike upon our different senses ; but
considered in themselves they are only, so to say, notes of different
pitch in the great scale of radiant energy which I have imperfectly
attempted to sketch. This large and comprehensive view of radiant
energy is one of the most notable results achieved by the great
scientific men of the century that has just passed away. And the
work that remains to be done by the coming generation, the great
scientific men of the twentieth century, is to explore more thoroughly
the properties of these ethereal waves, to fill up the gaps that still
exist in the scale, and perhaps to reveal to the world the intrinsic
constitution of the ether itself, that mystery of mysteries which
underlies all those outward phenomena of nature."

496                           Sir W. Roberts-Austen                     [Feb. 22,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, February 22, 1901.
  Sib Andbew Noble, K.C.B. F.R.S., Vice-President, in the Chair.
          Sir W. Robebts-Austejj, K.C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S. M.RJ.
                                 Metals as Fuel.
A cabeful metallurgist,* writing in the eighteenth century, claimed
that " every matter which is combustible either wholly or in part, is
called fuel, the pabulum of fire." The word is, however, usually
restricted to substances which may be burnt by means of atmo
spheric air with sufficient rapidity to evolve heat capable of being
applied to economic purposes. The latter definition covers certain
metals, though it was doubtless framed to include only carbon and
associations of carbon and hydrogen, such as coal. The omission
from the definition of the reference to atmospheric air would enable
the list of metals which might be used as fuel to be widely extended.
     It has long been known that metals will burn, and it would be
easy to show that the history of inorganic chemistry is epitomised
and enshrined in a mass of litharge, which is simply burnt lead.
Successive generations of chemists, from Geber in the eighth century
to Lavoisier in the eighteenth, studied litharge carefully before the
latter proved partly by its aid the identity of respiration, calcination
and combustion. Into this history I need not enter, but it may be
pointed out that Sir Isaac Newton f had a clear idea as to the possi
bility of burning metals. " Is not fire," he asks, " a body heated so
hot as to emit light copiously ?"..." for what else is red-hot iron
than fire ? " and he significantly adds, " metals in fusion do not flame
for want of copious fume." He was, moreover, aware that a mixture
of lead and tin " suitably heated " does emit " fume and flame," and,
in fact, a mass of one part tin and four parts lead, which looks
metallic, will, if it be kindled, continue to burn like an inferior
variety of peat, leaving an ash-like product which may be used as
an enamel.
     I propose to show that metals may be burnt for the sake of the
    * C. E. Gellert, ' Metallurgic Chemistry,' translated bv I. S. (London, 1776),
p. 74.
    t ' Optic,' pp. 316-319, quoted by Shaw in his edition of the works of Boyle,
vol. ii. p. 400.

1901.]                      on Metals as Fuel.                        497
heat and light they produce, just as ordinary fuels are burnt, except
that in burning ordinary fuels combustion is often effected in two
distinct steps or stages, in the first of which carbonic oxide is formed,
and in the second carbonic acid, the products in both cases being
gaseous. When metals are burnt, the products of combustion are
solid, or condense to solids, and they therefore present a marked
contrast to ordinary fuels which, as has just been stated, yield on
combustion gaseous products. As I shall have but little to say
about the light which attends the combustion of metals, I may as
well dismiss the subject by reference to a familiar application of the
burning of metals for the purpose of illumination. It is easy to
fire electrically a portion of what is known as a " magnesium star,"
and a " fire-ball " of magnesium attached to a parachute is beauti
fully packed in this shell, for the loan of which I am indebted to the
authorities of the Royal Arsenal, Woolwich, and when the shell
explodes the stars burn and illuminate the enemy's position in the
darkness of night, so that guns may be laid to place projectiles in
the enemy's lines.
     Before proceeding further, I want to use the electric furnace as
affording a basis of comparison with the method of producing high
temperatures by the combustion of metals, which I shall proceed to
show subsequently. A current of 100 amperes at 200 volts is passed
by carbon poles into the furnace in which pig-iron is being melted ;
directly the last piece of iron has become fluid, the temperature of
the fused pool must be about 1300° C. The fluid mass is reflected
on the screen merely to give some indication as to the appearance of
such a mass at 1300° C, and not to afford a test of the capabilities
of the electric furnace. Later on I hope to show that a far higher
temperature can be produced by very simple means in a receptacle
of about the same capacity as the laboratory part of the furnace.
     Henceforth in the course of this lecture metals will be burnt for
the sake of the heat which is the result of their combustion. From
this point of view metallurgists have long used metals as fuel, often
without due recognition of the fact, but case after case could be cited
in which conducting definite metallurgical operations is made possible
by burning portions of the metal or metals under treatment. Time
 will perhaps be saved if I place in sharp contrast the use of ordinary
fuel and metallic fuel, even though it takes us rather far back, for I
 do not want it to be thought that the use of metals as fuel is new,
 although their adoption for this purpose has recently been greatly
 stimulated. Here is a mass of very ordinary iron ore picked up on
 a heath in Surrey, which skirts the site of what was once the ancient
forest of Anderida. The pre-historio dweller on the heath who used
 the beautiful flint arrowheads, which are found near the iron ore,
 merely burnt the wood of the forest to warm himself or to cook his
 food. But the Britons whom Csesar found in Andreaswold smelted
 iron with the wood of the forest trees, from which they prepared char
 coal, and smelting iron was actively conducted in Queen Elizabeth's
     Vol. XVI.                                                 2 L

498                       Sir W. Roberts-Austen                   [Feb. 22,
reign, and even survived into the last century in the district I am
contemplating. But in smelting iron, carbon became associated
with it and played a subtle part, rendering the iron precious for
certain purposes and useless for others. Iron had therefore to be
" decarburised " with a view to its conversion into steel, and in doing
this metallurgists for centuries truly burnt some of the iron itself,
using it actually as fuel. I will only add that the use of metals as
fuel assumed magnificent proportions in the hands of Bessemer, as
may be illustrated by an experiment. A few pounds of a compound
of iron, carbon, silicon and manganese is melted in the wind furnace,
which is simply used because it affords a convenient method of melting
the mass, which is turned into a small Bessemer converter. A stream
of oxygen is directed into the fluid mass. Air would do, but with so
small a mass the free nitrogen would cool it too rapidly. In a few
seconds the carbon in the fluid will be burnt away : nevertheless the
mass gradually becomes hotter and hotter, a shower of sparks rises,
and a brillant pyrotechnic display is the result. The metal
loid silioon is now burning, and then brown fumes of iron and
manganese pass freely off; these metals are truly burning and are
maintaining the heat of the bath, and the presence of their fumes
shows that it is time to stop the operation. The temperature is
somewhere near 2000° C, but according to some recent investigations
of Professor Noel Hartley * a temperature of more than 2000° C. is
attained in the converter. Bessemer gave the world in 1856 cheap
steel ; we therefore owe to him the inestimable benefits that are the
results of that gift, and I ask you to bear in mind that his great
service to the industry of which we as a nation are so justly proud
rested on the possibility of using metalloids and metals as fuel. I
have already promised that in the course of the lecture I will show
some experiments in which the temperature will be a thousand
degrees higher than in the one you have just seen. In the Bessemer
process the products of combustion are both gaseous and solid, and
in a very ordinary case the heat engendered by tho carbon of the
bath which evolves gases is only half that which results from the
combustion of the silicon, iron and manganese which yield solid
products. As regards the " open-hearth process " in the phase of
it which is known as the " pig and ore " process, oxygen is presented
and heat is produced under similar conditions to those we shall
consider subsequently in the case of the action of aluminium on
forric oxide.
    The following table, which contains the relative calorific powers of
different metals and metalloids as compared with carbon, indicates the
advantage which certain metals possess over carbon for use as fuel.
The question at once presents itself—At what temperature will such
metals as can be used for fuel begin to abstract oxygen from the air ?
The answer is—It depends on the method by which the metals are pre-
               * Phil. Trans, vol. cxcvi. series A, p. 479, 1901.

 1901.]                    on Metals as Fuel.                           499
   Heat Evolved by Bubning One Gbamme op the Following Elements.
           Aluminium                           Al,O,           7250
           Magnesium                           MgO             6000
           Nickel                              NiO             2200
           Manganese                           MnO2            2110
           Iron                                Fe3Qt            1790
                                               Fe,0,           1580
                                               FeO             1190
           Cobalt                              OoO              1090
           Copper                              CuO               600
           Lead                                PbO               240
           Barium                              BaO                90
           Chromium                            Cr„O,              60
           Silver                              Ag.O               80
           Carbon                              C02             8080
                                               CO              2417
           Silicon                             SiO,            7830
 pared. If they are in a chemically active state, as lead is which has
 been prepared from tartrate of lead, they will, in many cases, take fire
in air and burn at the ordinary temperature. Such lead burns readily
 when shaken in air. If this mass of uranium, for which I am
indebted to M. Moissan, be filed in air, the detached particles will
 ignite. Metallic iron which has been reduced by hydrogen from its
oxide at a temperature below 700° C. will also take fire and burn in
air at the ordinary temperature, a point of extraordinary interest in
 relation to the allotropy of iron.* Metals in this chemically active
state are said to be " pyrophoric."
     So far as I am aware, metals in this chemically active state have
not been used as fuels. Neither am I aware that any use has been
made of the allotropy of metals as enabling them to be used as fuel,
but Professor Graham once told me that pyrophoric iron had been
suggested for warming ladies' muffs, the intention being to place the
iron in a small receptacle and to admit air gradually as warmth was
needed. Sir Henry Trueman Wood also remembers the suggestion,
but tells me that ho can find no record of it in the ' Journal ' of the
Society of Arts. I may just mention that the burning of metallic
antimony plays a very important part in roasting silver ores, and the
behaviour of the metal is so pecular while harning that I must pause
to show it you. [A melted globule of antimony, if thrown on to a
tray of paper, darts about and cannons from the sides, leaving a track
of dark oxide on the paper.]
     The metal I am going to employ as fuel is aluminium, the oxygen
for its combustion being supplied by metallic oxides, which readily
part with their oxygen to aluminium if it be raised to certain definite
        * Osmond and Cartand, Ann. des Mines, vol. xviii. 1895, p. 113.
                                                                2 l 2

500                           Sir W. Roberts-Austen                              [Feb. 22,
temperatures. This question of the transference of oxygen from one
metal to another, which results in the liberation of the metal attacked,
is of special interest to us at the Royal Institution, for it undoubtedly
originated within these walls, and is due to Sir Humphry Davy. He
discovered potassium in 1807, and in 1809 attempted to remove the
oxygen from alumina by heating it with metallic potassium. He
says,* " if I had succeeded in isolating the metal I should have called
it alumium." 11 is success was imperfect, but he certainly did
obtain, by the intervention of metallic potassium, an alloy of aluminium
and iron. It remained for Wdhler to prepare pure metallic aluminium
from its chloride in 1827, and for Henri Saint Claire Deville, who
began to work in 1854, to establish the metallurgy of aluminium on
an industrial scale. As regards the reduction of metals from their
chlorides, Wdhler f obtained crystalline compounds of chromium and
aluminium, and Michel J compounds of aluminium with manganese,
iron, nickel, tungsten, molybdenum and titanium. Levy § obtained
an alloy of titanium and aluminium, Beketoff || an alloy of barium
with aluminium from the chloride of barium mixed with baryta.
Dr. Goldschmidt % has given references to these authorities in a
recent valuable paper. In 1856, Charles and Alexandre Ussier
observed the fact which is the starting-point of the experiments I
have to show you. They found that aluminium decomposes the
    They
oxides     do not
        of lead         of copper,
                andappear         to have
                                       muchused        being evolved
                                               heataluminium                 the reaction.
                                                                      in abyfinely divided
state, and therefore failed to reduce certain metals from their oxides
which are now known to be perfectly easy to reduce. It was not
until comparatively recently that the use of aluminium for separating
other metals from their oxides assumed serious proportions. Claude
Vautin showed on June 13, 1894, at a soiree of the Royal Society, a
few metals, and among them carbon-free chromium and manganese,
which ho had prepared, and as he undoubtedly gave the impulse that
started much of the subsequent work in this direction, it may be well
to give the description which was appended to the specimens he
showed. It runs as follows :—
Specimens of Metallic Chromium, Manganese, Tungsten, Iron, etc. free
      from Carbon ; also fused Alumina, obtained during the reduction of
      the metallic samples.
     " The specimens of metallic chromium, manganese, etc. have been
reduced from their oxides by means of metallic aluminium. The
                      Phil. der
                   t<U+2666> Ann.  Trans,   part i.voL
                                  Chemie,        cvi.p.p.60.118.
                                              1810,
                      Ibid. vol. rendus,
                  §X Comptes               102;oyi.
                                  cxv. p. vol.      p. 66.
                                                 ibid.  vol. cxiii. p. 248.
                   || Ann. der Chemie, vol. ex. p. 374.
                 If Ibid. vol. oeci. p. 19.
                 ** Comptes rendus, vol. xliii. 1856, p. 1187.

1901.]                         on Metals as Fuel.                             501
oxide of the metal to be reduced is intimately mixed with finely
divided aluminium, and heated in magnesia-lined crucibles. The
heat produced by the oxidation of aluminium during the operation is
sufficient to fuse alumina, a specimen of which is exhibited.
     The subject is, however, in a sense your own, for, as far as I
know, the lecture on " The Harer Metals and their Alloys," * which I
delivered here in 1895, was the first occasion on which the reducing
action of aluminium was demonstrated on a comparatively large scale,
and covered an extended series of metallic oxides. Since that time
great progress has been made, the most noteworthy advance being in
the direction of the use of aluminium for the sake of the heat afforded
by its combustion as a true fuel, the oxygen being derived, not from
the air, but from a metallic oxide. In order that I may be clear, let
me repeat that when coal is burnt the oxygen is derived from the air.
       Fio. 1.—The oxidation in air of an amalgamated wire of alumi
           nium, E F. The films of alumina, A B and C D, are those
           which first formed on the wire.
When aluminium is used as a fuel the oxygen is derived from a
metallic oxide, the metals change places: the aluminium is oxidised,
and the other metal set free from its oxide. This part of the subject
must be carefully approached, and the question at once arises as to
what extent the aluminium must be heated before it will begin to
abstract oxygen from air or from an oxide. It is well known that the
metal aluminium will not oxidise sensibly in the air at the ordinary
temperature, but the presence of a little mercury enables it to oxidise
readily. Le Bon f has shown how minute the quantity of mercury
may be. This wire of aluminium to which a thermo-couple is attached
 will, if a mere trace of mercury be rubbed on its surface, become
rapidly heated by oxidation, tho temperature rising to 102° C, while
       * R. Inst. Pnx;. vol. xiv. p. 497. ' Nature,' vol. lii. pp. 14 and 39.
       t Comptes rendus, vol. exxxi. p. 707.

  502                        Sir W. Soberis-Austen                       [Feb. 22,
  at tho same time a fungoid-like growth of alumina forms on its
  surface (see Fig. 1). Aluminium foil will burn readily in oxygen if
  its combustion be started by a glowing fragment of charcoal. The
  temperature at which aluminium will abstract oxygen from a metallic
  oxide will depend on the oxide submitted to its action. Three cases
  may be taken : (1) Lead oxide and granulated aluminium may be
 ignited by a match, as may also silver oxide (Ag20), for it parts with
  its oxygen very readily. (2) Chromium oxide (Cr263) and granulated
 aluminium burns slowly and requires rather a high temperature to
 start the reaction. Oxide of iron (Fe203) and granulated aluminium
 also requires the presence of a readily reducible oxide to start the
 reaction. On the other hand (3) a mixture of sodium peroxide,
 carbide of calcium and granulated aluminium may be started by a
 drop of water by the mere inflammation of the acetylene. In all
 these cases, or in any other case, the products aro solid, for if any
 of the reduced metal is volatilised it soon condenses, and may be
 collected, usually in an oxidised form.
                             A                          B
                                                 CO OO0|
                                                  CO 0 00*
                                                 iioooif
                                                 UQOOII
                                                 too o oof
        Fio. 2.— Crucible in which the reduction of metallic oxides is
            effected. A, diagrammatic section ot the perforated sheet-iron
            crucible B, lined with magnesia ; c is the mixture of aluminium
            and the metallic oxide to be reduced to metal ; a is a piece of
            magnesium ribbon placed in a mixture b, of aluminium and
            some readily reducible oxide.
      In using aluminium as fuel the object, of course, is to produce
 intense heat, and, returning to this mass of iron ore from the Surrey
 heath, it may at once be stated that an oxide of iron, ferric oxide, is
 the most convenient oxide to use, partly because it is inexpensive.
      Many of my audience already know that the recent investigations
 having for their object the use of aluminium as a source of heat have
been conducted by Dr. Hans Goldschmidt, of Essen, and it is through
his labours that metallurgy enters upon an entirely new phase. It
 would bo difficult to oner him fuller or more unstinted praise than
that. You will, I trust, soon realise how much this branch of metal
lurgical industry is indebted to him. In its simplest form his process
consists in igniting a mixture of oxide of iron, ferric oxide and finely
divided aluminium. To this mixture the name of " thermit " has been
given, nnd several varieties of it, adapted to various kinds of work,
are Used by Dr. Goldschmidt at the works of the Allgemeine Thermit-
Gesellschaft at Essen-Ruhr.
     The mixture is placed inside a crucible (Fig. 2) and is iguited by

1901.]                        on Metals as Fuel.                                 503
a small piece of magnesium wire, which serves as a kind of wick if it
is placed in a little heap of calcium sulphate and aluminium. Such
a mass will now be lighted, and you see intense heat is produced.
[When the operation was conducted in accordance with the above
indications, tho theatre was brilliantly illuminated by the intense
light produced. A mass of metallic chromium weighing about 100
lbs. reduced to the metallic state as above described, was exhibited.]
The aluminium abstracts oxygen from the oxide of irou, and a
sufficiently intense heat is produced, not only to melt the iron which
is liberated from its oxygen, but to melt up the slag and, further, to
leave a considerable surplus of heat, whicli is available for doing other
work. No known pyrometer will enable the heat to be measured.
I believe it to be about 3000° C. The aluminium plays the part of
a.fuel, and this table shows the advantage aluminium possesses as
compared with carbon for the particular work required of it.*
      The Reduction of Fe,03 to Ikon by Aluminium and by Cabbon.
                                                       Aluminium.        Carbon.
Compound produced                                         Al.O,            CO
Amount of reduciug agent required to produce
     1 kilo of iron                                    0-484 kilo      0-321 kilo
     reducing
Amount         agentproduced by oxidation of the
          of heat
                                                     3456 calories 770 calories
Heat required to reduce the FejOj                     1796           1796
Heat required for fusion of the elag                   518
Heat required for fusion of the iron                   362
Total heat required                                   2706           1796
Residual heut available                                7.-.0          - 1026 ,
     On the aluminium side some 750 calories (units of heat) are
available to do work (3456 — 2706 = 750 calories). On the carbon
side there is a deficiency of no less than - 1026 calories. As re
gards the crucibles, they may be made of alumina, the solid product
which is the result of the combustion of aluminium. They may also
be made of magnesia or mended with magnesia. I shall have more
to say about the solid product of the combustion subsequently. The
practical application of the process is as follows. The ignited and
molten mass in the crucible is so intensely hot that it may be made
to unite surfaces of steel that require to be joined, such as the ends
    * These data are from a paper by Prof. Kupelwieser, of Leoben, ' Oester-
reichische Zeitschrift fur Berg- und Hiittenwesen,' vol. xlvii. 1899, pp. 145-149.

504                        Sir W. Roberts-AusUn                          [Feb. 22,
of lengths of rails. It may be objected that the fluid contents of
the crucible would set as a whole round the metallic junction and
give trouble, but this is not the case, for a layer of fluid alumina
appears both to coat the rod, tube or rail which has to be welded,
      Fio. 3.—The clamps used for welding tubes up to four inches in
                                  diameter.
and to set in a mass which can be readily detached after the work
is done. The casings (Figs. 4 and 5) are protected in the same way.
The diagrams (Figs. 3, 4, 5) need but little comment, as they suffi
ciently indicate the method adopted in the cases they represent.
      Fio. 4.—Tubes clamped together with a casing of thin iron round
                           the junction to be welded.
[These figures were used to illustrate a paper by Mr. E. F. Lange.*
I was indebted to him for the loan of small appliances of a similar
kind to enable me to demonstrate to the audience the welding of
         * Journal of the Iron and Steol Institute, 1900, No. ii. p. 192.

1901.]                        on Metals as Fuel.                                 505
steel tabes, and the operation was shown on as large a scale as
safety would permit.] The welding of three miles of electrical
tramway rails was successfully effected in Brunswick in May 1900.
    As regards the comparison of the use of aluminium as fuel with
the electric arc, M. Camille Matignon,* in a very interesting discourse
recently delivered in Paris, has instituted a comparison between the
Goldschmidt process and electric furnace. Quoting Moissnn,'f' he
shows that in reducing titanic acid by carbon in the electric furnace
having a " laboratory space " of 800 cubic centimetres, 300 horse
power absolute were employed, producing per second 190,500 calories
by burning 1-08 kilograms of aluminium. On the other hand, by
burning 3*2 kilograms of ferric oxide during one minute in a crucible
of about the same capacity as the laboratory of the electric furnace,
the rate of evolution of heat is equivalent to 375 horse-power absolute ;
        Fio. 5.—Calling packed round with moulding sand in readiness
                            for the welding operation.
the latter process does not, however, work continuously, but could
readily be made to do so. It should be pointed out that an impure
variety of aluminium can be used, and that if the heat needed to
effect a given operation is but moderate, the aluminium may be
diluted by the presence of an inert substance.
    The photomicrograph (Fig. 6) is from a little test pieco of wrought
iron (Fig. 7) which was cut in two. The carefully faced surfaces
were then clamped together, and I united them into an excellent weld,
without any previous experience in conducting such an operation.
No line of demarcation can be seen, and the crystals pass over the line
a e, which I know by measurement to be that of the actual weld.
    The very hot molten iron may be used in a somewhat different
way for repairing defective castings. In this case the slag is carefully
   * ' Moniteur Scientiflque Quesneville,' 4 S. vol. xiv. part i. pp. 357 et seq.
   t ' Le Four électrique,' p. 19.

506                       Sir W. Roberts-Austen                      [Feb. 22,
poured off the fluid iron in the crucible and the iron is then poured
into the defective part in the casting which it is required to mend, a
guiding rim of some refractory material being provided. By mixing
other metallic oxides with the iron oxide, the metals they contain are
                                         A
      Fio. 6.—Section of the welded test piece (Fig. 7), showing crystals
           passing across the line of weld, ab. Magnification 140
           diameters.
reduced and alloy themselves with the iron, and the composition of
the defective casting can thus be matched. In connection with the
repairs of fractured or defective steel castings, the possibility of pro
ducing directly steel of a suitable degree of carburisation is important.
                                       A
                   D
                                micro-section.
      Fio. 7.—Test piece of wrought  iron welded at A B. See Fig. 6 for
This may readily be effected by mixing fragments of cast iron with
the " thermit." Thus 70 to 90 grams of cast iron mixed with 1000
grams of thermit give a very fine grained and workable steel.
One useful application of the process is for locally softening hardened

  1901.]                     on Metals as Fuel.                       507
 armour plates in the positions where bolts and screws have to be
  inserted through holes drilled to admit them. This is effected by
  placing a little fluid " thermit " on the spot where the plate has to
  be drilled, and the heat softens the hardened surface. It should also
 be remembered that, with reference to the repairs of defective parts
 of machinery, a suitable admixture of metallic oxides with the ferric
 oxide, such as those of chromium, nickel or manganese, may be
 reduced together with the iron derived from the ferric oxide. Richly
 carburised iron may be added to the molten mass, and in this way any
 quality of steel may be produced.
      This latter reference to metallic oxides reminds us of the original
 use for which the finely divided aluminium was employed, namely, as
 a reducing agent for the rarer metals, and not for the sake of the heat
 evolved by the reaction. This portion of the subject I dealt with at
 the Royal Institution six years ago, but there have been great advances
 since. It would have been tedious to have conducted the experiments
 before you, as the crucibles would have taken so long to cool ; but in
 each of these crucibles which will now be broken open, I hope to find
 a small mass of metal, which, until now, has not left the spot in which
 it was reduced. [About a pound of nickel and a pound of cobalt
 were then removed from the respective crucibles in which they had
 been reduoed.]
     Manganese and chromium containing only small quantities of
 carbon are now produced on a large scale for industrial use. As
 regards the reduction of metals and alloys from their oxides by burn
 ing aluminium, the following are the most recent results that have
 been obtained. * The use of carbon-free chromium in connection with
 the metallurgy of steel is an exceedingly useful development of the
 methods wo have considered. Hitherto, the addition of ferro-chrome
to steel has evolved a loss of from 20 to 25 per cent, of the chromium
 while with pure chromium the loss is slight. Moreover, the addition
of ferro-chrome incidentally raises the percentage of carbon, and steel
containing, for instance, 2-5 per cent, of chromium should not have
more than from 0-15 to 0'20 per cent, of carbon, and this can only
be attained by the use of pure chromium. In the manufacture, also,
of tool steel, the percentage of chromium may reach from 6 to 10 per
cent, and even higher, a result which is only rendered possible by the
use of pure chromium. In the same way, in connection with the
metallurgy of copper, the possibility of providing carbon-free man
ganese is important, as is also the preparation of cupro-manganese
free from iron. Alloys of manganese with zinc and with tin are likely
to prove of value. Many uses have been found for the alloy contain
ing 80 per cent, of zinc and 20 per cent, of manganese, while it is
anticipated that the alloy containing 50 per cent, of tin and 50 per
cent, of manganese will also prove to be important. Use has also been
found for an alloy of 70 per cent, manganese and 30 per cent, chro-
                      * 'Stahl und EUen,' March 24, 1901.

508                      Sir W. Roberts-Austen                 [Feb. 22,
mium. Ferro-titanium, with 20 to 25 per cent, of titanium, and alloys
of titanium and manganese containing from 30 to 35 per cent, of tita
nium, have also been produced. Titanium, moreover, absorbs nitrogen,
and ferro-titanium is found to be very useful in producing sound steel
castings. I, quite independently of Dr. Goldschmidt, succeeded in the
preparation of alloys of iron with from 3 to 25 per cent, of boron, the
alloy containing 3 per cent, of boron proving to be beautifully crys
tallised. Dr. Goldschmidt states that definite results have not been
obtained in attempts to utilise it. I am still investigating this most
interesting subject. Dr. Goldschmidt has obtained ferro-vanadium,
the best results being obtained with steel containing 0-5 per cent, of
vanadium. He has also prepared an alloy of lead and barium con
taining 30 per cent, of barium, which affords an example of the pos
sibility of forming alloys of metals with those of the alkaline earths
by this process.
    It only remains for me to direct your attention to the nature of the
solid product of the combustion of aluminium, which is alumina often
of a high degree of purity, and in a specially interesting form. The
alumina from the reduction of oxide of chromium, when it is allowed
to cool, forms large ruby-tinted crystalline masses, closely resembling
the natural ruby. I have now to show you on the screen some rubies
and sapphires produced as an incident of this beautiful process. The
blue sapphire mass is, however, only translucent, not transparent.
The ruby crystals are often very beautiful, as these slides show.
Rubies placed in a vacuum tube and subjected to the bombardment of
an electric discharge are, as Sir William Crookes has taught us,
beautifully phosphorescent. I have hero in this tube some thin crys
talline plates of artificial ruby ; they become beautifully phosphores
cent when the current from the induction coil is passed through the
tube, and by the kindness of Sir William Crookes I can show you
some true rubies treated in a similar way. The behaviour of the arti
ficial rubies in the vacuum tube is not quite as brilliant as that of the
natural ones, but hitherto no special attention has been devoted to their
preparation ; they are simply thin plates broken from a large crystal
line mass of slag such as that on the table. I may add that this
variety of corundum produced by the burning of aluminium is very
hard, and may be used, not only for the same purposes as ordinary
corundum, but for lining the crucibles in which the operations are con
ducted, so that the product of combustion takes its place in conduct
ing the process. My warmest thanks are due to Dr. Goldschmidt for
 lending me the beautiful specimens on the table, and to Mr. W. H.
 Merrett for his aid in conducting the experiments.
     I have set before you the considerations respecting the use of
metals as fuel simply as they appear to flow. I trust that the adoption
of the title of this lecture has been justified by the evidence given as
to the possibility of using metals as fuel in the strictest sense of the
word. It is well to be accurate on this point, because we are told that
the first known appearance of the word " fuel " in the English lan

1901.]                         on Metals as Fuel.                          509
guage occurs in a poem * and seems to have been a misinterpretation
of the old French word fouaille, and was adopted in the belief that
sustenance for the body and food for the flames are synonymous.
Widening our view of metals by grouping them with fuels will be
acceptable, because fire and flame powerfully appeal to our thoughts.
We " kindle " enthusiasm, and add " fuel " to the fire of ambition—
we constantly use fire, flame and fuel as similes, and any prospect
of extending their use to us as such by enlisting metals in the service
will be welcome. An early Italian metallurgist, Vanoccio Biringuccio,
might not have thought so, for I find that, writing in the sixteenth
century, he quaintly devotes the last chapter of a work on metallurgy
to " Fires which burn and leave no ashes." \ In this chapter he appeals
to envy, hatred, malice and other products of a kindled imagination,
and traces their analogies to fuel and flame, but he speedily takes
leave of his readers in alarm at the prospect such a treatment of the
subject presents.
     The burning of aluminium as fuel gives us sapphires and rubies
in the place of ashes, and metallic fuel is burnt, not by the air above
but by the oxygen derived from the earth beneath, as it occurs in the
red and yellow oxides to which our rocks and cliffs owe their colour
and their beauty.
                                                                 [W. R.A.]
    * ' Ccbut de Lion,' 15th Century,
    t ' De la Pirotechnia," 1540, p. 167. (Venice.) 1 Del fuocho che oonsuma et
 non fa cenere."

 510                 Mr. H. Hardinge Cunynghame                [March 1?
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 1, 1901.
 Sib Fbedebick Bhamwell, Babt., D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M. Inst. C.E.,
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
       Henby Habdinge Cunynghame, Esq., C.B. M.A. M.R.I.
                                 [Enamels.
 Befobe presenting to you thiR evening some observations upon the
 art of enamelling upon metal, I desire to make it understood that I
 do not pretend to give an account of any newly-discovered facts.
 Almost all that I shall say and show was known three centuries ago.
 Any improvements are matters of detail. But during the eighteenth
 century, and the early part of the nineteenth, the art became debased
and discontinued, and as no adequate written accounts of it existed
 the processes had to a large extent to be re-discovered. This, how
 ever, has been so completely done, that it may be said with confidence
that there is no pigment known to the mediaeval craftsmen which we
 do not now possess, and that we can imitate and surpass all their
 colours. Where modern art fails, is in the bold and subtle arrange
ments which ancient work displays, and in the delicate tints which
many of the old workmen knew so well how to use. I wish I could
say that our modern artistic powers in art, generally, were on a par
with our scientific knowledge.
     It will be quite impossible in the time at my disposal to do more
than give a very brief sketch of the history of enamelling. After
this I shall show how the enamel is manufactured, and, lastly, how it
is placed upon copper and gold jewellery—avoiding details, so as to
endeavour to give a view of the subject as a whole.
     In the course of my remarks I shall mention a few facts of
chemistry, concerning which many of my audience know more than I
can pretend to do ; but since there are some present whose knowledge
of the subject is rather on its artistic side, I shall be pardoned if I
say some things which would be out of place if I were dealing purely
with the scientific side of the subject.
     The word " enamel " has been used in many senses. We speak
of enamelling a bicycle, which really only means to give it a coat of
black made of bituminous substances and then to expose it in an
oven for a few hours to a moderate heat. Enamel-paint is only
common oil-paint mixed up with some hard varnish, and the enamel
which ladies used to employ upon their faces consisted of certain
preparations of gelatine and gums.

1901.]                          on Enamels.                          511
     All these uses of the word enamel are, strictly speaking, incorrect.
True enamel consists of glass, melted on to the surface of metals or
of pottery by means of intense heat. But in all these cases the
substance is the same—it is glass.
     Glass consists of silica united with soda or potash, either simply
or with the oxides of various earths, such as lime, magnesia, or
alumina; and the colouring matter is supplied by the addition of
small quantities of iron, copper, cobalt, manganese, chromium and
other metals.
     The glazes upon china, porcelain, earthenware, bricks, tiles, iron
saucepans, and on copper, are all of the same character, simply con
sisting of various sorts of white or coloured glass, and this glaze may
be made, by means of heat, to adhere like a varnish upon the surface
of any substance, which will not melt when raised to the temperature
necessary to fuse the glass. But when ordinary glass, composed of
silica and soda or potash, is melted and run on to china, it cracks,
or as it is termed in old English phrase, " crazes." A crazed plate is
unfit for domestic use, for the hot grease is apt to penetrate through
the cracks under the ware, and to produce stains, and make the
crockery offensive and insanitary. In order to prevent " crazing," it
is necessary to mix some alumina, or clay, or some lime, or magnesia,
with the glass. But these substances render the glass so hard to
melt, that in order to lower its fusibility some lead or borax must
be added. Of these, lead is the best, for it makes the glaze tough,
elastic, and to flow freely. Borax makes the glaze more apt to
crack, and liable to be affected by moisture.
    The use of lead of course involves the danger of lead-poisoning.
In tho present state of the pottery trade, it is too much to ask that
lead should be totally disused, but it is possible to prevent the work
men from handling it in a raw state, and thus its danger may be very
greatly diminished.
    Enamelling was known to the Greeks, probably also to the
Egyptians and to the Scandinavians. But it seems first to have
been brought to perfection by the Byzantines, and chiefly, though
not exclusively, in Christian art.
    In its later forms Greek art reflected the feelings and the
degeneracy of a dying world. Those who desire to experience it will
find it in literature in the Milesian tales, or the Golden Ass of
Apuleius. In sculpture it is reflected in the small tinted statuettes
to be found in most museums. The severity of earlier times has
given place to a cloying sweetness, which, though charming, is
instinctively felt to be wanting in manly vigour.
    With Christianity art took a severer form. The early Christian
Church had before her eyes the spectacle of a world which had
perished through the immoderate use of art. Weary of the babbling
of the schools of rhetoric, men turned to the silence of the cloister.
The desert was a necessary protest against the luxury of later Roman
times ; celibacy was a reaction against universal sexual profligacy.

512                    Mr. H. Hardinge Cunynghame                [March 1,
     And the Church, therefore, seems to have resolved to cnrb the
arts, and for the future to retain them in the strictest leading
strings.
     The languishing embraces of graceful Greek gods were exchanged
for the severe and even repellent types of Byzantine mosaics. But
this very restraint, salutary as it was while the morals of Europe
were being reformed, was not without disadvantages ; for where
literature or art is in complete subjection to a system of morals,
religion, or politics, it is certain to be cramped down and kept in
bondage by artificial rules which destroy its vitality. Therefore,
though the fire of Christianity purged classical art of most of its
dross, it destroyed a good deal that was valuable in the process.
     The rejection of ornate ritual and church decoration is partly duo
to this feeling. But it is also true that an art which is intended to
appeal, not to Anchorites or Puritans, but to ordinary men, must
satisfy not only the moral but also the aesthetic sentiments. There
fore the perfection of sacred art is seen when the highest beauty
has been reached without the sacrifice of pure and noble religious
feeling. The work of art must, so to speak, have a noble soul
enshrined in a beautiful body.
     The method adopted by the Byzantines was to mark upon a plate
of metal the outlines of the desired pattern, to solder over those out
lines little oloisons, or walls of metal about rj^th of an inch thick
and -j^th of an inch deep, and to melt glass into the spaces.
     The chief examples of this style that remain are at St. Mark's,
Venice, St. Ambrogio at Milan, and at Limburg, but small specimens
are to be found in most museums.
     The figures in Byzantine enamels resemble the figures in Byzan
tine illumination and mosaic. They are undoubtedly derived from
classical sources. But the sense of artistic effect is always subordinated
to the religious aim of the work. The attitudes are stereotyped, and
they are sometimes rather more like religious hieroglyphics than like
pictures. But the charm of them is in tho pure healthy colour, and
the strong devotional feeling they display. On account of this, we
can overlook goggle eyes, and uncouth drapery, which would be
unpardonable in a modern artist acquainted with the work of the
great European schools.
     It will be remembered that it was the ungrateful hand of Venice,
which had benefited so much by Byzantine art and trade, that
struck the first and heaviest blow at the Byzantine Empire. When
it fell, the art of glass-making passed to Venice, and by Venice was
transmitted to Europe. For years the Venetians kept the secret of
making coloured glass. If one of their workmen betrayed them,
they had him tracked down and murdered, even in the most distant
country.
     But, in spite of all their care, the secrets which they had learned
from the East leaked out, and as the power of Venice declined, the
chief seat of the enamel trade was transferred to Limoges, just at the

1901.]                         on Enamels.                        513
time when that splendid outhurst of artistic feeling took place which
made French cathedrals the wonder and envy of the world.
    Most of the early Limoges work was champleve, that is to say,
instead of the plate being prepared by putting walls on to a thin
sheet of metal, the hollows were carved out of a thick sheet.
     The metal employed as a foundation was bronze, that is to say,
copper mixed with about ten per cent, of tin, or else brass (copper
and zinc). The hollows were cut out to the depth of about one-
twentieth of an inch and left rough at the bottom, so as to give a
better hold to the enamel, which was opaque, and made by staining
opaque-white enamel with the oxides of various metals, so as to
produce two or throe shades of blue and green, yellow and black.
    The faces in Limoges champleve were generally left unenamelled,
but chased up and filled in with black, like church brasses. Some
times the heads were modelled in relief, and fastened on with rivets.
Each colour was usually put in a separate compartment, but some
times two colours will be found in juxtaposition in one compartment.
The face of the enamel was ground and polished, and the metalwork
was frequently gilded by the mercury process, which only requires a
low heat.
    Limoges champleve was rough and bold, but often slovenly. On
a large scale, as when it was employed to fill np the brasses on
tombs, it had a fine effect. Traces of this work are yet to be seen
on the battered tombs of the kings at Westminster Abbey ; but some
fine enamelled brasses, in a good state of preservation, exist in
France.
    The colours used for champleve were usually opaque, like coloured
sealing wax.
    When transparent enamel was introduced the style of champleve
changed, and it became what is known as basse-taille.
    There are some specimens of this work at South Kensington,
and a small one is also in the Wallace Collection. There is a set of
six scenes from the life of Christ in the Louvre. Each plate is
circular, and about two and a half inches in height. They were no
doubt used as ornaments for a reliquary. The drawing is rather
archaic, being in the style of the Flemish masters, who had so great
an influence upon French art ; but in execution, colour, finish, and
artistic feeling, nothing better can be desired.
    With the exception of one or two dents on the edges, they are as
fresh as though they were not twenty years old. Indeed, as one looks
at them, it is impossible to realise that they were done at least five
hundred years ago. It is hardly too much to say that these six
modest little plates, which a casual visitor at the Louvre might pass
by without notice, are, from an artistic point of view, better than
anything that has been put out by all the porcelain and enamel
factories of Europe for the last two hundred years.
    With basse-taille, mediaeval art may be said to close ; in fact,
Renaissance has already begun.
    Vol. XVI. (No. 95.)                                    2 m

  514                  Mr. H. Hardinge Cunynghame               [March 1,
      The nature of Gothic work will never be Understood, unless we
  remember that it was chiefly used for the instruction of persons who
  could not read, and who learned their Bible stories and the lives of
  the saints from the painted walls and panes of some cathedral. The
  requirements of art were subordinated to utility. The art, like the
  literature of the Gothic period, wa* highly symbolic. As an example
  of this symbolism, it may be mentioned that there was a mediaeval
  tradition that the Creed was the joint work of the Twelve Apostles,
  each of whom contributed a sentence. Each sentence was supposed
  to be based on a corresponding sentence from one of the twelve
  greater prophets, so that each apostle had his particular prototype.
 In Chartres Cathedral the Apostles may be seen in order, each
 actually sitting on the shoulders of his own prophet, and with the
 corresponding sentences written above and below.
      But towards the end of the fifteenth century the public, though
 still under the domination of Gothic traditions, had imbibed a con
 siderable amount of Renaiesance taste and feeling, which manifested
 itself in a desire for a more free and natural style of drawing. There
 therefore arose a demand for fresh work in enamel, more in accordance
 with the new stylo of art that was gradually gaining ground. In
 response to this demand, a totally new mode of enamelling was in
 vented, derived partly from the jewellers' work of the day, partly
 from the art of glass window painting. It is not clear where this
 invention was made, but it seems to have been introduced simul
 taneously in Italy, in Germany, and in France.
      The new method consisted in covering thin plates of metal with
 layers of coloured enamel, no longer melted into the recesses of
 cloisonne or champleve, but made to flow over the whole plate or
 parts of it, and in gradations of thickness, whereby gradation of tint
 was obtained. The town of Limoges again took the lead in this
 manufacture, and retained its supremacy so effectually that this sort
 of work is known as " Limoges enamel." It seems certain that the
members of the Penicaud family who practised the art of glass painting
 were the first to execute this new work in Limoges. They took as their
models the coloured pictures which adorned the breviaries of the day,
 and which were in the Flemish style, with French influence.
     " Nardon " (that is to say " Leonard ") Penicaud was apparently
the eldest of the family. His method was—having covered a thin
plate of copper, or bronze, with a layer of opaque-white enamel—to
paint with a brush or pen, in dense black, upon the surface so
obtained, a picture in strong outline, so as to resemble one of tho
coarse, strongly cut woodcuts of the period. This was fired, to melt
the surface of the enamel and fix the black outlines, much in the
same way as a black print upon a piece of china. To do this, the
charcoal furnaces then in use by glass painters were no doubt em
ployed.
     The next step was to cover the drawing with layers of transparent
enamel, much as one would colour a woodcut with paint. Nardon

1901.]                         on Enamels.                             515
used five transparent colours, namely, two shades of saffre (cobalt),
turquoise made from aesustum (oxide of copper), grass-green from
crocus martis (iron), and violet from "peridot," or that form of
manganese ore which is found near the town of Perigueux, in the
vicinity of Limoges.
     There appears to have been no transparent red among the colours
used by Nardon, except small buttons of ruby placed upon little
spots of gold-leaf, to represent jewels, and which were freely sprinkled
over the picture.
     For flesh, a reddish tinge of violet was used. This was done by
painting the faces with a strong tint of violet, made from manganese
and iron, and then, after this was fired, working over it with opaque-
white in gradations, so as to let the violet ground show through in
the thinner parts. This work was called " grisaille," being the name
then employed for white-shaded work in painted windows. A thin
glaze of violet was sometimes then put over the grisaille.
     Metallic gold was lavishly used by Nardon Penicaud, though,
 owing to the imperfect way in which it was fired, a great deal of it
has been rubbed off in the specimens of his work which we now
 possess ; probably he used borax with it—a fatal practice. Not only
was this gold painted in on the high lights of the drapery, but it
 was dotted in stars over the sky, or in curling ornaments or tongues
of fire over the backgrounds.
     He used red oxide of iron, that is to say, ordinary rouge (crocus
 martis), to represent blood, and sometimes upon the lips, but he did
not employ this rouge otherwise. The principal tone of the colouring
 is cobalt and turquoise. The effect is most rich and harmonious,
 though the peculiar purple tone given to the flesh by the violet under
 ground somewhat mars it.
     There is an indescribable charm about Nardon's best work, due
 to the fresh and ingenuous expression of the faces, and the skill with
 which his simple colours are contrasted and united. The gold also
 gives delicacy and richness, and, as the designs are usually taken from
 the very best work of the great flemish masters, the composition is
  generally excellent.
      During this period, that is to say, the end of the fifteenth century,
 there seems also to have been executed some of the work known as
  plique-a-jour. This is done by forming a number of cloisons without
 any foundation, so as to resemble a sort of grating, into the interstices
 of which enamel was melted. The effect is that of filigree work, filled
 up with variously coloured transparent glass. Very few pieces have
  survived. In the life of Benvenuto Cellini, he relates that Francis I.
 showed him a specimen, and that he imitated it. There is no difficulty
 in this work, the method of which will be described hereafter. It
 is done to a limited extent at present in Russia, but genuine old
  specimens are exceedingly rare. Work in this style is executed in
  Geneva and in Sweden.
      The progress of enamelling which has been above described carries
                                                             2 m 2

516                  Mr. H. Hardinge Cunynghame              [March 1,
us well into the sixteenth century. But a great change was at hand.
Under the influence of the revival of classicalism, and in the hands
of Carpaccio, the Bellinis, Botticelli and Leonardo da Vinci, painting
assumed the most exquisite forms. The Florentine architects infused
the spirit of classical ornament into Lombard and Gothic architecture,
so as to produce a new stylo, of which the scuola of St. John the
Baptist at Venice or the tombs of the Scaligers at Verona are ex
amples. In the hands of Ghiberti, Donatello, and Lucca Delia
Robbia, sculpture and modelling rose to new forms of beauty, while
the genius of Michael Angelo crowned the work by his majestic
creations.
     If the influence of the classical movement had stopped here, it
would have been productive of unmixed good, and might have resulted
in a new and beautiful style, which would have gone on developing
for centuries. Unfortunately, however, the taste for classical learn
ing passed due bounds, and took such a hold upon art as to destroy
its vital energies. Classical history or fable almost monopolised the
subjects of pictures ; classical costume became universal. Madonnas
were made to resemble goddesses. The dignified angels with pris
matic wings of the fifteenth century gave place to infant Cupids. If
the nude was to be represented, artists could think of nothing better
than the Judgment of Paris, or Perseus and Andromeda, or the
chaste Lucretia, who was frequently represented as having prepared
for death by divesting herself of all her clothing. The Judgment
of Solomon, and the History of Susanna, afforded subjects for courts
of justice ; the Queen of Sheba coming to Solomon flattered the
vanity of a pope or a prince—all, however, being in classical costume.
     In desperate endeavour to give some modern interest to this hack
 work, it became usual to put the heads of the patrons of arts on the
 bodies of iEueas, Julius Cassar, or Alexander ; and where modem
 battles were painted, the combatants were represented either naked
 or in the dress of Roman soldiers.
     Thus began the reign of pedantry, in which art was admired, not
 because it gave pleasure or profit to the spectator, but because it
 afforded an opportunity for the display of classical learning. For
 what interest could the ordinary mind take in such scenes ? Who
 cares about the Birth of Venus, or the Rape of Europa, except as a
 means of displaying beautiful nude figures ? How wearisome, even
 when done by the greatest artist, appears the well-worn " Fame " upon
 a tomb, with a trumpet and a wreath of laurels, or " Patience " upon
 one side of a monument smiling at " Grief " upon the other. Such
 art as this was deficient in soul. It had ceased to draw its inspira
 tion from the social or religious life and feelings of the people. It
 appealed no longer to the masses, but only to a group of illuminati.
 Its roots were severed from ordinary human pleasures and aspirations,
 and its death became only a question of time. It died hard, poison
 ing by its corruption the art of all Europe, and ending with death-
heads and skeletons on tombs, grinning satyrs, stone clouds, empty

1901.]                        on Enamels.                           517
niches, pot-bellied Pompadour furniture, and scrolls of fame with
nothing inscribed upon them.
    Unfortunately for France, the Renaissance, instead of being
allowed to exercise a gradual influence, was introduced suddenly, and
in its worst form by Francis I. If he had only patronised Leonardo
da Vinci and Benvenuto Cellini, nothing but good would have re
sulted. As it was, architecture in his time kept clear of the worst
Renaissance influence ; but, unfortunately for painting, on his release
from captivity, ho persuaded Bosso and Primaticcio, two pupils of the
school of Giulio Romano, to superintend tho decoration of Fontaine-
bleau. Both, especially Rosso, were men of more than mere talent ;
but they brought with them the whole paraphernalia of faded classic
allegory. In consequence, Dido and yEneas, Diana and Actieon,
Venus, Hebe, and the kindred tribe of hackneyed goddesses, sprawled
upon clouds, over wall and ceiling, in France for three hundred years.
In 1764, we find Cochin representing the Goddess of Medicine in
terfering to prevent the Fates from severing the thread of life of
Madame de Pompadour. They are all upon clouds with Music, Paint
ing and Sculpture, the arts which Madame de Pompadour patronised
and did so much to degrade, scattered about in the smoke as if shot
out of a volcano. Or again, we have Louis XV. as Apollo, dispelling
the mists of infidelity and ignorance. The movement only ended
with the introduction of the modern romantic schools.
     The most remarkable of tho enamellers who adopted the new
style was Leonard Limousin, that is to say, " Leonard the Limousin,"
possibly so called to distinguish him from Leonard Penicaud, or from
Leonard Tirny, a distinguished engraver of that epoch. Leonard
possessed real talent, and in order to retain his services Francis I.
gave him the post of one of his valets, and assigned him a small
salary. He worked in every conceivable way. Sometimes he put
 transparent ground on the copper, sometimes opaque. He rarely
used a black ground, except for portraits, and the black outlines in
his enamels are usually painted with a brush. Like his predecessors,
 he had a limited number of colours. In the high lights, instead of
 putting white grisaille work under the colour, he put it upon the top,
 which gives a chalky appearance. One is bound to admire many
 points in his drawing, and, considered simply as an artist, he was the
 greatest enameller of his day. But his work is often very bad in
colour, and frequently exhibits the absurdities and trivialities of the
 Italian school without its merits. Perhaps one of the reasons why
his enamels appear tedious is the constant recurrence of muscular
Roman centurions in yellow and blue, with helmets, cuirasses, tunics,
 bare legs, and sandals. He also caught some of the worst tricks of
 posing and posturing, and impossible undulations of tho body, which
distinguish the Italian decline.
     There is, however, one department in which he easily occupies by
 far the highest position—namely, portraiture. His portraits wero
 painted from drawings or pictures of excellent character. These ho

518                   Mr. H. Hardinge Cunynghame              [March 1,
sometimes copied on a background of black enamel. The face is
put in with thick white grisaille, over a coat of black, and painted up
with fine stippled opaque-red colour, made from rouge. The clothes
are generally shining black, touched with gold, or else with unglazed
black. The back-ground is almost invariably of cobalt-blue, laid over
 a coat of white. The white enamel used to represent the skin is of the
 colour and appearance of egg-shell, with a low polish. The general tone
 is whiter than is natural. 'Che eyes are usually scratched cut of a dark
 back-ground, but the mouth and other lines and wrinkles are painted
 upon the white. The clothes are often shaded in linos scratched
 through to a dark under-ground. The delicate white appearance of
 the skin gives an air of great distinction to the portraits, and har
 monises with the black and blue of the dress and back-ground, which
fuller colouring would have failed to do. Sometimes a high colour
is given to the cheeks with oxide of iron, tho tint being dabbed on
 with a fitch, instead of being stippled. The hair of women is almost
 invariably auburn, inclining to red, which, however, is accounted for
 by the fact that the Court ladies of the period wore wigs of this
 colour over their natural hair.
     These portraits are suggestive in the highest degree, and this is
a great merit. For with enamels it is impossible to attempt actual
imitation of nature. The subject can only be suggested, not repro
duced. And therefore, in an art in which so much must of necessity
be left to the imagination, we most highly admire the skill of the
man who employs the means at his disposal, not in a futile attempt
to reproduce nature, but in an effort to give rise to ideas.
     The salon art of the eighteenth century is not altogether devoid
of artistic merit. Considerable skill is shown in the design, and
the drawing is often very delicate ; but it was pretty art, not great
art. It was endurable when executed by artists, but it became
wretched when it fell into the hands of hack-workmen, and when
printed designs were substituted for hand-work. This led to its
abandonment. The factories at Chelsea, Battersea and Bow were
removed from London, and enamel upon metal ceased to be practised.
And it was no great pity, for tho noblo art had now been completely
degraded, and there remained only one more depth to which it could
sink, which was attained when the mode of applying it to iron was
discovered, and the walls of every railway station covered with detest
able enamelled advertisements.
     Meantime, however, there had been springing up a new application
of the art in the shape of miniatures, painted upon enamel and fired.
This was only a development of the portraits of Leonard Limousin,
but in style it resembled miniature-painting. A splendid collection
of such work is to be seen at South Kensington Museum. It was a
perfectly legitimate branch of art. A large portrait is more satis
factory than a miniature, but a lover cannot take it into battle on his
breast ; and a desire for small portable portraits of our friends has
given rise to a beautiful development of enamelling. The man to

1901.]                         on Enamels.                           519
whom this is ohiefly due is Petitot, a jeweller of Geneva, who mi
grated to Paris, where he executed a great number of most beautiful
miniatures.
     I now pass to the mode of making the enamel. I do not propose
to describe the various recipes that exist. I will only say that the
simplest method is the best. For whereas in order that a glaze may
not craze upon china or earthenware, it must be most carefully com
pounded to suit the substance upon which it is placed ; any glass that
is easily fusible may be melted on to, and will adhere to copper.
     For cheapness in glazing earthenware, the raw ingredients of
glass are mixed together, sometimes with a little fritting or half
melting, and are put on in this raw state. It would be better, of
course, to use a well-made glass. For enamelling on metals which
cannot be exposed to very great heat, it is necessary to compound the
glass beforehand.
     As in art work the expense of the material is no object, the
enaraeller will begin with good flint glass. This, as you know, is
what is used for the lenses of optical instruments and for cut table-
decanters, in which the high refractive power due to the lead gives
lustre and the colours of the rainbow. Sham diamonds are also made
of very heavily leaded glass.
     We therefore mix powdered flint glass with oxides of various
metals and melt it. Two or three hours' heat is enough to incor
porate the mass. It is then poured out into cakes upon a surface of
greased iron, and marked while hot with the maker's monogram.
     There is one colour that is so interesting that I must specially
call your attention to it. If to a glass, about          °f ^s weight of
ohloride of gold is added, together with some red-lead and an oxide
of uranium, tin, iron, or some electro-negative metal, then, when melted
and poured, it remains white.
     But if it is then re-heated, it suddenly becomes crimson. The
reason of this curious change is not known, but the subject was
investigated by Faraday.
     We now come to the method of putting the enamel upon the
metal. To do this, it must be pounded finely and washed. For if
the grains are too fine, bubbles of air are entangled in the mass
and the transparency is spoiled. Therefore, by elutriation, the finer
particles aro removed, and only those left which are about T^g- of an
inch in diameter, like sand.
     The plate being cleaned, the enamel is put on wet, smoothed and
patted down, dried over a hot plate, and then put into a muffle-
furnace at a temperature of about 1200° Fahr.—a nice clear red.
There are a number of details which have to be observed as to the
thorough drying of the plate and the method of manipulation, with
which I will not weary you. I have dealt with them at length in a
little work which I have published.
     If the copper plate is thin, then, if the enamel is only put on one
 side, the unequal contraction of the glass and copper causes it to fly

520                   Mr. H. Hardinge Cunynghame              [March 1,
off. To prevent this, the enamel is put on both sides, being made
to adhere to the under side with a little very weak gum. In this
condition the enamel will stand.
     The plate is rarely perfect the first time, it usually wants
patching.
     The next process is to put on paillons. The idea of putting on
pieces of gold-leaf, and covering them with a coating of glass, was
very old, and the process had long been used by the makers of glass
goblets, and in the manufacture of mosaics. It is very simple ; pure
gold-leaf is taken, about 25 times as thick as that used for gilding
picture frames. It is stuck down upon the enamelled surface with
gum, having previously been pricked all over with very fine needles,
to allow the gases, formed by the burning of the gum, to escape.
This is fused well down upon the surface. Then over it a drawing
may be made with a paint composed of black enamel. Some glass,
finely ground up with black oxide of iridium, is the best. This also
is fired. - ,
     Then, over all, a coating of coloured transparent enamel is put,
so that the gold paillons shine through it.
     Next, the grisaille must be painted. Grisaille consists of glass,
made of an opaque white with oxide of tin. It is ground up very
fine, with paraffin oil, and applied like a paint. Being semitrans-
parent, the high lights are thickest. Four or five paintings are
necessary to get proper gradations. Then over the grisaille are put
tints of enamel.
     In this stage the work is apt to appear dull and confused. It is
 lifficult to lay the colours on with precision, and therefore, to give
point and emphasis, it is desirable to touch up the work on the
surface with gold. Common shell-gold, as sold for miniature painting,
docs very well, if pure. Unfortunately, it is rarely to be obtained.
When fired the gold may be burnished.
     The process I have described is in its essence the same for all
sorts of enamelling, but I may fitly conclude with a few remarks
upon the making of jewellery.
     The origin of the wearing of jewellery is very probably to be
sought in savage countries, where it was used as a method of indicating
rank and displaying wealth. Precious stones originally seem to have
been worn as amulets, or as antidotes to poison.
     Jewellery is still chiefly employed as a mark of social distinction
and wealth, and hence is only made of the precious metals.
     Unfortunately, the feeling which dominates our minds, in purchas
ing jewellery, is too often a desire to get something that will make a
good show for the money, and impress our friends. When a wedding
present has to be bought people say, " Let us give them something
that looks as if it had cost a good deal." It has always been so, and
always will be so to the end of time. But this general desire for
showy work is very destructive of art. It is the cause why jewellery
is stamped out by the thousand at Birmingham.

1901.]                         on Enamels.                          521
    The present work is deplorable. Can anything be more hideous
than the designs which are contained in the Christmas advertisements
of Bond Street shops ?
    The setting of diamonds, also, has no other aim than to display the
value of the stones.
    Jewellery work in the sixteenth century had higher aims. The
objects were made interesting. This will be abundantly clear to
any one who will pay a visit to the collection of jewellery at the
British Museum recently bequeathed by Baron Rothschild.
    Jewellery should be executed in fino gold only, or, if strength is
required, then in pure gold backed by stronger metals. The simplest
way to execute it is to make a model in wax or clay, and then mould
the gold upon a form of fusible metal made from the model. To
prevent the lead from adhering to the gold, it should be well covered
with black-lead, or better still, an electrotype mould can be prepared.
A little tiny furnace is all that is needful, and the necessary tools
can all stand upon a tea-tray.
    I observe, with regret, that every year the amusements of our
country seem more and more to be tending in a non-constructive, if
not in actually a destructive direction. The base mechanic is
tolerated with a slight touch of pity, if not of disdain. From the
Universities down to the Board Schools, knowledge appears to be
valued in proportion as it is divorced from practical utility. Let us
try to counteract this unhappy tendency by promoting, to the utmost
of our power, a knowledge and practice of useful arts, such as enamel
ling and jewellery, which may be practised by our own firesides.
                                                          [H. H. C]

522                       General Monthly Meeting.                [March 4,
                 GENERAL        MONTHLY
                          Monday,               MEETING,
                                    March 4, 1901.
    Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer
                     and Vice-President, in the Chair.
         Fradcis Henry Anderson, M.D.
         Alfred Baldwin, Esq. M.P.
         Sir William J. Bell, LL.D. D.L. J.P.
         Robert Macfarlane Cocks, Esq.
         William Duppa Crotch, Esq. M.A.
         Rosser Samuel Dean, Esq.
         Lady Farrer,
         Major-General Viscount Frankfort de Montmorency, K.C.B.
         Gustavus Hartridge, Esq. F.R.C.S.
         Captain Thomas Bridges Heathorn, R.A.
         Lady Hopo,
         R. H. Household, Esq.
         Louis Stromeyer Little, Esq.
         Frederick Louis Lucas, Esq. M.A.
         Mrs. Makins,
         Miss Edith M. Marindin,
         Francis Owen, Esq.
         Charles Schiff, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Mr. Hugh
Leonard, F.S.A. for his donation of £100, and to Sir William J.
Farrer for his donation of £50, to the Fund for the Promotion of
Experimental Research at Low Temperatures.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Mr. Hugh
Spottiswoode, and to the Directors of the Sphere, for their present of
the original of the double-page engraving of Sir Robert Ball lecturing
to Children at the Royal Institution on " Great Chapters from the
Book of Nature," 1900.
    The Pbesbnts received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
Aeoademia dei Lincei, Iieale. Roma—Clasae di Soienze Fisiche, Matematiche e
     Naturali. Atti, Serie Quinta: Rendiconti. 1° Semestre, Vol. X. Fasc. 2, 3.
     8vo. 1901.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XXXVI. Nos. 9-12.
     8vo. 1900.
Astronomical Society, Ttoyal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LXL No. 3. 8vo. 1901.
Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XXII. Part 2. 8vo. 1901.

 1901.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                            523
Berlin, KBnigliche Technische Hochschule—Die Hundertjahrfeier der Koenig-
      lichen Technischen Hochscuule zu Berlin, 18-21. October, 1899. 8vo. 1900.
Boston Public Library—Bulletin for Feb. 1900. 8vo.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, Third Series, Vol. VIII. No. 7.
      4to. 1901.
 British Association—Report of the Seventieth Meeting. 8vo. 1900.
British Astronomical Association—Memoirs, Vol. IX. Part 3. 8vo. 1901.
   Journal, Vol. XI. No. 4. 8vo. 1901.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. X. Part 7; Vol. XI. Part 1.
      8vo. 1901.
 Camera Club—Journal
 Canadian                for Feb. of1901.
            Government—Report              8vo.
                                      the Meteorological Service of Canada for 1897.
      8vo. Industry,
 Chemical   1900. Society of—Journal, Vol. XX. No. 1. 8vo. 1901.
 Chemical Society—Journal tor Feb. 1901. 8vo.
 Cottancin, P. Esq. (the Author)—Captuge d'eau suivant la loi scientiflque
      P. Cottancin. fol. 1901.
 Cracovie, VAcademie des Sciences—Bulletin International, 1900, No. 9. 8vo.
 Cunynghame, H. Eardinge, Esq. C.B. M.R.I, (the Author)—On the Theory and
      Practice of Art Enamelling upon Metals. 8vo. 1899.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Analyst for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Astrophysical Journal for Jan. 1901. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for Feb. 1901. 4to.
   Author tor Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Brewers* Journal for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Chemical News for Feb. 1901. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for Feb. 1901. fol.
   Electrical Review for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Electricity for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Electro Chemist and Metallurgist for Feb. 1901.
   Engineer for Feb. 1901. fol.
   Engineering for Feb. 1901. fol.
   Homoeopathic Review for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Horological Journal for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Invention for Feb. 1901.
   Journal of the British Dental Association for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Journal of Physical Chemistry tor Jan. 1901. 8vo.
   Journal of State Medicine for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Law Journal for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Lightning for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   London Technical Education Gazette for Jan. 1901. 8vo.
   Machinery Market for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Motor Car Journal for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Musical Times for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Nature for Feb. 1901. 4to.
   New Church Magazine for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Nuovo Cimento for Dec. 1900 and Jan. 1901. 8vo.
   Photographic News for Fub. 1901. 8vo.
   Popular Science Monthly for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Telephone Magazine for Fib. 1901. 8vo.
. Terrestrial Magnetism for Sept. 1900. 8vo.
   Travel for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for Feb. 1901. 4to.
Franklin Institute—Journal for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
Geneva, Sociite de Physique et d'Histoire NaturelU—Compte Rendu, Tome XVII.
     8vo. 1900.

524                          General Monthly Meeting.                [March 4,
Geographical Society, Boyal—Geographical Journal for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   On tne Results of a Deep Sea Sounding Expedition in the North Atlantic
     during the summer of 1839. By It. E. Peake. 8vo. 1901.
   The Distribution of Rainfall over the Land. Svo. 1901.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 225. 8vo. 1901.
Hillier, Dr. A. P. (the Author)—South African Studies. 8vo. 1900.
Historical Society. Royal—Transactions, N.S. Vol. XIV. Svo. 1900.
Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for Feb. 1901.
Johns Hopkins University—American Chemical Journal for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
Leighton, John, Esq. M.H.I.—Ex-Libris Journal for Jan. 1901. 8vo.
Liverpool Literary and Philosophicd Society—Proceedings, No. LIV. 8vo. 1900.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology—Technology Quarterly, Vol. XIII. No. 4.
     8vo. 1900.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 1 17. 8vo. 1901.
   Meteorological Record, No. 77. 8vo. 1900.
Microscopical Society, Royal—Journal, 1901, Part 1. 8vo.
Middlesex Hospital—Reports for 1898 8vo. 1899.
Mitchell & Co. Messrs. C.—Newspaper Press Directory, 1901. 8vo.
Navy League—Navy League Journal for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
New   South
   Forty  Years
             Wales,
                of Progress
                     Agent- General    South Wules.
                              in Newfor—The   Fauna of New South Wales.
   The Climate
         Timber
         Mining inResources
   Agriculture    ofNew
                 Industry
                     New South
                          South
                           inofNew
                                 Wales.
                                  Wales.
                                New  SouthWales.
                                    South   Wales.
Odontological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXXIII. No. 3. 8vo. 1901.
Onnes, Professor H. K.—Communications, Nos. 61-66. 8vo. 1900.
Ottawa Literary and Scientific Society—Transactions, No. 2. 1900.
Paris, Sociele Franraise de Physique—Seances, 1900, Fasc. 2. Svo.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Calendar, 1901. 8vo.
   Journal for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
Photographic SoHetn, Royal—Photographic Journal for Jan. 1901. 8vo.
Queen's College, Galway—Calendar for 1900-1901. 8vo. 1901.
 Quick, R. Esq.—The Horniman Free Museum and Recreation Grounds. Svo.
      1901.
Righi, M. A. (the Author)—Sur les Ondes électro-magnetiques d'un ion vibrant,
      1900. 8vo.
Royal Society of Ixmdon—Philosophical Transactions, A. Nos. 274, 275. 4to.
     1901.
   Proceedings, No. 441. 8vo. 1901.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—
   Philologisch-Historische Classe—
      Berichte, 1900, No. 9. 8vo.
   Mathematisch-Physische Classe—
      Berichte, 1900, No. 7. 8vo.
Setborne Society—Nature Notes for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
St. Petersburg, Academie Imperiale den Sciences—Bulletin, Tome XII. Nos. 2-5;
      Tome XIII. Nos. 1-3. 8vo. 1900.
   Memoires, Tome X Nos. 7-9. 4to. 1900.
 United Service Institution. Boyal—Journal for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
 United States Department of Agriculture—North American Fauna, No. 16. 8vo.
      1899.
   Monthly Weather Review for Nov. 1900. 8vo.
 United States Patent Office—Official Gazette, Vol. XCIV. Nos. 6, 7. 8vo. 1901.
 Victoria Institute—Journal, Vol. XXXI. 8vo. 1899.
 Vienna, Imperial Geological Institute—Jahrbuch. Band L. Heft 2. 8vo. 1900.
   Abhandlungen, Band XVI. Heft 1. 4to. 1900.
 Zoological Society—Transactions, Vol. XVI. Part 1. 4to. 1901.

1901.]                          Vitrified Quartz.                          525
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, March 8, 1901.
        Alexandeb Siemens, Esq., M. Inst. C. E., Vice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
                      W. A. Shenstone, Esq., F.B.S.
                                Vitrified Quartz.
Although the great improvements introduced into the art of glass
making by Abbe and Sohott have led to such marked advances in
microscopy, thermometry, and in other departments during the last
quarter of a century, glass remains unsuitable for many of the
purposes to which we put it, and there is still a real need for some
plastic material more infusible, more insoluble, more fully trans
parent, more elastic and more stable under changes of temperature
than glass.
     Such a substance exists in the form of vitrified quartz, or vitrified
silica, as I shall prefer to call it.
     Vitrified silica was made first in 1839 * by M. Gaudin, who spun
threads of it by hand and noticed their flexibility, made it into small
very hard pellets by dropping fused quartz into cold water, and
observed that it was inactive to polarised light.t It was rediscovered
in 1869 by M. A. Gautier,f who made capillary tubes and spirals of
silica, and exhibited them at the Paris Exhibition in 1878, but who
failed to obtain larger objects even with the aid of the electric
furnace. Finally, it was discovered yet once again in 1889 by Pro
fessor C. V. Boys, who used the torsion of " quartz fibres " for
measuring small forces, produced fine tubes and small bulbs from
vitrified silica, and who was the first to fully recognise the great
value of this remarkable substance.
      As all who are here to-night are not chemists, I may remind you
that quartz or rock crystal has for some time past been used by
spectacle makers and in the construction of optical instruments, and
that it is a form of oxide of silicon,§ a compound which is very familiar
in the forms of sand and flint. It is occasionally found in magnificent
masses, and our chief source of supply is Brazil, where it occurs in
large fragments like those on the table before us.
      Quartz itself exhibits many of the desirable qualities enumerated
    *  Comptea Rendua, viii. 678, 711.
    t  A more recent observation made by Professor S. P. Thompson confirms this.
    X  Comptes Rendus, cxxx. 816.
    §  Silicon was discovered by Berzelius in 1823.

526                         Mr. W. A. Shenstone                 [March 8,
above. It is hard, transparent to the ultra-violet rays, difficult to
 melt, a good insulator, and insoluble in most solvents, but it bears
sudden changes of temperature very badly, and therefore it is not
easy to manipulate it at high temperatures. When it has been vitrified
by heat, however, it becomes much more tractable, and in the vitreous
state (vitrified silica) it is not very troublesome to deal with.
     It is about this " vitrified silica," how to prepare it and fashion
it into apparatus when plastic, and about its properties and uses, that
I am to address you to-night.
     The first obstacle met by those who wish to make vitrified silica
is caused by the tendency of quartz to splinter. It will not bear
contact with a flame. As yon see, when a piece of quartz is thrust
into a flame it cracks and falls to pieces, and the fragments again
break up when similarly treated. Consequently it was very difficult
for the pioneer workers in silica to soften it in the flame. It is true
that if the quartz be broken small and heated to redness in a crucible
it becomes more easy to manage, but even then it gives much trouble,
and I should not like to say how much my first silica tube, which
had a capacity of about 5 cubic centimetres, had cost me for oxygen
and labour when it was finished.
     Fortunately, we have found that we can make non-splintering
silica by heating quartz in small fragments to about 1000° C, and
throwing them quickly into cold water. As you see, it then becomes
 white and enamel-like, and after the treatment has been repeated, the
 product, though still in masses, may be thrust suddenly into the
hottest part of an oxy-hydrogen flame without causing it to splinter
 to the slightest extent. The preparation of this non-splintering silica
constitutes the first stage of the process I am about to show you.
     Another difficulty is connected with the oxy-gas burner. Vitrified
silica only becomes sufficiently plastic for our purpose when it is heated
above the melting point of platinum, and it cannot be heated suffici
ently in all parts of an oxy-gas flame. What we want is not so much
a very large flame as one which presents a very hot spot (this is
situated just beyond the inner blue cone of the flame). After trying
all sorts of burners I have concluded that the "mixed gas" jets
 give the best results, and the injector burner of Mr. Jackson of
Manchester is decidedly the best I have met with.
     The first step in the process of converting the white enamel-like
non-splintering silica into tubes and other vessels consists in heating
the ends of two small fragments of the material held in platinum
forceps, pressing them together whilst hot till they adhere, adding a
third lump to these, then a fourth, and so on until a rough rod has
been made, and then reheating sections of this rod and drawing it
out into finer rods about 1 mm. in diameter. In doing this care
must be taken to heat each fresh mass of material slowly and from
below upward in order that there may be as few bubbles as possible
in the vitrified product.
     A few of the fine rods of silica are next bound round a stout

1901.]                    on Vitrified Quartz.                      527
platinum wire, or twisted into a spiral whilst soft (Boys' and Dufour's
method), and heated in the flame till the sides of the rods adhere.
The uncouth tube thus produced is reheated, drawn out, and closed
at ono end ; a bulb is blown on the closed end in the usual manner,
and this, when again drawn out, gives n fine and fairly regular tube
which can be lengthened by adding silica to one end of it, blowing a
new bulb from this and drawing it out as before.
    The enlargement of the small bulbs was, at first, rather difficult.
My earliest attempt consisted in adding a small lump of silica to
one end of a bulb, softening this in the flame and expanding it by
blowing. It is not impossible to succeed in this way, though the
vessels so produced are apt to be uncouth in appearance.
But the process is unsatisfactory, owing to the fact that
often the thinner parts of the bulb which immediately sur
round the mass to be expanded become hotter and softer than
the latter. When this happens the bulb bursts, and as it can
only be repaired by the addition of fresh lumps of silica,
the process is apt to be very tedious and expensive. After
many failures, it occurred to me that I might develop the
bulbs by applying thin rings of silica as bhown in Fig. 1,
heating them until they begin to spread, and then expand
ing them by blowing. This method gives satisfactory
results. By it we can produce long tubes and other appa
ratus like those exhibited to-night, if not at a very quick
rate or very low cost, yet with certainty and very much
more quickly than before.
    When once a tube of silica has been made, it can be
worked in tho flame as easily, though not as inexpensively,
as glass. Such a tube can readily be thickened by adding
fresh rings of silica, and it can be drawn out to various
degrees of fineness and sealed hermetically, whilst all
kinds of joints can be made easily. In one respect silica
is easier to work than glass ; it never breaks when thrust
into the flame and finished apparatus needs no annealing. Fio 1.
    One precaution must be taken. The eyes must be
protected by black spectacles, and the glass of which these are made
must be very dark ; so dark that white hot silica does not look very
bright when viewed through it.
    I have spoken of silica as being easy to work, but I do not mean
you to understand that it is easy to do what you see Mr. Lacell
doing to-night. It is not easy to perform any operation of this sort
with his wonderful precision, and especially it is not easy to work
under the conditions enforced upon him now, for he can see nothing of
the effects he produces and must adapt his manipulation to my remarks,
although he can hear the latter only very imperfectly.

 528                         Mr. W. A. Shenttone                      [March 8,
           The Pbopebties and Applications of Vitbified Silica.
       Vitrified silica is harder than felspar, but less hard than chalce
dony. When cut with a file it can be broken like glass. Its conducting
 power for heat is about equal to that of glass. Mr. Boys has shown that,
 even in an atmosphere saturated with moisture it is a very good insu
 lator. Its density* (2 - 21) is decidedly less than that of quartz (2 - 66),
and very nearly as low as that of ordinary amorphous silica. Its optical
properties have not yet been fully studied, but its approximate index
of refraction has been determined by Professor 8. P. Thompson, by
means of a small prism cut for the purpose by Mr. Hilger ; it is
decidedly less than that of quartz.
       The melting-point of silica is not known, and it is plastic over a
considerable range of temperature. When a platinum wire embedded
in a thick tube of silica is heated from outside by means of an oxy-
gas flame the platinum melts and runs at a temperature at which the
silica retains its shape.
       The rate of expansion of vitreous silica has been studied by
H. Le Chatelier,t and recently by Professor Callendar. The former
finds its mean co-efficient of expansion between 0° and 1000° to be
     0000007,
10 - think      but from that
            it probable   the manner
                              it was not
                                       in quite
                                          which pure.     Professor
                                                  his material         prepared
                                                                  was Callendar
 has, within the last few days, examined the behaviour of a rod of pure
 vitrified silica prepared for him by my method. He finds its mean
 co-efficient of expansion to be 0 - 00000059, which is only X as great as
 that of platinum, and much smaller than that of any similar substance
 that has hitherto been studied. He finds also that the expansion of
 vitrified silica is exceedingly regular up to 1000°, and that if not
 heated above 1000° the rod returns very exactly to its original
 length when cold. Beyond 1000° he found a slight permanent elon
 gation, although the rod was under compression. Profossor Callendar
 was able to carry his experiments up to 1500°, which is very satisfac
 tory, for it shows that vitrified silica remains solid, or practically
 solid, at this very high temperature ; this is an important observa
 tion, as less carefully conducted experiments made by others had led
 me to fear that the substance might be found to become slightly
 plastic even at as low a temperature as 1000°. Above 1000° the rate
 of expansion diminishes rapidly, changing to a contraction at about
 1200°4 On cooling from 1500° to 1200J it expands.
       Fine rods of silica and also quartz fibres are apt to become
rather brittle after being heated to redness. But we have not at
present detected this defect in the case of thick tubes or rods.
       The transparency of vitrified silica to ultra-violet rays has been
      * This was determined by my pupil, Mr. T. Pears, the silica used contained
a few minute bubbles.
      t Comptes Rendus, cxxx. 1703.
      X H. Le Chatelier^s curve, see Fig 5, shows a similar contraction, but
commencing at a somewhat lower temperature.


Fig. 3.
                                     Fio. 4.
                           Dilatation du    Quartz
    i% I   Quartz fondu ' *e                ii
        H        i /'c
          Quarti p^a
          Quartz
                  ip d fate                  i
          tres q> lartzeu                   i
                                          /
                                        /
 Co
                                   / /                  n
5 .                             t/
>5
  04%
     00                                               i
                                    300            .000
                              Temperatures
                                     Kio. 5.


1901.]                        on Vitrified Quartz.                         529
carefully examined by Dr. A. Wynter Blyth, to whom I am greatly
indebted. Bis results may be gathered from the accompanying illus
trations based upon his photographs.
     Fig. 2 gives the results of photographing the ultra-violet end of
the spectrum of the light produced by electric discharge between
poles made of an alloy of mercury, zinc, tin, and cadmium, after it
bad passed through various kinds of glass, a sheet of quartz, and
air respectively.
     Fig. 3 gives a similar set of photographs in which the trans
parency of air (1) is compared with that of plates of quartz, 3 and
4 mm. thick (2 and 3), and with plates of vitrified silica (4), soda
glass (5) and flint glass (6) of equal thickness, which were prepared
for the purpose by Mr. Hilger. It will be seen that vitreous silica,
like quartz, is as transparent to ultra-violet radiations as air itself.
    The fourth figure compares the light emitted by vacuum tubes
of vitrified silica (I.) and glass (II.) respectively. The bands shown
were obtained from tubes into which traces of hydrocyanic acid had
been admitted. In this case, as before, it will be seen that silica is
very superior to glass and practically equal to air in transparency.
    The most remarkable property of vitreous silica is its behaviour
under sudden changes of temperature. We have seen already that
tubes of it may be plunged suddenly into an oxy-gas flame without
injury, and I have mentioned the fact that apparatus mado of silica
needs no annealing. But this is not all ; we may drop water on a
white-hot silica rod or plunge a white-hot silica tube into cold water or
even, by Professor Dewar's kind aid, into liquid air, without injuring
it in any way whatever, indeed, experiments seem to show that the
material gains very distinctly in regard to its elasticity after this
treatment. I need hardly point out how convenient tubes of such
a material will be to chemists or bow many spoilt lecture experiments
may be avoided in future, by those who possess a silica tube.
    This last property of silica and the splintering of quartz find
au explanation in the results obtained by H. Le Chatelier * and by
Callendar. These observers, as already explained, have shown that
the rate of expansion of silica is exceedingly low, and moreover that at
temperatures much above 1000° it contracts when heated. Under these
circumstances it follows, first, that the strains set up in silica when
it is suddenly heated or cooled are comparatively small in amount,
and secondly that if, for example, vitrified silica be cooled from
1500° to below 1000°, the strains set up at the earlier stages of the
change will tend to neutralise those produced subsequently. These
facts enabled Le Chatelier to predict the indifference of vitrified silica
to sudden variations of temperature, but the actual phenomena had
been observed and exhibited in this country previously.
    The behaviour of quartz under changes of temperature is also
very peculiar. This was studied by Lc Chatelier.f From his
curves which are given in Fig. 5, it may be seen that this form of
      * Oomptes Rendus, cviii. 10-16, and exxx. 1703. t Ibid, oviii. 1046.
    Vol. XVI. (No. 95.)                                           2 n

530                        Mr. W. A. Shenstone                   [March 8,
silica expands quite regularly, and much more rapidly than vitreous
silica up to 570 , hut that at this temperature a sudden and considerable
expansion takes place which is followed by a steady contraction
on further heating.
    One of the most important fields in which vitrified silica is likely
to be useful is that of thermometry.
    Owing to its small co-efficient of expansion, the degrees of silica-
mercury thermometers will be of greater length in proportion to the
volumes of their bulbs than those of glass instruments. Owing to
its high melting-point it should be possible to employ it with
advantage for the measuring of high temperatures by replacing the
mercury by tin or other metals, as has been done by M. Dufour.*
And whilst the great elasticity of vitrified silica suggests that the
fixed points of silica-mercury thermometers will be much more stable
than those of glass-mercury instruments, the impunity with which
it may be suddenly cooled from high temperatures promises obvious
advantages.
     Again, the high melting-point of silica should make it very
valuable for use in platinum thermometers, and I exhibit such a
thermometer to-night which has been fitted up for Professor
R. T. Glazebrook. But as the applications of vitreous silica in
thermometry aro still under investigation, I will not dwell on this
part of the subject, except to add that as glass reservoirs for air
thermometers have proved disappointing, I am not without hopes
that the new material may prove helpful in that department also.
     We have not yet had time to examine the behaviour of silica with
solvents, but, if it acts like other forms of the same compound, it
may be expected to replace platinum for some purposes, as, for
example, for condensers for the preparation of pure water, and vessels
of silica probably would be much more suitable for use in exact ex
periments on the freezing-points and boiling-points of dilute aqueous
solutions, than the glass tubes now often used for such work ; but, of
course, silica vessels will be very susceptible to the action of alkalis.
 Finally, silica may be expected to prove more suitable than glass for
use in researches on pure gases owing to the qualities of its surface,
and for use in experiments concerning the behaviour of gases at high
temperatures. We have already one small application of silica to
research in this latter field to put upon record.
    It is well known that nitrogen and oxygen enter into combination
 under the influence of electric discharge, and Sir William Crookes f
 has shown that oxides of nitrogen are present in considerable
quantities in the flames which accompany the discharges of large
induction coils ; but although various observers have reported indica
 tions of tho presence of nitrous fumes in tho neighbourhood of flames,
 the forming of an oxide of nitrogen from nitrogen and oxygen alone,
 and without the intervention of electricity, has not, so far as I am
           Comptes Rendus, exxx. 775.        t Chem. News, lxv. 301.

1901.]                      on Vitrified Quartz.                    531
aware, been unmistakably established. Therefore, it is interesting
to record the fact, first observed by Mr. Lacell, that nitric peroxide
is produced by heating a mixture of oxygen and nitrogen above
the melting-point of platinum in tubes of silica. It is easy to
obtain a gas showing a distinctly yellow colour and exhibiting the
reactions of nitric peroxide in this way.
    Of course, vitreous silica is not entirely without defects. Unfor
tunately it becomes slightly permeable to hydrogen as platinum does,
though to a less extent, at about 1000°.* It is attacked when hot
by basic oxides. It may be heated to about 960°, in contact with
copper oxide without injury, but at higher temperatures it is attacked.
It may be heated more strongly with ferric oxide, but quicklime
attacks it at a bright red heat. It is evident that caution must
be exercised when it is in contact with basic oxides or alkaline solu
tions. When one first fashions vessels of silica before the flame the
vessels exhibit to a greater or less extent a phenomenon resembling
the devitrification of glass. They become covered with a white
opaque crust. This is easily removed by reheating, provided that
the tube is kept scrupulously free from dust and dirt. If this pre
caution be not taken the appearance of the vessel may be spoilt
permanently. The earlier observers attributed this phenomenon to
the volatility of silica. My impression is, that it is connected with
the minute traces of alkali metals which are present in most Brazil
pebble, and which are usually burnt off in the processes I have
described.
    What I have told you to-night has shown you that in several re
spects vitrified silica is as much superior to the best glass, as Jena
glass is superior to more ordinary specimens, and that the progress
made during the last few years will enable investigators to employ
vitreous silica much more widely in the future than has been possible
in the past. At the same time it is evident that the processes for
producing it are still in their infancy, that there is much more to be
done, and that further progress can only be made at considerable
expense.
    In concluding my remarks I wish to express the great obligation
I am under to my friend Mr. Lacell. You will have discovered for
 yourselves that the chief burden has been upon his shoulders to
night, and that without the illumination provided by his precise
 and beautiful manipulations my discourse would have been but a
dry affair. Also I must add that the cost of the work at its later
stages has been partly defrayed by a subsidy from the Government
 Grant Fund of the Royal Society.
                    * Villard, Comptes Rendus, cxxx. 1752. [W. A. S.]
                                                           2 N 2

532                  Major Alfred St. Hill Gibbons          [March 15,
                  WEEKLY      EVENING
                        Friday,             1901.
                                 March 15, MEETING,
    Sie William Cbookes, F.R.S., Honorary Secretary and Vice-
                         President, in the Chair.
               Majob Alfeed St. Hill Gibbons, F.R.G.S.
           Through the Heart of Africa from South to North.
It was not without some misgivings that I accepted the invitation of
this Institution to read a paper on my recent experiences in Africa.
I had already referred to the organisation and route of the expedi
tion ; described its prospective objects and their realisation ; gone
with some detail into the hydrography of the Zambesi and Nile dis
tricts with a view to impressing on those whose duty it is to direct
and develop the more primitive dependencies of the Empire, what
an effective and economical developing force these great river systems
supply ; and related some of those lighter incidents which serve
the twofold purpose of illustrating native method and character,
and of making it less difficult for the audience to keep awake.
     It is true that 13,000 miles of route offers a considerable field,
but it is none the less true that the records of the vast majority of
days are scarcely worth the paper and ink expended on them by
 virtue of their incidental sameness or unimportant character.
     When I first decided to take up African exploration I considered
 it advisable to select a single district and work it thoroughly. I
 was quite aware that long straight lines through the continent look
 much more imposing than twice their distance within a limited area,
 also that it is on such lines that the relative merits of explorers are
 determined, but I had no wish to waste my time in comparatively
 useless labour. In such journeys the traveller, passing rapidly as
 he does from one district to another, bases his views on his first and
 only impression, whereas the second or later impressions are not in
 frequently more in accordance with fact. It is thus—so it seems
 to me—that many of the apparent discrepancies which sometimes
 puzzle the reader of two books on the same country, are to be
 accounted for.
     Marotseland was little known seven years ago, and excepting part
 of the Zambesi or Kabompo rivers, and the West Coast trade routes,
 was untrodden by explorers, so I selected this as my field of action.
 Besides this, Marotseland was recognised as falling within the British
 sphere, a further condition which, to me, supplied a sine qua rum.
      First, I propose giving a general description of the character of
 the countries along my routes from the Cape to Egypt, so far as it

1901.]     Through the Heart of Africa from South to North.       533
is apparent to an ordinary observer unsupported by the special know
ledge of the botanist or geologist. Later, I will trace part of my
journey through Marotseland to the Zambesi source, eastward along
the Congo-Zambesi watershed, thence by lakes Mweru, Tanganika,
Kivu, Albert Edward, and Victoria to the Nile and Egypt.
    From -where the Hex River Mountains, rising out of the rich
cultivated plain which extends for some 100 miles from Capetown,
culminate in the Great Karroo, to where the ground falls away within
the last day's march to the Murchison Falls on the Victoria Nile,
my journeys northwards have seldom taken me over ground of a lower
altitude than 3000 feet above the sea-level, while probably 90 per
cent, of my route has been through country ranging from 3500 feet
to 5000 feet.
    Can a dry land surface at such an altitude be unhealthy for
Europeans ? My impression is that, with regularity of living and
ordinary care, it cannot ; and I support my opinion by my own ex
perience. Throughout my travels 1 have never been stopped a day
by fever, nor have I lost a single porter from death. I have twice
suffered from dysentery—once severely, and have only had one cold
in Africa between 1890 and 1900, whereas in England I consider
myself fortunate if I get off with four in a winter. With well-built
houses and good diet I am convinced that the earth offers few
healthier sites for European settlement than the higher parts of the
plateau of Africa.
    Immediately after the first rains the Karroo veldt becomes a
veritable carpet in colouring. The latent richness of the soil re
sponds with incredible promptitudo to its absorption of water—the
only factor necessary to invest it with first class wealth-producing
properties. Flowers of various tints spring into being, and the
arid monotony of what appeared only a few days earlier to be but
a parched desert, studded here and there with abrupt barren kopjes
rising like islands from the sea bed, has become a rich pasturage
for herds of cattle and flocks of goats and sheep. Here and there
at extended intervals a cluster of well-grown trees surrounds a home
stead—a modest indication of undeveloped wealth and a prayer for
enterprise from the dry veldt surface. Wells and dams will one day
convert the Karroo and the grass plains beyond into one of the
richest and most habitable places of the earth.
    From the Orange Kiver to Mafeking the Karroo gives place to
modified undulations, growing grass in one place and stunted scrub
in another, but trees larger than a well-grown gooseberry-bush aro
seldom encountered in the open veldt.
    Two miles north of Mafeking a scattered savannah forest of
thorny acacia is encountered, and although trees henceforward vary
in character, forest land extends with one or two trifling exceptions
as far as the borders of the north African desert. Undulations—
sometimes of a light clay, sometimes of gravel—characterise the
route through the east of the Bechuanaland Protectorate. These are

534                  Major Alfred St. Hill Gibbons          [March 15,
covered for the most part with acacia—Ac. horrida, Ac. giraffa, and
others—or in districts with the " mopani," a tree whose leaf when
viewed from a short distance is not unlike that of the beech in ap
pearance, and whose dry dead leaves similarly cling to the tree when
the foliage of the succeeding year bursts. Through the Kalahari
desert the same class of vegetation thrives, though the mopani pre
dominates. The soil here is of a light yellow sand, and to trek
through this inhospitable country, teams must be strong and wagons
lightly loaded—even then the struggling oxen, parched and half
choked with dust, can with difficulty draw the wagon through the
shifting sand at a greater rate than one mile an hour. After five
weeks of such continuous labour it can be well imagined with what
feelings the Zambesi with its 500 yards of deep clear water is
approached by both man and beast.
     This grand river, supplying as it does a natural boundary
between South and Central Africa, forms in more ways than one a
divisionary line. To the south the main rivers alone carry water
during the dry season ; to the north the smallest tributary has a
running stream throughout the year. The yellow light sand of the
Kalahari gives place to a heavy white sand in the Zambesi basin ;
thornless trees of varied and pleasant foliage replace the acacia and
mopani ; the natives differ in type and custom ; and in several cases
the river supplies a boundary to the habitat of fauna. Droughts are
of frequent occurrence in South Africa, bat in Marotseland the rain
fall is remarkably stable, varying but little annually from 33 inches.
    Throughout the Upper Zambesi basin the vegetation remains the
same in general character ; trees from 30 to 40 feet high offer good
shade, and the thorny undergrowth of some countries is conspicuous
by its absence.
    The rivers have quite a character of their own. Clear streams
wind between clean-cut banks through flat alluvial valleys 1 to 800
yards wide. These valleys are hemmed in by forest-clad undula
tions, which increase in size and altitude in proportion to their
distance from the Zambesi River, the ground rising gradually to east
and west till it attains an altitude of 4000 feet and over. As the
Zambesi sources are approached, the soil has changed from white
sand to red, light clay, though the vegetation remains much the
same, with occasional local variations. Thus, on the watershed, at
a height of 5000 feet above the sea-level, bracken is common, while
I ate raspberries from bushes to all appearance similar to our English
plant.
    These red clay undulations—except where broken by the moun
tainous ranges of Tanganika and Kivu—extend to the neighbourhood
of the Victoria Nile, when they give place to a yellow sandy clay, to
be in its turn replaced by the desert sand of Egypt.
    In the valley connecting Tanganika with Kivu, and thence north
wards into Toro, the euphorbia and acacia predominate. In Unyoro
and down the Nile to the borders of the desert the acacia holds as

 1901.]      Through the Heart of Africa from South to North.       535
 prominent a position as it does in South Africa—and, in fact, the
 countries themselves bear a close resemblance one to the other. Nor
 is this resemblance confined to vegetation. I noticed many small
 birds in the North which had counterparts in South Africa. So, too,
 the giraffe, whoso habitat in the South is limited by the Zambesi,
 once more appears on the Nile ; so does the secretary-bird. The
 North and South African ostrich are identical, though a different
 species intervenes in East Africa. It has been assumed that the so-
 called white rhinoceros, R. simus, never existed north of the Zambesi,
 and in the early nineties naturalists and sportsmen lamented his
 total extinction, though it has since transpired that a very limited
 number still exist ; yet I killed and brought home the skin and skull
 of one of these animals, which I ohaaced on near Lado, on the
 Nile. His measurements and outer appearance coincided in all
 respects with 22. rimus, though I understand he differs slightly in
 minor points, affecting teeth and skull bones.
     In April, 1899, 1 was travelling along the well-defined bed of a
river about 100 yards wide and 20 feet deep. A cursory examination
showed that this bed was not habitually waterless ; yet the fact that
at the end of the wet season, when vleya and streams were full, its
deepest depressions were perfectly dry, seemed to suggest that
normal conditions did not apply in this case. In two days' time the
mystery was solved, though in the process of solution I had perforce
to wade knee-deep for three-and-a-half days.
     It appears that at the end of the wet season the Okavango over
flows its eastern bank in 19° S. latitude, and I was meeting the first
rush of water. The flat country becomes inundated for miles until
the many subsidiary streams thus formed converge into one and
escape along the bed, already described, into the Kwando River.
Thus the Okavango for some three or four months in the year is
actually connected with the Zambesi system by this considerable
stream of water, which is known among the natives as Mag'wekwana.
It is conceivable that this river has at one time been a Zambesi
 affluent, and that, on the old bed being choked by drift and sand, the
river has made a new one in its present course. However, be this as
it may, the diversion of the Okavango through the Mag'wekwana into
the Kwando would call for no greater engineering skill than the
cutting of a new, or the re-cutting of the old channel, as the case
may be, through the few miles which separate the Okavango from the
well-defined portion of the Mag'wekwana bed. The Okavango, a
large river some 300 yards wide in places, flows southward into the
Kalahari under present conditions. Here the whole of that strong,
deep stream disappears, and is wasted. It may be deemed worth
while at no distant date to partially or entirely divert its course to
the Kwando, and thus, by water communication, tap the extensive
rubber-fields contiguous to the upper Kwito, whose first products are
now finding an outlet through Portuguese territory. This ovorflow
occurs in the northern confinos of the Maiye country—a South

   536                  Major Alfred St. Hill Gibbons          [March 15,
   African tribe under the control of Sekome, chief of the Batawana.
   These people are very clever basket and mat workers, but what
   interested one most was the marriage custom in vogue amongst
   them. It is no more strictly correct to assert that wives are bought
   and sold in Africa than it is in England. Sometimes, no doubt,
   pecuniary and other considerations are not altogether absent in
   either case. Almost every large tribe in Africa has its own way of
   arranging betrothals and conducting marriage ceremonies. In the
   case of the Maiye, the young aspirant takes beads to the mother of
   the girl. Acceptation means consent. On the wedding-day the
   bride goes into the forest and hides. Sufficient time having been
   given to allow her to get thoroughly hidden, the bridegroom, having
   furnished himself with provisions for two for throe days, sallies forth
   in pursuit. Then a game of "hide-and-seek" ensues. I do not
   know what happens if the seeker fails to find the hider, but I imagiue
   less difficulty is experienced in bringing the game to a successful
   irisue than might be supposed if only the vast extent of the African
   forest is considered. After a three days' honeymoon the pair return,
   settle near the woman's father, and the man becomes a member of his
   wife's family.
       Journeying along the Okavango I passed over a dark yellow sand
   which grows thick undergrowth—in many places almost impene
   trable. As the confluence of this river with the Kwito is reached
   the yellow sandy soil disappears, and with it the tangled undergrowth,
   and we enter the white sand country already described as characteris
   ing Marotseland. As I had noticed during my journey from the east-
   coast, so also here, 17° 30' S. latitude roughly marks the boundary
   between South and Central African vegetation. In passing up the
   Kwito I was agreeably surprised with the country generally. The
   undulations become steeper and steeper, and by the time the 15th
   parallel is reached might almost be described as hills. These are
   intersected by the rivers and streams already described, whose allu
   vial plains are capable of feeding immense herds of cattle, the
   herbage being not only rich but dense.
        The country from 17° 30' to the neighbourhood of the Kwito
   sources and for some 200 miles eastwards is peopled by the Mam-
   bunda tribe. These are thick-set people and physically above the
   average. Were it not for that cruel disregard of each for his neigh
   bour—even of his own blood in an adjoining village —added to greed,
   a second predominating characteristic of the African native, they
   might be both powerful and prosperous. As it is, the most trifling
   quarrel serves as an excuse for the raiding of one village by another,
   with the ulterior object of supplying women and children as articles
   of barter with the West Coast slave traders. I will give you one
   instance which came under my notice. I had rested at midday in
   the midst of a clustor of villages of which Kouwewo was one. In
   the evening I camped near Chachingi, a strongly stockaded village
   in the valley of the Lomba, a Kwando affluent. The chief Mine
's

1901.]      Through the Heart of Africa from South to North.        537
chachingi drew my attention to several fresh bullet-marks and
twisted arrow-heads in his stockade. It appeared that a few months
earlier a man of Kouwewe having possessed himself of an old muzzle-
loader sallied forth in pursuit of game, but to his intense chagrin
blazed away several rounds without result.
     Living in a village, three days to the north, was a distinguished
doctor, so to him our disappointed sportsman repaired, and poured
out his trouble into sympathetic ears. The doctor assured his patient
that he possessed all the necessary medicines to effect a cure. The
fee was arranged, and so confident was the doctor in the efficacy
of his medicine that payment was deferred until the cure should
have been effected. The jubilant sportsman returned to his village,
made a number of incisions in his wrist, and rubbed in the medicine
as proscribed.
     In due course, eager and conBdent, he shouldered his old blunder
buss once more. But his hopes were to be blighted, for— would
you believe it ?—not a bullet took effect. Angry and disappointed
he vowed he would not pay the bill. A deputy called for the fee,
but took back the message—" Your medicine is worthless, so you
must do without the payment." A week later the doctor gathered
together the warriors from his own and two neighbouring villages
for an expedition against Eouwewe. They halted near Chachingi
" en route," gazed up at the steep ascent beyond, and felt less and
less inclined to toil uphill for a further half day. There is a way
out of most difficulties, and these warriors found a way out of theirs—
" Why should we toil up this long hill?—here is Chachingi in front
of us, he will do just as well." So they set to without further
parley and blazed away for three days. But Chachingi held his
own, the doctor went home fee-less, and the patient on the hill
suffered no inconvenience.
     In travelling eastwards from the Kwito between the 14th and
15th parallels, I saw much of the native rubber industry.
     Rubber, as is well known, is extracted from many plants in various
parts of the world. In Africa alone there are three families which
are subdivided into many species.
      It is obtained from trees, vines and roots. By root rubber of
course I do not refer to the inferior article obtained from the roots
of the tree or vine at the expense of the life of the plant.
     In the case of the first two the rubber is easily extracted. An
 incision is made in the trunk and from the wound thus inflicted, a
milky fluid (which must not be confused with sap) exudes, and, falling
into a vessel placed beneath to catch it, congeals.
     In the case of the root rubber the process is much more elaborate.
 The rubber is contained in straight stems, the thickness of the wrist
 and less, which run horizontally within a few inches of the earth
 surface. These underground stems, which sometimes attain a length
 of" 15 to 20 feet, are indicated by a modest little plant not more than
 18 inches high, growing smooth glazed leaves 2 inches long with a

  538                  Major Alfred St. Hill Gibbon*           [March 15,
  maximum width of half an inch. Regardless of size, these stems are
  torn up, bound together and carried into camp. It would appear
  that even the care with which the native collects the smallest root
  does not suffice to exterminate the plant, for three years after every
  sign of rubber has been obliterated from a district, the little plant
  is flourishing once more. Apparently the smallest root left in the
  ground is sufficient to renew the plant. Once in camp the stems are
  subjected to seven processes before the rubber is completely separated
  from the fibre and ready for export.
      1. They are cut into lengths of about 18 iuches and stacked till
 quite dry.
      2. Soaked in water for ten days.
      3. Hammered on a block with a wooden mallet until the fibres
 separate.
      4. Dried in the sun.
      5. Hammered once more until the rubber congeals.
      6. Boiled and cleaned of fibre.
      7. Washed in cold water.
      It is then tied up in bundles of strips, and eventually finds its
 way to European markets.
      Towards the end of June 1899 I was in Lialui, the capital of
 Marotseland, paying my third and last visit to Lewanika. I cannot
 pass without saying a few words about this exceptional native ruler
 and his people. About 250 years ago, the Aiilui, the forefathers of
 the Marotse of to-day, invaded the broad, long plain known as the
 Burotse, and, finding rich pasture, settled there. Prior to this invasion
 the middle Eabompo had been their home ; part of the tribe re
 maining behind still exist under the name of Balakwakwa.
      There is little doubt but that they originally migrated from the
 far north, though Lewanika, from whom I gleaned most of the past
history of his tribe, has but a hazy idea of what occurred prior to
 the Eabompo settlement. The language no doubt will give an im
portant clue, hut no white man as yet has had an opportunity of
studying it, for the people usually converse in Sekololo, a Sesuto
 dialect, only using their original language when they wish to make
a remark " aside." My friend, Major Coryndon, recently appointed
first administrator of Marotseland, gives me an instance of a South
African native, who had spent a few years in Mashonaland, under
standing Serotse from his knowledge of the Mashona dialect. There
are other ethnological facts pointing to a connection between these two
tribes which have been construed into evidence that the Marotse are
an offshoot of the so-called Mashona, and entered Burotse from the
south.
     The later evidence I have been able to collect rather points to
the fact that the two tribes were in some way connected prior to the
migratory move from the north, which I believe ethnologists are
agreed took place in the case of the Mashonas and most other South
African tribes. I may say the Marotse aud Mashona are very

 1901.]      Through the Heart of Africa from South to North.       639
 different in type ; if, therefore, they have been connected one with
  the other, the relations have been either those of master to slave or,
 subsequently to separation, the two tribes have been subjected to
 fusion of alien blood from opposite directions. So much for the
 origin of the Marotse : their subsequent history is long enough and
 interesting enough to furnish material for another paper, so obviously
 there is no place for it here. For the rest, I can only say that the
 Marotse proper are the best type of African native, both physically
 and intellectually, with whom I have come in contact; while Lewanika
 is the most remarkable instance of the possible power of adaptation
 by a native African to the conditions of a more enlightened civilisa
 tion that has ever come under my notice, and I do not oven except
 Khama.
     I will illustrate my meaning by asking you to follow us to his
 house in response to an invitation to lunch. Passing through a well-
 kept and spacious courtyard, containing the dwellings of his wives,
 a shelter for the band, and one or two other buildings, we enter an
 inner court, in the centre of which stands a large, double-roofed
 house, neatly thatched, and with an 80-feet frontage. An atten
 dant opens a heavy red-wood door, mcdiaoval in character, and
 announces us. We are welcomed with an easy courtesy by a tall,
 broad-shouldered man, deep-chested and very black, but with a woll-
chiselled nose, lips no thicker than those of many Englishmen,
 cheek and upper lip shaved, hair and pointed beard neatly combed,
 with an ivory dagger ornament two inches above the right ear. He
is clothed in a well-fitting tweed suit and a light flannelette shirt,
his whole person scrupulously clean and neat. The reception-room,
about 20 feet by 25 feet, contains some half-a-dozen European chairs
and a mahogany table. Native matwork in varied pattern decorates
the wall. He shows us to a seat, and himself sits in a large,
straight-backod arm-chair. Arranged above the chair, in a curtained
recess, is a framed portrait. This is not for the gaze of vulgar eyes ;
the curtain is drawn except on special occasions. It is a portrait of
the most widely loved and respected sovereign the world has ever
seen— the Queen Victoria. Lewanika had a great respect for our
late Queen, and, like so many of her coloured subjects, admired her
greatness with something of superstitious reverence. " The Queen
must be very great and good," he once said, " for all white men,
whether English or not, say only what is good about her."
     But now to lunch. We have just returned from washing our hands,
and have used toilet soap and a clean towel. The table is laid with
knives, forks and spoons, as highly polished and well arranged, and
cloth as spotless, as we are accustomed to in well-ordered houses at
home, and we take the seats allotted to us. A row of household
servants extends from the table to the door and beyond, each within
reaching-distance of his neighbour. No standing is permitted in the
royal presence, and the approach and departure are effected with
bended knee and lowered head. A covered dish appears from with

540                   Major Alfred St. Hill Gibbons          [March 15,
out and is handed along the line, each attendant saluting by clapping
his hands before touching the royal crockery. Rising only so far as
is necessary, the table waiter places it before the king, removes the
cover, and Zambesi fried fish is handed round. Then comes roast
wild fowl— goose, duck, teal, or other bird. The Marotse eat the
flesh of no domestic bird or animal save beef. They know not why ;
it is a time-honoured custom. The bread is excellent, made of
wheaten flour, prepared from grain grown in the king's gardens from
imported corn. The third course is usually curded milk eaten with
cream and sugar or preserved Californian fruit, to be followed by
biscuits and a cup of tea.
     You will probably ask, " How comes Lewanika, who until four
years ago saw probably less of white meu than so many other native
 rulers, to be so far in advance of his peers ? " The answer is that
 two definite causes have contributed towards this most praiseworthy
 result—two causes which apart one from the other would have proved
 equally futile and useless. The first is to be found in the natural
 character of the man ; the second, in outside influence affecting his
 thought and developing his instincts. Of ancient lineage, ho and his
 ancestors have ruled not only their own people, but other contiguous
 tribes for many generations. That rule for a considerable period at
 least has been in advance of the usual monarchical despotism which
 has raised powerful black empires in Africa to live for a day to the
 detriment and insecurity of subject and alien alike, only to fall like
 a pack of cards when a weak ruler takes the reins of power. In
 Marotseland there exists a definite constitution—unwritten, but real.
 The eldest sister of each succeeding king shares the royal pre
 rogative. No great state measure can be legalised without her
 assent, and as her power is co-terminal with her brother's kingship
 it is her interest to strengthen him on his throne. The king is
 advised by great officers of state, and any momentous proposal, such
 as the making of peace or war, is exhaustively discussed in open
 council.
      The country is ruled on feudal principles : some districts are
 governed by hereditary chiefs, others by deputed governors selected
 from members of the royal family. These again are subdivided into
 sub-districts and so forth. Tribute is collected annually and for
 warded to the king, and at his court feudatory chiefs from every
 quarter of his vast dominions of 225,000 square miles—Great Britain
 is 81,090—are to be seen paying their visits of homage to their
 sovereign.
      Chiefs are tried for any offence with which they may be charged
 by a court of their peers. I have myself watched one such trial
  with considerable interest, and was much struck by the liberality of
  the proceedings. The presiding chief—the king's brother-in-law,
  with a first grade colleague on right and left, supported by some fifty
  chiefs of the second grade— briefly charged the prisoners, who sub
  mitted arguments in defence of their conduct. Then the junior

1901.]      Through the Heart of Africa from South to North.        641
second grade chief argued the case on its merits from his point of
view, as did each of his colleagues in order of juniority until the
senior had spoken. Thus the juniors could not be influenced by the
speeches of their seniors. But when the turn of the three big men
came, the order was reversed and the senior spoke first, for they
were high officers of state, and as such should possess the courage
of their own opinions. The court was then adjourned, and the finding
was submitted to the king, who passed judgment.
     Heredity is the primary mould by which character and intellect
are shaped : subsequent influences develop and modify the image so
created. Lewanika on inheriting a chieftainship under what is, com
paratively speaking, so liberal a constitution, would also in the
natural course of events inherit such qualities as had through his
forefathers been fostered in the ruler and the recipient of homage,
that is a certain width of mind and dignity in manner—qualities
 which are not conspicuous in the average African. Beyond this,
 Lewanika has been more fortunate than most in a similar position.
 Sixteen years ago he acceded to the request of M. Coillard, a French
 Protestant missionary, to be allowed to establish a mission in Burotse.
 Since then he has come directly under the influence of this spirited
 gentleman and Christian man. I have met many missionaries and
 others during my travels in Africa, but never a more charming
 personality than my friend M. Coillard. He is one of those rare
 men who not merely by his principles, but by the way he gives those
 principles effect, commands the respect and confidence of all men.
 Though he has not succeeded in Christianising Lewanika, he has
 strongly influenced him for good, yet no amount of teaching could
 have made him what he is had he not been a natural gentleman.
     Early in September I bade farewell to Captains Quicke and
 Hamilton, who had returned to Lialui on completion of their re
 spective journeys along the Lungwebungu and Kwando rivers. To
 complete the map of Marotseland three journeys were still necessary,
 which would finally place us at points very far apart from one
 another. Quicke and Hamilton would be only some 700 miles from
 the west and east coast respectively, while I would be 600 miles
 from either of them. To " rendezvous " in these circumstances
 would entail considerable delay, so it was decided that we should
  take different routes. Quicke and Hamilton would leave Africa by
 the west and east respectively, myself by the north.
      It is with the keenest pleasuro that I now, for the fourth time,
  publicly express my sincere appreciation of the services of those
 gentlemen who threw in their lot with me in 1898, and so honour
 ably kept their pledge till every object of the expedition had been
 fully realised. Mr. Weller during our ascent of the Zambesi by
  steam launch, from the sea to the Guay confluence, and Captains
  Quicke and Hamilton in Marotseland, rendered invaluable services
  in circumstances sometimes of considerable discouragement. By the
  death of Mr. Miiller in the earlier stage of our progress, we not only

 542                  Major Alfred St. Hill Gibbons           [March 15,
 lost a popular and energetic colleague, but were cut off from our
 main supplies, which he was bringing forward when seized with
 dysentery. In consequence, during the last twelve months of our
 travels, we bad to exist on somewhat primitive lines, while all
 necessary comforts were rotting at Zumbo. Yet in parting with my
 officers I was able to do so with the consciousness that our close
 associations bad been unmarred by a single unpleasantness or differ
 ence, and that each had borne his share of work conscientiously and
 energetically.
     My journey to Nanakandundu was made with a flotilla of native
canoes. From here it was my intention to follow the Zambesi on
 foot, with a view to making the long-delayed discovery of the sources
 of this most useful and beautiful river. In anticipation of the possible
 difficulty of engaging porters to follow this route, I obtained five
donkeys, through the good offices of Major Coryndon. While my
 small equipment was distributed among the canoes, the donkeys were
 driven along the banks.
     At Nanakandundu, known locally as Nyakatoro, no boys could be
induced to accompany me into the almost depopulated country through
which I wished to travel. Many were willing to travel the trade
 route along the watershed to Katanga, so I had perforce to load up
 my five donkeys, and, with the four east-coast natives who had been
 with me throughout, commenced a somewhat tedious journey.
     On the Congo-Zambesi watershed the first rains commence
towards the end of September, while south of the Kabompo no appre
ciable amount of rain falls till Christmas. I have watched the river
rise several feet at Sesheke long before the appearance of the first
shower.
     Thus, in early October, when the donkeys were set in motion, the
wet season was already on us, and in some ways the journey was more
difficult with these four-legged beasts of burden than it might have
been with their two-legged cousins. The former, if considerately
treated, always do their best; the latter sometimes do not. Still,
where innumerable small tributaries flow through spongy, boggy
swamps, the porter is perhaps preferable. At all events, after being
perpetually employed for four or five weeks in bridging streams,
corduroying bogs, and cutting away the banks of rivulets to render
them fordable by the donkeys, I began to think so. But the crisis
camo when one day, while skirting the dense line of tangled forest
which rose from the bed of a Zambesi tributary, the sudden cracking
of branches and splashing of water told us that an elephant had been
rudely disturbed, and had made away across the rivulet. We were
but a couple of hundred yards from the source of the stream, so I
hurried round with the intention of taking the spoor. One donkey
—a habitual wanderer—I ordered to be tied to a small tree. Desirous
of more scope, he tugged at his reim and shook the tree. In an
instant a loud buzzing was heard. The boys bolted for all they were
worth, and myriads of enraged bees almost obscured the unhappy

1901.]      Through the Heart of Africa from South to North.        543
beast. With a supreme effort he broke his reim and galloped away,
passing within a few feet of his companions. Simultaneously the
others joined in the mad career as clouds of bees separated from the
main army and attacked them.
    I would not have deemed it possible for donkeys to move so
freely and swiftly had I not witnessed this unfortunate occurrence.
At first an attempt was made to head them off, but as they separated
and broke away in different directions I realised that this incident
might deprive me of my carrying power, and place me in a very
unenviable position, for the country was uninhabited, and conse
quently porters were unobtainable. After two or three hours' chase
one was recovered, and a fire lighted to drive away the fow bees
that still plagued the poor brute. Then sending two boys off
in one direction, I took another with a third. After tramping a
couple of miles an animal in the bush raised my hopes, but instead
of a donkey an old bull buffalo lumbered across my front. Having
shot him I returned to my temporary camp, with a view to moving
it to the meat. To my relief all but one donkey had been brought
in, so the situation was much improved. By the following afternoon
five unhappy, swollen-headed quadrupods moped about the camp.
The poor beasts were simply one mass of stings, as was the surface of
the reim attached to the first unfortunate. Henceforward they lost
flesh daily, but although I gave up all idea of their taking my things
into the Congolese station in Katanga, I hoped to so far lesson the
distance as to place me in communication with the station by the
time I came to a full stop. A fortnight later two were killed by
lions, but by throwing away what was not absolutely necessary we
still moved on, till when within 300 miles of Lukafu, the objective
station, I caught up a scientific expedition under the Belgian Lieu
tenant Lemaire, who was bound for the same place. It transpired
 that—on his own initiative—the Governor-General of the State had,
 with courteous consideration, intimated to his officers the possibility
 of my passing through Katanga, and added instructions to receive me
 hospitably and forward my interests.
     It is with great pleasure that I not only publicly acknowledge
 this act of consideration, but record the unvarying kindness and
 good fellowship that were extended to me not only by the officers of
 many nationalities serving under the auspices of the Congo State,
 but by the Portuguese and Germans, as well as my own fellow country
 men. During my prolonged wanderings 1 encountered foreigners from
 every European nation except Russia and Spain, and in every in
 stance I was most kindly received. The main points of interest in my
 donkey journey were the discovery of the Zambesi's source one degree
 north and one degree west of the position assumed on existing maps,
 and the determination of the watershed thence eastwards, which, in
 conjunction with M. Lemaire—whose work agrees in all essential
 points with mine—I have proved to bo very inaccurately shown on
 the standard maps. As, however, I have already described the source

544                  Major Alfred St. Hill Gibbons         [March 15,
and watershed hefore the Royal Geographical Society, I will not
repeat here.
    M. Lemairo insisted on my travelling with him to Lukafu, and
relieved my poor donkeys by placing a dozen loadless porters at my
disposition. The donkeys I subsequently gave to Captain Yerdick,
the Lukafu commandant, who secured me twelve excellent porters to
carry my goods along the line of the lakes and down the Nile to
Lado.
    Lukafu station is beautifully situated on ground rising from
the Lufira plain. A small mountain stream, from which it takes
its name, winds through the station grounds. Though only 3100
feet above the sea level, Captain Verdick assured me that the station
is very healthy ; this, I imagine to be due partly to the presence of
exceptionally good water, but mainly to two conditions of living
which are much neglected by the majority of Europeans settled in
Africa : excellenl brick houses, and—a good cook !
    Two miles to the east of Lukafn red cliffs rise abruptly to some
1400 feet and culminate in the Kundelungu plateau, which undulates
to a height of 5000 feet above the sea level. This very choice
plateau has a length of 200 miles, and stretches as far as the north
west of Lake Mweru. On crossing it I made an equally steep descent
into a plain approximately of an equal altitude to that which I had
left three days earlier. Travelling in an almost northerly direction
I struck the south-western shore of Lake Mweru. That this lake
at no very remote period covered a much larger area than it does
to-day, with its 2500 square miles, is apparent from the nature of
the ground in the south-west and north. Kilwa island, which is
shown near its eastern shore on existing maps, is in reality within
a couple of miles from the western shore. Leaving the lake, I
passed through a grand mountainous district till I reached M'pala, on
Tanganika, bnt I did so at an angle of 15 degrees east of north,
instead of 30, as the existing maps have it. This, assuming the
position of Mweru to be longitudinally correct, as I believe it to be,
places M'pala some 22 miles west of its hitherto allotted position.
The tale the telegraph line, recently laid to the south of the lake,
has told, suggests that my correction is justified. At M'pala a palm
tree stands nearly a quarter of a mile from the present lake shore,
and, so far as I could judge, 25 feet above its level. According to
native report, Livingstone rested under this tree and moored his
boat to its trunk. Thus, since his visit, the lake would seem to have
fallen some 10 inches per annum. I subsequently waded knee-deep
over the sand barrier which extends across the Lukugu outlet, and
I concluded that in existing circumstances the lowering of the lake
surface will continue indefinitely, for immediately beyond the bar
the Lukugu flows down a steep descent into a gorge many feet below
the lake level.
    From Tanganika to Kivu is a valley 20 miles wide at the south
end, along which the connecting river—the Ruzizi—winds with a

 1901.]      Through the Heart of Africa from South to North.       545
stable averago fall of 20 feet to the mile. High mountains confine
 this valley on either side until within a few miles of Kivu they close
 in and two narrow passes—throngh one of which the Ruzizi flows—
take the place of the hitherto wide valley.
     As the crow flies the two lakes are only 60 miles apart. Lake
 Kivn is an ideal and in many respects a remarkable lake. It is
 60 miles long with a water surface 4900 feet above the sea level. For
some two feet above the water the action of the waves washes the
 banks clear of vegetation.
     Fragments of older formations cemented together by molten lava
present the appearance of a clumsily made rockery at home. So
steep are the banks that the swimmer can dive into deep clear water
from the shore on most parts of the lake, and can do so without fear
of falling into the open jaws of a hungry crocodile, for neither these
reptiles nor hippopotami find a home in Kivu, probably owing to the
non-existence of shallows, sand banks and water reeds. There are
two large mountainous islands in the lake, and all around except on
the northern shore, undulating hills rise to ranges of mountains on
the east and west. The lava from the active volcanoes of Umfumbira
or Kirunga is washed by the lake in the north, and from them a lava
valley extends far towards Lake Albert Edward, to be finally re
placed by a white brackish sand. The mountain range to the west
of Kivu stretches northwards along the western shore of Albert
Edward until it strikes the Semliki valley, which separates it from
the Mountains of the Moon—the mighty Ruenzori range. The water
of Albert Edward is brackish, and holds large herds of hippopotami ;
on the shallow eastern shores the pelican, too, is to be seen in large
flocks, and in greater numbers than I have noticed elsewhere. From
the time I quitted Kivu I had passed through first a hostile and then
a famine-stricken country. However, I never found it necessary to
fire a shot, though on one or two occasions I quite expected I should
have to defend myself against hordes of armed savages who sur
rounded me. Fortunately they invariably receded as I approached,
and as I travel quickly they had little time to mature hostile plans.
I was not sorry to find myself and my small caravan at Fort George
on the north of Albert Edward, where there is a small garrison of
Soudanese troops under a native non-commissioned officer. The one
noticeable point about Lake Albert Edward is that the eastern shore
runs in a north-easterly and not in a northerly direotion as in the
published maps.
     The Uganda Protectorate has been so prominently before the
public the last few years that it is rather in advance of an explorer's
sphere, so I will not waste time by describing a country which has
been so voluminously treated during the last five years. One fact
about Uganda is, however, worthy of record. For nearly two years
I had been moving rapidly throngh Africa, and had nearly completed
8000 miles when I entered Toro, the south-western province of the
Protectorate. Here, for the first time, I found myself among natives
     Vol. XVI. (No. 95.)                           "        2 o

646       Major Gibbons on Through the Heart of Africa.   [March 15,
who—confident in their security—moved about unarmed. Since leav
ing Marotseland, women and children had almost invariably run at
the approach of the white man. Now, regardless of sex or age, the
native encountered would step aside as he passed and give a respectful
salute. Faults no doubt may be found with the policy of the late
administration, but of the tact and moral integrity of the district
commissioners and officers there can be no question when facts speak
so eloquently in their favour.
    The Nile river, as a water-way and cheap line of communication
with Uganda, has undoubtedly a great future, but apart from its
utility the upper river has little in its favour. Enervating heat in
the dry season, swamps and countless mosquitoes in the wet, and an
utter absence of picturesque scenery, excepting only the neighbour
hood of the Dufile rapids, are the points which strike the traveller
most. 1 was relieved of the necessity of travelling down the Nile
valley from Lado to Khartum by the considerate offer of a passage
in the Egyptian stern-wheeler " Kaibar," by Bimbashi Saunders, the
Governor of Fashoda, who picked me up at Lado early in August
last while on a tour of inspection ; and five weeks later I was in
England, and had bidden farewell to African exploration for ever.

 1901.]              Some Recent Work on Diffusion.                    547
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 22, 1901.
  Sib James Cbiohton-Bbownk, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer and
                       Vice-President, in the Chair.
             HobaobSome    Recent Esq.,
                       T. Bbown,          on Diffusion.
                                    Work LL.D.   F.R.S. M.R.I.
 The subject of my lecture, though essentially of a physical nature,
 had its origin in what may be regarded as a no-man s land—a strip
 of neutral territory which can be claimed exclusively neither by the
 physicists nor the biologists.
     An attempt to reconcile some apparently contradictory facts con
 nected with the nutrition of plants has led, somewhat unexpectedly,
 to an extension of the laws of gaseous diffusion, so that we shall
 have to deal with one of those comparatively rare cases in which
 biology has been able to react to some extent on physics.
     It has long been known that the primary source of the carbon of
all plants is the carbonic acid existing in small quantities in ordinary
 atmospheric air, and that their green parts, more especially the
 leaves, are able to utilise the energy of sunlight in decomposing the
carbonic acid and water, and building up from their elements a whole
series of substances, such as sugars and starch, which contribute
directly to the nutrition of the plant.
     The immediate seat of this synthetic and assimilatory process is
found in the minute green chlorophyll granules, which occur in
great numbers within the cells of the leaf-tissue ; and one of the first
problems to be dealt with in the study of the process is to show in
what manner the highly dilute carbonic acid of the air can gain
entry into the leaf with sufficient rapidity to supply these assimilating
centres with material for the needs of the plant.
     In a typical leaf, such as is represented in section in the diagram,
both sides are covered with a cuticle and epidermis, pierced at regular
intervals on one or both sides with extremely minute openings, whose
size is capable of being regulated according to the requirements of
the plant. These are the stomates; which open out into a relatively
large cavity within the leaf, and this cavity in turn communicates
with the numerous and roomy air-apaccs between the cells containing
the green chlorophyll granules.
     One of the most important functions of the stomates is un
doubtedly to regulate the transpiration of water from the plant, but
                                                            2 o 2

548                       Mr. Horace T. Brown               [March 22,
the question of how far these minute openings play a part in the
interchanges of gases between the interior of the leaf and the outer
air, has been a subject of very lively controversy.
    It is now about thirty years since the eminent French chemist,
Boussingault, came to the conclusion that the carbonic acid of the air
gains access to the leaf, not through the stomates, but through the
continuous substance of the cuticle and epidermis, by a process of
osmosis similar to that by which carbonic acid had been shown by
Graham to pass through a thin film of india-rubber.
     So convincing did Boussingault's experiments and arguments
appear to his contemporaries that this view became an article of
faith for something like a quarter of a century, until in fact, some
five or six years ago, when Mr. F. Frost Blackman took up the subject
and proceeded most inconsiderately to shatter all the most cherished
statements of our text-books on this question.
    I regret that time will not allow me to do more than state the
general conclusions at which Mr. Blackman arrived, and which may
be briefly summarised as follows :—
    In the first place there is no appreciable passage of atmospheric
carbonic acid through the surface of a leaf which is naturally devoid
of stomates, such for instance as the upper surface of a normal leaf,
which is quite imperforate ; neither is any entry of carbonic acid
possible when the stomates have been artificially blocked, or made to
close spontaneously.
     In addition to this, if a leaf has stomates on both surfaces, the
intake of carbonio acid by those surfaces bears a distinct relation
to the distribution of the stomates.
     We can, in fact, no longer doubt that when a leaf is respiring or
assimilating, mere osmosis of carbonic acid through the substance of
the cuticle and epidermis plays little or no part in the gaseous ex
changes, and that, whatever the exact nature of the process may be, it
must be carried on exclusively by the minute openings of the stomates.
     Since anything like a mass movement of the air through those
openings is out of the question, we must look to the phenomena of
diffusion for the true explanation, and especially to that form of it
which was first described by Graham as free diffusion, that is to say,
the natural tendency possessed by gages or liquids to form a perfect
mixture when they are in contact with each other and there is no
partition of any kind between them.
     This spontaneous mixing is quite independent of any currents or
mass movements of any kind, and is brought about by the gradual
interpenetration of the molecules of the one gas or liquid by the
molecules of the other.
     As an example of this kind of diffusion, I have here a cylinder
which, a few weeks ago, was partly filled with a 5 per cent, gelatine
solution. After the gelatine had set, the cylinder was filled up with
a highly coloured solution of copper salt, which you now see has
permeated the jelly to a certain depth. There has been no mixing

1901.]             on Some Recent Work on Diffusion.                  549
of the solutions in the ordinary sense of the word, for the gelatine is
virtually a solid. The effect has been produced by the molecules of
the coloured copper salt, by reason of their rapid movement in all
directions, gradually penetrating into the spaces between the mole
cules of the gelatine layer. Given a sufficient length of time, and
there would be an equal partition of the coloured substance between
the two layers.
    Diffusion takes place, as is well known, much more rapidly with
gases than with liquids. Had our cylinder contained, for instance,
carbonic acid in the lower half and air in the upper, a complete
mixing would have taken place in a comparatively short time, even if
all convection currents had been prevented.
    The classical researches of Graham on the diffusion of gases
through thin porous septa established the general law that the rate
of diffusion of the different gases, under identical conditions, varies
inversely as the square roots of their respective densities. Graham's
results, however, only acquaint us with the relative velocities of dif
fusion, whereas for the particular problem which we have before us,
we must kuow the absolute velocities of diffusion under strictly defined
conditions.
    It is mainly to the Viennese school of physicists, and especially
to Professor Loschmidt, that we owe our present knowledge of the
actual rate of penetration of one gas by another in free diffusion.
    By observing the speed with which different pairs of gases
spontaneously mix in a tube, Loschmidt was able to deduce certain
absolute values expressing the velocity of their interpenetration.
    Some of these results for different pairs of gases are given in the
diagram, the last column representing the " constant of diffusivity,"
expressed in centimetre-gram-second units.
    Let us consider the constant for carbonic acid and air, which at
0° C. is - 142. This means that when air and carbonic acid gas are
freely diffusing into each other at this temperature, an amount of either
gas corresponding to • 142 cubic centimetre will pass in one second of
time, across an area of one square centimetre, when the partial pressure
of the gas varies by one atmosphere in one centimetre of length.
    Now when we come to apply these absolute values of diffusivity
to the passage of the extremely dilute C02 of the air into the leaf
stomates (whose dimensions can of course be determined), we find
that free diffusion through these openings is apparently able to
account for only a portion of the gas which we know must enter the
leaf, unless we make some extremely improbable assumptions as to
the very low point at which the partial pressure of the carbonic acid
is maintained immediately under the apertures.
     I shall not, however, trouble you with the calculations on which
this statement is based, since I prefer to put the matter in a more
concrete form, which has also the advantage of emphasising the
extraordinary power which an assimilating leaf possesses of extracting
carbonic acid from its surrounding air.

 650                     Mr. Horace T. Brown                [March 22,
     There are two methods by which we can determine the actual
 amount of atmospheric carbonic acid used up by an assimilating leaf
 —one a direct, the other an indirect method.
     Part of the apparatus used in the direct method, is shown on the
table.
     The leaf, which may be still attached to the plant, is enclosed in
 a glazed case through which a measured current of air is drawn,
 of which the carbonic acid content is accurately known. When the
 air emerges from the case it passes through an absorption apparatus
 which retains the whole of the C02 left in the air after passing over
 the leaf. This absorbed carbonic acid is determined at the close of
 the experiment, and we then have all the data for estimating the
carbonic acid abstracted from the air by the leaf. Tho area of the
leaf being known, the CO2 absorbed can be referred to a unit area of
leaf and a unit time.
     By the indirect method, which is duo to Sachs, the actual increase
 in dry weight of a given area of an assimilating leaf is determined,
 and since this increase in weight is due to substances having a
 definite percentage of carbon, a simple calculation enables us to
 determine the equivalent amount of carbonic acid abstracted from
 the air.
     By such methods as this it can be shown that an actively assimi
lating leaf such as that of the Catalpa tree, in full daylight, and
under favourable conditions of temperature, can take in carbonic
acid from the air at the rate of about one-tenth cubic centimetre per
 hour for each square centimetre of leaf.
     Since there are only about three volumes of carbonic acid in
 10,000 volumes of ordinary air, this must mean that in a single hour
the under surface of the leaf will take in as much carbonic acid as is
contained in a column of air about eight feet long, and having the
same area of cross section as the leaf.
     But this remarkable power of an assimilating leaf will be better
appreciated if we compare it with a liquid surface of a strong solution
of caustic alkali, which is known to have such a great avidity for
carbonic acid.
     We can investigate the absorptive power of such solutions for the
carbonic acid of the air under fixed and controllable conditions by
using a form of apparatus which I have on the table, and which can
be examined at the close of the lecture. It is so arranged that un
air current of known velocity can be drawn over the surface of the
absorbing solution which has a known area.
     When a very low velocity of the air current has been readied,
the amount of absorption becomes constant at ordinary temperatures
at about -17 c.c. of carbonic acid, per square can. of surface per
hour.
    So we see that a loaf, assimilating under natural conditions, is
taking in carbonic acid from the air more than half as fast as a
surface of the same area would do if it were wetted with a constantly

1901.]            on Some Recent Work on Diffusion.                    551
renewed film of a strong solution of caustio alkali, submitted to a
strong current of air.
    This is, in itself, a somewhat remarkable conclusion, but what
are we to say to a proposition which would limit the absorptive
power of the leaf surface to the extremely small apertures of the
stomates ?
    In a leaf such as we have been considering, the aggregate area of
the openings of the stomates, when expanded to their widest, amounts
to less than one per cent, of the total leaf surface, so that if the entry
of the C02 takes place exclusively by these openings, we must con
clude that it goes in more than fifty times faster than it would do if
the mouth of each one of these minute openings were filled with a
constantly renewed solution of strong caustio alkali.
    Such facts make it difficult unreservedly to accept the view that
the gaseous exchanges in leaves are really carried on exclusively by
the stomates, which occupy such a small fraction of the leaf surface.
On the other hand, the direct experimental evidence in favour of this
view is overwhelming, so that we apparently find oursolves on the
horns of a dilemma.
    There appeared to be only one way out of the difficulty—that was
to assume that the leaf knows more about the laws of free diffusion
than we do, and has adapted itself to some physical principles which
have hitherto escaped notice. This was found to be the case when
the structure of the leaf was regarded as a piece of physical apparatus
for promoting rapid diffusion.
    I do not propose to take you through the various and tedious
stages by which the true explanation was reached, but will attempt,
as far as possible, to short-circuit the current of the argument.
    In the first place, I wish to call your attention to a particular
mode of free diffusion which, in gases, has been but little studied, bnt
which has a very direct bearing upon diffusion in the living leaf,
where one of the constituents of the diffusing gases, the carbonic acid,
is very small in amount compared with the others.
    Let us for a moment concentrate our attention on the air which is
contained in this open glass cylinder, and endeavour to picture to our
minds the jostling crowds of the perfectly elastic molecules of the
various gases, flying hither and thither in all imaginable directions,
and coming into frequent collision with each other and the sides of
the containing vessel.
    Now in this jostling throng there is a certain proportion of mole
cules of carbonic acid, which we will imagine for the moment are
distinguished from the molecules of the other gases by some differ
ence in colour—let us suppose them to be green.
    Now, further, consider a plane surface in the contained air of the
cylinder ; from the dynamical theory of gases it follows that in any
given interval of time, temperature and pressure remaining constant,
the same average number of the " green " molecules will cross this
imaginary plane in opposite directions, and sinoe this will be true

552                      Mr. Horace T. Brown                  [March 22,
 for any plane surface, no matter where we take it within the cylinder,
 there can be no change in the average distribution of the " green "
 molecules throughout the cylinder—in other words.no change in any
 part of the cylinder in the composition of the air as regards its
carbonic acid content.
     But now let us imagine that tho bottom of the cylinder is suddenly
 made capable of absorbing carbonic acid, say by the introduction,
without any disturbance of the air, of a little solution of caustic soda
or caustic potash. The " green " molecules which now strike the
bottom of the cylinder at all imaginable angles of incidence, will not
all rebound, as they originally did, but will be to a large extent
 trapped in their to-and-fro excursions, so that in the first very brief
interval of time a very thin stratum of air, parallel to and immedi
ately above the absorbing surface, will be partially freed from its
" green " molecules.
     Now consider the kind of exchange of " green " molecules which
occurs in the next very brief interval of time between this partially
depleted layer at the bottom and the one immediately above it. The
rate of exchange across the imaginary plane dividing these two con
tiguous layers can no longer be equal and opposite, since the number
of " green " molecules in tho upper stratum is greater than that in
the lower. A larger number of the " green " molecules must conse
quently pass in a given brief interval of time from the higher to the
lower stratum than from the lower to the higher ; in other words, the
balance of exchange is in favour of the lower layer. This state of
affairs will rapidly propagate itself upwards until the mouth of the
cylinder is reached ; and provided the air outside the cylinder is kept
of the same composition, and the absorptive power of the bottom of
the cylinder is also kept constant, the uncompensated balances of ex
change between the imaginary layers may be regarded as constituting
a steady flow or drift of the " green " molecules down the tube
towards the absorbent surface.
    Although within the column there is this constant flow of
carbonic acid molecules in the general direction of the axis of the
tube, the system as a whole may now be regarded as static so
long as all the conditions remain unchanged. The flow is then
strictly analogous to the flow of heat in a bar of metal which is kept
with its two ends at a uniform difference of temperature ; or to the
flow of electricity in a conductor between two regions maintained at
a constant difference of potential ; and static diffusion admits of pre
cisely the same simple mathematical treatment as these phenomena
of conduction of heat and of electricity when we come to its quanti
tative study.
    In such an imaginary experiment as we have been considering, it
is clear that the amount of carbonic acid in the air of the cylinder
must vary uniformly from a maximum at tho top of the cylinder to a
vanishing point at the bottom, so that if the C0S really had the green
colour, which for purposes of argument we have attributed to it, the

1901.]            on Some Recent Work on Diffusion.                 553
colour of the air column would uniformly diminish from top to
bottom.
    This can be illustrated by the diffusion of a coloured copper salt
down a gelatine column. If this column were cut off just where the
colour ceases to be perceptible, and the cut end were immersed in
water to carry off the diffusing salt as fast as it came through the
column, then if the upper end of the column remained in contact
with the coloured copper solution, we should ultimately get a constant
steady flow of the salt down the column.
    Under these conditions it can be readily shown both experimen
tally and theoretically, that the actual amount of substance diffusing
down the column in a given time will, in the first place, be directly
proportional to the difference in the concentration of the diffusing
substance at the two ends of the column ; it will also be directly
proportional to the area of cross-section of the column ; but inversely
proportional to its length.
    The fact which for the moment I wish you to bear in mind is that,
all other things being the same, the amount of diffusion down a
column of this kind varies directly as the area of the cross-section of
the column.
    This is ronghly illustrated by these two cylindrical columns of
gelatine, of different diameters, down which a coloured solution has
been diffusing for equal times.
    The salt has penetrated both columns to the same depth, and
the gradation of colour is also the same—a proof that the rates of
diffusion down the columns must be proportional to their areas of
cross-section.
    But now let us consider what will happen if, instead of varying
the width of the column throughout its entire length, we only
partially obstruct the cylinder somewhere in the line of flow, say by
means of a thin diaphragm pierced with a single circular hole of less
diameter than the bore of the tube.
    We must resort to experiment to answer this question.
    Suppose we take a series of exactly similar flasks, such as I have
here, and produce a steady flow of atmospheric carbonic acid down
their necks by partially filling each flask with a solution of caustic
soda, the amount of carbonic acid entering the flasks being determined
by subsequent titration of the soda solution. We can then study the
effect produced by partially obstructing the mouths of the flasks with
thin discs of metal or celluloid pierced with a single hole of definite
size.
    The results of a series of experiments of this kind are given in
Table I., and you will see that under these conditions the amounts
of carbonic acid diffusing down the cylindrical neck in a given time,
are not proportional to the areas of the apertures, as might reason
ably have been expected, but are directly proportional to their
diameters.

554                           Mr. Horace T. Brown                      [March 22,
         Table I.—Diffusion- of Atmosphebic CO. tbbougb Single
                            Apebtubes of Vabying Size.
      Dtam. of        co2
                   Diffused
                  Per  Hour.   C02 Diffused    Ratio     Ratio           CO,of
                                                                       Ratio
     Aperture.                  per ml cm.        of       of
                                                       liiametera.
                                 per Hour.     Areas.                 Diffused.
        mm.           c.c.          c.c.
      22-7         .2380          '0588       1-00      1-00           100
       6-03         0625          '2186         '07      '26             •26
       8-28        '0398          .4855         '023       14            '16
       211         '0260          •8253         '008      093             10
    This of course implies, that as we make the aperture smaller, the
flow through a given unit of its area is proportionally increased—in
other words, the acceleration of flow is inversely proportional to the
diameters of the apertures.
    This unexpected fact, which lies at the root of the whole question
we are considering to-night, may be experimentally illustrated in a
variety of ways.
    We may, for instance, cause the aqueous vapour of the air to
diffuse into a similar series of flasks, using in this case strong
sulphuric acid as the absorbent, and determining the amount of dif
fusion of the water vapour, by weighing the flasks from time to
time. You will seo from the results of such an experiment that the
diffusion rates again follow pretty closely the ratios of the diameters
of the apertures, and are widely divergent from the ratios of areas.
(See Table II.)
      Table II.—Diffubion of Aqueous Vapoub thbough Apebtures
                                  of Vabying Size.
               Diameter          Ratio         Ratio      Ratio of
                   of              of            of     Diffusion for
               Aperture.         Areas.     Diameters. Kqual Times.
                 m.m.
                2-117             10           10           10
                3-233             2-3          1-52         1-55
                5-840             7-6          2-75         2-54
    This " diameter law " is also applicable to circular liquid surfaces,
the amount of absorption or evaporation from such surfaces varying,
under certain conditions, not in accordance with the areas of those
surfaces as might have been expected, but with their diameters.

 1901.]               on Some Recent Work on Diffusion.              555
      I have here a short burette-like tube with a wido rim of metal
 round the top. When this tube is completely filled by letting in a
 solution of caustic soda, we have a circular surface of the solution
 lying in the same plane as the rim. When this has been exposed to
 the air for a given time, the carbonic acid absorbed by the disc of
 liquid can be determined by drawing off and titrating.
      If such absorptive discs of different dimensions are exposed to
 air which is in slight movement, we shall find that the carbonic acid
 absorbed is proportional to the area of the surface. The smaller,
 however, we make the discs, and the greater precautions we take to
 keep the air over them perfectly still, tho nearer do the absorptions
 become proportional to the diameters. (See Table III.)
     Table III.—Absobption op Atmosphebic CO, by Cibculab Subfaces
                        of Solutions of Caubtio Alkali.
             Diameter       Ratio      Ratio    Mean Ratio    Ratio
                of           of          of      of Areas    ofCOj
             Surface.      Areas.    Diameters.     and    Absorbed.
                                                Diameters.
               mm.
              10-25          10         10          1-0        10
              20-25          3-9        1-9         2-9        30
              29-25          8-1        2-8         5-4        5-3
              40 00         15-2        39          9-5        9-2
               500           1-0        10                     10
              10-25          4-2        205          ''        2-47
    There is always, however, more difficulty in obtaining these
results with plane absorbing surfaces, than by diffusion through a
perforated diaphragm. The reason for this will be apparent later.
    Before entering on an explanation of these facts, I wish you to
note a very important conclusion to be drawn from them, and one
which readily admits of experimental verification.
    We have seen that when we partially obstruct the diffusive flow
of a gas or liquid by a thin septum with a single circular perforation,
the velocity of the flow through each unit area of aperture increases
as the diameter of the aperture decreases. Ono might therefore ex
pect that if a number of fine holes were suitably arranged in such a
septum, the acceleration of flow through the individual holes might
assume such proportions that a perforated septum of this kind would
exercise little or no obstruction on the difiusive flow, although in
such a case the aggregate area of the holes might only represent a
small fraction of the total area of the obstructing septum.

556                       Mr. Horace T. Brown                      [March 22,
     Strange and paradoxical as such a conclusion may at first sight
appear, it will bear the test of experiment.
     I have here a thin film of celluloid—in fact, a piece of the
ordinary Kodak roller-film. This has been perforated with holes
about -4 millimetre in diameter, arranged at a little more than 2-5
diameters apart, so that there are just 100 of such perforations on a
square centimetre of area. The clear holes represent about one-
tenth of the area of the film, nine-tenths of the sieve being blocked
up with impervious celluloid.
     Here are two columns of gelatine, down which a blue solution of
copper-ammonium sulphate have been diffusing for equal times. One
of these columns is unobstructed in any way, being in direct contact
with the coloured liquid. In the other case a finely perforated
celluloid film has been interposed, which has the effect of blocking
out nine-tenths of the cross-section of the column. Ton see that,
notwithstanding this, there is no appreciable difference in the amounts
of coloured salt which have diffused in the two cases ; the salt has,
in fact, gone through the finely pierced septum as readily as if no
obstruction were present.
     (N.B.—The celluloid film is itself not permeable.)
     Wo find that exactly the same holds good with gaseous diffusion.
     If finely perforated septa of this kind are luted on to short tubes
containing caustic soda and are exposed to still air, the amount of
carbonic acid diffusing through the holes in the diaphragm can be
compared with the amount which we know would diffuse down the
open tube under like conditions.
     Some results of this kind are given in Table IV.
   Table IV.—Diffusion of Atmosphebic C02 thbough Multipebfobate
            Septa into Tube 4 cm. lon<;. Diam. of Holes -380 KM.
                  Apart.  CO, diffusing                  Septum of
                                                      Percentage
                                                        Diffusion.  Percentage,
    No. of      diameters   through     Open Tube,                 Area of Cross-
  Holes per                Septum per   diffusion per Diffusion on    seciion
 Square cm.                  Hour.          Hour.      Open Tube    occupied by
                                                                       Holes.
                              C.C.          C.C.
  100 00           2-63       •361         •346                       11-34
   25 00           5-26       •148         -342           43-2         2-82
   1111            7-8         131         -352           87-2          1-25
     625          10-52        110         •353           81-1           -70
   15-7           15-7        •068         •334           20-43
                                                         104             •31
     I must now ask you to follow me in a somewhat theoretical
excursion in quest of an explanation of these curious facts.
     We have seen that when steady diffusion is going on down a
cylindrical column which is absorbent at the bottom, there is a

1901.]             on Some Recent Work on Diffusion.                 557
uniform diminution in the density of the diffusing substance from
one end of the column to the other, evidenced in the case of a
coloured substance by a gradual and uniform thinning out of the
colour in the direction of the axis of the column. But in any
horizontal cross-section of the column, the colour is of the same
intensity in all parts of the section, which means of course that the
diffusing substance is of equal density along these planes.
    In a diagrammatic section of suoh a column we should therefore
represent the surfaces of equal density by straight lines drawn at
right angles to the axis of the cylinder, and the stream lines of the
diffusing substance by straight lines drawn parallel to the axis.
    I am able to show you the horizontal lines of equal density in a
cylinder, produced by a process of intermittent diffusion presently
to be described.
    When diffusion goes on into a flat absorbent disc, or aperture,
instead of into a cylinder, it is clear that the stream lines of the
diffusing substance must strongly converge towards the disc, instead
of moving vertically downwards as they do in the cylinder, and it is
also clear that the lines or surfaces of equal density in the diffusing
substance, must form curved surfaces of some kind over the disc.
We must now consider the exact form which these lines and surfaces
will take.
    It so happens that there is a problem in electrostatics which is
analogous to the one before us, and it is one which has been fully
worked out by mathematical physicists.
    When an insulated conductor receives an electric charge, the form
taken by the surfaces of equi-potential around the conductor depends
on its shape, and on the nature and distribution of other charges in
its neighbourhood.
    If we suppose the absorbing disc or perforation used in our dif
fusion experiments to be replaced by an electrified disc of similar
dimensions, embedded flush in a wide non-conducting rim, then the
surfaces of equal electric potential in the air above the disc will take
the form represented in Fig. 1. The surfaces will form a series of
hemi-spheroids which in any vertical section passing through the
centre of the disc will give a series of ellipses, having their common
foci in the edges of the disc. Faraday's lines or tubes of force on
the other hand will, in this case, be represented by a series of
hyperbolas, also having their foci in the edges of the disc.
    Now we have every reason to believe that in a diffusion experi
ment with an absorbent disc the surfaces of equal density of the
diffusing substance over the diso are the exact analogues of the
surfaces of equal potential over the similar electrified disc, and that
the stream lines of the diffusing substance are the analogues of the
lines or tubes of force. If this be so, the diagram will equally well
represent an experiment in which, for instance, the carbonic acid of
perfectly still air is being absorbed by a diso of soda solution, sur
rounded by a wide rim.

  558                     Mr. Horace T. Brown                  [March 22,
      Fig. 2 represents what we might expect to be the state of things
  when diffusion takes place through a circular aperture in a diaphragm.
 Here tho stream lines of the substance, which are convergent as they
 approach the aperture, diverge again when the opening is past, and
 we should expect to get a double system of the ellipsoidal zones of
 equal density on either side of the aperture.
      Did time admit I could show you that this hypothesis is not only
 capable of giving reasonable and consistent explanations of all the
 phenomena of diffusion into and through apertures, but completely
 explains the " diameter law " and also enables us to predict the amount
 of gas, vapour, or solute which will pass under given conditions, and
 the results can be verified by experiment.
      I have only time to glance at one or two readily verifiable
 deductions from this hypothesis. In the first place it fully accounts
 for what I have called the " diameter law," that is to say that dif
 fusion through circular apertures in a diaphragm is proportional to
 their diameters, not to their areas.
      In two diagrams on the wall we have represented the arrange
 ment of the equi-density curves and stream lines over two absorbent
 discs, one double the diameter of the other. We may take these
 discs to represent an alkaline solution absorbing carbonic acid from
 the air.
      The two systems are on the same relative scale, one in fact being
 the image of the other magnified by two diameters.
      It will be seen that a curved line corresponding to any given
 actual density of the diffusing substance must be twice as far from
 the surface of the larger disc as it is from the surface of the smaller;
 that is to say, the gradient of density on which the flow depends, is
 twice as steep over the small disc as it is over tho large one. From
 this it follows that for equal areas the flow into the smaller disc is
twice that into the larger, and that the total flow must be proportional
to the diameters, which is just what is found to be the case.
     Wherever we get conditions favourable for the formation of a
 system of equi-density zones on one or both sides of a perforated
 diaphragm, diffusion will go on in accordance with this " diameter
 law." But one system of zones is quite sufficient for the purpose, so
that in a case like that of Fig. 2, which represents the course of
diffusion of atmospheric C02 in perfectly still air into an absorbent
chamber, we might allow the outer system of equi-density shells over
the aperture to be completely swept away by air currents and still
the " diameter law " would hold good on account of the inner series
of zones, which, from their position, are protected from the air currents.
This explains in a very satisfactory manner why it is much more
easy to demonstrate the diameter law with apertures in a diaphragm,
than simply with absorbing discs, where only one external system of
equi-density shells can exist, which is of course extremely liable to be
influenced by disturbing currents.
     Satisfactory, however, as this hypothesis is in explaining every-


Fio. 2.
  Fio. 3.
Via. i.


1901.]             on Some Recent Work on Diffusion.                 559
thing connected with these curious facts of diffusion, it must be borne
in mind that the reasoning on which it is based is in part deductive
and in part dependent on an analogy.
- -"Nearly 300 years ago it was said by Sir Thomas Koe that " many
tilings hold well in discourse, and in the theorique, satisfie curious
imaginations, but in practice and execution are found difficult and
ayrie."
     Fortunately this does not apply to the present case, and I am able
to bring before you this evening for the first time an experimental
demonstration of the existence of zones of equal density in the
neighbourhood of an aperture through which diffusion is going on, and
to show you that they have the exact shape which the theory requires.
     I have here a rectangular glass cell divided horizontally by a
thin plate of celluloid having a circular hole punched through it.
The lower half of the cell is filled with a solution of gelatine con
taining a little barium chloride, and the upper half with a solution of
sodium sulphate.
     The relative strengths of the solutions are so adjusted that the
two salts, diffusing in opposite directions through the aperture, shall
meet somewhere in the gelatine where a precipitate of barium
sulphate is thrown down at the surfaces of contact of the two
opposing streams of diffusion. The result is that we get a slowly
growing spheroidal mass of precipitate, starting from the aperture,
 and resembling in shape the head of an inverted mushroom.
     If we arrange for the diffusion of the sodium sulphate to be inter
mittent, or hotter still if we alternate the diffusion of a sulphate with
 that of a chromate, we get well marked zonings in the precipitate
 forming the spheroid, zonings which correspond to the successive
 forms which the spheroid has assumed during growth, and which
 therefore must have been zones of equal density of the diffusing
 substances. We can study the forms which these assume in relation
 to the aperture by subsequently cutting sections through the gelatine,
 but by a little arrangement we can make the apparatus cut its own
 sections as the diffusion goes on.
     This is done by making the aperture in the diaphragm semi
 circular instead of circular, and bringing its straight edge close up
 to the side of the glass vessel.
     I will now throw on the screen some photographs of vertical
 sections of spheroids of diffusion of this kind. (See Figs. 3 and 4.)
     On comparing the lines of equal density around the aperture
 with the diagrams on the wall, you will at once see that their shape
 is exactly that required by theory—they describe a series of ellipses
 having their common foci in the edges of the aperture through which
 the diffusion is taking place.
     The actual stream lines of the diffusing subtance are not visible,
 but as these must necessarily be normal to the curves of equal
 density, they can only be represented by a series of hyperbolas, also
 having their foci in the edges ot the aperture.

 560                     Mr. Horace T. Brown                 [March 22,
     The electrostatic analogy which has served bo well in determin
 ing the form of the zones of equal density around single apertures
 may also be used for predicting their distribution around a series of
 apertures in a diaphragm.
     If we regard the individual boles in a multiperforate diaphragm
 as so many minute discs, all electrified to a common potential, the
 lines of equi-potential and the lines of force should take a form
 something like that represented in the diagram (see Fig. 5), the
 lines of equi-potential forming complete ellipses in the immediate
 neighbourhood of the electrified discs, but gradually intersecting and
 forming a series of wavy lines which become more and more hori
 zontal as the distance gets more remote.
     Could they be rendered visible, these are also the forms which
 we should expect the lines of equal density of a substance to take
 when it is diffusing through a series of small apertures. I am able
to give you a verification of this, by throwing on the screen a photo
graph showing the result of intermittent diffusion through a series
of such apertures. (See Figs. 6 and 7.) The lines of equal density
are marked out by the alternate bands of sulphate and chromate
of barium, as they were in the last experiment.
     From tho shape of these lines of equal density it is possible to
determine the form of the stream lines of the diffusing substance, and
to show that the tendency of a multiperforate septum of this kind, is
to locally increase the gradient of density in its neighbourhood and
so to accelerate the flow through the small apertures. We get, in
fact, a complete and satisfactory explanation of the small amount of
obstruction which such a diaphragm produces, when put in the way of
a diffusive flow of gas or liquid.
     Intermittent diffusion, such as I have described, may be used to
illustrate in a variety of ways the distribution of electrical potential
around electrified bodies which are within the sphere of each other's
action.
    It is generally a difficult and laborious task to work out the
distribution of the surfaces of equi-potential around electrified bodies
which are near enough to influence each other. By this system of
intermittent diffusion we may sometimes make nature work out the
problem for us. Here, for instance (see Fig. 8), is a figure copied
from Clerk Maxwell's 'Electricity and Magnetism,' representing
the form which is assumed by equi-potential surfaces around two
points, charged with quantities of electricity of the same kind in the
ratio of four to one. If the analogy is correct, diffusion through
apertures having their diameters in the ratio of two to one, ought to
give the same series of figures. You see from the photograph of an
actual experiment given in Fig. 9 that this supposition is correct.
    In Fig. 10 are given the calculated lines of force at the edges of
two parallel plates, one of which is insulated and electrified, the
other connected with the earth. These ought to correspond in shape
to tho cqui-density lines of a substance undergoing steady diffusion


  Fio. 5.
Fio. 7.

Fio. 11.

 1901.]             on Some Recent Work on Diffusion.                  561
 from between two parallel plates, as in fact you seo they do. (See
 Fig. 11.)
      But considerations of this kind, although of interest in showing
 the striking analogies between certain phenomena of electrostatics
 and static diffusion, would carry me too far from my main object, and
 I must again bring you back to the green leaf, which was the starting-
 point of my lecture.
      If we regard the structure of the leaf from the new point of view
 which now suggests itself, we can readily understand how it is that
 the stomates, notwithstanding the relatively small area of the leaf
 surface which they occupy, can drink in the atmospheric carbonio
 acid with such rapidity.
     The finely perforated epidermis of the leaf, tightly stretched over
the interior air-spaces whose walls can absorb carbonic acid, con
 stitutes a multiperforate septum which is under the most favourable
 conditions to produce an acceleration of the diffusive flow of the gas
 into the leaf.
     The laws of gaseous diffusion through small apertures are now so
 well understood that we can predict with certainty the particular
quantitative effect produced on a given diffusive flow by any screen
 with perforations of known size and distribution providing they are
not within a certain number of diameters distant from each other.
 These deductions cau be verified by experimenting with small shallow
glass cylinders, made absorbent inside, and closed at the top with
 very thin discs of celluloid perforated in a known manner. Such a
piece of apparatus may be regarded as an artificial leaf, the perforated
celluloid representing the epidermis with its stomates, whilst the ab
sorbing solution of caustic soda acts the part of the assimilating
centres.
     Having obtained confidence in the accuracy of the method of
calculation, we can then apply the same principles to determining the
efficiency of the leaf stomates, when the whole system is regarded as
a piece of mechanism for promoting diffusion.
     In the first place, it is found experimentally that the most
economical arrangement of very small apertures is to have them set
about 8 or 10 diameters apart, for at that distance the interference
with each other practically ceases. This is about the distance at which
tee generally find the stomates arranged on the underside of most leaves.
     You will remember that the amount of atmospheric carbonic acid
which enters an assimilating leaf in an hour, is about * 1 c.c. for every
square centimetre of leaf. Now it can be shown that for this amount
of gas to enter through the stomates it is only necessary for the CO2
content of the air just within the leaf to be kept down to 2 ' 8 parts
per 10,000, when that of the outer air is three parts per 10,000.
This very slight difference in the partial pressure within and without
is quite sufficient to account for all the entering CO2, thanks to the
special structure of the leaf.
     Thus all the apparent difficulties in the way of accepting the
     Vol. XVI.                                               2 p

562               Mr. Horace T. Brown on Diffusion.         [March 22,
minute stomates as the sole pathways of gaseous exchange in the
leaf entirely disappear when the leaf is studied in this new light,
and it becomes evident that the adjustment of the mechanism of the
leaf to the physical properties of its surrounding medium is far more
perfect than has been hitherto suspected. The leaves of plants have
in fact proved themselves better physicists than ourselves, since their
structure bears the impress of response to certain properties of gases
of which wc have hitherto been ignorant.
    This is by no means the first occasion on which the plant has
given us a lead in physics. The theory of dilute solutions, formu
lated by Van't HofF, and indicating that the laws of Boyle and of
Avogadro are as applicable to dilute solutions as they are to gases,
had its origin in the observations of De Vries and of Pfeffer on the
plasmolysis of living cells and the properties of natural semi
permeable membranes.
    Nor can we doubt that there are many more such instances which
only await detection, and we may reasonably hope that the boundaries
of physics and of chemistry will be materially enlarged in unexpected
directions if we pay due regard to the whispered hints and slender
clues which are on all sides given by the living world of Nature.
                                                         [H. T. B.]

1901.]                              Polish.                           5G3
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 29, 1901.
          The Rioht Hon. Sib James Stibtjng, M.A. LL.D.,
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
The Rioht Hon. Loed Rayleioh, M.A. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                     rsorssaoR or natubal philosophy s.i.
                                   Polish.
The lecture commenced with a description of a home-made spectro
scope of considerable power. The lens, a plano-convex of 6 inches
aperture and 22 feet focus, received the rays from the slit, and finally
returned them to a pure spectrum formed in the neighbourhood. The
body of the prism was of lead ; the faces, inclined at 70°, were of
thick plate-glass cemented with glue and treacle. It was charged
with bisulphide of carbon, of which the free surface (of small area)
was raised above the operative part of the fluid. The prism was
traversed twice, and the effective thickness was 5£ inches, so that
the resolving power corresponded to 11 inches, or 28 cm., of C82.
The liquid was stirred by a perforated triangular plate, nearly fitting
the prism, which could be actuated by means of a thread within
reach of the observer. The reflector was a flat, chemically silvered
in front.
     So far as eye observations were concerned, the performance was
satisfactory, falling but little short of theoretical perfection. Tho
stirrer needed to be in almost constant operation, the definition usually
beginning to fail within about 20 seconds after stopping the stirrer.
But although the .stirrer was quite successful in maintaining uni
formity of temperature as regards space, i.e. throughout the dispersing
fluid-, the temperature was usually somewhat rapidly variable with
time, so that photographs, requiring more than a few seconds of
exposure, showed inferiority. In this respect a grating is more
manageable.
     The lens and the faces of the prism were ground and polished
(in 1893) upon a machine kindly presented by Dr. Common. The
tint surfaces were tested with a spherometer, in which a movement of
the central screw through toVotto- inen could usually be deteoted by
the touch. The external surfaces of the prism faces were the only
ones requiring accurate flatness. In polishing, the operation was not
carried as far as would be expected of a professional optician. A
                                                            2 p 2

564                   The Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh            [March 29,
few residual pittings, although they spoil the appearance of a surface,
do not interfere with its performance, at least for many purposes.
     In the process of grinding together two glass surfaces, the particles
of emery, even the finest, appear to act by pitting the glasses, i.e. by
breaking out small fragments. In order to save time and loss of
accuracy in the polishing, it is desirable to carry the grinding process
as far as possible, using towards the close only the finest emery. The
limit in this direction appears to depend upon the tendency of the
glasses (6 inches diameter) to seize, when they approach too closely,
but with a little care it is easy to attain such a fineness that a candle
 is seen reflected at an angle of incidence not exceeding t50°, measured
 as usual from the perpendicular.
     The fineness necessary, in order that a surface may reflect and
refract regularly without diffusion, viz. in order that it may appear
polished, depends upon the wave-length of the light and upon the
angle of incidence. At a grazing incidence all surfaces behave as if
polished, and a surface which reflects red light pretty well may fail
signally when tested with blue light at the same angle. If we consider
incidences not too far removed from the perpendicular, the theory of
gratings teaches that a regularly corrugated surface behaves as if
absolutely plane, provided that the ware-length of the corrugations ia
less than the wave-length of the light, and this without regard to the
depth of the corrugations. Experimental illustrations, drawn from
the sister science of Acoustics, were given. The source was a bird
call from which issued vibrations having a wave-length of about
 1-5 cm., and the percipient was a high-pressure sensitive flame.
 When the bird-call was turned away, the flame was silent, but it
roared vigorously when the vibrations were reflected back upon it
from a plate of glass. A second plate, upon which small pebbles had
 bean glued so as to constitute an ideally rough surface, acted nearly
 as well, and so did a piece of tin plate suitably corrugated. In all
these cases the reflection was regular, the flame becoming quiet when
the plates were turned out of adjustment through a very small angle.
In another method of experimenting the incidence was absolutely per
 pendicular, the flame being exposed to both the incident and the
reflected waves. It is known that under these circumstances the
flame remains quiescent at the nodes and flares most vigorously at
the loops. As the reflector is drawn slowly back, the flame passes
alternately through the nodes and loops, thus executing a cycle of
changes as the reflector moves through half a wave-length. The
effects observed were just the same whether the reflector were smooth
or covered with pebbles, or whother the corrugated tin plate were
substituted. All surfaces were smooth enough in relation to the wave
length of the vibration to give substantially a specular reflexion.
     Finely-ground surfaces are still too coarse for perpendicular
specular reflexion of the longest visible waves of light. Here the
material may be metal, or glass silvered chemically on the face sub
sequently to the grinding. But experiment is not limited by the

 1901.]                                   on Polish.                                  565
 capabilities of the eye ; and it seems certain that a finely ground sur
 face would be smooth enough to reflect without sensible diffusion the
 longest waves, such as those found by Rubens to be nearly 100 longer
 than the waves of red light. An experiment may be tried with radia
 tion from a Leslie cube containing hot water, or from a Welsbach
 mantle (without a chimney). In the lecture the latter was employed,
 and it fell first at an angle of about 45° upon a finely ground flat
 glass silvered in front. By this preliminary reflection, the radiation
 was purified from waves other than those of considerable wave-length.
 The second reflection (also at 45°) was alternately from polished and
 finely ground silvered surfaces of the same size, so mounted as to
 permit the accurate substitution of the one for the other. The heat
 ing-power of the radiation thus twice reflected was tested with a
 thermopile in the usual manner. Repeated comparisons proved that
 the reflection from the ground surface was about '76 of that from
 the polished surface, showing that the ground surface reflected the
 waves falling upon it with comparatively little diffusion. A slight
 rotation of any of the surfaces from their proper positions at once
 cut off the effect. It is probable that the device of submitting radia
 tion to preliminary reflections from one or more merely ground
 surfaces might be found useful in experiments upon the longest
 waves.
       In view of these phenomena we recognise that it is something of
 an accident that polishing processes, as distinct from grinding, are
 needed at all; and we may be tempted to infer that there is no
 essential difference between the operations. This appears to have
 been the opinion of Herschel,* whom we may regard as one of the
 first authorities on such a subject. But, although, perhaps, no sure
 conclusion can be demonstrated, the balance of evidence appears to
 point in the opposite direction. It is true that the same powders
 may be employed in both cases. In ono experiment a glass surface
 was polished with the same emery as had been used effectively a
/little earlier in the grinding. The difference is in the character of
 the backing. In grinding, the emery is backed by a hard surface,
'e.g. of glass, while during the polishing the powder (mostly rouge
jin these experiments) is imbedded in a comparatively yielding sub-
      * Eno. Met., Art. Light, p. 447, 1830: "The intensity and regularity of
 reflection at the external surface of a medium is found to depend not merely on
 the nature of the medium, but very essentially on the degree of smoothness and
 polish of its surface. But it may reasonably be asked, how any regular reflection
 can take place on a surface polished by art, when we recollect that the process
 of polishing is, in fact, nothing more than grinding down large asperities into
 smaller ones by the use of hard gritty powders, which, whatever degree of me
 chanical comminution we may give them, are yet vast masses, in comparison
 with the ultimate molecules of matter, and their action can only be considered as
 an irregular tearing up by the roots of every projection that may occur in the
 surface. So that, in fact, a surface artificially polished must bear somewhat of
  the   does kind
  fieldsame   to theofmost
                       relation to the surface
                                       polishedofmirror,
                                                   a liquid,
                                                         theorwork
                                                                a crystal,      a ploughed
                                                                           thathands."<U+FFFC>
                            delicately                              of human

        566                     The Right Hon. Lord Sayleigh                  [March 29,
        stance, such as pitch. Under these conditions, which preclude
   I    more than a moderate pressure, it seems probable that no pits are
  I     formed by the breaking out of fragments, but that the material
I       is worn away (at first, of course, on the eminences) almost mole-
|       cularly.
             The progress of the operation is easily watched with a micro
        scope, provided, say, with a ^-inch object-glass. The first few
        minutes suffice to effect a very visible change. Under the micro
        scope it is seen that little facets, parallel to the general plane of the
        surface, have been formed on all the more prominent eminences.* The
        facets, although at this stage but a very small fraction of the whole
        area, are adequate to give a sensible specular reflection, even at per
        pendicular incidence. On one occasion five minutes' polishing of a
        rather finely ground gloss surface was enough to qualify it for the
        formation of interference bands, when brought into juxtaposition
        with another polished surface, the light being either white or from
        a soda flame ; so that in this way an optical test can be applied
        almost before the polishing has begun.']-
             As the polishing proceeds, the facets are seen under the micro
        scope to increase both in number and in size, until they occupy
        much the larger part of the area. Somewhat later the parts as yet
        untouched by the polisher appear as pits, or spots, upon a surface
        otherwise invisible. Fig. 1 represents a photograph of a surface
      I at this stage taken with the microscope. The^completion of the
        process consists in rubbing away the whole surface down to the level
  [J of the deepest pits. The last part of the operation, while it occupies
        a great deal of time, and entails further risk of losing the " truth "
        of the surface, adds very little to the effective area, or to the intensity
        of the light regularly reflected or refracted.
             Perhaps the most important fact taught by the microscope is that
        the polish of individual parts of the surface does not improve during
        the process. As soon as they can be observed at all, the facets appear
        absolutely structureless. In its subsequent action the polishing tool,
        shearing only upon the parts already polished, extends the boundary
        of these parts, but does not enhance their quality. Of course, the
        jnere fact that no structure can be perceived does not of itself prove
        that pittings may not be taking place of a character too fine to be
        shown by a particular microscope or by any possible microscope.
     I But so much discontinuity, as compared with the grinding action,
        has to be admitted in any case, that one is inevitably led to the con
        clusion that in all probability the operation is a molecular one, and
         that no coherent fragments containing a large number of molecules
        are broken out. If this be so, there would be much less difference
            * The interpretation is facilitated by a thin coating of auiline dye which
        attaches itself mainly to the hollows.
            f With oblique incidence, as in Talbot's experiments (see Phil. Mag., xxviii.
        p. 191, 1889), achromatic bunds may be observed from a surface absolutely un
        polished, but this disposition would not be favourable for testing purposes.

FIG. I.

1901.]                           on Polish.                          567
than Hergchel thought between the surfaces of a polished solid and
of a liquid.
     Several trials have been made to determine how much material
is actually removed during the polishing of glass. In one experiment
a piece 6 inches in diameter, very finely ground, was carefully weighed
at intervals during the process. Losses of -070, '032, '045, -026,
 - 032 gms. were successively registered, amounting in all to • 205 gms.
Taking the specific gravity of the glass as 3, this corresponds to a
thickness of 3-6 X 10-4 cm., or to about 6 wave-lengths of mean
light, and it expresses the distance between the original mean surface
and the final plane. But the polish of this glass, though sufficient
for most practical purposes, was by no means perfect. Probably the
6 wave-lengths would have needed to be raised to 10 in order to
satisfy a critical eye. It may be interesting to note for comparison
that, in the grinding, one charge of emery, such as had remained
suspended in water for seven or eight minutes, removed a thickness
of glass corresponding to 2 wave-lengths.
     In other experiments the thickness removed in polishing was de
termined optically. A very finely ground disc was mounted in the
lathe and polished locally in rings. Much core was needed to obtain
the desired effect of a ring showing a continuously increasing polish
from the edges inwards. To this end it was necessary to keep the
polisher (a piece of wood covered with resin and rouge) in constant
motion, otherwise a number of narrow grooves developed themselves.
     The best ring was about half an inch wide. When brought into
contact with a polished flat and examined at perpendicular incidence
with light from a soda flame, the depression at its deepest part gave a
displacement of three bands, corresponding to a depth of 1 J X. On
a casual iuspection this central part appeared well polished, but ex
amination under the microscope revealed a fair number of small pits.
Further working increased tho maximum depth to 2JX, when but
very few pits remained. In this case, then, polish was effected during
a lowering of the mean surface through 2 or 3 wave-lengths, but
the grinding had been exceptionally fine.
     It may bo well to emphasise that the observations here recorded
relate to a hard substance. In tho polishing of a soft subtance, such
as copper, it is possible that material may be loosened from its original
position without becoming detached. In such a case pits may be
actually filled in, by which the operation would be much quickened.
Nothing suggestive of this effect has been observed in experiments
upon glass.
     Another method of operating upon glass is by means of hydro
fluoric acid. Contrary to what is generally supposed, this action is
extremely regular, if proper precautions are taken. The acid should
be weak, say one part of commercial acid to two hundred of water,
 and it should be kept in constant motion by a suitable rocking
 arrangement. The parts of the glass not intended to be eaten into
are, as usual, protected with wax. The effect upon a polished flat

 568                   The Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh                 [March 29,
 surface is observed by the formation of Newton's rings with soda
 ligbt. After perhaps three-quarters of an hour, the depression corre
 sponds to half a band, i.e. amounts to £ A, and it appears to be
 uniform over the whole surface exposed. Two pieces of plate glass,
 3 inches square, and flat enough to come into fair contact all over,
 were painted with wax in parallel stripes, and submitted to the acid
 for such a time, previously ascertained, as would ensure an action
 upon the exposed parts of £ A. After removal of the wax, the two
 plates, crossed and pressed into contact so as to develop the colours,
say of the second order, exhibited a chess-board pattern. Where two
 uncorroded, or where two corroded parts, are in contact, the colours
are nearly the same, but where a corroded and an uncorroded surface
overlap, a strongly contrasted colour is developed. The combination
lends itself to lantern projection, and the pattern upon the screen
[shown] is very beautiful, if proper precautious arc taken to eliminate
the white light reflected from the first and fourth surfaces of the
plates.
     In illustration of the aotion of hydrofluoric acid, photographs*
were shown of interference bands as formed by soda-light between
glass surfaces, one optically flat and the other ordinary plate, upon
which a drop of dilute acid had been allowed to stand (Fig. 2).
Truly plane surfaces would give bands straight, parallel, and equi
distant.
     Hydrofluoric acid has been employed with some success to correct
ascertained errors in optical surfaces. But while improvements in
actual optical performance have been effected, the general appearance
of a surface so treated is unprepossessing. The development of latent
scratches has been described on a former occasion. \
     A second obvious application of hydrofluoric acid has hitherto
been less successful. If a suitable stopping could be found by which
the deeper pits could be protected from the action, corrosion by acid
could be used in substitution for a large part of the usual process of
polishing.
     In connection with experiments of this sort, trial was made of the
action of the acid upon finely ground glass, such for example as is
used as a backing for stereoscopic transparencies, and very curious
results were observed. For this purpose the acid may conveniently
be used much stronger, say one part of commercial acid to 10 parts
of water, and the action may be prolonged for hours or days. The
general appearance of the glass after treatment is smoother and more
ti anslucent, but it is only under the microscope that the remarkable
changes which the surface has undergone become intelligible. Fig. 3
is from a photograph taken in the microscope, the focus being upon
the originally ground surface itself. The whole area is seen to be
divided into cells. These cells increase as the action progresses, the
           * The plates were sensitised in the laboratory with cyanine.
           t Proc. Boy. Inst., March 1893.

FIG. 2.

FIG. 3.


        1
FIG. 4.

1901.]                          on Polish.                           669
smaller ones being, as it were, eaten up by the bigger. The division
lines between the cells are ridges, raised above the general level, and
when seen in good focus appear absolutely sharp. The general
surface within the cells shows no structure, being as invisible as if
highly polished.
    That each cell is in fact a concave lens, forming a separate image
of the source of light, is shown by slightly screwing out the object-
glass. Fig. 4 was taken in this way from the same surface, the
source of light being the flame of a paraffin lamp, in front of which
was placed a cross cut from sheet-metal.
    The movement required to pass from the ridge to the image of
the source, equal to the focal length (/) of the lens, may be utilised
to determine the depth (<) of a cell. In one experiment the necessary
                                                                A
                                    Fio. 5.
movement was . 005 inch. The semi-aperture (y) of the " lens " was
 '0015 inch, whence by the formula y2 = ft, we find t = '00045 inch.
This represents the depth of the cell, and it amounts to about 8 wave
lengths of yellow light.
    The action of the acid seems to be readily explained if we make
the very natural supposition that it eats in everywhere, at a fixed rate,
normally to the actual surface. If the amount of the normal corro
sion after a proposed time be known, the new surface can be con
structed as the " envelope " of spheres having tho radius in question
and centres distributed over the old surface. Ultimately, the new
surface becomes identified with a series of spherical segments having
their centres at the deeper pits of the original surface. The construc
tion is easily illustrated in the case of two dimensions. In the figure

570         The Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh on Polish.        [March 29,
A is supposed to be the original surface ; B, C, D, E surfaces formed
by corrosion, being constructed by circles having their centres on A.
In B the ridges are still somewhat rounded, but they become sharp in
D and E. The general tendency is to sharpen elevations and to smooth
off depressions.

1901.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                          571
                  GENERAL          MONTHLY
                             Monday,               MEETING,
                                       April 1, 1901.
 Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer and
                         Vice-President, in the Chair.
                        Robert Barnes, M.D.
                        John Hoigate Batten, Esq.
                        Robert L. Bowles, M.D.
                        G. Lawson Johnston, Esq.
                        Joseph Lawrence, Esq.
                        Edward T. Sturdy, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for a donation
of £50 from " A Friend " to the Fund for the Promotion of Experi
mental Research at Low Temperatures.
     It was announced from the Chair that His Majesty The King
had graciously consented to become Patron of the Royal Institution.
     The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FKOM
 The Secretary of State for India—General Report on Public Instruction in Bengal
     for 1899-1900. 8vo. 1900.
   Progress Report of the Archaeological Survey of Western India for the year
      ending 30th June, 1900. fol.
 The Lords of the Admiralty—Nautical Almanac for 1904. 8vo.
 The Meteorological Office—Hourly Means for 1899. 4to. 1901.
   Charts illustrating the Weather of the North Atlantic Ocean in the Winter of
      1898-99. 4to. 1901.
Accademia dei Lincei, lieale, Roma—Classe di Scienze Fisiche, Matematiche e
      Naturali. Atti, Serie Quinta . Rendiconti. 1° Semestre, Vol. X. Fasc. 4, 5.
Ackermann, Eugene, Esq.—Au Pays du Caoutchouc. 8vo. 1900.
 American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XXXVI. Nos. 13-15.
      8vo. 1900-1901.
 Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XXII. Part 3. 8vo. 1901.
 Boston Public Library—Monthly Bulletin, Vol. VI. No. 3. 8vo. 1901.
 Boston Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Vol. V. Nos. 5, 6. 8vo. 1901.
 Boston Society of Natural History—Geology of the Boston Basin. By W. O.
      Crosby. Vol. I. Part 3. 8vo. 1900.
   Proceedings, Vol. XXIX. Nos. 9-14. 8vo. 1900.
   Memoirs, Vol. V. Nos. 6, 7. 4to. 1900-1901.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal. 3rd Series. Vol. VIII. No. 7. 4to.
      1900.

572                         General Monthly Meeting.                    [April 1,
British Astronomical Association—Memoirs, Vol. X. Part 1. 8vo. 1901.
  Journal, Vol. XI. No. 5. 8vo. 1901.
Camera Club—Journal for March, 1901. 8vo.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XX. No. 2. 8vo. 1901.
Chemical Society—Proceedings, No-. 234. 8vo. 1900.
  Journal for March, 1901. 8vo.
Corfield, Professor W. H.—Small Balance used by Scheele.
   A Piece of Antozoniferous Fluor Spar, received from Schreiber in 1863.
          Daubeny totoD.the
  AnDr.Introduction           Atomic8vo.
                          Prout).         1831. By C. Daubeny" (with letter from
                                      Theory.                                     i
Editors—American Journal of Science for March, 1901. 8vo.
  Analyst for March, 1901. 8vo.
  Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for March, 1901. 8vo.
  Athenaeum for March, 1901. 4to.
  Author for Maroh, 1901. 8vo.
   Brewers' Journal for March, 1901. 8vo.
   Chemical News for March, 1901. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for March, 1901. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for March, 1901. fol.
   Electrical Review for March, 1901. 8vo.
   Electricity for March, 1901. 8vo.
   Electro-Chemist and Metallurgist for March, 1901. 8vo.
   Engineer for March, 1901. fol.
   Engineering for Maroh, 1901. fol.
   Homoeopathic Review for March, 1901. 8vo.
   Horological Journal for March, 1901. 8vo.
   Invention for Maroh, 1901.                                                      I
   Journal of the British Dental Association for March, 1901. 8vo.
   Journal of Physical Chemistry for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Journal of State Medicine for March, 1901. 8vo.
   Law Journal for Maroh, 1901. 8vo.
   Lightning for March, 1901. 8vo.
   London Technical Education Gazette for Feb. 1901.
   Machinery Market for March, 1901. 8vo.
   Nature for March, 1901. 4to.
   New Church Magazine for March, 1901. 8vo.
   Nuovo Cimento for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Photographic News for March, 1901 8vo.
   Physical Review for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
   Popular Science Monthly for March, 1901.
   Public Health Engineer for March, 1901. 8vo
   Telephone Magazine for March, 1901.
   Travel for March, 1901. 8vo.
   Tropical Agriculturist for March, 1901. 8vo.
   Zoophilist tor March, 1901. 4to.
Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal, Vol. XXX. No. 148. 8vo. 1900.
Geographical
Franklin       Society, [tonal—Geographical
           Institute—Journal                  Journal
                               for March, 1901.   8vo. for March, 1901. 8vo.
Gladstone, Dr. J. H. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Tijdschrift van het K. Nederlandach
      Aardrijkskundig Genontschap, Tweede Serie, Deel XVII. 8vo. 1900.
Imperial Institute— Imperial Institute Journal for March, 1901.
Johns Hoplcins University—American Chemical Journal for March, 1901. 8vo.
   American Journal of Philology, Vol. XX I. No. 4. 8vo. 1901.
Leighton, John, Esq. M.R.I.—Journal of the Ex-Libris Society for Feb. 1901.
      8vo.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs and Proceedings, VoL
      XLV. Parti. 8vo. 1900-1901.
Massachusetts State Board of Health—Thirtieth Annual Report. 8vo. 1899.
Mechanical Engineers Institution—Proceedings, 1900, No. 4. 8vo. 1900.

1901.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                            578
Munich, Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Sitzungsberiohte 1900, Heft 3.
Navy8vo.
       League—Navy
Numismatic  1901.
              Society—Numismatio
                         League Journal
                                     Chroniole, 1900,1901.
                                        for March,          3.
                                                       Fart 8vo.
Oxford Historical
Odontobgical          Society—The Objects
               Society—Transactions,         and WorkNo.of4.the8vo.Oxford
                                       Vol. XXXIII.                   1901.Historical
     Society. 8vo. 1900.
Pharmaceutical Society of Cheat Britain—Journal for March, 1901. 8vo.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographio Journal for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
Physical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XVII. Part 5. 8vo. 1901.
Rome, Ministry of Public Works—Giornale del Genio Civile for Jan. 1901. 8vo.
  Proceedings,
Royal   Society ofNo.London—Philosophical
     1901.             443. 8va 1901.        Transactions, A, Nos. 276-278. 4to.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes for Maroh, 1901. 8vo.
Society of Arts—Journal for March, 1901. 8vo.
Tacchini. Prof. P. Eon. Mem. R.I. (the Author)—Memorie della Societa degli
     Spettroscopisti Italiani, Vol. XXIX. Disp. 10, 11. 4to. 1900.
Taylor, L. Acland, Esq.—Some of the Publio Institutions of Bristol. 8vo. 1900.
Toronto, University of—Studies : Anatomical Series, No. 1 ; Geological Series,
     No. 1 ; Psychological Series, No. 4. 8vo. 1900.
     War. & Underwood, Messrs.—Set of Stereoscopic Views of the South African
Underwood
  Two Stereoscopes.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for Maroh, 1901. 8vo.
United States Patent Ofice—Official Gazette, Vol. XCIV. Nos. 10, 11. 8vo. 1900.
Verein zur BefSrderung des Geioerbfleitses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1901,
     Nos. 2, 3 8vo.
Vienna, Imperial Geological Institute—Verhandlungen, 1900, Nos. 17, 18 : 1901,
     No. 1. 8vo.
Western Society of Engineers (U.S.A.)—Journal of the Western Sociéty of Engi
    neers, Vol. VI. Part 1. 8vo. 1901.
Wisconsin Academy—Transactions, VoL XII. Part 2. 8vo. 1900.
Wright, Messrs. J. >fe Co. (the Publishers}—The Medical Annual for 1901. 8vo.
Yorkshire Archssological Society—Journal, Part 62. 8vo. 1901.

574                    Professor J. J. Thomson               [April 19,
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, April 19, 1901.
Hib Gbaob Tub Duke of Nobthumbebland, K.G. D.C.L. F.R.S.,
                        President, in the Chair.
            Pbofessob J. J. Thomson, M.A. Sc.D. F.R.S.
              The Existence of Bodies Smaller than Atoms.
The masses of the atoms of the various gases were first investigated
about thirty years ago by methods due to Loschmidt, Johnstone
Stoney and Lord Kelvin. These physicists, using the principles of
the kinetic theory of gases, and making certain assumptions (which it
must be admitted are not entirely satisfactory) as to the shape of the
atom, determined the mass of an atom of a gas ; and when once the
mass of an atom of one substance is known the masses of the atoms
of all other substances are easily deduced by well-known chemical
considerations. The results of these investigations might be thought
to leave not much room for the existence of anything smaller than
ordinary atoms, for they showed that in a cubic centimetre of gas at
atmospheric pressure and at 0° C. there are about 20 million, million,
million (2 X 10") molecules of the gas.
    Though some of the arguments used to get this result are open
to question, the result itself has been confirmed by considerations of
quite a different kind. Thus, Lord Rayleigh has shown that this
number of molecules per cubic centimetre gives about the right value
for the optical opacity of the air ; while a method which I will now
describe, by which we can directly measure the number of molecules
in a gas, leads to a result almost identical with that of Loschmidt.
This method is founded on Faraday's laws of electrolysis ; we deduce
from these laws that the current through an electrolyte is carried by
the atoms of the electrolyte, and that all these atoms carry the same
charge, so that the weight of the atoms required to carry a given
quantity of electricity is proportional to the quantity carried. We
know too, by the results of experiments on electrolysis, that to carry
the unit charge of electricity requires a collection of atoms of hydro
gen which together weigh about one-tenth of a milligram ; hence, if
we can measure the charge of electricity on an atom of hydrogen, we
see that one-tenth of this charge will be the weight in milligrams of
the atom of hydrogen. This result is for the case when electricity
passes through a liquid electrolyte. I will now explain how we can
measure the mass of the carriers of electricity required to convey a

1901.]       on the Existence of Bodies Smaller than Atoms.          575
given charge of electricity through a rarefied gas. In this case the
direct methods which are applicable to liquid electrolytes cannot be
used ; but there are other, if more indirect, methods by which we can
solve the problem. The first case of conduction of electricity through
gases we shall consider is that of the so-called cathode rays—those
streamers from the negative electrode in a vacuum tube which pro
duce the well-known green phosphorescence on the glass of the tube.
These rays are now known to consist of negatively electrified particles
moving with great rapidity. Let us see how we can determine the
electric charge carried by a given mass of these particles. We can
do this by measuring the effect of electric and magnetic forces on
the particles. If these are charged with electricity they ought to be
deflected when they are acted on by an electric force. It was some
time, however, before such a deflection was observed, and many
attempts to obtain this deflection were unsuccessful. The want of
success was due to the fact that the rapidly moving electrified particles
which constitute the cathode rays make the gas through which they
pass a conductor of electricity ; the particles are thus, as it were,
moving inside conducting tubes which screen them off from an ex
ternal electric field ; by reducing the pressure of the gas inside the
tube to such an extent that there was very little gas left to conduct,
I was able to get rid of this screening effect and obtain the deflection
of the rays by an electrostatic field. The cathode rays are also de
flected by a magnet ; the force exerted on them by the magnetic field
is at right angles to the magnetic force, at right angles also to the
 velocity of the particle, and equal to Heo sin 6, where H is the
magnetic force, e the oharge on the particle and 6 the angle between
 H and v. Sir George Stokes showed long ago that, if the magnetic
force was at right angles to the velocity of the particle, the latter
would describe a circle whose radius is         (if m is the mass of the
                                           e a.
particle); we con measure the radius of this circle, and thus find — .
To find o, let an electric force F and a magnetic force H act simul  ve
taneously on the particle, the electric and magnetio forces being both
at right angles to the path of the particle and also at right angles to
each other. Let us adjust these forces so that the effect of the
electric force which is equal to Fo just balances that of the magnetic
force which is equal to Hep. When this is the case Fe = He», or v =
F
= . We con thus find t, and, knowing from the previous experiment
H
the value of      , we deduce the value of — . The value of — found in
               e                            e                 e
this way was about 10-', and other methods used by Wiechert, Kauf-
mann and Lenard have given results not greatly different. Since
— = 10-7, we see that to carry unit charge of electricity by the

                                                                                      -
 576                        Professor J. J. Thomson                      [April 19,
 particles forming the cathode rays only requires a mass of these
 particles amounting to one ten-thousandth of a milligram, while to
 carry the same charge by hydrogen atoms would require a mass of
 one-tenth of a milligram.*
      Thus, to carry a given charge of electricity by hydrogen atoms
 requires a mass a thousand times greater than to carry it by the
 negatively electrified particles which constitute the cathode rays ; and
 it is very significant that, while the mass of atoms required to carry
 a given charge through a liquid electrolyte depends upon the kind of
 atom—being, for example, eight times greater for oxygen than for
 hydrogen atoms—the mass of cathode ray particles required to carry
 a given charge is quite independent of the gas through which the
 rays travel and of the nature of the electrode from which they start.
      The exceedingly small mass of these particles for a given charge
 compared with that of the hydrogen atoms might be due either to the
 mass of each of these particles being very small compared with that
 of a hydrogen atom or else to the charge carried by each particle being
 large compared with that carried by the atom of hydrogen. It is there
 fore essential that we should determine the electric charge carried by
 one of these particles. The problem is as follows : Suppose in an
 enclosed space we have a number of electrified particles each carrying
 the same charge, it is required to find the charge on each particle.
 It is easy by electrical methods to determine the total quantity of
electrioity ou the collection of particles, and, knowing this, we can find
 the charge on each particle if we can count the number of particles.
 To count these particles the first step is to make them visible. We
can do this by availing ourselves of a discovery made by C. T. B.
 Wilson working in the Cavendish Laboratory. Wilson has shown
 that, when positively and negatively electrified particles are present
 in moist dust-free air, a cloud is produced when the air is closed by a
 sudden expansion, though this amount of expansion would be quite
 insufficient to produce condensation when no electrified particles are
 present : the water condenses round the electrified particles, and, if
 these are not too numerous, each particle becomes the nucleus of a
 little drop of water. Now Sir George Stokes has shown how we can
 calculate the rate at which a drop of water falls through air if we
know the size of the drop, and conversely we can determine the size
 of the drop by measuring the rate at which it falls through the air ;
 hence, by measuring the speed with which the cloud falls, we can
determine the volume of each little drop ; the whole volume of water
    * Professor Schuster in 1889 was the first to apply the method of the
magnotic deflection of the discharge to get a determination of the value of — ; ha
                                                                              e
found rather widely separated limiting values for this quantity, and came to the
conclusion that it was of the same order as in electrolytic solutions ; the result of
the method mentioned above, as well as those of Wiechert, Kaufmann and
Lenard, make it very much smaller.

 1901.]       on the Existence of Bodies Smaller than Atoms.         577
 deposited by cooling the air can easily be calculated, and, dividing
 the whole volume of water by the volume of one of the drops, we get
 the number of drops, and hence the number of the electrified particles.
 We saw, however, that if we knew the number of particles we could
 get the electric charge on each particle ; proceeding in this way I
found that tho charge carried by each particle was about 6 • 5 X 10 10
electrostatic units of electricity, or 2 -17 X lO-30 electro-magnetic
units. According to the kinetio theory of gases, there are 2 X 10'9
molecules in a cubic centimetre of gas at atmospheric pressure
and at the temperature 0° C. ; as a cubic centimetre of hydrogen
weighs about one-eleventh of a milligram, each molecule of hydrogen
weighs about         - —— milligrams, and each atom therefore about
      1
(44 X 10'j)
of solutions one-tenth of a milligram carries unit charge, the atom of
hydrogen will carry a charge equal to                   10
                                             (44 X 10") = 2-27 X 10^°
electro-magnetic units. The charge on the particles in a gas, we
have seen, is equal to 2 • 17 X 10_J0 units. These numbers are so nearly
equal that, considering the difficulties of the experiments, we may
feel snre that the charge on one of these gaseous particles is the same
as that on an atom of hydrogen in electrolysis. This result has been
verified in a different way by Professor Townsend, who used a method
by which he found, not the absolute value of the electric charge on a
particle, but the ratio of this charge to the charge on an atom of
hydrogen ; and he found that the two charges were equal.
    As the charges on the particle and the hydrogen atom are the same,
the fact that the mass of these particles required to carry a given
charge of electricity is only one-thousandth part of the mass of the
hydrogen atoms shows that the mass of each of these particles is only
about -njVjf of that of a hydrogen atom. These particles occurred in
the cathode rays inside a discharge tube, so that we have obtained from
the matter inside such a tube particles having a much smaller moss
than that of the atom of hydrogen, the smallest mass hitherto recog
nised. These negatively electrified particles, which I have called cor
puscles, have the same electric charge and the same mass whatever be
the nature of the gas inside the tube or whatever the nature of the
electrodes ; the charge and mass are invariable. They therefore form
an invariable constituent of the atoms or molecules of all gases, and
presumably of all liquids and solids.
    Nor are the corpuscles confined to the somewhat inaccessible
regions in which cathodic rays are found. I have found that they are
given off by incandescent metals, by metals when illuminated by
ultra-violet light, while the researches of Becquerol and Professor and
Madame Curie have shown that they are given off by that wonderful
substance the radio-active radium.
    Vol. XVI. (No. 95.)                                      2 a

578                       Professor J. J. Thomson                [April 19,
    In fact, in every case in which the transport of negative electricity
through gas at a low pressure (i.e., when the corpuscles have nothing
to stick to) has been examined, it has been found that the carriers of
the negative electricity are these corpuscles of invariable mass.
    A very different state of things holds for the positive electricity.
The masses of the carriers of positive electricity have been deter
mined for the positive electrification in vacuum tubes by Wien and
by Ewers, while I have measured the same thing for the positive
electrification produced in a gas by an incandescent wire. The
results of these experiments show a remarkable difference between
the property of positive and negative electrification, for the positive
electricity, instead of being associated with a constant mass -rsVjr °^
that of the hydrogen atom, is found to be always connected with a
mass which is of the same order as that of an ordinary molecule,
and which, moreover, varies with the nature of the gas in'which the
electrification is found.
    These two results, the invariability and smallness of the mass of
the carriers of negative electricity, and the variability and compara
tively large mass of the carriers of positive electricity, seem to me to
point unmistakably to a very definite conception as to the nature of
electricity. Do they not obviously suggest that negative electricity
consists of these corpuscles, or, to put it the other way, that these
corpuscles are negative electricity, and that positive electrification
consists in the absence of these corpuscles from ordinary atoms ?
Thus this point of view approximates very closely to the old one-fluid
theory of Franklin ; on that theory electricity was regarded as a fluid,
and changes in the state of electrification were regarded as due to the
transport of this fluid from one place to another. If we regard
Franklin's electric fluid as a collection -of negatively electrified cor
puscles, the old one-fluid theory will, in many respects, express the
results of the new. We have seen that we know a good deal about
the " electric fluid " ; we know that it is molecular,or rather corpuscular
in character ; we know the mass of each of these corpuscles and the
charge of electricity carried by it ; we have seen, too, that the velocity
with which the corpuscles move can be determined without difficulty.
In fact, the electric fluid is much more amenable to experiment than
an ordinary gas, and the details of its structure are more easily
determined.
    Negative electricity (i.e., the electric fluid) has mass ; a body
negatively electrified has a greater mass than the same body in the
neutral state ; positive electrification, on the other hand, since it in
volves the absence of corpuscles, is accompanied by a diminution in
mass.
    An interesting question arises as to the nature of the mass of
these corpuscles, which we may illustrate in the following way. When
a charged corpuscle is moving, it produces in the region around it
a magnetic field whose strength is proportional to the velocity of the
corpuscle ; now in a magnetio field there is an amount of energy pro

1901.]       on the Existence of Bodies Smaller than Atoms.             579
portional to the square of the strength, and thus, in this case, propor
tional to the square of the velocity of the corpuscle.
     Then, if e is the electric charge on the corpuscle and v its velocity
thoro will be in the region round the corpuscle an amount of energy
equal to ^ /? cV where /? is a constant which depends upon the shape
and size of the corpuscle. Again, if m is the mass of the corpuscle its
kinetio energy is %mv2, and thus the total energy due to the moving
electrified corpuscle is       + /3 e2)v\ so that, for the same velocity, it
has the same kinetic energy as a non-electrified body whose mass is
greater than that of the electrified body by /3e2. Thus a charged body
possesses, in virtue of its charge, as I showed twenty years ago, an
apparent mass apart from that arising from the ordinary matter in
the body. In the case of these corpuscles, part of their mass is
undoubtedly due to the electrification, and the question arises whether
or not the whole of their mass can be accounted for in this way. I
have recently made some experiments which were intended to test this
point ; the principle underlying these experiments being as follows : if
the mass of the corpuscle is the ordinary " mechanical " mass, then, if
a rapidly moving corpuscle be brought to rest by colliding with a solid
obstacle, its kinetic energy being resident in the corpuscle will be
spent in heating up the molecules of the obstacle in the neighbourhood
of the place of collision, and we should expect the mechanical equi
valent of the heat produced in the obstacle to be equal to the kinetio
energy of the corpuscle. If, on the other hand, the mass of the cor
puscle is " electrical," then the kinetio energy is not in the corpuscle
itself, but in the medium around it, and, when the corpuscle is stopped
the energy travels outwards into space as a pulse confined to a thin
shell travelling with the velocity of light. I suggested some time ago
that this pulse forms the Rontgen rays which are produced when the
corpuscles strike against an obstacle. On this view, the first effect of
the collision is to produce Rontgen rays, and thus, unless the obstacle
against which the corpuscle strikes absorbs all these rays, the energy
of the heat developed in the obstacle will be less than the energy of
the corpuscle. Thus, on the view that the mass of the corpuscle is
wholly or mainly electrical in its origin, we should expect the heating
effect to be smaller when the corpuscles strike against a target per
meable by the Rontgen rays given out by the tube in which the cor
puscles are produced, than when they strike against a target opaque to
those rays. I have tested the heating effects produced in permeable
and opaque targets, but have never been able to get evidence of any
considerable difference between the two cases. The differences actually
observed were small compared with the total effect, and were sometimes
in one direction and sometimes in the opposite. The experiments,
therefore, tell against the view that the whole of the mass of a cor
puscle is due to its electrical charge. The idea that mass in general
is electrical in its origin is a fascinating one, although it has not at
present been reconciled with the results of experience.
    The smallness of these particles marks them out as likely to
                                                             2 q 2

   580                     Professor J. J. Thomson               [April 19,
   afford a very valuable means for investigating the details of molecular
   structure—a structure so fine that even waves of light are on far too
   large a scale to be suitable for its investigation, as a single wave
   length extends over a large number of molecules. This anticipation
   has been fully realised by Lenard's experiments on the obstruction
   offered to the passage of these corpuscles through different substances.
   Lenard found that this obstruction depended only upon the density of
   the substance, and not upon its chemical composition or physical state.
   He found that, if he took plates of different substances of equal areas
   and of such thicknesses that the masses of all the plates were the same,
   then, no matter of what the plates were made, whether of insulators
   or conductors, whether of gases, liquids or solids, the resistance they
   offered to the passage of the corpuscles through them was the same.
   Now this is exactly what would happen if the atoms of the chemical
   elements were aggregations of a large number of equal particles of
   equal mass : the mass of an atom being proportional to the number
   of these particles contained in it, and the atom being a collection of
   such particles through the interstices between which the corpuscle
   might find its way. Thus, a collision between a corpuscle and an atom
   would not be so much a collision between the corpuscle and the atom
   as a whole, as between a corpuscle and the individual particles of
   which the atom consists ; and the number of collisions the corpuscle
   would make, and therefore the resistance it would experience, would
   be the same if the number of particles in unit volume were the same,
   whatever the nature of the atoms might be into which these particles
   are aggregated. The number of particlos in unit volume is, however,
   fixed by the density of the substance, and on this view the density
   (and the density alone) should fix the resistance offered by the sub
   stance to the motion of a corpuscle through it ; this, however, is
   precisely Lenard's result, which is a strong confirmation of the view
   that the atoms of the elementary substances are made up of simpler
   parts, all of which are alike. This and similar views of the constitu
   tion of matter havo often been advocated ; thus in one form of it,
   known as Prout's hypothesis, all the elements were supposed to be
   compounds of hydrogen. We know, however, that the mass of the
   primordial atom must be much less than that of hydrogen. Sir Nor
   man Lockyer has advocated the composite view of the nature of the
   elements on spectroscopic grounds, but the view has never been more
   boldly stated than it was long ago by Newton, who says :
        "The smallest particles of matter may cohere by the strongest
    attraction and compose bigger particles of weaker virtue, and many of
    these may cohere and compose bigger particles whose virtue is still
    weaker, and so on for divers successions, until the progression ends in
    the biggest particles on which the operations in chemistry and the
    colours of natural bodies depend, and which by adhering compose
    bodies of a sensible magnitude."
        The reasoning we used to prove that the resistance to the motion
   of the corpuscle depends only upon the density is only valid when
,v

1901.]       on the Existence of Bodies Smaller than Atoms.             581
the sphere of action of one of the particles on a corpuscle does not
extend as far as the nearest particle. We shall show later on, that
the sphere of action of a particle on a corpuscle depends upon the
velocity of the corpuscle —the smaller the velocity the greater being
the sphere of action—and that, if the velocity of the corpuscle falls as
low as 107 centimetres per second, then, from what we know of the
charge on the corpuscle and the size of molecules, the sphere of action
of the particle might be expected to extend further than the distance
between two particles ; and thus, for corpuscles moving with this and
smaller velocities, we should not expect the density law to hold.
      Existence of Free Corpuscles or Negative Electricity in Metals.
     In the cases hitherto described the negatively electrified corpuscles
had been obtained by processes which require the bodies from which
 the corpuscles are liberated to be subjected to somewhat exceptional
 treatment. Thus, in the case of the cathode rays the corpuscles were
 obtained by means of intense electric fields : in the case of the incan
 descent wire by great heat, in the case of the cold metal surface by
 exposing this surface to light. The question arises whether there is
 not to some extent, even in matter in the ordinary state and free from
 the action of such agencies, a spontaneous liberation of those cor
 puscles —a kind of dissociation of the neutral molecules of the sub
 stance into positively and negatively electrified parts, of which the
 latter are the negatively electrified corpuscles.
      Let us consider the consequences of some such effect occurring in
 a metal, the atoms of the metal splitting up into negatively electrified
 corpuscles and positively electrified atoms, and these again after a time
 re-combining to form a neutral system. When things have got into a
 steady state, the number of corpuscles re-combining in a given time
 will be equal to the number liberated in the same time. There will
 thus be diffused through the metal swarms of these corpuscles : these
 will be moving about in all directions like the molecules of a gas, and,
 as they can gain or lose energy by colliding with the molecule of the
 metal, we should expect by the kinetic theory of gases that they will
 acquire such an average velocity that the mean kinetic energy of a
 corpuscle moving about in the metal is equal to that possessed by a
 molecule of a gas at the temperature of the metal ; this would make
 the average value of the corpuscles at 0° C. about 107 centimetres per
 second. This swarm of negatively electrified corpuscles when exposed
  to an electric force will be sent drifting along in the direction opposite
  to the force ; this drifting of the corpuscles will be an electric current,
  so that we could in this way explain the electrical conductivity of
  metals.
      The amount of electricity carried across unit area under a given
 electric force will depend upon and increase with (1) the number
  of free corpuscles per unit volume of the metal ; (2) the freedom with
 which these can move under the force between the atoms of the

 682                      Professor J. J. Thomson                [April 19,
  metal ; the latter will depend upon the average velocity of these cor
  puscles, for if they are moving with very great rapidity the electric
  force will have very little time to act before the corpuscle collides
  with an atom, and the effect produced by the electric force annulled.
  Thus, the average velocity of drift imparted to the corpuscles by the
  electric field will diminish as the average velocity of translation,
 which is fixed by the temperature, increases. As the average velocity
  of translation increases with the temperature, the corpuscles will
  move more freely under the action of an electric force at low
 temperatures than at high, and thus from this cause the electrical
 conductivity of metals would increase as the temperature diminishes.
 In a paper presented to tho International Congress of Physics at
 Paris in the autumn of last year, I described a method by which
 the number of corpuscles per unit volume and the velocity with
 which they moved under an electric force can be determined. Apply
 ing this method to the case of bismuth, it appears that at the tempera
 ture of 20° C. there are about as many corpuscles in a cubic centimetre
 as there aro molecules in the same volume of a gas at the same tem
 perature and at a pressure of about a quarter of an atmosphere, and
 that the corpuscles under an electric field of 1 volt per centimetre would
 travel at the rate of about 70 metres per second. Bismuth is at present
 the only metal for which the data necessary for the application of this
 method exist ; but experiments are in progress at the Cavendish
 Laboratory which it is hoped will furnish the means for applying the
 method to other metals. We know enough, however, to be sure that
 the corpuscles in good conductors, such as gold, silver or copper, must
 be much more numerous than in bismuth, and that the corpuscular
 pressure in these metals must amount to many atmospheres. These
 corpuscles increase the specific heat of a metal, and the specific heat
 gives a superior limit to the number of them in the metal.
     An interesting application of this theory is to the conduction of
 electricity through thin films of metal. Longden has recently shown
 that when the thickness of the film falls below a certain value, the
 specific resistance of the film increases rapidly as the thickness of
the film diminishes. This result is readily explained by this theory
of metallic conduction, for when the film gets so thin that its thick
ness is comparable with the mean free path of a corpuscle, the num
ber of collisions made by a corpuscle in a film will be greater than in
the metal in bulk, thus the mobility of the particles in the film will
be less and the electrical resistance consequently greater.
     The corpuscles disseminated through the metal will do more than
carry the electric current, they will also carry heat from one part to
another of an unequally heated piece of metal. For if the corpuscles
in one part of the metal have more kinetic energy than those in
another, then, in consequence of the collisions of the corpuscles with
each other and with the atoms, the kinetic energy will tend to pass
from those places where it is greater to those where it is less, and in
this way heat will flow from the hot to the cold parts of the metal ; as

1901.]       on the Existence of Bodies Smaller than Atoms.             583
the rate with which the heat is carried will increase with the number
of corpuscles and with their mobility, it will be influenced by the same
circumstances as the conduction of electricity, so that good conductors
of electricity should also be good conductors of heat. If we calculate
the ratio of the thermal to the electric conductivity on tbe assumption
that the whole of the heat is carried by the corpuscles, we obtain a
value which is of the same order as that found by experiment.
     Weber many years ago suggested that the electrical conductivity
of metals was due to the motion through them of positively and nega
tively electrified particles, and this view has recently been greatly
extended and developed by Riecke and by Drude. The objection to
any electrolytic view of the conduction through metals is that, as in
electrolysis, the transport of electricity involves the transport of matter,
and no evidence of this has been detected ; this objection does not
apply to the theory sketched above, as on this view it is the corpuscles
 which carry the current ; these are not atoms of the metal, but very
much smaller bodies which are the same for all metals.
     It may be asked, if the corpuscles are disseminated through the
metal and moving about in it with an average velocity of about 107
centimetres per second, how is it that some of them do not escape from
the metal into the surrounding air ? We must remember, however, that
these negatively electrified corpuscles are attracted by the positively
electrified atoms and in all probability by the neutral atoms as well,
so that to escape from these attractions and get free a corpuscle would
have to possess a definite amount of energy : if a corpuscle had less
energy than this then, even though projected away from the metal, it
would fall back into it after travelling a short distance. When the
metal is at a high temperature, as in the case of the incandescent wire,
or when it is illuminated by ultra-violet light, some of the corpuscles
acquire sufficient energy to escape from the metal and produce elec
trification in the surrounding gas. We might expect too that, if we
could charge a metal so highly with negative electricity, that the
work done by the electric field on the corpuscle in a distance not
greater than the sphere of action of the atoms on the corpuscles was
greater than the energy required for a corpuscle to escape, then the
corpuscles would escape and negative electricity stream from the
metal. In this case the discharge could be effected without the
participation of the gas surrounding the metal and might even take
place in an absolute vacuum, if we could produce such a thing. We
have as yet no evidence of this kind of discharge, unless indeed some
of the interesting results recently obtained by Earhart with very
short sparks should be indications of an efiect of this kind.
     A very interesting case of the spontaneous emission of corpuscles
is that of the radio-active substance radium discovered by M. and
Madame Curie. Radium gives out negatively electrified corpuscles
which are deflected by a magnet. Becquerel has determined the ratio
 of the mass to the charge of the radium corpuscles, aud finds it is the
 same as for the corpuscles in the cathode rays. The velocity of the

 584                     Professor J. J. Thomson                [April 19,
 radium corpuscles is, however, greater than any that has hitherto
 been observed for either cathode or Lenard rays : being, as Becquerel
 found, as much as 2 X 1010 centimetres per second, or two-thirds the
 velocity of light. This enormous velocity explains why the corpuscles
 from radium are so very much more penetrating than the corpuscles
 from cathode or Lenard rays ; the difference in this respect is very
 striking, for while the latter can only penetrate solids when they are
 beaten out into the thinnest films, the corpuscles from radium have
 been found by Curie to be able to penetrate a piece of glass 3 milli
 metres thick. To see how an increase in the velocity can increase the
penetrating power, let us take as an illustration of a collision between
 the corpuscle and the particles of the metal the case of a charged
 corpuscle moving past an electrified body ; a collision may l>e said to
occur between these when the corpuscle comes so close to the charged
body that its direction of motion after passing the body differs appre
 ciably from that with which it started. A simple calculation shows
that the deflection of the corpuscle will only be considerable when
the kinetic energy with which the corpuscle starts on its journey
towards the charged body is not large compared with the work done
by the electric forces on the corpuscle in its journey to the shortest
distance from the charged body. If d is the shortest distance, e and e'
 the charge of the body and corpuscles, the work done is          while if
m is the mass and v the velocity with which the corpuscle starts, the
kinetic energy to begin with is ^ m »2 ; thus a considerable deflection
of the corpuscle, i.e. a collision will occur only when — is com
parable with Jmt2; and d, the distance at which a collision occurs,
will vary inversely as v2. As d is the radius of the sphere of action
for collision, and as the number of collisions is proportional to the
area of a section of this sphere, the number ofcollisions is proportional
to d2, and therefore varies inversely as v*. This illustration explains
how rapidly the number of collisions and therefore the resistance
offered to the motion of the corpuscles through matter diminishes as
the velocity of the corpuscles increases, so that we can understand
why the rapidly moving corpuscles from radium are able to penetrate
 substances which are nearly impermeable to the more slowly moving
corpuscles from cathode and Lenard rays.
                 Cosmical Effects produced by Corpuscles.
     As a very hot metal emits these corpuscles it does not seem an
improbable hypothesis that they are emitted by that very hot body,
the sun. Some of the consequences of this hypothesis have been de
veloped by Paulsen, Birkeland and Arrhenius, who have developed a
theory of the Aurora Borealis from this point of view. Let us sup
pose that the sun gives out corpuscles which travel out through inter
planetary space ; some of these will strike the upper regions of the

1901.]        on the Existence of Bodies Smaller than Atoms.         585
earth's atmosphere and will then or even before then, come under the
influence of the earth's magnetic field. The corpuscles when in such
a field, will describe spirals round the lines of magnetic force ; as the
radii of these spirals will be small compared with the height of the
atmosphere, we may for our present purpose suppose that they travel
along the lines of the earth's magnetic force. Thus the corpuscles
which strike the earth's atmosphere near the equatorial regions where
the lines of magnetic force are horizontal will travel horizontally,
and will remain at the top of the atmosphere, where the density is
so small that but little luminosity is caused by the passage of the
corpuscles through the gas ; as the corpuscles travel into higher lati
tudes where the lines of magnetic force dip, they follow these lines
and descend into lower and denser parts of the atmosphere, where
they produce luminosity, which on this view is the Aurora.
    As Arrhenius has pointed out, the intensity of the Aurora ought
to be a maximum at some latitude intermediate between the pole and
the equator, for, though in the equatorial regions the rain of corpuscles
from the sun is greatest, the earth's magnetic force keeps these in
such highly rarefied gas that they produce but little luminosity, while
at the pole, where the magnetic force would pull them straight down
into the denser air, there are not nearly so many corpuscles ; the
maximum luminosity will therefore be somewhere between these places.
Arrhenius has worked out this theory of the Aurora very completely,
and has shown that it affords a very satisfactory explanation of the
periodic variations to which it is subject.
    Asa gas becomes a conductor of electricity when corpuscles pass
through it, the upper regions of the air will conduct, and when air
currents occur in these regions, conducting matter will be driven
across the lines of force due to the earth's magnetic field, electric
currents will be induced in the air, and the magnetic force due to
these currents will produce variations in the earth's magnetic field.
Balfour Stewart suggested long ago that the variation in the earth's
magnetic field was caused by currents in the upper regions of the
atmosphere ; and Schuster has shown, by the application of Gauss'
method, that the seat of these variations is above the surface of the
earth.
    The negative charge in the earth's atmosphere will not increase
indefinitely in consequence of the stream of negatively electrified cor
puscles coming into it from the sun, for as soon as it gets negatively
electrified it begins to repel negatively electrified corpuscles from the
ionised gas in the upper regions of the air, and a state of equilibrium
will be reached when the earth has such a negative charge that the
corpuscles driven by it from the upper regions of the atmosphere are
equal in number to those reaching the earth from the sun. Thus, on
this view, interplanetary space is thronged with corpuscular traffic,
rapidly moving corpuscles coming out from the sun while more slowly
moving ones stream into it.
    In the case of a planet which, like the moon, has no atmosphere,

586            The Existence of Bodies Smaller than Atoms. [April 19,
there will be no gas for the corpuscles to ionise, and the negative
electrification will increase until it is so intense that the repulsion
exerted by it on the corpuscles is great enough to prevent them from
reaching the surface of the planet.
    Arrhenius has suggested that the luminosity of nebulae may not bo
due to high temperature, but that the luminosity is produced by the
passage through their outer regions of the corpuscles wandering
about in space, the gas in the nebulae being quite cold. This view
seems in some respects to have advantages over that which supposes
the nebulae to be at very high temperatures. These and other
illustrations, which might be given did time permit, seem to render
it probable that these corpuscles may play an important part in
cosmical as well as in terrestrial physics.
                                                            [J. J. T.]

   1901.]                     Colour in Amphibia.                         587
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, April 26, 1901.
    His Gbace the Doke of Nobthumbebland, K.G. D.C.L. F.R.S.,
                            President, in the Chair.
                  Hans Gadow,      Esq.,
                              Colour      M.A. Ph.D. F.R.S.
                                      in Amphibia.
   The colours of the skin of the Amphibia are of two kinds, pigment
  or chemical, and structural. The pigments are either diffuse or
  granular ; they are usually black, red, or yellow, and they remain
  the same whether examined under direct or under transmitted light,
   although they may change in extent and intensity. The pigment
   granules are stored up in cells, chromatophores, which send out
   branched processes and are restricted to the cutis, or leathery part of
   the skin, mostly to its upper layers. The superimposed epiderm is
   thin and, as a rule, colourless. Contraction of the chromatophores
   withdraws the pigment from the surface and causes the skin to appear
   palor ; expansion distributes the pigment more or less equally near the
   surface, which consequently assumes a darker, more saturated, tint.
       Secondly, there are colours which are due to structure. This
  applies always to green, blue and violet. These colours are produced
  by interference of the light, with an underlying stratum of black or
  yellow. Such colours are highly changeable.
       A peculiar kind of colouring matter is the white pigment, which
  may, perhaps, be classified in a third category. It is unchangeable,
  and consists apparently of tiny crystals of guanine, a product allied
  to uric acid, and is, as a rule, deposited within cells.
       One of the most interesting colours is green. It is not only
  very common in many frogs, especially such as lead an arboreal
  life, but it strikes us by its vivid, saturated tints, and last, not least,
  by the changes which creatures thus endowed can exhibit in their
  coloration. If you examine a piece of the skin of a green Tree-frog
  under transmitted light, by holding it against the light, it does not
  look green at all, but more or less black-brown. The same piece
  when examined under low power and direct light, shows a mosaic of
  green polygonal areas, separated by black lines and interrupted by
  the openings of the skin glands. Seen from the under surface the
  skin is black. Under strong power the black layer is seen to be
  composed of ramified black pigment cells, and where the light shines
  through, the skin appears yellow. The mosaic layer is composed of
I polygonal cells, each of which consists of a basal half, which is

688                            Mr. Hans Gadow                       [April 26,
granular and colourless, while the upper half is made up of drops of
yellow oil interspersed in the cell plasma. Since these cells inter
fere with the light, they are called the interference layer.
    A vertical section through the skin shows the following arrange
ment. Below the black chromatophores, looking rather like the roots
of a tree-stump turned upside down. More black is distributed in
the upper strata of the cutis, near the interference layer. The super
imposed protective epiderm may be left out of account, although its
condition somewhat influences the whole phenomenon.
    The presence of the layer of interference cells upon the under
lying black background produces the well-known phenomenon of the
colour of dense media—namely, blue. Only the rays of short wave-
             A                         BCD
   Diagram of a vertical eection through the skin of a green Tree-frog, showing
the chromatophores in various stages of contraction and expansion. The layer
of Oil in the interference cells is indicated by dots, except where the Oil has
coagulated into a few big drops.
   At A the skin would appear green, at B dark brown, at C leaden grey, at
D yellow.
lengths are reflected, while those of greater length are absorbed by
the black background. Consequently the skin would appear blue,
just as the sky is blue, or diluted milk becomes bluish, and the veins
of thin and white-skinned people appear bluish. But in our Frog's
skin the blue light is mixed with the yellow coming from the upper
half of the cells, from the yellow oil, and the result of blue and
yellow is green.
    This can be shown experimentally. Application of a drop of
caustic potash dissolves the guanine crystals, and the skin at once
appears black. On the other hand, remove the yellow oil by
extracting it in alcohol, then the green Frog looks blue. An instance
of this is the scientific name of the grass-green Australian Tree-frog,
Myla ccertdea, so-called because it is always blue in our spirit collec
tions. A scratch in the skin of a living green Tree-frog, just deep

1901.]                    on Colour in Amphibia.                     589
enough to injure or disarrange the yellow layer, appears at once deep
bine. If the lesion penetrates the crystal layer, it looks black.
     When, by the action of the chromatophores, the black pigment is
shoved towards the surface, tho green becomes more saturated.
When the pigment is pushed still further, between the interference-
cells, or even enveloping them partly, then the skin assumes a dull
dark-brown to black colour. Tree-frogs sometimes do this when
they feel dull and cold.
    Again, when the black pigment is withdrawn from the surface
into the deepest strata, and when the chromatophores themselves are
much contracted, the skin becomes yellow. Lastly, when the
chromatophores are more or less contracted, and when the yellow
colour, instead of being diffuse, concentrates into small drops, our
Tree-frog assumes a leaden grey to silky whitish hue.
     It is obvious that those Frogs and Toads which have only black
and yellow pigments, but no interference layer, have command over
but a limited change of colour, ranging from darker to lighter tints
of black, brown and yellow. For instance, in the common Toad and
in the common brown or grass-frog.
     As a rule the changes are slow. They may take hours or days.
One of the most striking by its rapidity of changes is Hyla aurea,
one of the Australian Tree-frogs.
     Whilst the mechanism is clear, the answer to the question, what
these changes depend upon, is rather difficult. The play of the
chromatophores themselves depends upon various causes. Stoppage
of the circulation of the blood in the skin causes contraction of
the black chromatophores. A slight overdose of carbon dioxide
paralyses them, and they dilate. Low temperature causes also
dilation ; high temperature, contraction. Hence, hibernating frogs
are much darker than they are in the summer. Frogs kept in dry
moss, or such as are drying up, turn pale, regardless of light or
darkness surrounding them. The Grass-frog and the continental or
edible Water-frog seem to depend to a great extent upon temperature,
or the amount of moisture in the air, so far as their changes are
concerned.
     The chromatic functions of Tree-frogs, on the other hand, depend
greatly upon the sensory impressions received by the skin. For
instance, a dark Tree-frog will turn green when put into an absolutely
dark vessel in which there are fresh leaves. Bough surfaces cause a
sensation which makes the frog turn dark.
    The modern physiologist prefers looking upon all these changes
as reflex actions, as not under the control of the will of the creature.
Many even assume that the animal neither has control over its
colour, nor does it know what it is doing. All this sounds very well
in the laboratory, but the frogs, when observed in their native haunts,
or even when kept under proper conditions, do not always behave as
the physiologist thinks they should.
    There is no doubt that in many cases the changes of colour are

   590                         Mr. Hans Gadow                     [April 26,
  not voluntary, not even subconscious, but pure reflex actions. It is
   quite conceivable that the sensation of sitting on a rough surface
  starts a whole train of processes : Roughness means bark, bark is
  brown, change into brown. But one and the same Tree-frog does not
  always assume the colour of the bark on which it rests. He will, if
  it suits him, remain grass-greeu upon a yellow stone, or on a white
  window-frame. The sensory impression received through the skin
  of the belly and through the tactile corpuscles of its fingers and toes
  is the same, no matter if the deal board be painted white, black or
  green. How does it come to pass that the frog adjusts his colour to a
  nicety to the general hue or tone of his surroundings, provided he is
 so inclined ?
       That is the point. Forty years ago Lord Lister was much nearer
  the true solution when, by careful observation and ingenious experi
  ments he showed that the guiding impressions are those of the eye.
  The creature sees, studies its surroundings and then adjusts itself to
  them, if it thinks it necessary and if it is in the proper mood. This
  does not prevent such colour changes from becoming an unconscious
  habit, the habit having been repeated so often, and having become so
  strong, and last, not least, having proved so useful that at last it
 comes off whilst volition is suspended. In other words, the change
 has become a reflex action. But I insist upon this, that at any time
 the changes can be inhibited by the will, and can be produced at will.
      A consideration of the coloration in its totality, the colour-pattern,
 is intimately connected with the use of the colours to these creatures.
 Paramount is concealment ; and it is an almost universal law that
 colour is restricted to those parts of the body which are exposed, while
 neutral tints and white are relegated to the hidden parts, chiefly the
 under surface.
      The production, and still more the distribution, of colour pig
 ments, especially of pretty tints, is pre-eminently due to light.
      Concealment and restriction of vivid colours to the exposed visible
 parts sound at first antagonistic—rather paradoxical—still more so
 when we remember that many Amphibia have a pattern, or combina
 tion of colours which renders them most conspicuous. It is difficult
to generalise.
      The simplest case of concealment is exemplified by the common
 Toad. Earthy-brown above, whitish below, with individual and local
variations ; but the effect is in harmony with the ground upon which
this Toad hunts in the dusk.
      The same principle applies to the vividly green Tree-frog, whitish
below, green above, like the leaves upon which it spends most of
its life. And we remember that these creatures can change colour
     Thensothere
besides,            adjust
              as toare whatthemselves
                             I propose to
                                       calling
                                          a nicety to their
                                               Flash        surroundings.
                                                      colours—vivid,   con
spicuous—confined to such parts of the body or limbs as are abso
lutely hidden when the animal is at rest. These colours are shown
off only on emergency, suddenly producing a bright flash. One of

1901.]                     on Colour in Amphibia.                     591
the best examples is the little North American Tree-frog (Hyla versi
color). It prefers to rest upon bark ; for instanco that of an oak tree.
It is, as a rule, delicately silky-grey, with most variable dark mark
ings. Sometimes the bark is suffused with a tint of green, so that it
is well-nigh impossible to discover the frog ; but when disturbed he
takes a tremendous leap. There is a flash of yellow or orange, due
to the suddenly-exposed flanks and inner sides of the legs, and he
is gone. He has dazzled his would-be captor by the display of unex
pected colour.
     A third principle is that of Warning colours ; a combination of
bold patches, usually saturated yellow, orange or red, upon a black
background. All the Amphibia coloured thus are rather poisonous,
tho venom being contained in the numerous glands of the skin, and,
although there are exceptions, they are practically safe from attacks.
 The conspicuous pattern acts as a warning to the enemy.
     The combination of yellow and black in noxious creatures is a
 widely dispersed principle. It applies to wasps, many butterflies and
moths ; and the only poisonous lizard, Heloderma, the Gila monster
of Mexico, is also black and orange.
     Several interesting facts are connected with these warning colours.
First, they are displayed upon those parts which are most exposed
during the ordinary attitude of the Amphibian, the colours being
intended to be seen. Secondly, the pattern is, as a rule, irregular,
instead of following the general law of being symmetrically disposed.
Lastly, they are subject to much individual variation.
     Examples are, the Fire-Salamander, so common on the Continent,
 black, with yellow patches on the back ; several species of the genus
 Spelerpes in North America. Many Newts, both in Europe and in
 America, have the warning colour displayed upon the under parts,
 e.g. Triton torosw of N.W. America and T. alpestris, the alpine
 Newt of the Continent. The same principle, display of conspicuous
 colours on the under surface, while the upper parts are inconspicuous,
 occurs in many Frogs and Toads of the most widely separated parts of
 the world. The reasonable explanation seems to be that these crea
tures spend a great part of their time in the water. When swimming,
or suspended motionless in that element, their under surface is the
 one which is most exposed to attack from other aquatio animals, as
 fishes, water-tortoises, etc. An example is the little fire-bellied toad
 of the Continent (Bombinator igneus).
     A third type of warning pattern is displayed by certain arboreal
 frogs, which are conspicuous on both the under and upper parts, and
 this pattern is irregular, asymmetrical, and, individually, variable, as
 usual in poisonous Amphibia. The best example is the South American
 genus Dendrobates, the poison of which is used by the South American
 Indians in various ingenious ways ; for instance, poisoning of arrows
 to shoot monkeys with, and dyeing of live parrots.
     To revert to the origin of the colour. We have already concluded
 that a dominant factor in the production of colour is sunlight. The

  592                         Mr. Hans Oadow                   [April 26,
  direct influence of the surroundings in which a particular frog hap
  pens to live, be these factors light, temperature or food, or all three
 combined, will probably affect or change the pigmentation in certain
  ways, perhaps at first to a very small extent, almost imperceptibly.
 It stands to reason that the offspring, living under similar conditions,
 will be acted upon in the same way. That factor, for instance, which
 has added green to the parents will add green to the children, until
 by cumulative inheritance a more decidedly green race is produced.
 And then, but not before, natural selection can step in. Then is the
 time to decide if the new colour is useful or not. If harmful, that
 race will soon come to grief ; if advantageous, in ways hitherto not
 dreamed of, it will probably increase. In fact we have to resort to
 the direct influence of the surroundings, and this implies many fac
 tors. How can it otherwise be explained that the same kind of
 pattern, the same combination of colours, occurs not only in members
 of the most different groups of Newts, Toads and Frogs, but also in
 widely separated countries ; in other words, in creatures which, we
 feel absolutely certain, had nothing to do with each other, except
 that they all are Amphibia ?
     Such instances of parallel or convergent development supply the
 strongest argument for assuming that it is the direct influence of the
 surroundings which models, in our case colours, the creatures, instead
 of working upon the basis of freaks. The latter idea implies an end
 less uninterrupted chain of accidental, spontaneous variation, always
in the same direction. A single break in the chain, and the whole
process would have to begin again. Black, red and yellow are due
to corresponding pigments. It is possible that warmth and light,
the distribution of the blood-vessels, unknown ingredients of food,
have caused them to be deposited in the skin. We may even assume
that the guanine crystals, which are certainly a product of the meta
bolism of the body, and whioh belong to the uric acid group, have,
through the action of the light, been deposited in the skin, thus
accounting for blue, green and white. These crystals and the black
pigments are in reality noxious waste products, which, instead of
being got rid of in the ordinary way, have stuck in the system, but
deposited where they cannot do any harm. If their accumulation in
the skin, by producing visible colour, happens to turn out useful, all
the better, and then we may be sure that natural selection will be busy.
     Now as to pattern of colour. The chromatophores are very
susceptible to temperature and light, besides being controlled by
the nervous system. Higher temperature and bright sunlight cause
them to contract, and the respective parts become paler. Lower
temperature and absence of sunlight dilate them. These very factors
are actually at work whenever a Frog sits in sunlight and vegetation.
There is light and shade. Some Tree-frogs—e.g. Hyla hypochondri-
alit, of South America, have such a delicately sensitive skm that the
shadow of a blade of grass causes a rapid darkening of the shadowed
part of the skin.

1901.]                   on Colour in Amphibia.                      593
    A very common pattern of Frogs and Tree-frogs is that of longi
tudinal stripes. One stripe, generally light, runs along the middle
of the baok ; others, in pairs, extend from the head along the sides of
the body and converge backwards. Others again, more irregular,
begin on the flanks and run across the folded limbs. There is only
one median line, and this is in a unique position and condition so
far as nerve- and blood-supply are concerned. This median stripe
makes a break in the look of the whole upper surface, thereby
rendering the latter less conspicuous. The other stripes are ruled
by the law of symmetry ; right and left are counterparts. We have
only to look at a Frog in its typical attitude when it sits in the grass.
We then see at once that the shadows and lights of the green and
brown stalks produce a pattern strikingly like that of the European
Water-frog and the Australian Hyla aurea.
    We may safely assume that suoh stimulative colouring has boon
in many cases the cause, the origin of the permanent and hereditary
adaptive colouring. For when a species has lived for a long time
under conditions which over and over again cause the chromato-
phores to be influenced in a particular way, causing an ever-repeated
arrangement, then this pattern may at last fix itself on the animal.
At first, by combined repetition, certain parts of the skin will be
coached to react in the same way—a kind of predilection, later on a
habit will set in, until this fixes itself unchangeably.
    Of course we do not assume that our Frog has always been sitting
under the same blades of grass, nor that the shadows fall upon the
same spots. But grass is grass, and the general effects of its distri
bution of light and shade are the same, and all we assert is that the
outcome of this stimulus will be a marshalling or exciting of the
pigments in a linear direction. Nowadays the whole process is
infinitely more complex. Our suggestion applies to the primordial
frog, of which, however, we know nothing, except that it existed and
must have acquired its colours and patterns at some time or other.
Those individuals which we can watch now, start already with the
inherited capacity of developing that pattern which their ancestors
have managed to acquire during countless generations. This
individual need not sit in the grass and wait for the colours and
shadows to photograph themselves upon its back, and yet this same
process is still going on. If our Frog did not live in a grassy
country, but in other surroundings, it is absolutely certain that he,
and to a greater extent his offspring, would develop into a new
colour-variety. The common frog which lives on granitic soil
assumes and keeps the speckled colour of the ground, and looks very
different from those members of its kind which live on dark moor
lands, or among rich vegetation. And these colour varieties have
not the same range of changes, since their very pattern has been
altered.
    There are, in fact, many instances of what seems to support the
idea of natural photography. This term has rightly been objected
                                                              2 a

594            Mr. Hans Gadow on Colour in Amphibia.         [April 26,
to, but there are many cases which seem to show that whatever has
produced the pattern has been an external influence. For instance,
in the common grass-frog the series of spots on the flanks extend
right across the folded limb, over the thighs, shanks and feet. They
form longitudinal bands only whilst the frog is at rest. When it
stretches the limbs the bands are disconnected, and wherever the
opposed parts touch and hide each other, there is no special pigmenta
tion. This is a very common arrangement in Frogs. Again, there
are cases in which coloured lines go right across the eye, or, what
is still more puzzling, right across the gape of the mouth, as, for
instance, in the Argentine Toad (Ceratopkrys ornata). This ugly-
shaped creature has a beautifully coloured carpet-like pattern of
black and yellow, with green patches. Each patch is surrounded by
a narrow line of white or yellow dots interspersed with lines of rusty
red and brown. Many of the spots look exactly like the little sun-
images which sunlight throws upon the ground when streaming
through dense foliage. The toad buries itself half in the soil, pre
ferably in grass or under dense vegetation. If there is not enough
green it throws little lumps of soil upon its back, the skin of which
at the same time becomes more crinkled and assumes duller tones.
                                                             [h. a.]

        1901.]                           Annual Meeting.                                      595
                               ANNUAL MEETING,
                                  Wednesday, May 1, 1901.
           Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. P.R.8., Treasurer and
                                Vice-President, in the Chair.
              The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
        1900, testifying to the continued prosperity and efficient management
        of the Institution, was read and adopted, and the Report on the Davy
        Faraday Research Laboratory of the Royal Institution, which accom
        panied it, was also read.
              Forty-seven new Members were elected in 1900.
              Sixty-three Lectures and Nineteen Evening Discourses were
        delivered in 1900.
              The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1900 amounted to about
        262 volumes, making, with 653 volumes (including Periodicals bound)
        purchased by the Managers, a total of 915 volumes added to the
        Library in the year.
              Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and the Honorary
        Secretary, to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the
        Professors, for their valuable services to the Institution during the
        past year.
              The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
        for the ensuing year :
              Pbesident—The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. D.C.L. F.R.8.
              Tbeasueee—Sir James Crichton-Browne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
              Seobetaby—Sir William Crookes, F.R.S.
                   Managebs.                                          VlSITORS.
Sir Frederick Abel, Bart. G.C.V.O. K.C.B.        Charles
                                                 William
                                                 Sir
                                                 Francis
                                                      Andrew
                                                           Edward
                                                            Henry
                                                           Elgar,
                                                                Noel
                                                                  Esq.
                                                                    Bennett,
                                                                     Beevor,
                                                                        l.l..D.M.D.
                                                                      Agnew,     F.R.S.
                                                                                 Bart.F.RX'.S.
                                                                                Esq.    M.P.
                                                                                         M.Inst. C.E.
                                                                                       F.R.C.P.
   D.C.l.. l.U>. F.R.S.
Si. William de W. Abney, K.C.B. D.C.l.. F.R.S.
Sir James Blyth, Bart. J.P.
Sir Frederick Bramwcll, Bart. D.C.L l.l..D.      Joseph Dundas
                                                 James            Grant,
                                                          G. Gordon,          F.C.S.
                                                                       Esq.M.D.    F.R.C.S.
   F.K.S. M. Inst. C.E.
Thomas Buzzard, M.D. F.R.C.P.                    James
                                                 Roger
                                                 John
                                                 Harold
                                                 Sir
                                                 William
                                                 Maures
                                                 Henry
                                                 Ix>rdThomas
                                                       Jewell
                                                        Greenock,
                                                         William
                                                         Wimshurst,
                                                          Francis
                                                          Swithinbank,
                                                           Horner,
                                                               Henry
                                                            Stevens
                                                                Vezey,
                                                                  Makins,
                                                                  Wallace,
                                                                    D.L.
                                                                     Squire,
                                                                     Esq.
                                                                       Esq.
                                                                       Sanderson,
                                                                          J.P.
                                                                          Esq.
                                                                           J.P.
                                                                        Esq. Esq.
                                                                             F.R.S.
                                                                              Esq.
                                                                               Esq.
                                                                               F.R.M.S.
                                                                                 J.P.
                                                                                 F.R.A.S.
                                                                                    F.R.G.S.
                                                                                     Ph.D.
                                                                                      G.C.B.
                                                                                       F.R.G.S.
                                                                                     K.C.    K.C.M.G.
                                                                                            F.C.S.
Viscount Gort.
Donald William Charles Hood, M.D. F.R.C.P.
The Right Hod. l.ord Kelvin, G.C.V.O. D.C.l..
   l.l..1>. F.R.S.
Sir Francis Henry Laking, K.C.V.O. M.D.
Hugh Leonard, Esq. F.S.A. M. Inst. C.E.
Frank McClean, Esq. M.A. l.l..D. F.R.S. F.R.A.S.
James Mansergh, Esq. F.R.S. M. Inst. C.E.
George Matthey, Esq. F.R.S.
Wilham Hugh Spottiswoode, Esq. F.C.S.
The Right Hon. Sir James Stirling, M.A. l.l..D.
                                                                                      2 b 2

 596                        Mr. Charles Merrier                 [May 3,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, May 3, 1901.
 Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer and
                       Vice-President, in the Chair.
          Chables Meboiee, Esq., M.B. F.R.C.S. M.R.C.P.
                                 Memory.
The programme of my discourse to-night is a very modest one. I
have no ingenious invention to describe ; no startling discovery to
announce ; I can recommend no specific by which you may attain to
the powers of memory of a Porson or a Macaulay ; but, in thinking
over the subject, it has seemed to me that under the term memory
several things that are quite distinct have been included, and the task
that I have set myself is to discriminate between these different
meanings, to display some of their bearings on one another, and to
bring this mysterious faculty into line with experiences which seem
to us simpler and more intelligible.
    In the first place, there is the very obvious distinction between
memory and memories—between the process of remembering and the
results of the process ; the same distinction that we draw between
the process of thinking and the thoughts that result, or between the
process of building and the houses that result. I propose to deal
first with the result, and then with the process.
    The iron wire that you see here is clamped securely at the top,
and at the lower end is attached to what is known as a twisting
couple. It is so arranged that when a weight is hung on this cord
the wire is twisted to the right, and when the weight is hung on this
other cord, the wire is twisted to the left. When the weight is re
moved, the wire at once springs back to its original position. In this
case the amount of distortion was within the limit of elasticity of the
wire. Now I double the weight, and twist the wire further round,
and now, when the weight is removed, the pointer shows that the
wire does not return to its original position. It has been twisted
beyond the limit of its elasticity, and has acquired what is called a
" permanent set." We may look upon this permanent alteration in the
shape of the wire as a memory, a structural memory, of the experience
that it has undergone. At this position the wire will remain for ever
unless it is subjected to some new experience. The memory that it
has acquired is a permanent memory.
    Now let us take this new position of the wire as our point of

1901.]                          on Memory.                           597
departure, and again subject it to the action of the weight. We find
that the application of the same weight produces no addition to the
permanent set. We may apply the weight as many times as we
please, or we may leave it hanging for a thousand years, and still,
when it is removed, the wire will return to the same position, the set
will not be increased. Besides the structural memory or change of
shape, the wire has undergone another change, a change of the
stresses among its particles, such that further modification in the
same direction has become more difficult. The same force no longer
suffices to produce a set. We may call this a dynamical memory of
the experience that the wire has undergone.
     If, instead of twisting the wire, we distort its shape in any other
way, the result, mutatis mutandis, is the same. If the change of
shape is within the limit of elasticity, the wire springs back to its
former shape the moment the disturbing influence ceases to act. If
the change of shape is beyond the limit of elasticity, the metal retains
a permanent set, which is a statical or structural memory of the ex
perience that it has undergone ; and at the same time, with the
permanent set, it acquires a change in molecular disposition, an
alteration of the stresses existing among the molecules, such that in
future it reacts differently to incident motion. It retains a dynamical
memory of the experience.
     What is true of iron is true in various degree of other metals,
and what is true of metals is true in various degree of other solids,
so long as these solids are unorganised. All possess some elasticity,
though the limit of perfect elasticity varies very widely. All take
permanent set, or entertain structural memories, and all react
differently thereafter to incident motion, though the degrees in
which they admit of these modifications are very various.
     When we pass from unorganised to organised solids, we find that
their behaviour under experiences of incident motion is in some
respects similar, and in others is widely different. We find that they
too are distorted by incident motion ; that they too possess elasticity ;
that they too recover their exact shape after distortion within the
limit of elasticity ; that they too take a set when distorted beyond the
limit of elasticity ; and that they too react differently thereafter to
motion incident upon them ; but there are important differences.
     Test the behaviour of a walking-cane or a whip-stock which is
bent, and which we may straighten with the hands. By holding the
stick at the ends of the bend, and placing the camber across the
knee, the stick may easily be straightened. But as soon as we release
it, it springs back again into its curve. It is elastic. In order to
allow for this elastic recoil, we must over-bend it. We must bend it
at least as far in the opposite direction as the bend that we are trying
to obliterate. When this is done, and the stick is released, it springs
back by its elasticity to a position intermediate between that im
pressed upon it and that in which we found it. So far the stick
behaves in the same way as an iron rod would behave under the same

598                         Mr. Charles Mercier                 [May 3,
circumstances. It has taken a set. It has acquired a statical memory
of the experience that it has undergone.
    But now if we watch the stick, we shall find that this is not the
end of the process. It has taken a set, it is true, but the set is not
permanent. After remaining at rest for a certain time, the set begins
to diminish, at first slowly, then more rapidly, and then with a speed
that gradually diminishes. If we clamp the stick in a vice, and
observe it carefully, we shall find that it continues for hours, and
even for days, to return with diminishing speed towards its original
shape. This is a new phenomenon, to which unorganised bodies
exhibit no parallel. The stick takes a set, but the set is not per
manent. It is a temporary set. It disappears, or at least it
diminishes. The return towards its original shape is made, not with
a single bound and there an end, but with an initial bound, and then,
after a pause, by further progress, for a short time with increasing,
and thereafter for a long time with diminishing, velocity. The
statical memory of the unorganised body, once acquired, undergoes
no change. That of the organised body does not remain constant,
but soon begins to fade, and fades at first with increasing, and
subsequently with diminishing, speed.
    Still more different from that of the unorganised body is the
dynamical memory of the organised tissue. When once a bar of iron
has been bent, the application of the same force will produce no
further distortion, however often it may be repeated, or however long
it may be applied. The production of a set makes more difficult the
production of a further set in the same direction. But when a stick
has once been bent sufficiently to produce a temporary set, then the
application of the same force will produce a further set. Its repeated
application will increase the set in some proportion to the frequency
of the repetition ; its continued application will increase the set in
some proportion to the time of its continuance. Thus the dynamic
memory of the organised body is opposite to that of the unorganised
body.
    Such are the differences in the behaviour of the two substances
when distorted beyond their respective elastic limits. But there are
differences also when the distortion is within these limits. When a
piece of steel suffers a distortion which is well within the limit of its
elasticity, it will retain its former shape however often it may suffer
distortion. The hair-spring of a watch will suffer distortion of its
shape ten million times in the course of a year, and yet after many
years of incessant action it will exhibit no perceptible change of
shape. With organised bodies the results of repeated application of
force are different. A bow that is in constant use " follows the
string " at last ; that is to say. it becomes permanently bent. It
attains a true permanent set, which undergoes no diminution. So
too, the top joint of a fishing-rod becomes permanently curved. A
shelf will sag under a weight, and if the weight is at once removed,
will entirely recover itself ; but apply the weight sufficiently often,

1901.]                          on Memory.                             599
or leave it long enough, and the sag will remain ; the set will become
permanent.
    The behaviour of wood under distortion may be summarised
thus :—1. It is, within limits, elastic, and if distorted within these
limits it instantly recovers its shape when the distorting force ceases
to act. 2. If distorted beyond its elastic limit, it retains a temporary
set, which, after a time, diminishes with varying velocity. 3. If the
distortion, whether within or without the elastic limit, is sufficiently
prolonged, or repeated sufficiently often, the set becomes permanent.
4. The distortion produces in the wood such a change that subsequent
similar distortions are facilitated.
    So far as the present argument is concerned, the walking-cane, the
whip-stock, the bow, the fishing-rod and the shelf may be looked upon
as not only organised but live. They are, so far as concerns the
reactions that we have considered, in the same state as when they
formed part of the living tree. If we subjeot a dead branch to similar
experiences, we find that it behaves in a totally different manner. It
takes no set, but breaks. Now, regarding the wood as live, it is
evident that if we could apply our observations on wood to other live
tissues, our task of investigating at least the structural and dynamic
memories of the human brain would be greatly facilitated. There is
a very large body of facts, of which but a very small selection can be
given here, which harmonise with this assumption, and indicate that
we may take it provisionally as a working hypothesis without any
great departure from likelihood.
    Every organism has its specific shape, and if it is distorted by a
transient agent, it will begin after a time to return to its normal
shape, by degrees that at first are slow, for a short time increase in
speed, and thereafter continually diminish in velocity. But if the
distortion is very great, or is very often repeated, or is long continued,
then the set becomes permanent.
    A tree which is exposed to a prevailing wind, or which is darkened
on one side, will grow lop-sided ; and if it is exposed long enough to
these conditions the distortion will be permanent. But if, while the
tree is young enough, that is, before the distorting agent has acted
too long, its action is arrested, the tree will, after a pause, begin to
recover its symmetrical shape ; and it will recover by stages which
at first increase in speed, and then become year by year slower and
slower. Nay, if the distortion is increased to actual disruption the
same redintegration often takes place. If the branch of a tree be
broken, or if a limb is torn off a crab or a lobster, the set that is
produced is not a permanent set. After a pause, the lost part begins
to grow again, and the growth at first increases in speed, and there
after diminishes until it becomes imperceptibly slow, so that the re
produced part does not for long, perhaps does not ever, attain to the
dimensions of the lost part.
    Moreover, it is to be noticed that in proportion to the immaturity
of the part in course of construction is its vulnerability. The green

 600                       Mr. Charles Herder                   [May 3,
 succulent sprout, the eoft immature claw, is more easily injured than
 its original. That is to say, when once it has been mutilated, when
 once it has been distorted, when once it has received a set, subsequent
 alteration in the same sense is facilitated.
      Again, when the mutilation is repeated, subsequent reproduction
 is less vigorous ; and if the mutilation is repeated sufficiently often,
 reproduction fails. The temporary set becomes, after sufficient repe
 tition, a permanent set.
      Similarly, when the higher animals are wounded, there is at first
 a pause, and then the process of repair sets in, with a speed which
 for a short time increases, and then gradually slackens, until the
 latest stages, the devascularisation of the scar, and its assimilation
 to adjoining tissues, become imperceptibly slow. Moreover, in pro
 portion to the immaturity of the healing process is the vulnerability
of the wound. It is more easily injured again than are uninjured
parts. The set that has been impressed upon it facilitates a further
 set in the same direction. Furthermore, if the wound is opened
 again and again, or is not suffered to close, the healing process at
 length fails ; the temporary set becomes a true permanent set.
     "When the old physicians spoke of the vis medicatrix naturae, they
did but express in other words the tendency of a set to disappear, the
 transiency of a distortion ; and when the physicians of a later day
 insist upon the frequency with which acute change supervenes upon
 chronic, they do but state in different terms the existence of that
 dynamic memory which facilitates a further change in the same
 direction as a previous change.
     It would scarcely be too fanciful a view to regard the succession
 of organisms in a race, as a continuous body, subject to the influence
of distorting agents. Such a distortion takes place when a race of
animals or plants is subjected to new conditions of life—for instance,
when a wild animal is domesticated, or a wild plant brought into
cultivation. In such a case the whole structure of the organism is
profoundly modified. As long as the distorting agent acts, as long
as the domestication continues, so long continues the distortion. But
let individuals of the domesticated race escape and breed in wildness,
and after a time they will begin to revert, both in themselves and in
their offspring, to the feral type ; and this change will take place at
first with increasing, and subsequently with diminishing speed. The
race has received a temporary set, a structural memory of its expe
riences in the faimyard, the garden or the greenhouse, a set which
diminishes when the distorting agent ceases to act. If we wish to
modify the form of an organism, we shall more easily succeed by
choosing for our experiment one that has already undergone recent
modification than one of fixed type, for practical breeders know,
although they express their knowledge in other words, that a set
once produced facilitates further change in the same direction.
     It does not seem unjustifiable to infer that what is true of these
gross and sensible distortions is true also of the delicate and infini

 1901.]                         on Memory.                           601
 tesimal distortions that are produced by every wave of motion that is
incident upon the nervous system, which is so particularly and mar
 vellously sensitive to disturbance by small increments of motion.
 Wo are justified in supposing that it is by the operation of what I
 have termed dynamic memory, by which a distortion facilitates sub
 sequent distortion in the same sense, that the nervous system has
acquired its marvellous sensitiveness to distortion by infinitesimal
forces. And it is not a little significant that cur conscious memories
 weaken and fade in much the same ratio to the lapse of time as does
the structural memory of the stick. They remain bright and vivid
for a short time, then they fade with increasing speed for a time, and
then with slackening speed for an indefinite time thereafter.
     The living organism is not only acted on ; it reacts. It is not
merely passive ; it is active ; and the mode of its action is deter
mined by its structure. According as the structure is modified, so
is the function modified. When a structured memory is formed in a
tissue having an active function, all future function, all future action,
 is modified by the existence of the memory. This modification of
function that is conditioned by the formation of a structural memory
I call Active memory. So long as the structural memory lasts, so
long is each exercise of function modified, and the degree of modifi
cation is in proportion to the degree of set that remains in the tissue.
As the structural memory disappears with the lapse of time, so the
mode of the function loses its new peculiarity and returns to the
former mode.
     Certain regions of the nervous system there are whose activity is
accompanied by consciousness. When a new mode of activity occurs
 in these regions, a new mode of consciousness accompanies the acti
 vity. When the activity of that particular nervous process subsides,
 tbe accompanying state of consciousness dies away and ceases. But
 in the tissue is still left a structural memory, such that when that
portion of tissue again becomes active, it becomes active in the same
 way. The process is punctually repeated, and the repetition of the
 activity, which I call active memory, is accompanied by a repetition
 of the mode of consciousness, which is conscious memory.
     Thus there are four different conditions to which the term memory
is applied. There is Structural Memory, which is an alteration in
the position of the particles of the tissue. There is Dynamical
Memory, which is an alteration among the stresses of the shifted
particles. There is Active Memory, which is the altered process that
takes place in the altered tissue ; and there is Conscious Memory,
which is the conscious accompaniment of active memories in certain
regions of the nervous system. The three latter forms depend, it
will Le seen, upon the structural memory, to the consideration of
which we may now return.
     It is evident that the entire structure, not only of the nervous
system, but of the whole organism, may be regarded as a group of
statical memories ; nay more, it is obvious that the same is true of

602                        Mr. CharUa Mercier                   [May 3,
the whole material universe. Every modification of form, whether
gross or molecular, in every material body, has arisen under the
stress of incident motion, and may be regarded as the structural
memory of that experience. Confining our attention to organised
bodies only, it is evident that the form which every organism
assumes, whether in external contour or in internal organisation, is the
structural memory which it has retained of the experiences that itself
and its ancestors have undergone. Extravagant as the statement
appears at first sight, it needs but little consideration to show that it
is literally true, and true also that day by day, hour by hour, and
moment by moment, the organism, and especially its nervous system,
is still acquiring structural memories under the experience of inci
dent motion. So long as the structure thus modified remains func
tionally inactive, so long the conscious memory of the experience
remains in abeyance. The moment that activity of function takes
place in the tissue, at that moment a state of consciousness arises
which is the counterpart of the state that occurred on the formation
of the structural memory, and that is the conscious memory of that
experience.
    The memories of experiences that are registered in the nervous
system may be compared with the memories of aerial vibration that
are registered on the waxen cylinder of the phonograph. In both
cases the structural change left by the experience bears no resem
blance to the experience under which it arose. In both cases the
structural change may remain for an indefinite time inert and passive,
a mere change of shape, uuaccompanied by any process which repeats
or recalls the experience during which it was formed. In both
cases the modified structure may be started into active function at
any moment by appropriate addition of motion ; and in both cases it
is then, and then only, that an experience is reproduced which is the
more or less accurate counterpart of the experience under which the
alteration of structure took place.
    Each of the four forms of memory that have been enumerated
demands separate consideration.
    Structural or Statical Memory. — Upon the structural change
produced by an experience depend the endurance and the faithful
ness of the conscious memory ; indeed, when we speak of the
endurance of a conscious memory, we use a figure of speech, for the
conscious memory does not endure. What endures is the structural
memory alone, and what is called the endurance of the conscious
memory is the enduring liability of the structural memory to become
active and to be attended by consciousness. Keeping this distinction
in our minds, it is evident, from the account already given of struc
tural memory, that the endurance of a memory depends upon the
amount of set that is impressed by the experience on the tissue, and
that this differs much, not only as to different experiences, but as to
different parts of the same experience. Of every distortion of tissue
that is produced, for instance, by an impression on the senses, soino

1901.]                        on Memory.                            603
parts are within the elastic limits of the tissue, and of these no
memory remains ; while other parts are distorted to various extents,
and of these the endurance of the memory is in proportion to the
degree of the distortion. In every distortion of tissue there are two
elements to he considered : viz. the area over which it is distributed,
and the degrees of change within that area ; the number of particles
 displaced, and the amount of their displacement—and the amount of
 displacement differs much in different parts of the area.
     The distortion of a body under the incidence of motion may be
within or without the limit of elasticity of the body. If it is within
the limit of elasticity, no set, no structural memory remains; and
thus it is that of a vast number of our experiences we retain no
memory at all. The faces that meet us in the street, the stones and
cart tracks in the road, the leaves on the trees, the scraps of con
versation, nay, much in the books we read, and in discourses that we
hear, it may be in church, it may be in some scientific assembly such
as this, are gone the instant they cease to impress the senses, and
leave not a trace behind. And when tho limit of elasticity is ex
ceeded, and a temporary set remains, we have to recognise that it may
vary much within the limits of the disturbed area. We have to regard
the change both in its extension and in its intension ; both in regard
to the area over which it is distributed, and to the degrees of change
within that area ; both with regard to the number of particles dis
placed, and to the degree of their displacement. It may well happen,
and in point of fact it does always happen, that the amount of dis
tortion suffered by the area affected differs much in different parts of
that area. Some parts are not displaced except within the elastic
limit, and of the corresponding parts of the experience no structural
memory remains—no conscious memory is possible. Of the parts
that receive a set, the degree of set is not the same in all, and con
sequently the endurance of the memory differs much as to different
parts of the experience.
    Suppose that you arrive overnight in a foreign town, and when
you look out of your window in the morning you see a varied land
scape of mountain and lake, tower and town, foliage and snow. You
turn away from the window, and instantly the greater portion of the
scene is gone. No memory at all is retained of a thousand details
which undoubtedly did impress the retina, and which, by appropriate
means, might have been made to produce memories. Whatever dis
tortion of tissue was produced by the motion arriving from these
objects was within the elastic limit of the tissue, and the instant the
distorting agent ceased to act, the distortion disappeared. There
after you do not find that the memories that you have acquired of the
scene fade uniformly. What you retain, as years elapse, is not a
fading uniform memory of the whole, but rather that it goes bit by
bit. One part after another fades out until all that is left are the
most striking features,—on the left-front a mountain of vague shape,
from which all detail and all colour, save a white top, has gone ; on

 604                       Mr. diaries Merrier                  [May 3,
 the right below, a stretch of blue water ; below on the left a con
 fused mass of buildings, without specific shape or colour ; dark
 foliage somewhere between this and the mountain. All the details,—
 the boats, the moving people, the traffic in the streets, the specific
 shapes and spatial relations of objects,—all are gone, and all went,
 not simultaneously, but by gradual and successive effacemeut. So
 that we infer that over the disturbed area the disturbance varies
 much in degree, for the endurance of the set depends, as far as we
know, upon its initial extent only.
     Upon what then does the amount of the set depend, and what are
 the factors that determine it ? We can scarcely be wrong in supposing
that in this, as in other cases, the distortion produced in a body is
directly proportional to the amount of the incident motion, and in
inverse proportion to the inertia of the particles of the body—to the
resistance which they oppose to distortion. The first factor need not
be laboured. We all know that the stronger the impression made
upon us, the longer and the more faithfully it is remembered. Our
ancestors, when they took the schoolboys to the boundary of the
parish and there flogged them, were quite aware that a strong im
pression produces an enduring memory ; and the whole experience
of our lives testifies to the truth of the statement. But something
needs to be said about the second factor in the endurance of a memory,
viz. the inertia of the tissue on which the motion is incident.
    It is manifest from our daily experience that the inertia of the
particles of nervous tissue differs immensely not only in different
people, but in different regions of the same brain. We see constantly
that the same experience which will produce an enduring set in the
brain of one man will not shift the molecules of another beyond the
elastic limit. One man will remember and repeat verbatim a leading
article in the ' Times ' after once reading, while it will take another
half-an-hour to learn the Collect for the day. And in the some brain
there are differences as wide. The same man who can repeat his
leading article after a single reading is unable to recall the simple
succession of musical notes that make up some popular tune, even
after he has heard them a dozen times. But the man who can re
member one verbal composition can remember another, and he who
can remember one musical air, or one set of muscular adjustments,
can remember another. We must admit, therefore, that there is in
certain individual tracts of brain tissue a specific degree of inertia,
but that this degree of inertia differs much, not only in different
brains, but in different parts of the same brain. The great practical
question for us is whether this inertia can be in any way diminished ;
whether there are any means that we can employ by which we can
increase the amount of set that is produced without inci easing the
intensity of the impression which produces it. Undoubtedly there
are such means, but before I state them let me deprecate the notion
that there is any royal road to the production of what is called a good
memory. The ability to remember may be vastly, indefinitely im-

  1901.]                           on Memory.                             605
  proved ; but it cannot be improved by charms, or nostrums, or
  conjuring tricks. There is but one way to improve the memory, and
  that is by patient and persistent labour. The only help that science
       give
  can It       to show
         hasisbeen insisted,
                        how Ithat
                              fearlabour
                                   with wearisome  iteration,
                                         can be least         that employed.
                                                      wastefully   structural
  memory, with which we are now dealing, is not peculiar to the brain
  tissue, nor even to living matter. It is common to all solids ; and in
 all solids, under practically all circumstances, it is found that the
 inertia of the particles is diminished, and the production of set
 facilitated, by increasing the quantity of free motion among the
 particles. If we want to forge a bar of iron into a new shape, we
 can immensely facilitate the production of the set that we wish to
 imposo by heating the bar to redness ; that is to say, by greatly in
 creasing the individual motion of its particles. The maker of whips
 or walking-sticks who wishes to bend a hook on a stick, or to straighten
 a kink out of its shaft, puts the stick in a bath of hot sand, and when
 he has by this means increased sufficiently the intrinsic motion of its
 particles, he can bend the stick into what shape he will, and whatever
 shape he then gives it will endure. The set is easily imposed, and it
 is permanent And in the brain tissue also the production of set is
 facilitated by increase in the intrinsio motion of the particles of the
 tissue, for we find that whenever the brain is unusually active, the
 events that are then experienced are remembered with unusual
 tenacity. We find, for example, that the impressions that we ex
 perience in times of great emotional storm and stress are remembered
 with extraordinary faithfulness for very long periods. Of all that I
 experienced in the year 1866 I remember vividly the events of one
 night only, and that the night in which I was shipwrecked ; but of
 that night I have still a very vivid remembrance. Dr. Johnson
 retained to the end of his life a memory of the appearance of Queen
 Anne, who touched him for the Evil when he was under three years
old, and we can imagine how highly excited the child must have been
at such a tremendous experience, and can understand therefore why he
remembered it so well. Any one who has been in peril of his life in
a burning house remembers for the rest of his life incidents that the
firemen who rescue him have forgotten in five minutes, for the im
pression is made in the one case on a brain already in a state of high
activity, in the other on brains which are comparatively quiescent.
In these considerations, however, we gain but little practical aid, for
a system of mnemonics which could ensure our recollecting an event
only by burning down a house when it happened would be too costly
for everyday use. Fortunately this is not our only expedient.
     There is another mental state in which we have reason to believe
that the intrinsic motion of the cerebral elements is increased, fmd in
this state also experiences produce memories that are peculiarly
enduring. This is the state that we call Attention. What may be
tho precise cerebral condition that underlies the act of attention we
do not certainly know, but we can scarcely be wrong in asserting

 60G                        Mr. Cliarle! Mercier                 [May 3,
 that, whatever its precise nature may be, it is at nny rate an active
 condition. It is a condition in which more free motion exists in the
 brain, the cerebral elements are in higher activity, the molecular or
 particular motion is of greater amplitude, than in states of inattention.
 And correspondingly we find that there is no means at our disposal
 so effectual for increasing the endurance of memories as giving
 attention to the experiences that we wish to remember.
     There is a third influence which decreases the inertia of the
 cerebral particles, and makes them more mobile, more easily dis-
 placeable, and more apt to receive a set, and this is the habit or
 custom of being displaced. It is easy to understand that by freqnent
 displacement their connections may become loosened, so that dis
placement may become more easy, and thns we account in part for
 the very great influence that practice or cultivation has in improving
the memory. I fear it may be disappointing to find that all our
researches lead to no easy specific for acquiring a good memory. It
remains as true now as in past ages that nothing worthy can be
achieved without labour, and to improve the memory there are bnt
two means known to us—attention and practice. The more closely
we attend to things, the better they are remembered ; the more we
practice and cultivate the art of remembering, the more will the
memory improve.
     A question which has often been mooted is whether we ever
forget. Many cases have been recorded, of which the most striking
and the best known is that related by Coleridge, which seem to
indicate that structural memories may remain inert for an indefinite
time, and may at length be revivified and become active. In
Coleridge's case, an illiterate servant girl in the delirium of fever
recited for hours together in Greek and Hebrew. She had been in
the service of a learned pastor, who was accustomed to read the
Greek and Hebrew classics aloud in her hearing. All unknown to
herself these impressions had created structural memories in her
brain, and upon a stimulus of exceptional intensity, these structural
memories had become active. We may get a satisfactory answer to
this question, I think, by considering the behaviour of the stick after
distortion. If the distortion is within the elastic limit, undoubtedly
the tissue returns to the status quo ante, and no structural memory
whatever is retained. But if the distortion is sufficient to produce a
temporary set, then, after a pause and a start, the set gradually
diminishes. The tissue returns with continually diminishing speed
to its original shape. But if this is so, and the experiments that I
have made seem to indicate that it is, then the return of the tissue
towards the status quo ante is an asymptote ; that is to say, it con
tinually approaches the state of rest, but never reaches it ; and some
degree of structural memory will always be retained. And so long
as a structural memory exists, so long will an active memory remain
possible. But with respect to the slighter distortions, to those which
are within the elastic limit, undoubtedly they are completely forgotten.

1901.]                         on Memory.                           607
    The subject of Dynamic Memory is too vast to be more than
touched upon. We have seen how the dynamic memory of living
matter differs from that of not-living matter. In the one the pro
duction of a set renders more difficult, impedes and obstructs, further
change in the same direction. In the other it facilitates a further
change. It needs but little consideration to show that this re
markable property of living matter is the basis of all progress, of all
improvement, of all intelligence, even of all morality. It is by virtue
of this quality of living matter that practice makes perfect, that use
becomes a second nature. It is owing to this property that repetition
of an experience has so powerful an effect in fixing the memory of
the experience. Every repetition of a distortion increases the set
which the distortion leaves behind it; and when the distortion is
repeated sufficiently often, the temporary set becomes a true per
manent set. When once a new nervous process has been brought
about, when a new fact has been observed, when a new muscular
adjustment has been obtained, when a new train of reasoning has
been thought out, when a new inhibition has been exercised, a change
is produced, a dynamic memory is left in the nervous system, by
which similar changes in the future are facilitated. Thereafter, not
only is that particular fact more obvious when it is next met with,
not only is that particular exercise of skill more easy, not only is
that train of reasoning traversed with greater ease and rapidity, not
only is that particular control more easily exercised, but beyond all
this there is a larger change. Observation is increased in keenness
not as to that fact only, but as to all facts of the same class, and in
less degree as to all facts whatever. Skill in muscular adjustment,
nicety and accuracy and deftness of movement, are increased, not
only as to that particular act, but to all kindred acts ; and in less
degree as to all acts whatever. Ability to compare and to distinguish
likeness and difference is increased, not only with respect to the
matter about which we reasoned, but with respect to all kindred
matters, and in less degree to all matters whatever. By each act of
self-control not only is it easier to exercise self-control with regard
to that particular indulgence, but to exercise self-control generally
with regard to all indulgences ; and thus on this property that I have
called dynamic memory rests, as I have said, all progress and all
morality.
    Active Memory is no exclusive possession of the nervous system,
nor even of living beings. The nervous system displays active memory
not because it is a living tissue, but because it is a mechanism ; and
every mechanism, live or dead, animate or inanimate, displays in its
working an active memory of the experiences that it went through
during its construction. With very many mechanisms, outside as
well as inside the nervous system, the structural arrangement can be
altered, and thereupon the mode of working is so modified that the
output is altered. A lathe may be so set that it produces a screw, or
a cone, or a cylinder, or a sphere, or what not ; and the form that its

 608                       Mr. Charles Herrier                  [Hay 3,
activity takes is determined by the structural arrangement that has
been impressed upon it. A loom may bo set to produce a pattern of
 fern leaves, or roses, or zigzags, or Grecian keys, or what not ; and
 whatever pattern it produces is determined by the structural memory
that has been impressed upon it. According as the type has been
 arranged, so is the character of the print that is produced. And simi
larly, the cylinder of a phonograph may have impressed upon it the
structural memory of a sonata, or a comic song, or a business letter,
or a political oration ; and when it is set in motion, the output, the
mode of action, or what I have termed the active memory, faithfully
reflects the structural memory. In all these cases the mechanism
may remain for an indefinite time disposed in a structural arrange
ment, retaining a structural memory, but inactive. But when the
loom or the lathe is connected with the engine ; when the phono
graph is connected with the battery ; then the mechanism starts into
activity, and then the form which its activity takes is determined by
the structural memory. And similarly, the structural memory may
remain for an indefinite time in the nervous system, latent ami inert ;
but the moment the mechanism becomes active, its activity assumes a
form which is determined by the structure, and thus the structural
memory asserts itself.
     Although the inanimate and the living mechanisms are precisely
alike in the respects that have been considered, there is another
 respect in which they are profoundly different. Every exercise of
activity in the inanimate mechanism impairs the structural memory.
The bearings and screws of the lathe wear away, and the quality of
the work deteriorates. The running parts of the loom wear out, and
the quality of the cloth deteriorates. The face of the type is worn,
and the print suffers. The gutter in the wax of the phonograph
becomes smoothed by the friction of the style, and the definition of
the sounds is spoilt. But with the nervous mechanism, owing to the
opposite quality of the dynamic memory, activity has the opposite
effect. Every exercise of activity on the part of the nervous
mechanism consolidates and improves the structural memory, and
renders its future activity more facile, more certain and more accurate.
     Active memory in some ports of the nervous system, that is to
say in those that are newly formed or in course of formation, is
attended by Conscious Memory. So long as a new structural memory
exists, but remains the seat of no active process, so long conscious
memory remains possible, but not actual. Only when active process
takes place in the altered structure does conscious memory arise. If
by violence or by disease the structural memory is destroyed, the
corresponding conscious memory is for ever lost. When we speak
of a man with a well-stored mind, we mean that he has a large
number of structural memories in the higher regions of his nervous
system. The memories are not in his mind until the structure be
comes active, and then the conscious memory arises.
    So far there is a parallelism between conscious memory and the

  1901.]                        on Memory.                           609
 physical memories. The more complete the structural memory, the
 more faithful is the conscious memory. The more vigorous the active
 memory the more vivid the conscious memory. But this parallelism
 exists only so far as we have traced it. It exists only for the first
 reproduction of tho experience. With every subsequent recurrence
 of the active memory, the structural memory becomes more complete
 and enduring, and as the structural memory becomes more completely
 organised, so does the active memory become more easily evoked and
 more vigorous. But precisely in proportion as the active memory
 thus improves, in that same proportion does the oonscious memory
 weaken and fade. It is the movements that are most habitual that
are performed with least consciousness ; it is in the places with which
 we are most familiar that we find our way with the least thought ; it
 is the form of words that is most often in our mouths that is uttered
 with the least sense of its meaning ; it is the scenery to which we are
 most accustomed that arouses the smallest interest. The more com
 plete and consolidated and organised the structure, the more facile
and certain and readily provoked the function, the less of conscious
 memory there is ; and when structure becomes complete, and function
 perfect, conscious memory altogether disappears.
     By thus distinguishing clearly between the several conditions to
 which the term memory has been applied, we are able to clear np
some of the difficulties which perplexed our predecessors. One of the
 most puzzling problems with which the philosophers of a past gene
ration had to deal was. What becomes of a memory when it is not
actually being remembered ? " We are conscious," says Sir W.
 Hamilton, " of certain cognitions as acquired, and we are conscious
of these cognitions as resuscitated. That in the interval, when out
 of consciousness, they do continue to subsist in the mind, is an
 hypothesis, because whatever is out of consciousness can only be
assumed, . . . but if it cannot be denied that the knowledge we have
acquired . . . does actually continue, though out of consciousness,
to endure, can we in the second place find any ground on which to
explain the possibility of this endurance?" "The solution of this
 problem," he says in another place, " is to be sought in the theory of
obscure or latent modifications (that is, mental activities, real, but
beyond the sphere of consciousness)." Thus Sir W. Hamilton satisfies
himself by an explanation that is purely verbal, and has no meaning
whatever behind it ; that is, indeed, as Mill pointed out, a contradic
tion in terms. To us the problem presents no difficulty. It is, in
fact, wrongly stated. It rests upon a confusion about the facts. It
is much the same as asking what has become of the colour of the sky
at midnight ? where does the motion of the engine reside when the
steam is out off? where does the light of the candle go to when the
flame is blown out ? where is the clangour of the bell stored away
before the bell is rung ? As we should explain it, conscious me
mories do not exist except in the process of revival, any more than
the sound of the bell exists except when it is ringing; any more
     Vol. XVI. (No. 95.)                                      2 s

610                        Mr. Charles Mercier                   [May 3,
than the light of the candle exists except when it is burning. What
endures, when a conscious state is revivable but is not actually revived,
is not a conscious state at all, but a structural modification of tissue.
When this modified tissue becomes active, then the conscious state
recurs, just as, when the bell is struck, it souuds again.
    Entirely distinct from the four forms of memories that we have
considered is the Process of Eemembering. Active memory is a pro
cess, it is true, but a process different from the one that we are about
to consider. Active memory is the activity of a mechanism ; the pro
cess of remembering is the starting of the mechanism into activity.
The one is the motion of the lathe, or the loom, or the printing press,
when it is connected with the engine ; the other is the process of
making the connection between the engine and the machine, so that
the structure may be put in motion. The memory is the appearance
that arises in the mind, the process of remembering is the process of
bringing this appearance into the mind. In short, what has to be
explained is, how do we remember things when we want to ? Sup
posing that we have a structural memory which is capable of becoming
active, how can it be started into activity ? There are two totally
distinct ways in which this is done.
    The common and ordinary way, which is often considered the
only way, is by what is termed association, which is usually started
somewhat in this manner. When two mental states have once been
associated together in the mind, then the presence of one of them
tends to drag the other in after it. It is by the operation of this law
that when we see a friend we remember his name ; and that when we
hear the name of an object we remember its appearance. It is by
the operation of this law that when we see a flash we expect a report ;
that a thunder-cloud reminds us of rain ; that all things remind us,
not only of things they resemble, but very often of their oppositos—
that black reminds us of white ; silence reminds us of noise ; heat of
cold ; and so forth. Many theories have been invented to account for
the undoubted fact that remenibrau.ee takes place very frequently, and
indeed usually, by association, theories with which I will not weary
you. But I wish to place before you the intimate and necessary part
which is played by Attention in the revival of memories. With
reference to the engagement of attention upon them, memories may
be divided into three classes. There are, first of all, those memories
which, so to speak, jump up and slap us in the face. If I toss this
glass tumbler into the air, you remembor instantly and irresistibly
that when it falls to the ground there will be a crash, and the glass
will be broken. When you hear the word " cat," you have instantly
the image of that luxurious and self-indulgent quadruped brought
before your mental vision. You cannot help seeing momentarily the
mental picture. It breaks in upon you ; it captures you ; it forces
your attention will you nill you. " Cat ! " There it is. You see it.
You must see it. It will not be denied. Now bring before your
minds the four forms of memory that I have been dealing with

1901.]                        on Memory.                            611
to-night Bring them up in the order in which they have been dealt
with. In this case the memories do not come up with the same
spontaneous vigour. They do not rise up with imperious clamour, and
demand and compel your attention. On the contrary, the attention
has to make the first advance. Before you can bring them before
your mind, you are conscious of putting forth some slight exertion.
You must go out a step to meet them. Now take another case, and
try to remember what it was you had for breakfast yesterday morning.
This is a much more serious affair. You have to put forth a very
sensible amount of effort, you have to concentrate upon the subject a
considerable grasp of attention before you can recall the experience
to your mind. And finally, let me ask you to put yourselves again
into the position in which doubtless every one of you has been at
one time or another, in which some word or some name with which
you are thoroughly familiar, of which you know quite well that you
possess the structural memory, yet cannot be recalled to mind. You
labour over it until you are weary, but you cannot remember it.
Your attention searches laboriously the whole field of consciousness,
lest peradventure the name should be lurking in some obscure corner,
but it is not to be found ; and presently the attention comes back,
weary and footsore, from going to and fro in the field of consciousness
and from walking up and down in it ; or perhaps it would be more
polite to say that it comes back like the dove into the ark, having
found no rest for the sole of its foot. If the memory of the word
is in the slightest degree active, if there is a presentation in any
part of the field of consciousness, however remote from its focus, we
can turn the glare of attention on it, and bring it into light ; but if
there be no active memory at all, then attention is powerless. Then
we must sit down passively and wait events. And usually we do not
have to wait long. Presently, when we least expeot it, when we are
thinking of something else, when the whole subject has passed out of
our mind, and the attention is engaged elsewhere, the name jumps up
and strikes us. It bangs at the door and demands admission. Now
this I believe to be a very important mental phenomenon. Here is a
conscious memory which rises up spontaneously and clamours for
attention. It is not like the case of the smashing tumbler and the
cat, for those memories were violently dragged into consciousness by
their associations with states that were already present. But this
name is not dragged in. It is not invited. It has received no pro
vocation ; but in it comes, and will not be denied. The importance
of this occurrence is that it is a conspicuous instance of what, I
believo, is very common in a less emphatic form. I altogether deny
that all memories arise by association. I believe that very many
memories arise spontaneously, and without any connection with what
is already in the mind. I know it is so in my own case, and I
believe that it is common with others. We are sitting thinking out
some problem, or thinking that we are thinking out a problem, and
suddenly, without any discernible provocation, some bit of doggerel
                                                           2 s 2

612                Mr. Charles Mercier on Memory.               [May 3,
verse presents itself ; or some visual scene : a bit of seashore seen in
a long past holiday ; the front of the house that we lived in twenty
years ago ; a room of the college in which we used to study, comes
before the mind. It comes with no imperious clamour, but it rises,
as it were, half-way, and gently but repeatedly solicits attention,
until in the end it has to be attended to. I have often compared
these unsolicited, unattached memories to flakes of bran in a boiling
pot. They rise to the surface, brought up by currents that we
cannot discern, they float for a while, and then subside, and give
place to others that come similarly out of the depths. Trivial as
these observations may appear, I believe that they are really by no
means unimportant. They form, I believe, the bases of many of our
dreams ; and such successions of unconnected memories are often
recognisable in delirium and in mania. In all of these states the
content of consciousness is characterised by its disconnectedness. It
is mainly composed of memories, and of memories that are not brought
into the mind by association, but arise by their own spontaneity, and
by their inherent vigour capture the wandering attention.
                                                            t [0. M.]

1901.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                       613
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                               Monday, May 6, 1901.
     Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer
                        and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                          Dudley Wilmot Buxton, M.D.
                          William Isaac Last, Esq.
                          James Stirling, Esq.
                          Henry Paul Whiting, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     It was announced that His Grace the President had nominated
the following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year:—Sir Frederick
Bramwell, Bart., The Right Hon. Sir James Stirling, Sir William
Abney, K.C.B., The Right Hon. Lord Kelvin, G.C.V.O., Mr. George
Matthey, Mr. Frank McClean, Sir James Crichton-Browne, Treasurer,
and Sir William Crookes, Hon. Sec.
      FROM
The Secretary of State for India—
   Geological Survey of India—
      Memoirs, Vol. XXX. Part 2 ; Vol. XXXIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1900-1901.
   Palmontologia Indies, Ser. IX. Vol. III. Part 1. fol. 1900.
Aceademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Classe di Soienze Morali, eto. Serie Quinta.
      Vol. IX. Faso. 11, 12. 8vo. 1900.
   Classe di Soienze Fisiche, Matematiche e Nuturali. Atti, Serie Quinta : Ren-
      diconti. 1° Semestre, Vol. X. Fasc. 6. 8vo. 1901.
American Academy of Arte and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XXXVI. Nos. 16-19.
      8to. 1900.
 American Association—Proceedings, Forty-ninth Meeting. 8vo. 1900.
 American Geographical Society—Bulletin, Vol. XXXIII. No. 1. 870. 1901.
 American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 164. 8vo. 1900.
   Proceedings,
 Antiquaries,      Vol. of—Archfeologia,
               Society                   Vol. LVIL
                        XVIII. No. 1. 8vo.    1900. Part 1. 4to. 1900.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LXL No. 4. 8vo. 1901.
 Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XXII. Part 4. 8vo. 1901.
 Basle, Natural History Society of—L. Rutimeyer: Gesammelte Kleine Schriften.
      2 vols. 8vo. 1898.
 Batavia, Royal Magnetical and Meteorological Observatory—Rainfall in East
      Indian Archipelago for 1899. 8vo. 1900.
   Observations, Vol. XXII. Part 1. 4to. 1900.
 Bollack, Leon, Esq.—La Langue Bleue. 8vo. 1900.
 Boston Public Library—Bulletin for April, 1901. 8vo.
 Boston Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Vol. V. No. 7. 8vo. 1901.
 British Architects, Royal Institute o/—Journal, Third Series, Vol. VIII. No. 11.
      4to.Astronomical
 British     1901.       Association—Journal, Vol. XL No. 6. 8vo. 1901.

614                         General Monthly Meeting.                     [May 6,
California, University of—Publications, 1900. 8vo.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XI. Part 2. 8vo. 1901.
Camera Club—Journal for April, 1901. 8vo.
Canada, Geological Survey of—Relief Map of Canada and the United States.
      fol. Industry,
Chemical     1901.    Society of—Journal, Vol. XX. No. 3. 8to. 1901.
Chemical Society—journal for April, 1901. 8va
Cracovie, VAcademie dee Sciences—Bulletin International, 1900, No. 10. 8to.
Dax, Soeiete de fordo—Bulletin, 1900, Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1900.
Devincenzi, Senatorr—L'Agriculture de l'avenir. 8vo. 1900.
Editort—Aeronautical Journal for April, 1901.
   American Journal of Science for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Analyst for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Astrophysical Journal for March, 1901. 8vo.
   Athenseum for April, 1901. 4to.
  Author for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Brewers' Journal for April, 1901. 8to.
   Chemical News for April, 1901. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Electrical Engineer for April, 1901. fol.
   Electrical Review for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Electricity for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Electro Chemist and Metallurgist for April, 1901.
   Engineer for April, 1901. fol.
   Engineering for April, 1901. fol.
   Homoeopathio Review for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Horologies! Journal for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Invention for April, 1901.
   Journal of the British Dental Association for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Journal of Physical Chemistry for March, 1901. 8va
   Journal of State Medicine for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Law Journal for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Lightning for April, 1901. 8vo.
   London Technical Education Gazette for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Machinery Market for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Motor Car Journal for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Musical Times for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Nature for April, 1901. 4to.
   New Church Magazine for April, 1901. 8vo.
   New Philosophy for April, 1901.
   Nuovo Cimento for March, 1901. 8vo.
    Photographic News for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Physical Review for March, 1901. 8vo.
    Popular Science Monthly for April, 1901. 8vo.
    Telephone Magazine for April, 1901. 8v0.
   Terrestrial Magnetism for Ueo. 1900. 8vo.
    Travel for April, 1901. 8vo.
    Zoophilist for April, 1901. 4to.
 Evant, Sir John, K.C.B. MR.I. (the Author)—The First Gold Coins of England.
 Furnival,
 Franklin
       4to. Institute—Journal
              William
              1901. J. Esq. (the     Author')—Researches
                                for April,  1901. 8vo.   on Leadless Glazes. Svo.
       1898.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Year Book, 1901. 8vo.
   Geographical Journal lor April, 1901. 8vo.
 Harlem, SocieM Hollandaise des Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Sena IL
       Tome IV. Livr. 2. 8vo. 1901.
Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for April, 1901.

1901.]                            General Monthly Meeting.                           615
James, Alfred, Esq. (the Author)—Notes on the Treatment of Kalgoorlie Sulpho-
       Telluride Ores. 8vo. 1900.
Johns Hopkint University—American Chemical Journal for April, 1901. 8vo.
Leighton, John, Etq. M.R.I.—Ex-Libris Journal for Feb. 1901. 8vo.
Lima, Archer de, Esq. (the Author)—Pour la Paix et pour l'humanite. 8vo. 1898.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 181, 242. 8vo. 1901.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXVIL Parts 1, 2. 8vo. 1901.
Manchester Steam Users' Association—Boiler Explosions Acts, Reports 1189-1247.
       8vo. 1900.
Mayor, The Rev. John E. B. (the Author)—Franz Heinrich Rensch. 8vo. 1901.
Mexico, Sociedad Cientifica " Antonio Altaic "—Memorias, Tomo XV. Nos. 1, 2.
       8vo. 1900.
Microscopical Society, Royal—Journal, 1901, Part 2. 8vo.
 Munich, Royal Academy—Sitzungsberichte, 1901, Heft 1. 8vo.
 Nary League—Navy League Journal for April, 1901. 8vo.
 New Zealand, Registrar-General of—Statistics of the Colony of New Zealand for
         Scotianfol.Institute
 Nova18!)9.              1900. of Science—Proceedings, Vol. X. Part 2. 8vo. 1900.
 Odontohgieal Society—Transactions, Vol. XXXI1L No. 5. 8vo. 1901.
 Onnes, Professor H. K.—Communications, No. 67. 8vo. 1901.
 Paris, Socitti Francaise de Physique—Seances, 1900, Fasc. 8. 8vo.
 Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for April, 1901. 8vo.
 Philadelphia, Academy of Natural Sciences—Proceedings, 1900, Part 3. 8vo.
        1901.
 Photographic Society, Royal—Photographio Journal for March, 1901. 8vo.
 Quekett Microscopical Club—Journal, No. 48. 8vo. 1901.
 Rochechouart, La Societe- les Amis des Sciences et Arts—Bulletin, Tome X. Nos. 2, 3.
 Royal8vo.      1900. Corps of—Professional Papers, Vol. XXVI. 8vo. 1900.
          Engineers,
 Royal Societn of London—Philosophical Transactions, A. No. 280. 4to. 1901.
 SeJborne Society—Nature Notes for April, 1901. 8vo.
 Smithsonian Institution—Annals of the Astrophysics! Observatory of the Smith
        sonian Institution, Vol. I. By 8. P. Langley and C. G. Abbott 4to. 1900.
     A Select Bibliography of Chemistry, 1492-1897. By H. C. Bolton. Section 8.
        8vo. Society—Journal,
 Statistical     1901.               Vol. LXIV. Part 7. 8vo. 1901.
  Stonyhurst College Observatory—Results and Observations, 1900. 8vo.
  Toulouse, La Societe Archeologique du Midi de la France—Bulletin, Nos. 25, 26.
  United         1900.Institution, Royal—Journal for April, 1901. 8vo.
        8vo.Service
  United States Department of Agriculture—Experiment Station Record, Vol. XII.
        Nos. 7, 8. 8vo. 1901.
     Monthly Weather Review for Jan. 1901. 8vo.
  Upsal, V Obsertatoire Meteorologique—Bulletin MensueL Vol. XXXIL 8vo.
        1900-1901.
  Vienna, Imperial Geological Institute—Verhandlungen, 1901, Nos. 2, 3. 8vo.
   Washington
   Walsh,          Esq. (the of
             J. J. Academy     Author)—Science
                                 Sciences—Proceedings,    Vol. III. pp.1901.
                                                  in the Phillipines,    1-155. 8vo. 1901.
   Witherby 't Co. Messrs. (the Publishers)—The Total Solar Eclipse of May 1900.
        Edited by E. W. Maunder. 8vo. 1901.
   Woodward. T. B. Esq. (the A uthor)—Christianity and the Nature of Man in rela
        tion toSociety—Proceedings,
  Zoological      Modern Thought. 8vo.          Part 4. 8vo. 1901.
                                          1900,1901.
     Transactions, Vol. XV. Parts 6, 7. 4to. 1901.

 616                 Professor Jagadis Chunder Bose             [May 10,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 10, 1901.
            Geoboe Matthey, Esq., F.R.8., Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
    Pbofessob Jagadis Chundeb Bose, M.A. D.Sc., Professor of
                      Presidency College, Calcutta.
         The Response of Inorganic Matter to Mechanical and
                            Electrical Stimulus.
When we pinch a living muscle, or send through it an electric
shock, certain changes take place. A responsive twitch is produced ;
the muscle is changed in form, becoming shorter and broader ; the
particles of the living substance are strained under the stimulus.
The effect of the shock then disappears, and the muscle is seen to
relax into its usual form.
                     This suddeu change of form then, is one, but not
      Mechanical     the only, mode of response of a living substance to
     Response.       external stimulus. Under the stress the muscle is
                     thrown into a state of distortion or strain. On
the cessation of stimulus it automatically recovers. As long as it
is alive, so long will it respond and recover, being ready again for
new response. This brief disturbance of a living poise, to be imme
diately restored to equilibrium of itsolf, is quite unlike the rolling of
a stone downhill from a push. For the stone cannot regain its
original position, but the living tissue at once reasserts its first
stable poise on the cessation of stress. Thus a muscle, as long as
it is alive, remains ever-responsive. It is in intimate relation with
the forces by which it is surrounded, always responding to, and
recovering from, the multitudinous disturbances of its physical envi
ronment.
     The living body is thus affected by external stimuli—mechanical
shock, sound, electrical stimulus, and the stimuli of heat and light—
which evoke in it corresponding responses.
     In the case of the contraction of muscle by mechanical or electric
shock, the effect is very quick, and the contraction and relaxation
take place in too short a time for detailed observation by ordinary
means. Physiologists, therefore, use a contrivance by which the
whole process may be recorded automatically. This consists of a

1901.]       on the Response of Inorganic Matter to Stimulus,              617
lever arrangement, by which the contracting muscle writes down the
history of its change, and recovery from that change. The record
may be made on a travelling band of paper, which is moving at a
uniform rate (Fig. 1). This autographic record gives us the most
accurate information as to the characteristic properties and condition
of the muscle. It gives us, too, its history and all its peculiarities.
                      Just as one wave of sound is distinguished from
   Characteristics another by its amplitude, period, and form, so are
   of the Response the curves of different muscles distinguished. For
   Curve :            example, the period of tortoise muscle may be as
   (1) Amplitude, large as several seconds, whereas the period for
   (2) Period,        the wing of an insect is as small as To-Q-th of a
   (3) Form.          second. In the same muscle, again, the form of
                      the curve may undergo changes from fatigue, or
from the effects of various kinds and quantities of drugs. In the
autographic record of the progressive death of a muscle, the writing
is bold and vigorous at first,
but grows lethargic on the
approach of death. In some
strange way the molecules lose
their mobility, rigidity super
venes, and the record of the
dying muscle comes to an end.
We may thus find out the
effects of various external influ
ences by studying the changes
of form of the     may stimulate
               Wemuscle  curve.
Different     the living sub-
Forms of      stance in various
Stimuli :     ways — by light,
Electrical,   or by thermal,
Mechanical,   chemical, electri
              cal, or mechanical
stimuli. Of these, the electric
means of stimulation is the           Fio. 1.—Mechanical Lever Recorder.
most convenient, whereas the The muscle M with the attached bone is
mechanical gives rise to the securely held at one end, the other end
fewest complications. With being          connected with the writing lever.
                                   Under the action of stimulus the contract
regard to this response of ing muscle pulls the lever and moves the
living substances, the most im tracing point to the right over the travel
portant matters of study are ling recording surface P. When the muscle
the responses to single stimu recovers      from contraction, the tracing point
                                   returns to its original position. See on P
lus and to rapidly-succeeding the record of muscle curve.
stimuli, and the modification of
response by fatigue and drugs.
    A single shock causes a twitch, but the muscle soon recovers its
original shape. The rising portion of the curve is due to contrac-

618          i      Professor Jagadis Chunder Bose                 [May 10,
tion, whereas the falling portions exhibit recovery (see curve in
                     If, instead of a single stimulus, a succession of
   Incomplete        stimuli be superposed, the frequency of individual
   Tetanus.          contractions also increases ; the muscle has not
                     time to recover ; we get a jagged curve (a1, Fig. 11) .
                     But when the frequency is sufficiently increased,
   Complete          the intermittent effects are fused, and we get an
   Tetanus.          almost unbroken curve. When the muscle attains
                     its maximum contraction (corresponding to the
frequency and strength of stimulus), it appears to be held rigid, and
recovers only on the cessation of stimulus (b1, Fig. 11).
                     When the muscle is continuously excited it grows
   Fatigue.          fatigued. The height of the curve grows con
                     tinuously less. This is seen in a series of single
twitches (Fig. 4). It is also seen in tetanus, where there is a decline
of the upper portion of the curve.
                     Drugs may act as stimulants, or produce depres-
   Influence         sion, according to their nature. As extreme cases
   of Drugs.         of such depressing agents we may instance poi
                     sons, which kill the response of living tissue. All
signs of sensibility then disappear.
                     This mechanical method of studying the response
   Other Modes       of living substances is, however, very limited in
   of Expression     its application. For example, when a piece of
   of Living         nerve is stimulated, there is no visible change of
   Response.         form. When light falls on the retina there is no
                     change of form, but it responds by transmitting
to the brain a visual impulse. What, then, is this visual impulse
which is sent along the optic nerve, causing the sensation of light?
     Thanks to the work of Homgren, Dewar, McKendrick and others,
it is possible to answer this question. If we excise an eye, say of a
frog, and substitute a galvanometer in the visual circuit in the place
of the perceiving brain, it is found that each time a flash of light
falls on the eye there is produced an electric twitch—that is to say,
there is a sudden production of current, which ceases on the cessation
of light-stimulus. Stronger light produces stronger electric twitch
in the galvanometer, just as it produces stronger sensation in the
brain. The visual impulse thus appears to be the concomitant of an
electric impulse. This conclusion is supported by the fact that a
luminous sensation is occasioned (without the action of light), by
    Thesending
simply           an electric
         visual circuit      current to
                        is therefore like
                                        theanbrain
                                               electric circuit.
                                                    through       The nerve.
                                                             the optic retina
is a potential voltaic element. The nerve is the conductor. The brain
is the detector of current, or a very highly sensitive galvanometer.
Unless these three elements are in good order, no light-message can
be perceived. We must have the current-generator or retina, and

1901.]       on the Response of Inorganic Matter to Stimulus.      619
the conductor or optic nerve, free from injury. Finally, just as the
galvanometer will fail to detect a current if its suspension-thread he
broken by rough usuage, so, after a violent blow, the brain will no
longer perceive, though the terminal organ, the retina, and the con
necting optic nerve may be intact.
    So we see that stimulus evokes an electrical change also, in a
living tissue. I shall now proceed to enter into some detail re
garding this electric mode of response.
                      The various complicated phenomena of electric
     Hydraulic        response may perhaps be rendered more easily
     Model.           intelligible by means of a hydraulic model
                     (I, Fig. 2). Imagine an indiarubber pipe full
of water, whose two ends A and B are at the same level. There
would then be no current in the side or canal-pipe P. But sup
pose the end A is struck, a wave of disturbance will travel from A
towards B. At a given moment the level at the A end will be raised,
                          Fia. 2.—Hydraulic Models.
and the side tube will exhibit a current from A to B (P, Fig. 2) ; but,
after a little while, A will subside to the normal level, the disturb
ance having meanwhile travelled to B, whose level will now be
raised. The current in the side tube will now be reversed in direc
tion (Zu, Fig. 2). A disturbing shock applied to one end of A B will
thus produce a diphasic variation, and a float or indicator in the side
pipe will exhibit this effect by alternate movement, first to one side
and then to the other. If, however, the rate of transmission of dis
turbance be very great, then the indicator will fail to show any move
ment, inasmuch as it will be acted on by two equal and opposite
impulses almost simultaneously.
    1. To make the indicator exhibit the effect of shock in producing
disturbance of level, we may proceed as follows. We may clamp
the pipe in the middle at C (see m, Fig. 2), so that when one end is
struck the disturbance may not proceed to the other end, the clamp

 620                    Professor Jagadis Chunder Bote                   [May 10,
anting as a block. In such a case, when A is struck, the indicator
will move to the right ; when B is struck, it will move to the left.
 Thus we obtain effects which are reversible.
     2. Or we may detect the effect of shock by the variations that
it may produce in the intensity of the current. Take the case of
n, Fig. 2, where there is a permanent difference of level between the
two ends ; one end, say B, being also more securely held, so that a
shock produces less disturb
ance of level there than at A.
As there is a permanent
difference of level between B
and A, there will bo a cur
rent the normal intensity of
 which (c) will depend on the
resting difference of level
between B and A. If the
pipe be now struck, A will
be relatively more disturbed,
and there may then be pro
duced either a decrease
(B A2) or an increase (B A1)
of original difference of level.
In the former case we shall
have less current (c1), that is
to say, the shock will have
the effect of a negative varia
 tion of current ; in the latter
case there will be a greater
flow (C) or a positive varia
tion.
     These models may help
us in framing a mental                   Fio. 3.—Magnetic Lever Recorder. ,M
image of that electrical vari muscle ; A uninIured, B injured ends. EE1
ation which constitutes the non-polarising           electrodes connecting A and
                                     B with galvanometer G. Stimulus produces
response to stimulus of a "negative variation" of current of rest.
living tissue.                       Index connected with galvanometer needle
                                     records curve on travelling paper (in prac
             If we take a piece curvetice, moving galvanometer spot of light traces
Electric of living muscle of                on photographic plate). Rising part
                                        curve shows effect of stimulus ; descend
Response, whose surface is ing part, recovery.
             uninjured, then
any two points (A and B) on such surface being in a similar
molecular condition, their electrical level or potential will be the
same. They are iso-electric. No current will be exhibited by the
indicating galvanometer when two non-polarisable electrodes* con-
    * Zinc rods in solution of ZnSO„ with two dependent strips of cloth, moistened
with NaCl solution passed round the muscle at A and B.

1901.]         on the Response of Inorganic Matter to Stimulus.                  621
nected with it are applied to A and B. But if one of the two points,
say B, be injured by a cut, or burn, application of strong acids, or
by alkalies, then, the conditions of A and B being different, there
will be a difference of electric level or potential between them, and
a current will flow from the injured to the uninjured, that is from B
to A (Fig. 3). This current remains approximately constant as long
as the muscle is at rest, and is for this reason known as " current of
rest." As it is primarily due to injury, it is also known as " current
of injury." If now the muscle be thrown into an excitatory state *
by stimulus, there will be a greater relative disturbance at the unin
jured A, and the original difference of electric level will be disturbed.
In this case we have an analogue to c' in n, Fig. 2, where the shock
produced a decrease of original difference of level. There would
thus be a negative variation or diminution of the original current of
rest. This negative variation is
sometimes called an "action cur
rent." The transitory electrical
variation constitutes the " response."
Its intensity measures the intensity
of the stimulus.
     But we saw in the hydraulic
model the possibility of a positive
variation or increase of current, by
shock. This is also found to be
the case in some types of living
response. In the retina, the stimulus
of light produces a positive varia
tion. It will thus be seen that                                                       E
there are two kinds of response
given by living substances : (1) the
negative, instanced by muscle, and
(2) the positive, shown by the                        Fio. 4.—Simultaneous records of
retina. Again, the same tissue un                 the (Jf) mechanical and (E) elec
                                                  trical response of gastrocnemius
der different conditions may give rise muscle of a frog. The muscle ex
to responses having opposite signs. hibits fatigue (Waller).
Thus Dr. Waller finds that while
fresh nerve gives negative, the stale nerve gives positive variation.')'
     We have here, then, a way of obtaining curves of response by
electric means. After all it is not very different essentially from the
mechanical method. In this case we use a magnetic lever, the needle
of the galvanometer, which is deflected by the electric pull of the
current, generated under the action of stimulus, just as the mechanical
lever was deflected by the mechanical pull of the muscle contracting
under stimulus (Fig. 3).
    * The excitatory reaction is, in the case of some living substances, of a more
or less local character. Ir others, as nerves, it may be conducted to distant points,
    t See Waller, ' Animal Electricity,' p. 61.

 G22                   Professor Jagadis Chunder Bose                    [May 10,
     If a piece of muscle be taken, and simultaneous records of its
response be made by the mechanical and electrical recorders, it will
be found that the one is practically a duplicate of the other. This is
well shown in a pair of records taken by Dr. Waller, and here re
produced (Fig. 4). It will be seen that the peculiarities of either
carve are re-exhibited in the other. The muscle acted on grew
fatigued, and both sets of response-curves show this effect by their
 gradual diminution of amplitude.*
                       I find that the electric response seen in animal
       Response        tissues is also strongly exhibited by the tissues of
       in Plants.      take the leaf-stalk
                       plants.                 of horse-chestnut.!
                                   For experimental       illustration we may
     1. Let us take such a stalk, and securely tying two strips of
moistened cloth to A and B to prevent shifting of contact, connect
                                                 these with two leading non-
                                                 polarisable electrodes, E and
                                                 E1 (see Fig. 5). From what
                                                 has been said before, it will
                                                 be seen that these two points
                                                 being practically iso-electric,
                                                 little or no current will flow
                                                 through the galvanometer.
                                                 If, now, we apply a mechan
                                                 ical stimulus to the whole
                                                 stalk either (1) by tapping
         A                       B      0 or (2) by holding it at its
                                                 two ends, and giving it a
    Fia. 5.—Response in plants. There rapid torsional vibration, we
being no block, effects at A and B are
equal and opposite; hence no resultant shall have similar disturb
effect.                                          ances produced both at A
                                                 and B, and there will be
practically no resultant current of response.
     2. We may now use the block method (Fig. 6). That is to say,
the stalk is held securely in the middle by a clamp C, so that a dis
turbance made at one end will not reach the other. The electric
contact is made with the uninjured, therefore iso-electric, points A and
B, by securely tying the stalk with strips of moistened cloth at those
points, as in the experiment just described. If now the A half be sub
jected to taps, or to torsional vibration, there will be a current of response
through the stalk from the excited to the unexcited ond. If the B end
be next excited, a current in the revorse direction will be observed,
in this case also from the excited to the unexcited end (a, Fig. 6).
    * Wiiller, 'Animal Electricity,' p. 13.
    t Various parts of plants—leaves, stems, stalks, and roots—will give electric
response. In some there is rapid fatigue, whereas in others there is little fatigue.
I intend to publish at a future date a more detailed account of these i
and their modifications by anaesthetics, poisons, and othor agencies.

1901.]        on the Response of Inorganic Matter to Stimulus.                 623
     3. Or, taking again an unblocked stalk, let one contact be made
in the usual manner at the end A, and the other at the end B, which
is now injured by a cut (see Fig. 7). There will now be a per
manent difference of electric level between the two ends, and a cur
rent of injury will be found to flow through the stalk from the
injured to the uninjured. This contact at the injured end may be
made in a very simple manner by passing a strip of moistened cloth
through a slit in the stalk at B. Or, better still, instead of the cut
                                                      • Currrsi t- ofn:jt
                                                      • Ciirrim t. vf cuctuaii.
                                                         O
    Fio. 6.—Response in plants by block         Fio. 7.—Response in plants—
method and response curves. C, clamp or negative variation. There is a
block. Stimulation of A end produces resting current owing to injury at B.
current in one direction, that of B end in Stimulation produces a diminution
opposite direction, as shown by curves of this resting current, as shown in
 given in (a). In (6) is shown abolition of (c). The dotted line represents
 response in B half when killed.            the galvanometer zero.
 we may use a few drops of strong KHO solution, to injure the B end.
 If now the stalk be subjected to mechanical stimulus, it will be
 found that there is a responsive negative variation, or a diminution
 in tho original current of rest (c, Fig. 7).
     Thus we see that under stimulation the plant, like muscle or nerve,
 is thrown into an excitatory state of which the electrical change is
 the concomitant, this electric response being regarded by physiolo
 gists as proof of the living condition of the substance.
     4. But how can we be certain that this electrical indication is
 peculiar, sui generis, to the physiological or living state ? The crucial

 624                   Professor Jagadis Chunder Bose                 [May 10,
 test is supposed to lie in the modification of response under anaesthe
tics or poisons, when " that which is physiological, i.e. dependent on
 the physico-chemical conditions peculiar to the living state, will he
 suppressed ; that which is purely physical will persist." * In order,
 then, to determine whether response in plants is or is not of a phy
 siological character, we may subject them to the action of chloroform.
 Taking a fresh stalk we get the usual strong response. We now
apply chloroform, and find as anaesthetic action proceeds, that the
responses wane, and are finally abolished. There are various other
poisons which I find to be very effective in killing response.
      5. The physiological nature of the response may be further de
monstrated if we repeat experiment 2, after killing the stalk by brief
immersion in hot water. No response current will now be evoked
on stimulation of either A or B end.
     As the conditions in 2 and 5 were exactly similar, except for the
fact that in the former case the stalk was alive, and in the latter
killed, on the method of difference we are justified in concluding that
the response was physiological, or characteristic of a living state of
matter.
      6. Or we may demonstrate the same fact in a more striking
manner by a modification of experiment 2. One half of the stalk,
say the B half, is killed, by dipping that half in hot water. On
now subjecting the B half to stimulation, there is no response; but
stimulation of the A end gives strong response (b, Fig. 6).
                       Nothing has yet been said of the advantage of the
     Universal         electrical over the mechanical method of obtaining
     Applicability     response. As has been said before, the mechanical
     of the test of    method is limited in its application. A nerve, for
     Electric          example, does not undergo any change of form
     Response.         when excited, and its response cannot therefore
                       be detected by this method. But by the electrical
method we are. able to detect, not only the response of muscles, but
that of all forms of living tissue.
     The intensity of electrical response is also a measure of physio
logical activity. When this physiological activity of the living
substance is diminished by anaesthetics, the electrical responses are
also correspondingly diminished. And when the living tissue is in
any way killed, the electrical response disappears altogether. Hence
it is said that " the most general and the most delicate sign of life is
the electrical response." |
     Thus, electrical response is regarded as the criterion between the
living and non-living. Where it is, life is said to be ; where it is not
found, we are in presence of death, or else of that which has never
lived : for in this respect there is a great gulf fixed between the
    * Waller, ' Animal Eleotricity,' p. 104.
    f " The Electrical Sign of Life. . . . An isolated musole gives sign of life
by contracting when stimulated. . . . An ordinary nerve, normally connected

 1901.]        on the Response of Inorganic Matter to Stimulus.                   625
organic living and the inorganic or non-living. The phenomena of
 the inorganic are dominated merely by physical forces, while on the
 other side of the chasm, in the domain of the living, inscrutable vital
 phenomena, of which electric response is the sign-manual, suddenly
 come into action.
     But is it true that the inorganic are irresponsive ? That forces
evoke in them no answering thrill? Are their particles for ever
locked in the rigid grasp of immobility? As regards response, is
 the chasm between the living and inorganic really impassable ?
     Thanks to the courtesy of the authorities of the Davy-Faraday
Laboratory, I have been enabled to complete the investigations on
this subject, commenced in India, under this very roof. I shall now
proceed to submit the question before you to an experimental test.
       Response.        Taking a piece of tin wire, I arrange it in exactly
       Inorganic        the same way as the stalk of the horse-chestnut
                        (see Figs. 6 and 8). That is to say, it is clamped
                        in the middle, and secure electrolytic contacts are
made, through non-polarisable electrodes, which lead to a galvano
meter. If all strains have been completely removed, the two points,
A and B, will be found iso-electric.
If now I take the end A and strike
it, or subject it to torsional vibration,
you will observe that the galvano
meter spot on the screen, hitherto
quiescent, moves in one direction,
showing the existence of the "current
of action." I stop the disturbance,
and you watch it creeping back to its
original position, exhibiting a com
plete recovery. As long as the wire
is excited, so long will the electric
variation persist. Greater intensity
of vibration will produce greater                    Fio. 8.—Experimental arrange
electric variation. Stimulation of the ment to show electric response in
B end
with       will produce
      its terminal         a deflection
                   organs, gives sign of lifein by metallic  muscle,C,which
                                                   means ofwires.      clamp.by direct
the opposite direction.
     Or, following experiment 8, we may demonstrate the fact of
electric response by the method of injury. One end of the wire is
touched with EHO, and the usual current of injury is observed. On
now stimulating the wire, a diminution of this current of injury, or
negative variation, will be produced.
or reflex path is set in motion when the nerve-trunk is stimulated. Bnt such
nerve, separated from its natural termini, isolated from the rest of the organism,
gives no sign of life when excited, either in the shape of chemical or of thermic
changes, aud it is only by means of an electrical change that we can ascertain
whether or no it is alive. . . . The most general and most delicate sign of life is
then the electrical response."—Waller, in ' Brain,' pp. 3 and 4, Spring 1900.
     Vol. XVI. (No. 95.)                                                 2 t

   626                    Professor Jagadis Chunder Bote                 [May 10,
        With tin wire under normal conditions, the current through the
   wire is always from the unexcited to the excited end, and from the
  excited to the unexcited through the galvanometer.* But just as in
  living substances we find two opposite kinds of response (e.g. nerve
  giving negative and retina positive variation), so also the responses
  given by some inorganic substances are of opposite signs to that of
  tin. For example, silver sometimes, especially in cold weather, passes
  into a peculiar molecular condition in which it gives the reverse re
  sponse to that of tin, the " action current " in the wire being from
  the excited to the unexcited. An interesting transition from one
  class to the other is sometimes found in the behaviour of lead.
  Under feeble stimulus the current is away from the stimulated, and
  under stronger, towards that end. The majority of metals, however,
  behave like tin.
       This simple form of experiment with metallic wire has been de
  vised for the special purpose of bringing the essential points out
  clearly. But it labours under certain defects. Unless carefully carried
  out, there may be shifting of contacts ; there may be variations of
 resistance by the evaporation of the liquid contacts ; and quantitative
 measurements also are rendered difficult, for want of some means of
 graduating the intensity of stimulus. I will now describe a perfect
 form of apparatus for exhibiting the electrical response of metallic
  wires to mechanical stimulus, in which all these difficulties have
 been completely overcome.
                         In the typical experiment (Fig. 8), instead of
      Experimental making the galvanometer connection through elec-
      Madificalwns. trolytic contacts we may out A B into two (6,
                         Fig. 9), and place the galvanometer in the gap,
 connecting A B directly by electrolyte.
       This leads to c, Fig. 9, where A and B are held parallel to each
 other in an electrolytic bath (water).f Mechanical vibration may
 now be applied to A without affecting B, and vice versa.
       The actual apparatus, of which this is a diagrammatic representa
 tion, is seen in d, Fig. 9.
       Two pieces, from the same specimen of wire, are clamped sepa
 rately at their lower ends by means of ebonite screws, in an L-shaped
 piece of ebonite. The wires are fixed at their upper ends to two
 electrodes (leading to the galvanometer), and kept moderately and
 uniformly stretched by spiral springs. The handle, by which a tor
 sional vibration is imparted to the wire, may be slipped over either
 electrode. The amplitude of vibration is measured by means of a
graduated circle, not shown in the figure.
     * The galvanometer in the above arrangement is interposed, as it were, in
the electrolytic part of a voltaic cell. The portion of tin wire under excitement
becomes zincoid. I mention this, as some misunderstandings and wrong in
ferences have arisen from not distinguishing between the direction of the current
in the electrolytic part and that in the rest of the circuit.
     t In all the experiments hereafter described the electrolyte is water unless
the contrary be stated.

 1901. J      on the Response of Inorganic Matter to Stimulus.            627
    It will be seen from these arrangements :
    (1) That the cell depicted in d, Fig. 9, is essentially the same as
that in Fig. 8.
    (2) That as the wires in the cell are immersed to a definite depth
in the electrolyte there is always a perfect and invariable contact
between the wire and the electrolyte. The difficulty as regards
variation of contact is thus eliminated.
    (3) That as the wires A and B are clamped below, we may im
part a sudden molecular disturbance to either A or B by giving a
                                      (b)
       Fio. 9.—Modifications of experimental arrangement to show electric
                               response in metals.
quick torsional vibration round the vertical wire, as axis, by means
of the handle. As the wire A is separate from B, disturbance of one
will not affect the other. Vibration of A produces a current in one
direction, vibration of B in the opposite direction. Thus we have
means of verifying every experiment by obtaining corroborative and
reversal effects. When the two wires have been brought to exactly
the same molecular condition by the processes of annealing or
stretching, the effects obtained on subjecting A or B to any given
stimulus are always equal.
                                                               2 t 2

628                     Professor Jagadis Chunder Bote                   [May 10,
     But if, to begin with, the two were not in the same molecular condition,
an initial P.D. would exist between them, and then, owing to the difference
in the anodic and kalhodic sensitiveness, the responses given by the two
would not be identical.
     Usually I interpose an external resistance varying from one to five megohms
according to the sensitiveness of the wire. The resistance of the electrolyte
in the cell is thus relatively small, and the galvanometer deflections are pro
portional to the E. M. variations. It is always advisable to have a high
external resistance, as by this means one is not only able to keep the deflec
tions within the scale, but one is not troubled by minute accidental disturb
ances.
     When the cell is freshly made, the wires, owing to the strain set up
during the mounting, may exhibit slightly erratic responses. Both should
then be short-circuited, and after being subjected to vibrations for a time, the
cell should be allowed a short period of rest. In this way, after a little prac
tice, it is always possible to bring the response to a normal condition. The
responses subsequently obtained become extraordinarily consistent. There is
no reason why perfect results should not be arrived at, if these conditions are
fulfilled.
                         If now a rapid torsional vibration bo given to A
      Application        (or B), there will be induced an electromotive
      of Stimulus.       variation. The intensity of stimulus is increased
                         with the amplitude of vibration. Greater intensity
of response is always obtained with greater intensity of stimulus.
     Considerations showing that Electric Response is due to Molecular Dis
turbance.—1. The electromotive variation varies with the substance. With
superposition of stimuli, a relatively high value is obtained in tin, amounting
sometimes to nearly half a volt, whereas in silver the electro-motive variation
is only about "01 of this value. The intensity of the response, however,
does not depend on the chemical activity of the substance, for the electro
motive variation in the relatively chemically-inactive tin, and even gold, is
greater than that of zinc. Again, the sign of response in silver, positive or
 negative, depends on its molecular condition.*
     2. It may be thought that the electro-motive variation is due to some
 thermo-electric eflect, inasmuch as the wire may be heated by vibration. The
 heat produced by a single vibration, however, must be very small. In order
 to test whether heating of the wire would produce effects comparable in mag
 nitude to that produced by vibration, I made a cell with lead wire (the
external resistance interposed in the circuit was 100,000 ohms). On subjecting
one wire to the heating action of concentrated light from an arc lamp, during
a continuous exposure of one minute, the effect on the galvanometer was a
deflection of barely one division of the scale. But when the same wire was
subjected to five quickly succeeding vibrations, lasting altogether only a few
 seconds, there was produced the very large deflection of 180 divisions.
     Numerous other effects will be described presently which cannot be ex
 plained on the thermo-electric theory of action. I find for instance that the
     * It is curious to note that the response of silver filings to Hertzian waves
 also depends on the molecular condition of the silver. In one condition there is
 produced a diminution of resistance, or positive effect: in the other the resistance
 is increased, i.e. the effect shown is negative. (See my Paper on " Electric
Touch," Proo. Boy. Soc., Aug. 1900.)

1901.]       on the Response of Inorganic Matter to Stimulus.                 629
intensity of response is very much modified by the effect of varyiDg doses
of chemical reagents. For example, with a '25 per cent, strength ol potash
solution, the response was 57 divisions ; but the increase of this strength to
 '75 and upwards completely abolished all response.
    3. It may be urged that the electro-motive effect is due in some way to
(1) the friction of the vibrating wire against the liquid, or (2) some unknown
surface action at the point in the wire of the contact of liquid and air surfaces.
It is, however, to be remembered as regards (1), that the amount of this fric
tion is exceedingly small ; the movement of the wire at the lower fixed end
being zero, that at the upper end is through an angle of about 180°. (2)
Variation of surface, similarly, must be almost non-existent under the arrange
ments adopted for experiment.
     Both these questions may, however, be subjected to a definite and final
test. When the wire to be acted on is clamped below, and torsional vibration
is imparted to it, a strong molecular disturbance is produced. If now it be
carelully released from the clamp, and the vibration repeated as before, there
could be little molecular disturbance due to torsion of the wire, but the
liquid friction and surface variation, if any, would remain. The effect of any
slight disturbance outstanding owing to shaking of the wire would be relatively
very small.
     We can thus determine the effect of liquid friction and surface action by
repeating experiments with and without clamping. In a tin wire cell (with
interposed external resistance equal to 1,000,000 ohms), the wire A was sub
jected to a series of vibrations through 180°, and a deflection of 210 divisions
 was obtained. A corresponding negative deflection resulted on vibrating the
 wire B. Now A was released from the clamp, so that it could be rotated
 backward and forward in the water by means of the handle. On vibrating
 the wire A no measurable deflection was produced, thus showing that neither
 water friction nor surface variation had anything to do with the electric
action. The vibration of the still clamped B gave rise to the normal strong
deflection.
     As all the rest of the circuit was kept absolutely the same in the two
different sets of experiments, these results conclusively prove that the electro
motive variation is solely due to the molecular disturbance produced by
mechanical vibration in the acted wire.
     The question of surface action again can be finally disposed of if we take
a cell (with external high resistance) and tilt it backwards and forwards.
 This will produce a j>reat surface variation, yet little or no current will be
detected. But vibration of the wire will produce the normal strong response.
     The same strong response is obtained, further, when the air surface is
completely abolished, vibration being communicated to a completelyMmmersed
wire by means of an ebonite clip-holder.
     A new and theoretically interesting molecular voltaic cell may thus be
 made, in which the two elements consist of the same metal. Molecular dis
turbance is in this case the source of energy. A cell once made may be kept
in working order for a considerable time by pouring in a little vaseline to
prevent evaporation of the liquid.
      I shall now proceed to describe in detail the response curves
obtained with metals, and as a substance which gives good results 1
 shall take tin. The records given in this paper were obtained, some
 by following the galvanometer deflection with a pencil, others by
 direct photography, and have been exactly reproduced. The gal

 630                    Professor Jagadis Chunder Bote                   [May 10,
 variometer used was similar, as regards sensitiveness and tho period
 of swing of the needle, to that employed for physiological records.
                         Fig. 10, a, gives a series, each of which is the
    Effects of           response curve for a single stimulus of uniform
    Single Stimuli, intensity (amplitude of vibration, 180°). Observe
                        the perfect similarity of all these curves, and
 their resemblance to the curves of response in living tissues
 (Fig. 10, 6). The rising portion of the curve is somewhat steep,
 and the recovery convex to the abscissa, the fall being relatively
 rapid in its first, and less rapid in its latter, parts. As the electric
 variation is the concomitant effect of molecular disturbance—a tem
 porary upset of molecular equilibrium,—on the cessation of the external
stimulus tho excitatory state and its expression in electric variation
 disappear, with the gradual return of the molecules to their con
dition of equilibrium, a process which is seen clearly in the curve of
 recovery.
     Different metals exhibit different periods of recovery, and this
    Fio. 10.—(a) Series of electric responses to successive mechanical stimuli
at intervals of half a minute, in tin. (6) Mechanical responses in muscle.
again is modified by any influence which affects the molecular
 condition.
     That the excitatory state persists for a time even on the cessation
of stimulus can be independently shown by keeping the galvanometer
circuit open during the application of stimulus, and completing it at
various short intervals after the cessation, when a persisting electrical
effect, diminishing rapidly with time, will be apparent.*
     We have already seen how similar the response-curves of the in-
    * Observe how siinilar the above is to the excitatory electrical effect due to
stimulus, in living tissue, such as nerve. "The excitatory state evoked by
stimulus manifests itself in nerve fibre by electromotive changes, and as far as
our knowledge goes, by these only. . . . The conception of such an excitable
living tissue as nerve implies that of a molecular state which is in stable
equilibrium. This equilibrium can be readily upset by an external agency, the
stimulus, but the term ' stable ' expresses the fact that a change in any direction
must be succeeded by one of opposite character, this being the return of living
structure to its previous state. Thus the electric manifestation of the excitatory
state is one whose duration depends upon the time during which the external
agent is able to upset and retain in a new poise the living equilibrium, and if
this is extremely brief, then the recoil of the tissue causes such manifestation to
be itself of very short duration."—' Text-book of Physiology,' edited bv Schafer
p. 458.

190L]       on the Response of Inorganic Matter to Stimulus.               681
organic are to those of the living substance. We have yet to see
whether the similarity extends to this point only, or goes still
farther. Are the response-curves of the inorganic modified by the
influence of external agencies, as the living responses were found to
be? If so, are the modifications similar? I shall now place two
sets of curves side by side, when it will become apparent whether or
no similar external influences produce similar results in the two
classes of phenomena.
                     It has been said that, with rapidly succeeding
    Effect of         stimuli, when the intermittent effects of single
    Superposition shocks are fused, a tetanic condition is produced
    of Stimuli.       in a muscle, and we obtain an almost unbroken
                      curve (see 6', Fig. 11). If the frequency is not
sufficiently great, there is an incomplete tetanus, and the response-
curve becomes jagged (see a', Fig. 11).
                 a.'
 Fio. 11.—Effects analogous to (a) incomplete and (6) complete tetanus, in tin.
             (a1) Incomplete and (b1) complete tetanus in muscle.
    The very same thing occurs in metals. I subject the wire to
quickly succeeding vibrations. The curve rises to its maximum ;
further stimulation adds nothing to the effect, and the deflection is
held, as it were, rigid, so long as the vibration is kept up. With
lesser frequency of stimulus, we find an incomplete state of tetanus,
and the curve becomes jagged (see a and b, Fig. 11).
     It is also curious that the maximum effect is produced almost

632                    Professor Jagadis Chunder Bote                    [May 10,
invariably after a definite period of stimulation. In tin, at least,
successive tetanic curves are almost exactly similar. The
effect depends on the intensity of the stimulus (Fig. 12).
                       Amongst living substances we find nerve
       Fatigue.         tically indefatigable. Successive curves are
                       actly similar. But with muscle there is a rapid
decline in the responses (Fig. 4). Fatigue, however, disappears
after a period of rest.
It is generally sup
posed to be due to
the working of two
processes conjointly
—the breakdown of
force-producing ma
terial and the accum
ulation of " fatigue-
stuffs." It is thought
that fatigue is re
moved by the action
of the circulating
blood in bringing in          Fio. 12.—Tetanic curves in tin, showing effects of
fresh material and different intensities of stimuli. The three curves to
carrying away fa the           left show effect of vibration with amplitude of 90°;
                           the next three are duo to stronger intensity of stimulus,
tigue products. But amplitude          = 180°; the amplitude was now reduced to
that this cannot 90°, and the last two, owing to fatigue, show feebler
furnish a complete response than the first three.
explanation of the
phenomena is shown by the fact that excised bloodless muscle acted
on by stimulus, recovers from fatigue after a short period of rest,
                                           though here there is no blood-
                                           supply to repair the damage and
                                           remove the waste products.
                                                Turning to inorganic sub
                                           stances, we find different metals
                                           exhibiting fatigue. But tin ex
                                           hibits very little, reminding as in
                                           this of the behaviour of nerves.
                                           Even here, however, after pro
                                           longed action, fatigue is sometimes
                                           observed. The fatigue curve here
                                           reproduced was obtained from tin
                                           that had been acted on for several
                                           days, and its remarkable similarity
   Fio. 13.—Photographic record of         to the curve of fatigue in muscles
 fatigue in tin (compare with Fig. 4).      will be at once apparent (see Figs.
                                            18 and 4). That fatigue is pri
marily due to over-strain, and not to fatigue products, is seen from the
fact that a brief period of repose hastens its removal in this case also.

1901.]       on the Response of Inorganic Matter to Stimulus.             633
                      Perbaps before completing what I have to say on
      Stimulus        the modification of response by external agencies,
      of Light.      it will be well to make some reference to the ac
                      tion of other forms of stimulus and other modes
of detection of response. In this investigation I have used the
mechanical form of stimulus as being the simplest and giving rise
to the fewest complications. Time does not allow of my entering
here upon the question of the action of electric stimulus in causing
response. I have dealt with this subject in some detail elsewhere.
I may, however, say a few words on the effect of light stimulus.
    If one of the sensitised wires in the oell already described be
subjected to light it will give an electric response, and under certain
circumstances an oscillatory after-effect will be seen on the cessation
of light. This latter fact may, perhaps, explain certain phenomena
of visual recurrence to be noticed presently.
                      The molecular strain produced by stimulus can
      Artificial      not only be detected by the phenomena of electro-
      Retina.         motive variation, but also by conductivity varia
                      tion.* Acting on this principle, I have been able
to construct an artificial retina. The sensitive receiver is contained
inside a hollow spherical case, provided with a circular opening in
front, in which a glass lens is placed, corresponding to the crystalline
lens. You now see before you a complete model of an artificial eye.f
When this is interposed in an electric circuit, with a sensitive galva
nometer as indicator, you observe the response to a flash of light by
the galvanometer deflection. I throw red, yellow, green and violet
lights upon it in succession, and you see how it responds to all. Note
how strong is the action of yellow light, the response to violet being
relatively feeble. Indeed, the most striking peculiarity of this eye
is that it can see lights not only some way beyond the violet, but
also in regions far below the infra-red, in the invisible regions of
electric radiation. It is in fact a Tejometer (Sanskrit tej = radiation),
or universal radiometer.
    Observe how each flash of invisible light I am producing with
this electric radiation apparatus, calls forth an immediate response,
and how the eye automatically recovers without external aid. This
will show the possibility of an automatic receiver which will record
Hertzian wave-messages without the intervention of the crude tap
ping device.
    This retina has, as will be seen with regard to spectral vision, an
enormous range, extending far beyond the visual limits. We can,
however, reduce its powers to a merely human level by furnishing it
   * See ' On the Similarity of Effect of Electrical Stimulus on Inorganic and
Living Substances.'—Eleetrieian, Sept. 1900.
   f I hope to publish a complete account of this instrument at a future date.
The descriptions whioh follow are more detailed than time permitted on the
10th of May.

034                    Professor Jagadis Chunder Bose                    [May 10,
with a water lens, which, in its liquid constitution, approximates
closer to the lens of the eye than does the glass substitute. In this
case the, to us invisible, radiations are absorbed by the liquid, and
do not reach the sensitive retina. Perhaps we do not sufficiently
appreciate, especially in these days of space-signalling by Hertzian
waves, the importance of that protective contrivance which veils our
sense against insufferable radiance.
    Fio. 14.—(a) Response curves of artificial retina for short periods of illumina
tion followed by darkness. The ascending portions show the growing effect of
light, the horizontal portion the balancing tetanic effect. The descending portion
of the curve exhibits recovery during the absence of light, (b) Same in frog's
retina (Waller).
     I give here two sets of curves, one exhibiting the response of the
artificial retina and the other of that of a frog, to show the general
resemblance of the two (Fig. 14).
                        I have referred to the fact that sometimes on the
     Binocular          cessation of light, an after-oscillation is observed,
     Alternation        which may correspond to the after-oscillations of
     of Vision*         the retina, and give a probable explanation of the
                        phenomena of recurrent vision. When we have
looked at a bright object for some time with one eye, we find, on
closing both eyes, that the image of this object alternately appears
and disappears. It was while studying this subject that I came upon
the curious fact that the two eyes do not see equally well at a given
instant, but take up, as it were, the work of seeing, and then (relatively
 speaking) resting, alternately. There is thus a relative retardation of
half a period as regards maximum sensation in the two retinas. This
 may be seen, by means of a stereoscope, carrying, instead of stereo-
 photographs, incised plates through which we look at light. The
design consists of two slanting cuts at a suitable distance from each
 other. One cut, R, slants to the right, and the other, L, to the left
(see Fig. 15). When the design is looked at through the stereo
 scope, the right eye will see, say R, and the left L ; the two images
                           * See Electrician, Sept. 1900.

1901.]       on the Response of Inorganic Matter to Stimulus.            635
will appear superimposed, and we see an inclined cross. When
the stereoscope is turned towards the sky, and the cross looked at
steadily for some time, it will be found, owing to the alternation
already referred to, that while one arm of the cross begins to be dim,
the other becomes bright, and vice versa. The alternate fluctuations
become far more conspicuous when the eyes are closed ; the pure
oscillatory after-effects of the strained sensitive molecules are then
obtained in a most vivid manner. After
looking through the stereoscope for ten
seconds or more, the eyes are closed. The
first effect observed is one of darkness, due
to the rebound. Then one luminous arm of
the cross first projects aslant the dark field,
and then slowly disappears ; after which the
second (perceived by the other eye) shoots
out suddenly in a direction athwart the first.
This alternation proceeds for a long time,
and produces the curious effect of two lumi
nous blades crossing and re-crossmg each
other. Another method of bringing out the               Fio. 15.—Stereoscopic
same facts in a still more striking manner, is design to show binocular
to look at two different sets of writing, with a"*1™*100 of ™10n-
due two
the       eyes. The resultant
      to superposition,         effect
                          and the      is a blurr,cannot be read with the
                                    inscription
eyes open. But on closing them, the composite image is analysed
into its component parts, and thus we are enabled to read better with
oyes shut than open I
    You will thus see how, from observing the peculiarities of an
artificial organ, we are led to discover unsuspected peculiarities in
our own. We stand here on the threshold of a very extended
inquiry, of which I can only say that as it has been possible to
construct an artificial retina, so I believe it may not be impossible to
imitate also other organs of sense.
                      We now return to the consideration of mechanical
      Effects of      stimulus and the modification of its responses, as
       Chemical       shown in our cell. We have seen the remarkable
      Reagents.       parallelism between organic and inorganic responso
                      under various conditions. There still remains the
study of the effects of chemical reagents. For drugs profoundly
modify the response of living substances. With respect to this func
tion, they fall into three classes, some acting as stimulants, others as
depressors, and yet others again as poisons, by which response is
altogether killed. Aiuongst the last may be mentioned mercuric
chloride, strong solutions of acids, and alkalies like potash. Again,
drugs which in large doses become poisons, may, when applied in
small quantities, act as stimulants.
     Tt may be thought that to these phenomena, inorganic matter

636                     Professor Jagadis Chunder Bote                   [May 10,
oonld offer no parallel. For they involve possibilities which we have
regarded as exclusively physiological. Accustomed in animal
bodies to see the responsive pass into the irresponsive state at the
moment of death, we look on this sequence as peculiar to the world
of the living. And on this fact is based the supreme test by which
physical and physiological phenomena are differentiated. That only
can be called living which is capable of dying, we say, and death cau
be accelerated by the administration of poison. The sign of life as
given by the electric pulses then wanes, till it ceases altogether.
Molecular immobility—the rigor of death—supervenes, and that
which was living is no longer alive.
     Is it credible that we might, in like manner, kill inorganic re
sponse by the administration of poison? Could we by this means
induce a condition of immobility in metals, so that, under its influ
ence, their electric pulsations should wane and die out altogether ?
     Before we attempt the action of poisons let us study the exciting
effect of stimulants. You observe in the galvanometer scale the
                                         normal extent of response under
                                         successive uniform stimuli applied
                                         to one wire of the cell. I now add
                                         a few drops of sodium carbonate
                                         to the water in the cell and you
                                          observe the growing exaltation of
                                          the response. There are other
                                          stimulants besides this which would
                                         induce    a still higher increase of
    Fio. 16.— Curves showing stimu
lating action of Na,CO,. The three sensibility, even to an astonishing
curves to the left show normal re degree* (Fig. 16).
sponse; the four to the right increased       I now pass on to the effect of
response after addition of Na,C03.       poisons. Any of the substances
                                         already enumerated may be used
as the toxic agent. I take a fresh cell, and first demonstrate before
you its normal electrical pulsation. By means of a pipette I now
inject into the cell the toxic dose. Its effect is at once evident to
you. After a few preliminary flutterings the electric pulses cease
to beat, and all our efforts, by intense stimulation to reawaken them,
fail (Fig. 17).
     But we may, sometimes at least, by the timely application of a
suitable antidote, revive the dying response, as I do now, by an
appropriate injection. See how the lethargy of immobility passes
away ; the pulse-throb grows stronger and stronger, and the response
in our piece of metal becomes normal once more (Fig. 10).
     There remains the very curious phenomenon, known not only to
    * The external resistance, as has been said previously, is kept very large,
and the slight variation of the internal resistance of the cell has no effect on the
deflection. The increased response can also be shown by capillary electrometer.
Note also the disappearance of response by the influence of large dose.

1901.]       on the Response of Inorganic Matter to Stimulus,              637
students of physiological response but also in medical practice, that
of the opposite effects produced by the same drug when given in large
or in small doses. Here too we have the same phenomena reproduced
                  Before                        After
            Fio. 17.—Photographic record, showing the killing action of
        strong dose of KHO (1 per cent.) on tin. The electric response
        is abolished after the application of potash. Compare the effect
        of KHO on nerve in Fig. 18.
                    Before                       After
     Flo. 18.—Killing action of KHO on electric response of nerve (Waller).
 in an extraordinary manner in inorganic response (Fig. 20). Tho
 same reagent which becomes a poison in large quantities may act as
 a stimulant when applied in small doses.

638                 Professor Jagadis Chunder Bose                     [May 10,
    I have shown you this evening autographic records of the history
of stress and strain in the living and non-living. How similar are
the writings ! So similar indeed that you cannot tell one from the
other apart. We have watched the responsive pulses wax and wane
  Fig. 19.—(a) Normal response; (6) effect of poison ; (c) revivul by antidote.
in the one as in the other. We have seen response sinking under
fatigue, becoming exalted under stimulants, and being killed by
poisons, in the non-living as in the living.
    Amongst such phenomena, how can we draw a line of demarca
tion, and say, "here the physical process ends, and there the physio
logical begins " ? No such barriers exist.
        Before                               After
    Do not the two sets of records tell us of some property of matter
common and persistent ? Do they not show us that the responsive
processes, seen in life, have been foreshadowed in non-life ?—that
the physiological is, after all, but an expression of the physical?—

1901.]       on the Response of Inorganic Matter to Stimulus.      639
that there is no abrupt break, but one uniform and continuous
march of law ?
    If it be so, we shall but tarn with renewed courage to the investi
gation of mysteries which have long eluded us. For every step of
science has been made by the inclusion of what seemed contradictory
or capricious in a new and harmonious simplicity. Her advances
have been always towards a clearer perception of underlying unity in
apparent diversity.
    It was when I came upon the mute witness of these self-made
records, and perceived in them one phase of a pervading unity that
bears within it all things—the mote that quivers in ripples of light,
the teeming life upon our earth, and the radiant suns that shine
nbove us—it was then that I understood for the first time a little of
that message proclaimed by my ancestors on the banks of the Ganges
thirty centuries ago—
    " They who see but one, in all the changing manifoldness of this
universe, unto them belongs Eternal Truth—unto none else, unto
none else ! "

640                             Earl Percy                    [May 17,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 17, 1901.
 Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
                 The Rioht Hon. Eabl Pebcy, M.P.
                            Turkish Kurdistan.
It is, perhaps, as well that I should preface my remarks by guarding
against a misconstruction, which might possibly arise from the title
I have chosen for my address. There is, of course, no clearly
defined area of Asiatic Turkey to which the name Kurdistan can be
applied ; and of the many scattered districts which the Turks
designate by that word I propose to deal with only a comparatively
small one on the present occasion.
    Roughly speaking, the whole of the Western area, which we call
Asia Minor, the Turks call Anadolu, or Anatolia ; while the eastern
districts between the Black Sea and the plains of the Tigris, and
extending westwards as far as Diarbekr and Kharput, which we
sometimes term " Armenia," the Turks, who refuse to recognise
that expression at all, describe as " Kurdistan." The two names are
precisely similar in one respect, that they simply denote the fact that
in these regions the Kurds and Armenians, although not a majority
of the population, are more numerous than in any of the other
Asiatic provinces. And just as Armenians are found outside this
area, particularly in the great commercial centres of the interior and
along the shores of the Levant, so the Kurds are found scattered over
all the mountainous uplands, from the Taurus and the Anti-Taurus
in the west to the Dersim, south of Erzingian, and the Alpine ranges
along the Persian frontier. Now in theory all these Kurds are
Turkish subjects, and amenable to Turkish law ; but in practice the
government exercises little or no effective control except over those
who have exchanged the nomadic for a settled pastoral life, and have
consequently acquired the same status as the ordinary Turkish or
Armenian peasant. The roving migratory Kurds still enjoy a
large measure of independence under their respective tribal chiefs,
and would never come within reach of the civil authority or the tax
collector at all, were it not for the severity of the winter climate,
which forces most of them every year to leave their hill " Yailas "
and to seek pasture for their flocks in the warmer valleys and plains
of the south. There are two districts of Asiatic Turkey where this
independence survives in its most unlimited form : (1) the " Dersim,"

1901.]                   on Turkish Kurdistan.                      641
 which is almost unknown to Europe, where the safety of the traveller
is extremely precarious, and which, as 1 have not visited it, I cannot
 describe ; and (2) the small tract of country known as " Hakkiari,"
 which is bounded on the north by Lake Van, on the west by the
 Tigris, on the south by the Mosul plain, and on the east by the great
snow ranges which form the dividing line between Turkey and
Persia.
     I have selected the latter district to-night for three reasons : I
 have traversed it twice myself in different directions and by little-
 known roads ; it contains some of the most beautiful and striking
 mountain scenery I know anywhere ; and it is the home, not only of
 the fiercest and most formidable Kurdish clans, but also of the only
 remaining race of Christians under the sway of the Sultan who
 have preserved almost intact their civil as well as their religious
autonomy.
     A few words are sufficient to give in brief outline the historical
 events which led to the establishment in this region of the various
races which now inhabit it.
     Of theso the Kueds are, in one sense at all events, by far the
 oldest. An Aryan people, supposed by some to have been of the
same family as the Medea, and to have come originally from the
north-west provinces of Persia, bordering on the Caspian Sea, their
 name, as we all know, appears in Xenophon's History under the form
 of the Kardouchoi, who harassed the Ten Thousand in their attempt
 to force a passage through the upper gorges of the Tigris. But
 whatever the original stock may have been, no common type of
physique, any more than of religion or language, unites the widely
diffused tribes of the present day. Some are Shiahs, some Sunnis ;
some have adopted much the same language as the Turks, others a
dialect scarcely distinguishable from Persian. The Rayat Kurds
near Pergri, east of Lake Van, dye their short stubbly beards with
red henna like the subjects of the Shah ; the Zaza Kurds of the
Dersim and Upper Euphrates, strong, broad-chested men of dark
complexion and almost Grecian profile, grow theirs thick, black and
shaggy : the Bekeranli, in the neighbourhood of Diarbekr, have the
slim figures, small bullet heads, neat trimmed black mustachios,
and straight lanky hair, curled at the tips, which distinguish the
 Bakhtiaris of Persia ; while among the Oramar, on the very confines
of that Empire, you find fair complexions, high narrow heads, blue
or grey eyes, and the nearest approach I have ever seen in real life
to the languid features of the fiurne-Jones Knight. The Turks, as
I have said, employ the word Kurd to convey a certain vague
geographical conception, but it carries with it no idea of nationality,
and, indeed, it is frequently used as a kind of term of contempt,
much as our ancestors might have used the term Highlander to
describe a cateran or cattle-lifter.
     If the " Mountains of Ararat " mentioned in the cuneiform texts
as the country to whioh Sharezer fled after the murder of his father
    Vol. XVI. (No. 95.)                                     2 u

642                   The Right Hon. Earl Percy               [May 17,
Sennacherib, correspond, as there is good reason to believe, to the
mountains between the Upper Zab and the Tigris near Jezireh, it is
not improbable that the same race occupied the country from a period
anterior to the rise of the Assyrian Empire, and preserved their
autonomy long after its fall. Xenophon tells us how the Persians,
after the annihilation of the formidable force which they had
despatched for the purpose of reducing the mountaineers to subjection,
ended by reluctantly acquiescing in their independence ; and in 1139,
when the power of the Abbasside Caliphs was rapidly declining, the
famous Atabeg or Viceroy of Mosul, Imadeddin Zengy I., the friend
of Saladin's father, was compelled, before embarking on his campaign
against the Crusaders of Diarbekr and Urfah, to first of all guard
against a diversion in his rear by sending an expedition against the
Kurds of Ashib, the modern fortress of Amadiyah. The protracted
struggle between the Persians and the Ottoman Turks favoured the
interests of the Kurds and lent them additional importance in the
eyes of the rival combatants. At the beginning of the sixteenth
century their principal habitat seems to have been, as it is now, the
province of Diarbekr ; and Selim I., after getting rid of the most
troublesome element among them by the simple expedient of a whole
sale massacre of the Shiah population, persuaded a number of the
remaining tribes to transfer their quarters to the Erzerum frontier, to
act as a buffer against invasion from the north. No doubt this
deliberate policy on the part of the earlier Sultans of encouraging
emigration contributed materially to the intermixture of the varioos
races and the obliteration of their original characteristics.
     Meanwhile the Kurds east of the Tigris consolidated their power
undisturbed, and when the nineteenth century opened, the greater
part of the country north and east of Mosul was parcelled out
between six or seven powerful hereditary chieftains, whose authority
was perforce recognised, however unwillingly, by the Turkish
Government. Thus the district of Rowanduz, on the frontier, was
governed by one Mehemet Pasha, a descendant of the Abbassides, who,
in 1834, enlisted a numerous army of Kurds, under the standard of
 his brother Resul, seized Amadiyah, Kirkuk and Mosul, and was with
 difficulty defeated by the Sultan's general, Reshed Pasha, who
marched his army of 20,000 across the whole length of the continent
 from Sivas through Kharput and Diarbekr. Suleiraaniyeh again was
 under the rule of another hereditary chief, Ahmed Pasha, who made
 a similar attempt to extend his authority at the expense of the Turks
 in 1843. Bahdinan, lying south of the Supna in the fork between
 the Zab and the Tigris, formed a third principality under Ismail Beg ;
 and Berwari, a little to the north, a fourth province under Abdul
 Samed Beg : the raids and counter-raids between this tribe and the
 Nestorians of Tiyari being a prime cause of the bad feeling which
 led to the famous massacres four years later. Lastly, Bohtan, the
 district watered by the Bohtan river, the chief affluent of the Tigris,
  was under the jurisdiction of the infamous Bedr Khan Beg, the prin

 1901.]                   on Turkish Kurdistan.                      643
cipal author of those outrages ; while Hakkiari, which included
Julamerik until the latter was separated in 1841 by the Turkish
Government and assigned to a sixth chief, Suleiman Beg, Was ruled
 by the equally notorious Nurulla Beg from his headquarters at
 Bashkala. It was not until the year 1847, when the chiefs of
 Hakkiari and Bohtan contrived to massacre, between them, close on
4000 of the Christians of Tiara and Tkhoma, that the protests of the
 Powers compelled the Turkish Government to recognise the necessity
of adopting vigorous measures to put an end to a state of things
 which, in the course of fifteen years, had led to two serious insurrec
tions against their own authority, and, by the extermination of all the
 leaders of the most powerful Christian clans, threatened to withdraw
 the sole remaining counterpoise to the aggressive power of the Kurdish
confederacy. Bedr Khan Beg was exiled to Candia, and his over
 throw was followed by the gradual suppression of almost all the old
 hereditary chiefs. The few that survive to-day have either sunk to
the position of small private landowners, despised but humoured by
 the Turks because of the affection and almost superstitious reverence
 with which their dependants still regard them ; or else their authority
 is confined within the immediate limits of their own clans, instead of
extending, as I shall presently show it once did, over the main section
of the Christian community.
     Passing from the Kurds, the next immigrants, if local traditions
be, accepted, were the Jews, or, rather, the Israelites, whom the
Assyrian king transplanted after the fall of Samaria and settled in
the districts east of Samaria. Perhaps, like the Kurd militia of
Selim I., they were intended to act as a check upon their unruly
neighbours, for in the seventeenth chapter of the Second Book -of
Kings it is expressly stated that the Samaritans were placed in
" Halah, Habor, on the River Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes " ;
and in this connection it is curious to notice the expression " the
Hebrew fortress " used by St. Thomas of Marga (ninth century), pro
bably to describe the Jewish colony of Nebi Yunus, near Mosul.
Jews are, of course, found in considerable numbers in many of the
larger centres of population throughout Asiatic Turkey, but it is
remarkable that along the frontier we find them grouped in remote
country villages and occupied in those agricultural or pastoral pur
suits for which the majority of their fellow-countrymen elsewhere
appear to have lost all taste or inclination. There is a large colony
at Akkra ; other settlements occur at Amadiyah, and in the district of
Berwari in the west ; Qirdi and several villages between Neri and
Rowanduz to the east are almost entirely Jewish, and a few are found
even as far north as Bashkala. They wear the same dress and speak
the same language as the Kurds (though Dr. Badger met some in the
Supna who used the Aramaic of the Chaldeans), and the markedly
Hebraic features of many of the Kurds themselves in this region
attest the large amount of intermarriage which still goes on between
the two races.
                                                        2 u 2

644                   The Eight Hon. Earl Percy               [May 17,
    Last, but by no means the least important in point of numbers,
come the Christian population whom we in Europe generally call
Nestorians, but who describe themselves as the Syrians of the East.
It is impossible to make any confident assertion about their origin,
but in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, there is no reason
why we should reject their own traditional claim to Babylonian and
Assyrian descent. The Babylonians are believed to have been of
shorter stature and darker colour than the Assyrians, and there is a
similarly marked distinction between the physical characteristics of
the Nestorian tribes at the present day.
    The men of Tiyari who inhabit the main valley or gorge of the
Great Zab from Julamerk to Lizan, and those of Tkhoma, who
occupy the valley branching off to the east of Lizan, are for the
most part short, thick-set men with light olive complexions, eagle
noses, dark eyes, flowing beards, and coal-black hair, which they
plait in a multitude of long thin pigtails, and let fall over their
shoulders and bare chests from under tall, conical hats of white or
black felt. The inhabitants of the central valleys of Baz and Jelu,
on the other hand, are of taller, thinner build, their complexions are
almost as fair as those of Europeans, they often have blue eyes and
short red hair, and their head-dress is the low, rounded cap of the
Kurd swathed in dirty strips of red or black linen. Otherwise the
dress is the same in all cases and for all weathers. The feet are
either bare or cased in thick woollen socks and felt sandals, which
are indispensable for keeping a footing on the slippery mountain
paths. A short jacket is worn over the loose open shirt, which is
tucked into pyjamas, and confined at the waist by a broad sash con
taining a churchwarden pipe or " kaluna " of rosewood, and an ebony-
handled dagger cased in a sheath of wrought silver. In Jelu most of
the men are well armed, besides, with modern rifles which they
smuggle in from Persia ; whereas in Tiyari and Tkhoma they rarely
have anything better than an old rusty flint-lock.
     Although it is probable that the Christian population of Hakkiari
received large reinforcements of their numbers at a later date, and
more especially during the terrible invasion of Tamerlane in the
fourteenth century, the original nucleus of immigrants were an off
shoot from the primitive monastic settlements of Mesopotamia,
founded, on the model of those of St. Anthony in Egypt, by Mar
Awgin, a native of the island of Clysma, near Suez. Taking up his
abode in the mountains near Nisibis, he found a zealous friend and
supporter in St. James, the famous bishop of that See, who proceeded
to found a monastery on Mount Kardo, the modern Jebel al Gudi
near Jezireh, where, with the assistance of an angel, he had discovered
a wooden plank ; thus verifying the traditional claim of the mountain
against the rival pretensions of Ararat and Sippan to have been the
first resting place of the Ark of Noah. Other monasteries like that
of Mar Mattai on Jebel Maklub, near Mosul, sprang up soon after,
and Mar Awgin is said to have obtained a pledge for their protection

1901.]                    on Turkish Kurdistan.                      645
from Jovian, the lieutenant of Julian the Apostate. Many of their
inhabitants, however, foil victims to the fierce persecution of Sapor in
330, and when, 33 years later, the Persian king advanced to the occupa
tion of Nisibis, it was only through the display of miraculous powers
by Mar Awgin that he was induced to renounce his hostility, and
even to grant sites for the erection of churches and monasteries.
This permission was immediately followed by the despatch of a band
of 72 missionaries, and during the next 14 years the monasteries
provided harbours of refuge from the renewed persecutions of Valens.
It is no doubt owing to the fact that the valleys were only peopled
by degrees from these hill stations, that the modern Nestorians are
still known by such significant names as the Sons of the Cave or the
Sons of the High Place (Uumta).
     By the close of the fifth century the infant church had extended
its sway over the greater part of Armenia and Persia, and by the
close of the eighth, Central Asia, India, and China were reckoned
among the number of its chief Metropolitan Sees. Many of the
wealthy Persian nobles had forsaken the tenets of Magianism and
become liberal patrons of the monasteries. Chosru II. (590-628)
himself built a convent in honour of his Christian wife Shirin, and
his active intervention in the affairs of the rapidly growing com
munity is shown by the dispute which arose in connection with his
nomination of Gregory of Nisibis in opposition to Gregory of
Seleucia for the office of Catholicos. Two years after his assassina
tion, his daughter Boran, the reigning queen, sent an embassy of
Nestoriau bishops to Heraclius for the purpose of promoting friendly
relations between the two empires, and it was not until the middle
of the eighth century that the fortunes of the Church began to
decline with the decay of the Persian and the rise of the Arab
power.
     At first the Mahommetans appear to have treated the Christians
in a friendly manner, and when their attitude changed, the change, as
at the present day, was due not to religious antagonism but to jealousy
of their superior wealth. The Nestorians themselves always date the
erection of their churches in reference to Mahomet, and the ourliest
writers bear out the common tradition which assigns many of them
4o a period anterior to his time. Dr. Badger mentions the legend
that the monastery church of Mar Audishu near Amadiyah was built
366 years before the date of the Prophet, and like another church of
the same name in the valley of Tal, it is still regarded with great
veneration and visited as a place of pilgrimage even by the Kurds
and Persians. In Jelu, one of the most treasured relics of the great
church of Mar Zaia is a handkerchief covered with Arabic writing
which the natives believe to be a firman of the Prophet himself
according sanction and protection to their worship ; and when the
 Turkish troops occupied the village at the time of my visit in 1899,
this was the only article which they apparently thought it worth
their while to carry away. A similar tradition asserts that the
substance of the firman given by the Porte to each successive occupant

  646                    The Right Hon. Earl Percy                [May 17,
  of the Patriarchal See, confirming his spiritual authority over the
- Nestorians of the Empire, was originally accorded by Mahomet to
  Ishy Yau, the then Patriarch of the East, residing at Bagdad ; and
  Assemani, in his Bibliotheca Orientalis compiled for Clement XI.,
  pives the Latin text of Bar Hebraeus' account of this extraordinary
  transaction. The treaty, he says, was negotiated by the help of large
  presents through the agency of Said the Christian Prince of Najran
  (Nagranensiuni). By its terms Mahomet gave the Christians a
  " diploma " commending them to the protection of the Arabs, safe
  guarding their religion and laws, and exempting them from military
  service. If they entered a Moslem household they were to be shielded
  from insults to their faith, they were to be allowed to erect churches
  as they pleased, and the Arabs were even enjoined to assist them in
  the work ; and finally the amount which might bo raised in taxes from
  the rich and poor was laid down with strict and minute precision.
  The Caliphs of Bagdad seem to have observed an attitude of general
  tolerance to all faiths, and Assemani mentions a decision of Caliph
  Mamun in the case of a dispute between the Jews of Tiberias aud
  Babylon, by which he laid the rule that any ten Christians, Jews or
  Magians might meet and select whomever they pleased to preside over
  their respective communities. This negative attitude, however, was
  gradually abandoned, and the Arabs not only extorted money from
  their proteges but ceased even to protect them from the Kurds. In
  747 the Governor of Mosul levied a tribute of 3752. from the monks
  of Beth Abhe on the Upper Zab, and some 60 years later the
  monastery itself was plundered by the Kurds of Kartaw. In 1370
  another roving band sacked the monastery of Mar Mattai, and it is
  at once a remarkable proof of the vitality of the church, and of the
  yielding character of Mahommetanism in those days, that in spite of
  all these hindrances the process of proselytism went on and pros-
  pored, many of the Turks themselves becoming converts during the
  eleventh century, through the efforts of Ebedjesus the Metropolitan
  of Maru.
       It is not too much to say that if the Nestorians exist as a distinct
   nationality to-day, it is because they exist as a separate church ; and
   they certainly afford the most striking, if not the only, surviving
   example of a purely ecclesiastical system of civil government. At
   their head, supreme in all matters lay, as well as spiritual, and enforc
   ing his decisions by the decree of excommunication, which operates as
   a kind of boycott, stands the Patriarch Mar Shiinun (My Lord Simon)
   Father of Fathers, and Great Shepherd, Catholicos of the East and
   salaried representative of the Turkish Government. During the
   first four centuries after the conversion of the people by St. Thomas
   the Apostle, and Mar Addai, one of the Seventy, Mar Shimun's
   predecessors were not patriarchs at all, but simply metropolitans,
   occupying the See of Seleucia Ctesiphon on the Tigris and subject
   to the jurisdiction of the patriarchs of Antioch. Owing to the diffi
   culties of the journey, and perhaps also to the dangers of riot among
   the non-Christians of Antioch, fomented for their own purposes by

1901.]                    on Turkish Kurdistan.                       647
the Persian Kings, the Syrian Metropolitan was soon dispensed from
the obligation of coming to the Orontes to be consecrated, although
it was not till 431, when Nestorius was excommunicated by the Council
of Ephesus, and the See of Seleucia refused to recognise the validity
of that decision, that the head of the Eastern Church assumed the
full position and powers of an independent patriarch.
    This secession was followed in the sixteenth century by an internal
dispute about the succession to the patriarchate, which rent the
Church into two sections : (1) those who continued to recognise the
authority of, and to pay tribute, to Mar Shimun, and who to-day
number in Persia and Turkey about 50,000 ; and (2) those who
recognise tho authority of Mar Elia, the patriarch of Babylon, and
reside principally in the vicinity of Mosul. Very soon after the
schism this section began to make overtures for recognition by the
 Church of Rome, but owing to their disinclination, at first, to sacrifice
their ecclesiastical autonomy, their advances were coldly received by
Paul IV., when they applied to him in 1607. Innocent XI., however,
at the close of the century, took the important step of appointing a
 successor to the vacant See of Diarbekr, and the Nestorians of the
plain, having now formally entered into commuuion with the See of
St. Peter, are known by the distinctive title of the Uniat Chaldean
 Church.
     Originally the appointment of the Catholicos was vested in the
 Bishop and Metropolitans of the Church, and it was not till 1450 that
 their choice was limited by a rule laid down by the then occupant of
 the patriarchial chair, that in future his successors must be selected
 from among his nearest relatives. This change appears to have been
 followed by the assertion on the part of the laity of their right to
 make the appointment themselves, and until comparatively recently
 the election was controlled by the two rival clans of Tiyari and
 Tkhoma. This practice naturally led to incessant feuds and heart
 burnings, and the Catholicos, by general consent, now designates his
 own successor during his lifetime.
     The only conditions are that he must belong to the patriarch's
 family, and that he must be a Nazarite : that is to say, he must be
 unmarried (a condition imposed in the fourteenth century), he must
 never have tasted wine or meat, and his mother during her pregnancy
 must have observed the same regulations. These rules apply also
 to the bishops and the metropolitans, and thus the highest eccle
 siastical dignitaries form a kind of hereditary aristocracy deriving
 their salaries from their own small properties and from the tithes
 and offerings of the people. Under such oircumstances it is not
 surprising that these offices are occasionally filled by quite young
 men, and tho achievement of Cardinal Richelieu, who became
 bishop at the age of 23, is thrown into the shade by that of the pre
 sent patriarch designate (Benjamin) and the bishop of Jelu (Zaia
 Mar Sergis), who are both children of 14. The priesthood, though
 in practice often confined to the same families, and more numerous
 than its present duties would appear to require, is still elected by the

648                    The Right Hon. Earl Percy               [May 17,
 villagers, and, having no source of income beyond the small fees paid
 for marriages and burials, its members devote themselves, like the
 rest of the population, to manual labour. Both priests and deacons
 have been allowed to marry since the close of the fifth century, and
 are usually called to the ministry at the age of 17 or 18. In con
 ducting the service the priest reads the collects while the deacon
 reads the litany, and neither the Sacrament of the Eucharist nor of
 Baptism can be administered without the co-operation of the two
orders, although if a deacon cannot be found, a second priest may,
iu case of necessity, act in a diaconal capacity.
     Besides the clergy each village has its own headman or Malek,
appointed by the Catholicos, and they collect the annual tribute,
which is paid by him to the Turkish Government. The privilege of
paying tribute, instead of the ordinary taxes, is enjoyed by all the
mountain tribes or Ashi rets, and distinguishes them from the I fayate
of the plain, who stand in the same position as the Turkish or
Armenian peasant, pay the sheep tax and the military exemption tax,
and are much more exposed to official rapacity and Kurdish raids.
The hill tribesman rarely comes in contact with any government
official. When he does so it is because the tribute has been withheld,
or because intervention is necessary to punish some glaring outrage,
or to settle disputes between the Kurds and Christians, who are per
petually raiding and massacring one another. There is not very-
much to choose between the two, and when quarrels arise between
the various Christian Ashirets they have little scruple in calling in
their Mussulman neighbours to help them.
     Up to the middle of last century, as I have said, Hakkiari, like
the rest of the country, was governed by great Kurdish chiefs who
protected their own clients and robbed everyone else, so that it was
to the interest of the Christian tribes (who were not then recognised
as a corporate body by the Turkish Government) to range themselves
in what were called Bazikki or " wings," under the patronage of one
or other of these over-lords. Generally speaking, the Christians of
the main valley of the Zab formed one league with the Kurds of
 Artousha to the west of the river, while those on the east allied
themselves with the neighbouring tribes of Oramar and Apenshai.
     There appears to have been a curious parallelism at this epoch
between the tribal organisation of the Moslems and Christians ; for
the predecessors of Nurulla Beg, the Kurdish Mira of Hakkiari,
although hereditary chieftains in the sense that they belonged to one
family, depended for election to their office on the consent of their
own clansmen. They had no prejudice against the Christians as
such, and Dr. Badger believed that the dislike which culminated in
1830 in the murder of the German traveller, Schulz, was inspired
by fear lest the intrusion of the foreigner might be merely a precursor
of Turkish supremacy. Nurulla Beg himself allowed Dr. Grant, the
American missionary, to build an establishment in Ashitha. and for
centuries before his time the native Christians were not only tolerated
and protected, but even admitted to considerable privileges in common

1901.]                   on Turkish Kurdistan.                       649
with their Mussulman allies. This may possibly be explained by
the fact that when Malck Sambo, the Kurd, first obtained his hold over
Hakkiari in the eighth century, he did so by the help of the Christians
of the fortress of Diz. At all events they were exempted from tribute
as well as from the haratch or poll-tax which was levied in the rayat
districts, and on condition that they supplied an armed contingent
for the purposes of common defence they were allowed to share in
the councils of the tribe, and even to assist in the election of the
chief (himself a nominal tributary of tho Turkish Government). In
cases where a dispute arose between a Kurd and a Christian, it was
brought originally before a Court in which the Patriarch and the
Mira sat together, and when later the two Courts were separated, the
litigants were allowed to choose the tribunal they preferred. On the
whole the system worked fairly well, but it was manifestly open to
great abuses, and after the massacres in 1847, the abolition of the
Mira's authority was followed by the introduction of a regular system
of government. Hakkiari was constituted a separate province or
vilayet, with a vali or governor at Bashkala and a subordinate official
or kaimakam at Julamerk. As, however, both these dignitaries, as will
as the members of their Councils, were Kurds (with the exception of
two Christians on the Medjliss at Bashkala), and as the Kurds man
aged during the Russo-Turkish war to arm themselves with modern
rifles, the new plan proved to have all the disadvantages and none of
the advantages of the old one. Consequently, in 1888, Hakkiari was
incorporated with the province of Van, where the English Consul
now resides at the capital in constant communication with the Vali,
while his subordinate at Julamerk is no longer a Kurd, although,
like all minor officials in out-of-the-way places, he is generally
meddlesome, obstinate and obstructive to travellers.
     Having said thus much of the history and main characteristics of
the inhabitants, I propose to deal briefly with the geographical features
and scenery of the country, and the ordinary life of the people.
     Koehanes, the seat of the Catholicos, is a tiny village situated on
a green tableland, between six and seven thousand feet above the sea.
To the west and south it is overhung by lofty peaks (on the summit
of which M. Binder found traces of what he conceived to be a petri
 fied forest), while on the remaining two sides it descends abruptly
to the level of two small torrents which unite here on their way to
join the Greater Zab. The Patriarch's house is built on the very
verge of one of these precipices : a large stone structure with rooms
comfortably furnished in the Persian style, and supplied with the
luxuries, not often met with in theso parts, of wooden floors and
carpeted divans. Here he spends his time, partly in religious
exercises which occupy most of his morning, and partly in deciding
the quarrels of his subjects, and tho difficulties which arise from time
to time with the Turkish authorities at Van and Julamerk. His
unmarried sister, Asiah, keeps house for him, and is rarely visible
outside the kitchen ; while his brother's children, Benjamin the
Patriarch designate, and Surma, who surreptitiously took the veil

650                     The Right Hon. Earl Percy                  [May 17,
when she was scarcely out of her teens, are educated by a priest who
devotes most of his life to copying old manuscripts with a reed pen
and gall ink.
    The only other edifice worthy of notice is the church of Mar
Shalita, perched on a high rock on the verge of the opposite precipice,
and surrounded by a clump of poplars. The first monastery churches
appear to have been built of clay and brick, but those of the present
day are of solid limestone, and the general plan of all of them is the
same—a plain oblong nave divided off from the sanctuary by a
curtain, and containing no furniture of any kind, except a couple of
lecterns, a string of sheep bells stretched across the west end, and
rung at intervals during the service, and, at Kochanes, a low, truncated
pillar which serves as a stand for the censer. There are no longer
any screens dividing the men from the women as in the earliest
buildings, and the congregation either stand or squat in Oriental
fashion on their heels, after leaving their shoes, as the Mussulmen do,
at the entrance. Icons are forbidden, and the only form of decoration
are the curtains and hangings on the walls. A tiny light is always
kept burning before the altar, and another in the nave is lit at the
commencement of the service. Otherwise the church is almost
entirely dark, for little daylight penetrates through the small slit
windows, and when the priest reads the gospels he has to do so by
the aid of spiral tapers of beeswax. No one but the clergy may
enter the sanctuary, and even they may not do so without having
fasted beforehand. The vestry or baptistry usually forms au adjunct
to it with a separate entrance, which at Zerani in Jelu is closed by
quaintly carved wooden doors. The chief peculiarities of Mar
Shalita are the small chamber in the north wall, where the Com
munion bread is prepared, and the minute entrance doorway, scarcely
more than four feet high, which can only be reached from the outside
by means of a ladder. This gives the building the appearance of a
fort rather than of a church, and is due to the apprehension enter
tained by the Kochanes people that the Kurds after a successful raid
might be tempted to stable their cattle or horses in the interior.
     From Kochanes, after crossing a range of about 8000 feet, you
reach the main valley of the Great Zab, the traditional Pisou of
Genesis, at Julamerk. Between this point and Lizan, a distance of
about forty miles, lies the district of Tiyari, divided roughly into two
equal portions (Upper and Lower Tiyari) by the Levin river, which
flows in from the north-west at a place called Shinna, or the Precipice.
 For the greater part of its course through this tract the Zab flows
 between sheer walls of cliff, which in places come so close down to
the water's edge that there is scarcely room for a mule to pass, and
most of the villages are built high up on any grassy slope which
 affords sufficient space for cultivation. Artificial steps called " stangi "
 (the work, according to M. Binder, of Kurdish prisoners, but accord
 ing to local tradition, of rival suitors for the hand of the chiefs
daughter) are laboriously cut in the rock to facilitate the passage of
caravans ; and isolated fields of millet, hemp and rice are banked up

1901.]                   on Turkish Kurdistan.                        651
with stones above the stream, and irrigated by tiny channels hewn
out in the same way. There are few trees of any kind except tere
binth and juniper, but the boulders and cliffs are often carpeted with
vines and blackberry bushes, and their interstices filled with little
brilliant patches of purple and yellow colchicum.
     In Upper Tiyari the stream, though rapid, is generally fordable,
but in Lower Tiyari it runs deep, even in autumn and early winter,
and on one occasion near Lizan, a Turkish soldier in my escort was
drowned while attempting to cross it. The ordinary bridge for foot
passengers consists of nothing but a slippery poplar stem thrown
across a chasm, but at Lizan a more ambitious structure has been
attempted. Stone piers are built out on either bank, and a row of
poplar trunks inserted in the masonry. These in their turn are
covered with successive layers of poles, each projecting further across
the stream, and finally the surface is covered with a loose basket-
work of osier, and large flat stones are laid over it to conceal the gaps
and crevices.
   Leaving the main gorge of the Zab and turning eastward, we find
four luteral valleys formed by small tributary streams. Diz, lying
along the course of the Deezen Su, and Baz, along that of the Kun Su,
provide alternative means of access to Jelu; Tal is a tiny ravine
leading up to the high bleak volcanic range which separates Tiari
from Tkhoraa ; and the Salabegan river provides a second and easier
avenue of communication between Tkhoma and the Zab valley below
Lizan.
     In Tkhoma, although the scenery is tamer than that of Tiyari,
there is far more cultivation, and the greater width of the valley
allows of the villages being built on the low ground. The stream,
however, is very liable to sudden rises from the melting snows, and
when I visited the place many of the fields had been so overwhelmed
with stones and debris as to be rendered totally unfit for cultivation.
Owing to the greater intensity of the summer heat the houses in
 Tkhoma, unlike those of Tiyari, are provided with an upper story.
 The walls, built of rough blocks of stone, are raised to a height of
 about 8 feet, with a low narrow doorway, and roofed with poplar
 trunks. In the centre, or at the far end of the room, a hole is
 scooped out in the mud floor to hold the fire, which is fed with
 branches and twigs of dwarf oak, and the smoke, after circling about
 the blackened rafters, escapes through small loopholes in the walls,
 which also serve for purposes of defence against the Kurds. During
 the winter the inmates sleep on quilts and strips of felt near the fire,
 and in the poorer cabins a wooden railiug serves to partition them
 off from the buffaloes, sheep and poultry, which are herded together
 on the further side. During the summer they remove for the night
 either to the upper story, which has an open front screened with
 vines and fig-trees, or else to the mud roof, which has been rolled
 smooth and water-tight by means of heavy stone cylinders. The
 main object being to get as far from the mosquitos as possible, a
 kind of tall scaffolding is raised, with a platform supported by four

652                   The Eight Eon. Earl Percy                 [May 17,
poplar trunks, and sometimes you find these curious sleeping-places
erected in the very centre of a dry torrent bed.
    Like the Persians, the men of Tkhoma and Salabegan are ex
cessively clever carvers, and make beautiful spoons, with elaborate
chains attached to them, out of single pieces of wood. Another of
their accomplishments, and one not usually associated with the male
sex, is that of knitting socks ; while a less useful habit, which
reminds one of similar customs in India, is that of adorning them
selves, and any guests to whom they wish to pay special honour, by
sticking marigold flowers behind their ears.
     Retracing our steps from Tkhoma to Julamerk, and following
the Zab northward, we enter, after a few hours' ride along a deep
cleft, the valley of the Deezen river, which forms the connecting
link between the central mountain chain and the transverse range of
the Jelu Alps, containing some of the loftiest summits in Hakkiari.
The approach to this district is marked by a distinct change in the
shape of the peaks, many of which bear a strong resemblance to the
pointed sugar-loaf formation of the Austrian Dolomites, and also by
the thick forest growth of oak, beech and hawthorn which clothes
their lower slopes. Tobacco and maize are cultivated in considerable
quantities, and one is struck with the uncommon size and girth of
the planes, maples, sycamores and walnuts which border the edge of
the stream. In the depth of winter the Jelu is probably not passable
at all, and caravans would take the easier route through the valley
of Baz. When I crossed the Douruk pass in October the snow lay
deep at an altitude of 10,200 feet, and a little further to the west the
peak of Galeashin rises to an elevation of 13,500 feet, and glaciers
mark the limit of perpetual snow. The trend of the range is from
north-east to south-west, and the sides are so steep that but for the
natural ledges formed by the projecting strata it would be im
possible to cross them at all. Tho villages are perched on small
grassy promontories along the foot of the ravines, and in order to
pass from one to the other it is necessary to toil painfully up, it may
bo, 2000 feet, while the muleteers cling on behind to the mules'
tails, only to detcend again almost immediately to the original level.
In this way you can skirt the whole range from Zerani, which lies
under the three great peaks, the Douruk, the Suppa Douruk and tho
Shinna Jelu, to Ishtazin, which commands the eastern passes into
the fertile lake basin of the Diza or Gawar plain. This portion of
the country is called Upper Jelu, while Lower Jelu stretches south
ward to the borders of the practically unknown territory of the
Oramar and Apeuhhai Kurds.
    The readiest avenue of communication between the two is by tho
gorge of the Ishtazin river, which, flowing parallel to the Greater
Zab, joins it in the lower reaches a little above Eizan. So far as I
know, the greater part of the district south of this river, the region of
the Dustik Kurds, has never been explored by Europeans. I
succeeded myself in reaching the village of Oramar, but was prevented
from going any further by the absolute refusal of both the soldiers

1901.]                    on Turkish Kurdistan.                       653
and the muleteers to accompany me. From the Nestorian hamlet of
Zir, which stands at a level of about 7000 feet, a small burn flows
down through a beautiful wooded glen, gradually narrowing to a slit
between precipitous walls scarcely more than twenty yards apart.
After emerging from this defile you reach the banks of the Ishtazin
river and cross to the opposite side, which can only be done at low
water, as there is no bridge for the animals and the current is deep
and strong. The level of the stream at this point is only 3800 feet,
but the village of Oramar stands 2000 feet higher, and above it to the
south-east rise two gigantic reddish-coloured cliffs with snow summits,
called the Jaita (the Slippery) and the Ealabiri Oroch, which are
probably higher than the Jelu peaks, although in making any
comparison the difference of at least 4000 feet in the elevation of
their respective bases must be taken into account. To the westward
the view is obstructed by the chaotic mass of pinnacled crags,
between which the river winds, and during the greater part of its
course till it joins the Zab the character of the scenery is much the
same as that which prevails in the northern reaches between Oramar
and Ishtazin. The Kurds, however, told me that further south the
hills decrease rapidly in size, and that very soon after passing the
main ridge of Oramar the country presents much the same aspect of
rolling, grassy downs, sprinkled with oak scrub, which marks the
districts between Neri and Kowanduz.
    The Kurds whom I met at Oramar were not striking in appear
ance. Most of them were tall, but thin and weakly looking, and
their houses, compared with those of the Christians, gave one an
impression of extreme squalor and poverty. In other parts of Asiatic
Turkey it is very rare to find the nomad Kurds inhabiting stone
villages at all. They are too lazy to build themselves, and being a
pastoral, not an agricultural people, simply move their tents from ono
grazing ground to another without even attempting to cultivate
the soil.
    Oramar itself is obviously a Nestorian village from which the
original owners have been expelled, and the church converted into a
mosque. The Kurds occupy it during the summer, and sow a few
acres to supply their immediate wants ; but during the winter they
migrate with their flocks and herds, like their neighbours, the Herki
and the Apenshai, to the plains of the Lesser Zab, raiding the settled
villages by the way. For this reason they have a bad name among
the peaceful section of the inhabitants, but the stories of their cruelty
and fanaticism have probably been grossly exaggerated. They rob,
—as indeed do the Christians, with far less excuse—but except whero
resistance is offered, or in cases of blood feud, they do not generally
indulge in personal violence or insult women. Their own women go
unveiled, and in England would be considered decidedly forward in
their manners ; while the extent of their fanaticism may be judged
from the fact that they seriously discussed the advisability of putting
us up for the night in the mosque, and finally accommodated us with
the best quarters to be had in the sheikh's own honBe. Personally, I

 C54                    The Right Hon. Earl Percy                [May 17,
believe that a traveller need have little hesitation in traversing the
whole district nnder their escort, provided that he had made careful
inquiries beforehand as to the state of feeling at the time between
the rival tribes, and satisfied himself that those to whom he entrusted
his safety were numerically strong enough to ensure it.
     Of course much depends on the character of the chief for the
time being. In the district of Shemsdin, for instance, between Neri
and Girdi, there are two great Kurdish chiofs, one of whom, Monssa
Beg, is looked up to by all the surrounding Christians and their
" Matran " Mar Khnanishu, as their special patron and protector ;
 while the other, Sheikh Sadiq, is the biggest fanatic and scoundrel
unhung, and has more than once invited guests to his house at Neri
for the express purpose of murdering them. It so happens that
Monssa Beg, although he has neither the quasi-religious prestige nor
the wealth which the Sheikh derives from his monopoly of the famous
Shemadin tobacco, is a far abler man, and with a small but highly
efficient fighting force he is able to defend himself and his clients,
besides inflicting severe reprisals on his enemies, by sallying out at
intervals from the strong martello tower which he has built on the
top of a steep isolated hill at the south edge of the Diza plain. The
result is that the Sheikh finds it more profitable to turn his attention
to lesser fry, and in the only case which I came across of the massacre
and depopulation of an entire valley the victims were not Christians,
but Bradost Kurds, who chanced to have embroiled themselves with
the Herki, and so offered an easy prey to any third party— in this
case Sheikh Sadiq—who chose to attack them.
    Time forbids me to enter into more details to-night, but I trust
that I have said enough to show that Hakkiari is a not uninteresting
country. It presents a large field for the mountaineer, the botanist
and the geologist; the mineral deposits include zinc, rock alum, lead,
sulphur, copper, mercury, iron, coal and tin, and the sportsman will
find a fair amount, if not a large variety of game. Wild boar and
the Syrian bear abound in the woods of oak and terebinth, magnificent
ibex heads can be obtained on the higher peaks of Jelu and Oramar,
and in Tiyari the rare " giant " partridge is not infrequently met with
in addition to the ordinary red-legged variety. The right season of
the year to visit the country (for any one but an M.P.) is of course
the late spring, when the soil, which in autumn yields little but
thistles and the prickly gum-tragacanth, is in many places covered
with iris, gentian, anemone and violets ; and all but the higher crests
are free from snow. The Nestorian Christians are always hospit
able, and so far as my limited experience goes, the Kurds will treat
you very well if they have not already waylaid and robbed you before
you arrive at their villages. Ab for the Turks, they have little real
authority in the interior, and mainly for that reason they try to prevent
you from going anywhere where you are likely to be attacked and so
involvo them in trouble. Their policy is very like that of the Indian
government, which does everything in its power to debar travellers
from entering the trans-frontier districts ; and when people blame the

1901.]                    on Turkish Kurdistan.                     655
Turks for allowing lawlessness and crime to go unpunished and un
checked in those remote confines of the Empire, it must in fairness
be remembered that not until comparatively recently have we our
selves adopted a forward policy in our own sphere, and abandoned
the attempt to check tribal license by means of intermittent puni
tive expeditions. The problem in Asiatic Turkey is in fact more
complicated than in India, owing to the existence side by side of rival
Christian and Mussulman populations. The Turks show a laudable
freedom from bigotry in subsidising Mar Shimun, much as we sub
sidise the Afridis, and if he fails to keep the peace between his own
subjects and the Kurds they are inclined to say, " It is no business of
ours. Let the two fight it out and settle their squabbles among
themselves." Were they to undertake the responsibility of directly
administering the country (and that would be no easy matter con
sidering the facilities for guerilla warfare which such a mountainous
country affords to the defenders) many of their European critics
would probably be the first to denounce them for crushing the liberties
of the Nestorian people. Prom the point of view of the governing
power, the Christians are undoubtedly better worth encouraging than
the Kurds. The former is physically a finer man, he is at least
naturally more industrious (for the Kurd is incurably lazy), and he
has a genuine and intense feeling of patriotism and hatred of foreign
control, whereas the average Kurd cares about nothing except his own
immediate interests. The real reason why the Turks act as they do
towards the Christian is that they cannot make up their minds to
trust them. They know that the Kurd is a fool, but they think, aud
with some truth, that the Christian is often a knave. In spite of all
his faults, many of which arise from sheer slowness of intellect, the
Turk is at least a man of his word, and in spite of all their virtues,
their constant gaiety and affectionate disposition, truthfulness is not
a quality which can be predicated of the Nestorians any more than of
the Armenians. On the other hand there is, I believe, a possible
future for the one which there cannot be for the other. The
Nestorian at all events preserves the same corporate loyalty and the
same capacity for self-government which for centuries has preserved
his nationality in the face of far greater perils than any which
threaten it to-day, and if the Turks act wisely and do not attempt
artificially to bolster up the Kurds and turn them into a perfectly
useless body of untrained and undisciplined irregulars, the Christians
of Hakkiari may serve them as most valuable allies in any war which
tempts the invading army to force a passage from the Persian valleys
south of Lake Urmi to the fertile plains of the Tigris and the
Lesser Zab.

656                    Mr. Richard T. Glazebrook              [May 24,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 24, 1901.
        The Duke of Northumbebland, K.G. D.C.L. F.R.8.,
                        President, in the Chair.
      Riohabd T. Glazebbook, Esq., M.A. D.Sc. F.R.S. M.R.I.
             The Aims of the National Physical Laboratory.
The idea of a physical laboratory in which problems bearing at once
on science and on industry might be solved is comparatively new.
The Physikalisch-Technische Reichsanstalt, founded in Berlin by the
joint labours of Werner von Siemens and von Helmholtz daring the
years 1883—87, was perhaps the first. It is less than ten years since
Dr. Lodge, in his address to Section A of the British Association,
outlined the scheme of work for such an institution here in England.
Nothing came of this ; a committee met and discussed plans, but it
was felt to be hopeless to approach the Government, and without
Government aid there were no funds.
    Four years later, however, the late Sir Douglas Galton took the
matter up. In his address to the British Association in 1895, and
again in a paper read before Section A, he called attention to the
work done for Germany by the Reichsanstalt and to the crying need
for a similar institution in England.
    The result of this presidential pronouncement was the formation
of a committee which reported at Liverpool, giving a rough ontline of
a possible scheme of organisation. A petition to Lord Salisbury
followed, and as a consequence a Treasury Committee, with Lord
Rayleigh in the chair, was appointed to consider the desirability
of establishing a National Physical Laboratory. The committee
examined more than thirty witnesses, and then reported unanimously
" that a public institution should be founded for standardising and
verifying instruments for testing materials and for the determination
of physical constants."
    It is natural to turn to the words of those who were instrumental
in securing the appointment of this committee, and to the evidence it
received, in any endeavour to discuss its aim. As was fitting, Sir
 Douglas Galton was the first witness to be called. It is a sonrce of
sorrow to his many friends that he has not lived to see the Laboratory
completed.
    And here I may refer to another serious loss which, in the last
few days, the Laboratory hns sustained. Sir Courtenay Boyle was a

1901.]      on the Aims of the National Physical Laboratory.       657
member of Lord Rayleigh's committee, and as such was convinced of
the need for the Laboratory and of the importance of the work it
could do. He took an active part in its organisation, sparing neither
time nor trouble ; he intended that it should be a great institution,
and he had the will and the power to help. The country is the
poorer by his sudden death.
    Let me now quote some of Sir Douglas Galton's evidence.
" Formerly our progress in machinery," he says, " was due to accu
racy of measurement, and that was a class of work which could be
done, as Whitworth showed, by an educated eye and educated touch.
But as we advance in the applications of science to industry wo
require accuracy to be carried into matters which cannot be so
measured. ... In the more delicate researches which the physical,
chemical and electrical student undertakes, he requires a ready means
of access to standards to enable him to compare his own work with
that of others." Or again, " My view is that if Great Britain is to
retain its industrial supremacy we must have accurate standards
available to our research students and to our manufacturers. I am
certain that if you had them our manufacturers would gradually
become very much more qualified for advancing our manufacturing
industry than they are now. But it is also certain that you cannot
separate some research from a standardising department." Then,
after a description of the Reichsanstalt, he continues, " What I would
advocate would be an extension of Kew in the direction of the second
division of the Reichsanstalt, with such auxiliary research in the
establishment itself as may be found necessary." The second divi
sion is the one which takes charge of technical and industrial
questions. Professor Lodge, again, gave a very valuable summary of
work which ought to be done.
    It is now realised, at any rate by the more enlightened of our
leaders of industry, that science can help them. This fact, however,
has been grasped by too few in England ; our rivals in Germany and
America know it well, and the first aim of the Laboratory is to bring
its truth home to all, to assist in promoting a union which is
certainly necessary if England is to retain her supremacy in trade
and in manufacture, to make the forces of science available for the
nation, to break down by every possible means the barrier between
theory and practice, and to point out plainly the plan which must be
followed unless we are prepared to see our rivals take our place.
    " Germany," an American writer who has recently made a study
of the subject has said, "is rapidly moving towards industrial
supremacy in Europe. One of the most potent factors in this
notable advance is the perfected alliance between science and
commerce existing in Germany. Science has come to be regarded
there as a commercial factor. If England is losing her supremacy
in manufactures and in commerce, as many claim, it is because of
English conservatism and the failure to utilise to the fullest extent
the lessons taught by science, while Germany, once the country of
   Vou XVI. (No. 95.)                                       2 x

 658                   Mr. Richard T. Glazebrook                [May 24,
dreamers and theorists, has now become intensely practical. Science
there no longer seeks court and cloister, but is in open alliance with
commerce and industry." It is our aim to promote this alliance in
 England, and for this purpose the National Physical Laboratory has
been founded.
     It is hardly necessary to quote chapter and verse for the assertion
that tho close connection between science and industry has bad a
predominant effect on German trade. If authority is wanted, I would
refer to the history of the anilin dye manufacture, or, to take a more
recent case, to the artificial indigo industry, in which the success of
the Badische Company has recently been so marked. The factory at
Ludwigshaven started thirty-five years ago with thirty men ; it now
employs more than 6000 and has on its staff 148 trained scientific
chemists. And now, when it is perhaps too late, the Indian planters
are calling in scientific aid, and the Indian Government are giving
some 3500/. a year in investigation.
     As Professor Armstrong, in a recent letter to the Times, says, " The
truly serious side of the matter, however, is not the prospective loss
of the entire indigo industry so much as the fact that an achievement
such as that of the Badische Company seems past praying for here."
Another instance is to be found in the German exhibit of scientific
instruments at the Paris Exhibition, of which a full account appeared
in the pages of Nature.
    And now, having stated in general terms the aims of the
Laboratory and given some account of the progress in Germany, let
me pass to some description of the means which have been placed at
our disposal to realise those aims. I then wish, if time permits, to
discuss in fuller detail some of the work which it is hoped we may
take up immediately.
    The Laboratory is to be at Bushy House, Teddington. I will
pass over the events which led to the change of site from the Old
Deer Park at Eichmond to Bushy. It is sufficient to say that at
present Kew Observatory in the Deer Park will remain as the
Observatory department of the Laboratory, and that most of the
important verification and standardisation work which in the past
has been done there will still find its bome in the old building.
     Bushy House was originally the official residence of the lianger
of Bushy Park. Queen Anne granted it in 1710 to the first Lord
Halifax. In 1771 it passed to Lord North, being then probably
rebuilt. Upon the death of Lord North's widow in 1797, the Duke
of Clarence, afterwards William IV., became Ranger ; after his
death in 1837 it was granted to his widow, Queen Adelaide, who
lived there until 1849. At her death it passed to the Due de
Nemours, son of King Louis Philippe, and he resided there at
intervals until 1896.
    In spite of this somewhat aristocratic history, it will make an
admirable Laboratory. A description of the Laboratory, with
illustrations, will be found in Nature, vol. lxiii. p. 300.

 1901.1      on the Aims of the National Physical Laboratory.       659
     The floor space available is much less than that of the Reichs-
 anstalt. But size alone is not an unmixed advantage ; there is much
 to be said in favour of gradual growth and development, provided the
 conditions are such as to favour growth. Personally I should prefer
 to begin in a small way if only I felt sure I was in a position to do
 the work thoroughly : but there is danger of starvation. Even with
 all the holp we get in freedom from rent and taxes, outside repain
 and maintenance, the sum at the disposal of the committee is too
small.
     Science is not yet regarded as a commercial factor in England.
 Is there no one who realises the importance of the alliance, who will
 come forward with more ample funds to start us on our course with
a fair prospect of success ? One candid friend has recently told us
 in print that the new institution is on such a microscopic scale that
its utility in the present struggle is more than doubtful. Is there
 no statesman who can grasp the position and see that with, say,
double the income the chances of our doing a great work would be
increased a hundredfold ?
     The problems we have to solve are hard enough : give us means to
 employ the best men and we will answer them ; starve us and then
quote our failure as showing tho uselessness of science applied to
industry !
     There is some justice in the criticism of one of our technical
 papers. I have recently been advertising for assistants, and a paper
in whose columns the advertisement appears writes, " The scale of
pay is certainly not extravagant. It is, however, possible that tho
duties will be correspondingly light."
     Now let me illustrate these aims by a more detailed account of
some of the problems of industry which have been solved by the
application of science, and then of some others which remain un
solved and which the Laboratory hopes to attack. The story of the
Jena Glass Works is most interesting ; I will take it first.
     An exhibition of scientific apparatus took place in London in
 1876. Among the visitors to this was Professor Abbe, of Jena, and
in a report he wrote on the optical apparatus he called attention to
the need for progress in the art of glass making if the microscope
were to advance, and to the necessity for obtaining glasses having a
different relation between dispersion and refractive index than that
found in the material at the disposal of opticians. Stokes and
Harcourt had already made attempts in this direction, but with no
marked success.
     In 1881 Abbe and Sohott, at Jena, started their work. Their
undertaking, they write five years later in the first catalogue of
their factory, arose out of a scientific investigation into the connec
tion between the optical properties of solid amorphous fluxes and
their chemical constitution. When they began their work, some six
elements only entered into the composition of glass. By 1888 it
had been found possible to combine with these, in quantities up to

660                    Mr. Richard T. Olazebrook              [May 24,
about 10 per cent., twenty-eight different elements, and the effect
of each of these on the refractive index and dispersion had been
measured. Thus, for example, the investigators found that by the
addition of boron the ratio of the length of the blue end of the
spectrum to that of the red was increased ; the addition of fluorine,
potassium or sodium produced the opposite result.
    Now in an ordinary achromatic lens of crown and flint, if the
total dispersion for the two be the same, then for the flint glass the
dispersion of the blue end is greater, that of the red less than for
the crown ; thus the image is not white : a secondary spectrum is
the result
    Abbe showed, as Stokes and Harcourt had shown earlier, that by
combining a large proportion of boron with the flint, its dispersion
was made more nearly the same as that of the crown, while by
replacing the silicates in the crown glass by phosphates, a still
better result was obtained, and by the use of three glasses three
lines of the spectrum could be combined ; the spectrum outstanding
was a tertiary one, and much less marked than that due to the
original crown and flint glass. The modern microscope became
possible.
    The conditions to be satisfied in a photographic lens differ from
those required for a microscope. Von Seidel had shown that with
the ordinary flint and crown glasses the conditions for achromatism
and for flatness of field cannot be simultaneously satisfied. To do
this we need a glass of high refractive index and low dispersive
power, or vice versa ; in ordinary glasses these two properties rise
and fall together. By introducing barium into the crown glass a
change is produced in this respect. For barium crown the refractive
index is greater and the dispersive power less than for soft crown.
    With two such glasses, then, the field can be achromatic and flat
The wonderful results obtained by Dallmeyer and Ross in this
country, by Zeiss and Steinheil in Germany, are due to the use of
these new glasses. They have also been applied with marked success
to the manufacture of the object-glasses of large telescopes.
    But the Jena glasses have other uses besides optical. " About
twenty years ago "—the quotation is from the catalogue of the
German exhibition—" the manufacture of thermometers had come
to a dead stop in Germany, thermometers being then invested
with a defect, their liability to periodic changes, which seriously
endangered German manufacture. Comprehensive investigations
were then carried out by the Normal Aichungs Commission, the
Reichanstalt and the Jena Glass Works, and much labour brought
the desired reward."
    The defect referred to was the temporary depression of the ice
point which takes place in all thermometers after heating. Let the
ice point of a thermometer be observed ; then raise the thermometer
to, say, 100°, and again observe the ice point as soon as possible
afterwards ; it will be depressed below its previous position. In

1901.]      on the Ainu of the National Physical Laboratory.         661
some instruments of Thuringian glass a depression of as much as
0°-65 G. had been noted. For scientific purposes such an instrument
is quite untrustworthy. If it be kept at, say, 15°, and then immersed
in a bath at 30°, its reading will be appreciably different from that
which would be given if it were first raised to, say, 50°, allowed to
cool quickly just below 80°, and then put into the bath. This was
the defect which the investigators set themselves to cure.
    Table I. gives some details as to thermometers.
                                   Table L,
        Depbession of Fbeezing Point fob Vabiocb Thebmometebs.
                                                        degrees.
             Humboldt. 1835                              0-06
             Greiner, 1872                               0-38
             Schultzer, 1875                             0-44
             Rapps, 1878                                 0-65
             English glass                               0' 15
             Verre Dur                                   0 08
             16"'                                        0-05
             59"'                                        0 02
                             Analysis op Glasses.
                      RiOj    Na20    CaO    Al2Os  ZnO    Bj03
             16"' .. 67 5 .. 14 ..      7 .. 2-5 .. 7 .. 2
             59"' .. 72 .. 11 ..      — .. 5 .. — .. 12
    Weber had found in 1883 that glasses which contain a mixture
of soda and potash give a very large depression. He made a glass
free from soda with a depression of 0°-1. The work was then taken
up by the Aichungs Commission, the Reichsanstalt and the Jena
factory. Weber's results were confirmed. An old thermometer of
Humboldt's, containing 0 • 86 per cent, of soda and 20 per cent, of
potash, had a depression of 0°-06, while a new instrument, in which
the percentages were 12-7 per cent, and 10- 6 per cent, respectively,
had a depression of 0° • 65.
    An English standard, with 1'5 per cent, of soda and 12-3 per
cent, of potash, gave a depression of 0°,15, while a French "verre
dur" instrument, in which these proportions were reversed, gave
only 0°-08.
    It remained to manufacture a glass which should have a low
depression and at the same time other satisfactory properties. The
now well-known glass 16"' is the result. Its composition is shown
in the Table.
    The fact that there was an appreciable difference between the
scale of the 16"' glass and that of the air thermometer led to further
investigations, and another glass 59"', a borosilicate containing 12 per
cent, of boron, was the consequence. This glass has a still smaller
depression.
    Previous to 1888 Germany imported optical glass. At that date

  662                   Mr. Richard T. Glazebrook              [May 24,
 nearly all the glass required was of home manufacture. Very shortly
 afterwards an export trade in raw glass began, which in 1898 was
  worth 30.000Z. per annum, while the value of optical instruments,
 such as telescopes, field-glasses and the like, exported that year was
  250,000?. Such are the results of the application of science, i.e.
  organised common sense, to a great industry. The National Physical
 Laboratory aims at doing the like for England.
      I have thus noted very briefly some of the ways in which science
 has become identified with trade in Germany, and have indicated
 some of the investigations by which the staff of the Reichsanstalt and
 others have advanced manufactures and commerce.
     Let us turn now to the other side, to some of the problems which
 remain unsolved, to the work which our Laboratory is to do and by
 doing which it will realise the aims of its founders.
     The microscopic examination of metals was begun by Sorby in
 1864. Since that date many distinguished experimenters, Andrews,
 Arnold, Ewing, Martens, Osmond, Roberts-Austen, Stead and others,
 have added ' much to our knowledge. I am indebted to Sir VV.
 Roberts-Austen for tho slides which I am about to show you to
 illustrate some of the points arrived at. Professor Ewing a year ago
 laid before the Royal Institution the results of the experiments of
 Mr. Rosenhain and himself.
     This microscopic work has revealed to us the fact that steel must
 be regarded as a crystallised igneous rock. Moreover.it is capable,
 at temperatures far below its melting point, of altering its structure
 completely, and its mechanical and magnetic properties are intimately
 related to its structure. The chemical constitution of the steel may
 be unaltered, the amounts of carbon, silicon, manganese, &c., in the
 different forms remain the same, but the structure changes, and with
it the properties of the steel.
     Sections of the same steel polished and etched after various treat
 ments show striking differences, i'or instance, if a highly carbnrised
form containing 1 , 5 per cent, of carbon be cooled down from the
 liquid state, the temperature being read by the deflection of a gal
vanometer needle in circuit with a thermopile, the galvanometer
 shows a slowly falling temperature till we reach 1380° C, when
solidification takes place ; the changes which now go on take place
in solid metal. After a time the temperature again falls until we
reach 680°, when there is an evolution of heat ; had the steel been
free from carbon there would have been evolution of heat at 895° and
again at 766°. Now throughout the cooling, molecular changes are
going on in the steel. By quenching the steel suddenly at any
given temperature we can check the change and examine micro
scopically the structure of the steel at the temperature at which it
was checked.
     [Slides were shown representing the microscopic structures of
steels subjected to different treatment as regards temperature and
annealing.]

1901.]       on the Aims of the National Physical Laboratory.         663
    These slides are sufficient to call attention to the changes which
occur in solid iron, changes whose importance is now beginning to
be realised. On viewing them it is a natural question to ask bow all
the other properties of iron related to its structure ; can we by special
treatment produce a steel more suited to the shipbuilder, the railway
engineer or the dynamo maker than any he now possesses ?
     These marked effects are connected with variations in the condition
of the carbon in the iron ; can equally or possibly more marked
changes be produced by the introduction of some other element?
Guillaume's nickel steel, with its small coefficient of expansion, ap
 pears to have a future for many purposes ; can it or some modification
be made still more useful to the engineer ?
     We owe much to the investigations of the Alloys Research
 Committee of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers. Their dis
tinguished chairman holds the view that the work of that committee
 has only begun, and that there is scope for such research for a long
 time to come at the National Physical Laboratory. The executive
 committee have accepted this view by naming as one of the first
 subjects to be investigated the connection between the magnetic
 quality and the physical, chemical and electrical properties of iron
 and its alloys, with a view especially to the determination of the
 conditions for low hysteresis and non-agency properties.
     At any rate we may trust that the condition of affairs mentioned
 by Mr. Hadfield in his evidence before Lord Rayleigb's Commission
 which led a user of English steel to specify tbat before the steel
 could be accepted it must be stamped at the Keichsanstalt, will no
 longer exist.
     The subject of wind pressure, again, is one which has occupied
 this committee's attention to some extent. The Board of Trade
 rules require that in bridges and similar structures (1) a maximum
 pressure of 56 lbs. per square foot be provided for ; (2) that the
 effective surface on which the wind acts should be assumed as from
 onco to twice the area of the front surface, according to the extent of
 the openings in the lattice girders ; (3) that a factor of safety of 4
 for the iron work and of 2 for the whole bridge overturning be
 assumed. These recommendations were not based on any special
 experiments. The question had been investigated in part by the late
 Sir VV. Siemens.
     During the construction of the Forth Bridge Sir B. Baker con
 ducted a series of observations. The results of the first two years'
 observations are shown in Table II., taken from a paper read at the
 British Association in 1884. Three gauges were used.
     In No. 1 the surface on which the wind acted was about 1£ square
 feet in area ; it was swivelled so as always to be at right angles to the
 wind. In No. 2 the area of surface acted on was of the same size, but
 it was fixed with its plane north and south. No. 3 was also fixed in
 the same direction, but it had 200 times the area, its surface being
 300 square feet.

664                         Mr. Richard T. Glazebrook                   [May 24,
                                    Table II.
          Revolving Gauge.            Small Fixed Gauge.      Large Fixed Gauge.
           Mean Pressure.           Easterly.     Westerly. Easterly.    Westerly.
            lb.         lb.            lb.           lb.       lb.           lb.
        Oto 5           3-09          3-47           2-92     2-04           1-9
        5 to 10         7-58          4'8            7-7      3-54           4-75
       10 to 15        12-4           6-27          13-2      4-55           8-26
       15 to 20        17-06          7-4           17-9      5-5           12-66
       20 to 25       21-0           12-25          22-75     8-6           190
       25 to 30        27-0                         28-5                    18-25
       30 to 35        32-5                         38-5                   21 -S
         Above          65                          41-0                   35-25
        (One observation
        only above 32-5).
    In preparing the table the mean of all the readings of the re
volving gauge between 0 and 5, 5 and 10, &c., lbs. per square foot
have been taken, and the mean of the corresponding readings of the
small fixed gauge and the large fixed gauge set opposite, these being
arranged for easterly and westerly winds.
    Two points are to be noticed : (1) only one reading of more than
32*5 lbs. was registered, and this, it is practically certain, was due to
faulty action in the gauge.
    Sir B. Baker has kindly shown me some further records with a
small gauge.
    According to these, pressures of more than 50 lbs. have been
registered on three occasions since 1886. On two other occasions the
pressures, as registered, reached from 40 to 50 lbs. per square foot.
But the table, it will be seen, enables us to compare the pressure on
a small area with the average pressure on a large area, and it is clear
that in all cases the pressure per square foot as given by the large
area is much less than that deduced from the simultaneous observa
tions on the small area.
    The large gauge became unsafe in 1896 and was removed ; but
the observations for the previous ten years entirely confirm this
result, the importance of which is obvious. The same result may be
deduced from the Tower Bridge observations. Power is required to
raise the great bascules, and the power needed depends on the direc
tion of the wind. From observations on the power some estimate of
the average wind pressure on the surface may be obtained, and this is
found to be less than the pressure registered by the small wind
 gauges. Nor is the result surprising, when the question is looked at
as a hydrodynamical problem ; the lines of fluid near a small obstacle
 will differ from those near a large one, and the distribution of pres
sure over the large area will not be uniform. Sir W. Siemens is
 said to have found places of negative pressure near such an obstacle.

1901.]      on the Aims of the National Physical Laboratory.         665
As Sir J. Wolfe Barry has pointed out, if the average of 56 lbs. to
the square foot is excessive, then the cost and difficulty of erection of
large engineering works is being unnecessarily increased. Here is a
problem well worthy of attention, and about which but little is known.
The same, too, may be said about the second of the Board of Trade
rules. What is the effective surface over which the pressure is
exerted on a bridge ? On this again our information is but scanty.
Sir B. Baker's experiments for the Forth Bridge led him to adopt as
his rule, Double the plane surface exposed to the wind and deduct
50 per cent, in the cases of tubes. On this point again further ex
periments are needed.
    To turn from engineering to physics. In metrology, as in many
other branches of science, difficulties connected with the measurement
of temperature are of the first importance.
    I was asked some little time since to state, to a very high order of
exactness, the relation between the yard and the metre. I could not
give the number of figures required. The metre is defined at the
freezing point of water, the yard at a temperature of 62° F. When a
yard and a metro scale are compared they are usually at about the
same temperature ; the difficulty of comparison is enormously in
creased if there be a temperature difference of 30° F. between the two
scales. Hence we require to know the temperature coefficients of the
two standards. But that of the standard yard is not known ; it is
doubtful, I believe, if the composition of the alloy of which it is made
is known, and in consequence Mr. Chaney has mentioned the deter
mination of coefficients of expansion as one of the investigations
which it is desirable that the Laboratory should undertake.
    Or, again, take thermometry. The standard scale of temperature
is that of the hydrogen thermometer ; the scale in practical use in
England is the mercury in flint glass scale of the Kew standard
thermometers. It is obvious that it is of importance to science that
the difference between the scales should be known, and various
attempts have been made to compare them. But the results of no
two series of observations which have been made agree satisfactorily.
The variations arise probably in great measure from the fact that the
English glass thermometer, as ordinarily made and used, is incapable
of the accuracy now demanded for scientific investigations. The
temporary depression of the freezing point already alluded to in
discussing the Jena glass is too large ; it may amount to three- to four-
tenths of a degree when the thermometer is raised 100°. Thus the
results of any given comparison depend too much on the immediato
past history of the thermometer employed, and it is almost hopeless
to construct a table, accurate, say, to -01, which will give the differ
ence between the Kew standard and the hydrogen scale, and so
enable the results of former work in which English thermometers
were used to be expressed in standard degrees.
    This is illustrated by Table III., which gives the differences as
 found (1) by Rowland ; (2) Guillaume ; (3) ? Wiebe, between a Kew
 thermometer and the air thermometer.

666                      Mr. Richard T. Glazebrooi            [May 24,
   Table III.—Values of Cobbections to the English Glass Thebmometeb
     Scale to give Tempebatubes on the Gas Thebmometeb Scale found
     bt vabious Obsebvebs.
                    Temp.     Rowland. Qn\llaume. WIebe.
                       o           B          o       0
                       0           0         0        0
                      10       —   03       '009  +   03
                      20       —  '05   —   '009  +  -oo
                      30       —  '06   —   '002  +   02
                      40       —  '07   +   .007  +  -09
                      50   "   —  '07   +   .016  +  -14
                      60       —  '06   +    014
                      70       —  •04   +   '028
                      80       —  '02   +   '026
                      90       —  '01   +   .017
                     100           0         0
     It is clearly important to establish in England a mercury-scale of
temperatures which shall he comparable with the hydrogen scale, and
it is desirable to determine as nearly as may be the relation between
this and the existing Eew scale.
     I am glad to say that in the first endeavour we have secured the
valuable co-operation of Mr. Powell, of the Whitefriars Works, and
that the first specimens of glass he has submitted to us bid fair to
compare well with 16"'.
     Another branch of thermometry in which there is much to do is
the measurement of high temperature. Professor Callendar has
explained here the principles of the resistance thermometer, due first
to Sir W. Siemens. Sir W. C. Roberts-Austen has shown how the
thermopile of Le Chatellier may be used for the measurement of high
temperatures. There is a great work left for the man who can
introduce these or similar instruments to the manufactory and the
forge, or who can improve them in such a manner as to reuder their
uses more simple and more sure. Besides, at temperatures much
over 1000° C, the glaze on the porcelain tube of the pyrometer gives
way.
     So far we have discussed new work, but there is much to be done
in extending a class of work which has gone on quietly and without
much show for many years at the Kew Observatory. Thermometers
and barometers, wind gauges and other meteorological apparatus,
watches and chronometers, and many other instruments are tested
there in great numbers, and the value of the work is undoubted.
The competition among the best makers for the first place, the best
watch of the year, is most striking and affords ample testimony to the
importance of the work.
     Work of this class we propose to extend. Thus, there is no place
where pressure gauges or steam indicators can be tested. It is

1901.]            on the National Physical Laboratory.                667
intended to take up this work, and for this purpose a mercury pres
sure column is being erected.
    Again, there are the ordinary gauges in use in nearly every
engineering shop. These, in the first instance, have probably come
from Whitworth's, or nowadays, I fear, from Messrs. Pratt and
Whitney or Browne and Sharpe, of America. They were probably
very accurate when new, but they wear, and it is only in compara
tively few largo shops that means exist for measuring the error and
for determining whether the gauge ought to be rejected or not.
Hence arise difficulties of all kinds. Standardisation of work is
impossible.
    In another direction a wide field is offered in the calibration and
standardisation of glass measuring vessels of all kinds, flasks, burettes,
pipettes, &c., used by chemists and others. At the request of the
Board of Agriculture we have already arranged for the standardisation
of glass vessels used in the Babcock method of measuring the butter
fat in milk, and in a few months many of these have passed through
our hands. We are now being asked to arrange for testing the
apparatus for the Gerber and Leffman-Beam methods, and this we
have promised to do when we are settled at Bushy. Telescopes,
opera-glasses, sextants, and other optical appliances, are already
tested at Kew, but this work can, and will, be extended. Photographio
lenses are now examined by eye ; a photographic test will be added,
and I trust the whole may be made more useful to photographers.
    I look to the co-operation of the Optical Society to advise how we
may be of service to them in testing spectacles, microscope lenses and
the like. The magnetic testing of specimens of iron and steel, again,
offers a fertile field for inquiry. If more subjects are needed it is
sufficient to turn over the pages of the evidence given before Lord
Rayleigh's Commission, or to look to the reports which have been
prepared by various bodies of experts for the executive committee.
    In electrical matters there are questions relating to the funda
mental units on which, in Mr. Trotter's opinion, we may help the
officials of the Board of Trade. Standards of capacity are wanted ;
those belonging to the British Association will be deposited at the
 Laboratory. Standards of electromagnetic induction are desirable ;
questions continually arise with regard to new forms of cells other than
the standard Clark cell, and in a host of other ways work will be found.
    I have gone almost too much into detail. It has been my wish to
state in general terms the aims of the Laboratory to make the
advance of physical science more readily available for the needs of
the nation, and then to illustrate the way in which it is intended to
attain those aims. I trust I may have shown that the National
Physical Laboratory is an institution which may deservedly claim
the cordial support of all who are interested in real progress.
                                                            [R. T. G.]

668                    Mr. A. Henry Savage Landor,              [M*J 31,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING.
                          Friday, May 81, 1901.
       Fbank MoClban, Esq., M.A. LL.D. F.R.S., Vice-President,
                               in tho Chair.
                A. Hknbt Savage Landoe, Esq., MJR.I.
                         With the Allies in China.
Afteb the fall of Tientsin native city, and the excitement of looting
it, it was felt by the Allies that a good rest was necessary before an
attempt conld be made to relieve the Legations in Pekin.
     The idea prevailed in Tientsin that the Ministers and all foreigners
in the capital could not have escaped massacre. If the Imperial
troops in Pekin were as well armed and drilled as those who fought
in Tientsin, we could but surmise that the Legations, with the small
guards and limited ammunition they possessed, could not have with
stood a long and severe siege.
     The generals of the Allies thought that at least 25,000 men were
necessary for an advance on Pekin. Some suggested that 40,000
would be a figure at which a greater chance of success might be ex
pected. The rainy season would be coming shortly, and would render
the country almost impassable. The railway had been destroyed.
     Various unsuccessful attempts had been made to communicate with
Pekin by means of disguised messengers. Day after day passed, and
we in Tientsin heard no news of the besieged, which made us fear
the worst.
     It was not till July 29 that the Allies woke np to the real state of
affairs, on the receipt of a pathetic letter from Sir Claude MacDonald.
It said : " If the Chinese do not press their attack we can hold out
for some days—say ten ; but if they show determination, it is a ques
tion of four or five, so no time should be lost if a terrible massacre
is to be avoided."
     Directly afterwards a second messenger brought to the American
Consul a small piece of tissue paper on which was a cypher message
from Mr. Conger, the United States Minister. It was dated July 21,
and said that the Legations had sufficient provisions, but little
ammunition. Fifty had already been killed. The Japanese Consul
received a messenger a few days later.
     It was plain that the besieged in the Legations were in a sorrowful
plight. At any cost, an attempt to relieve them must be made at once.

1901.]                   With the Allies in China.''               669
fv- For two or three days there was a great commotion in Tientsin
to prepare for the advance. Pekin carts were commandeered in all
directions, as well as saddles, ponies, mules, donkeys and rickshaws.
     On August 3, a conference of generals was held, at which it was
decided that the combined forces of the Allies now ready in Tientsin
should make an immediate start for Pekin, without waiting for the
arrival of further reinforcements. It was agreed that the advance
could be made on August 4.
     It was not till the afternoon of that day that the troops began to
move out of the settlement, raising clouds of dust on the road, and
rattling the heavy gun carriages over the rickety wooden bridges
outside Tientsin native city.
     The troops that took part in the advance consisted of :—
     Japanese.—One brigade infantry, and all the cavalry available ;
four companies of artillery ; one company of engineers.
     British.—Royal Welsh Fusiliers, Royal Artillery, 7th Bengal
Infantry, 1st Bengal Lancers, 1st Sikhs, 24th Punjab Infantry.
     American.—9th and 14th Infantry.
     The Japanese, British and Americans were to work in a joint
movement on the west bank of the Pei-ho river ; while the Russians
( East Siberian Regiment and Cossacks), French, Germans, Italians and
Anstrians were to march on the east bank.
     The night of the 4th was spent by the Allies at the Siku arsenal,
the English and Russians acting as outposts. The Russians occupied
the Siku arsenal itself, the British and Americans the right and
left centre, and the Japanese the extreme left.
     From the Siku arsenal a double embankment ran along in a
north-westerly direction as far as a magazine, then turned almost
north beyond it. Two buildings, a gunpowder magazine, a small
village, and a few scattered houses and granaries, stood in the large
triangular stretch of flat country, now covered with high Indian corn,
and that was enclosed by the river on one side and the road embank
ment on the other, tBe Siku arsenal being the point of the triangle.
     Pei-tsang, where the Chinese were reported in great force, was
 about six thousand yards north-west of Siku. The Chinese were very
 strongly entrenched behind several lines of earthworks stretching to
 the south-west from Pei-tsang and to the south-east along a mud wall.
     There were several miles of trenches, skilfully laid out, and the
 enemy had placed behind them six guns at their extreme right, nine
 field guns in the centre of the line, three guns directly west of Pei-
 tsang, and eight guns near the granaries south-east of the village.
 It was a formidable position to attack.
     During the night the Allies took up a position to the south of the
 embankment, the Japanese occupying the extreme left, close to the
 magazine. They brought up their artillery, under the command of
 Major-General Tskamoto, with the 21st Brigade of Infantry, the 5th
 Regiment of Cavalry, one company of engineers, the 5th Regiment
 of Artillery, and ambulances.


1901.]                   With the Allies in China.                  671
     To the right, under the command of Major-General Manabe, was
the 9th Brigade, one company of cavalry, one battery of artillery and
one oompany of engineers.
     The reserve consisted of the 11th Regiment, taken ont of the 9th
Brigade and one company of engineers.
     Next to the Japanese along the embankment were, under cover,
the British forces.
     The Americans lost their way and did not take part in the
engagement.
     At 4 a.m. on August 5, the Allies had taken up their position.
The Japanese had pushed their way right up to the Chinese sentries
near the magazine, and with the first rays of light, at 4 . 20, got the
first glimpse of the enemy.
     Ten minutes later, at 4 . 30, the magazine was in the hands of the
Japanese. With this was also captured the first line of Chinese
trenches. Three thousand Chinese troops were reported to be guard
ing the powder magazine, but they withdrew to their main defences.
A Japanese battery was set to work at this spot.
     I climbed with a friend over the embankment to obtain a better
view, and 1 suppose that we placed ourselves in full sight of the
enemy against tho sky line, for directly three or four shells whizzed
uncomfortably past us, exploding a little way beyond.
     From this moment the Chinese, suspecting the whereabouts of the
Allies, began to send shell after shell into our position.
     The Japanese artillery was doing splendidly, but the Chinese
had found the exact range of the Japanese guns, and were making
their position very hot. The gunners were cool and composed, and
the Japanese officers calmly smoked their cigarettes, cracking occa
sional jokes when shells burst too near. The moment any one was
wounded he was bandaged up and carried away on an ambulance.
     As I was looking on there was one soldier holding three horses.
 A. Chinese shell dropped, and man and animals were killed, and
 gashed about in a fearful manner.
     I thought it was wiser for me to go and see what the British ar
tillery was doing, a little further back along the embankment. It
had not yet come into action. This seemed a spot of comparative
safety, as only occasional shells dropped here, instead of a regular
hail of them. I was just talking to some soldiers, when a shell burst
directly over our heads, wounding one man badly in the neck, and
another slightly.
     There was no prospect of an immediate advance, as long as the
artillery duel continued, so I decided to go still further back, nearly
as far as where the Bengal Lancers were in reserve.
     I squatted on the ground, and was writing up my notes, when
 some Japanese Red Cross men approached and asked me whether
 this was a safe spot, as they wished to bring some wounded. On my
 answering in the affirmative, oS they went, and presently returned
 with two stretohers, on which were two Japanese, severely wounded.

672                    Mr. A. Henry Savage Landor,              [May 31,
I went to help them to lay down the poor suffering creatures, when a
shell exploded just above us, and again wounded one of the wounded
men on the stretcher.
     The Chinese were gradually slackening their artillery fire, atd
apparently withdrawing their guns, when General Fukushima sent
word to the British, asking that the cavalry might immediately be
despatched to co-operate with the Japanese in the advance on the
Chinese position. Somehow or other, the British cavalry never arrived,
and the Japanese—only one regiment of artillery—marched forward
alone.
     The 41st Regiment led the advance with one battalion on the left
wing. The fighting was very severe, the Japanese suffering heavily.
     The Chinese made a stubborn resistance, but were gradually driven
from their trenches.
     Naturally the Chinese did not confine themselves to firing with one
gun. Mauser, Mannlicher and gingal bullets were falling thickly.
Moreover, the Chinese were using Maxims with considerable success.
     The Chinese guns were still giving trouble, and the Royal Ar
tillery had taken up a second position near the granaries (north of
its first position), from which, as the Japanese were advancing so
rapidly, it soon shifted again, and occupied a third position still
further north.
     In the meantime the Japanese cavalry charged the enemy, now
retreating towards Pei-tsang village, and with great gallantry suc
ceeded in capturing eight guns. The Chinese had withdrawn nearly
all the artillery from their central position.
     When once the retreat began, it was rapid, success after success
being gained by the victorious army. One position after another
fell, and the main body of the enemy was retreating even from Pei-
tsang itself, but had left sufficient men to cover the retreat. The
Chinese heavy artillery ceased to fire on us as we advanced, but they
had some vicious Maxims which still poured lead into us.
     One of these weapons was trained on a small bridge, over which
we were bound to cross, and many a soldier was wounded in the hail
of bullets that could not be escaped. The first soldiers who came
unexpectedly into it fared badly.
     A curious incident happened. I saw a number of Japanese coolies
running along, following the soldiers, and I had just time to shout to
them, " Abunai I Abunai ! " (Look out ! Look out !). The ballets
made a noise just like hail on the wooden boards of the bridge, so
the little fellows covered their heads with their blankets, as they
would do in a hailstorm, and dashed across.
     When we reached the place where the road crossed a Chinese
trench, a commanding position, where the enemy had placed three
guns, we found interesting sights. The earthworks and trenches,
several miles in length, had been constructed with extraordinary skill,
and in them stood the picturesque tents and sheds for the soldiers.
We found many dead.

1901.]                  With the Allies in China.                  673
    As the British cavalry was not forthcoming, the Japanese now
filled the centre with their own infantry.
    The enemy was driven out of all his positions except Pei-tsang
village itself. The Russians and French, who, owing to inundations,
had found great difficulty in advancing on the opposite side of the
stream, were threatening them from the south-east.
    Sharp fighting took place near the village itself, but eventually
the Japanese entered it, and put the enemy in full retreat.
    The right wing (Japanese) was ordered to pursue and cut off the
flight of the Chinese, but the fighting had been very hard—nearly
eight long hours of it—and the enemy had a good start. The Chinese
were well ahead, with twelve flags and six guns. Their number
was estimated at 6000, and they were falling back on Yangtsun.
     At Pei-tsang itself, the fight was over at about noon. Sniping
continued for some time afterwards from the fields on the opposite
side of the Pei-ho. The Japanese and British, followed later by the
others, pushed on directly to the second village, finding no further
resistance.
    The Chinese troops which had been fighting at Pei-tsang had been
reported as 8000 in number, besides a great many well-armed Boxers,
who had joined in the fighting.
    There is no doubt that at this—the most important battle in the
advance on Pekin—the Chinese troops received a blow from which
they never recovered.
    The battle of Pei-tsang will always remain a fine page in the
history of Japan, for the Japanese alone did practically all the work,
and won the victory for the Allies.
    Some little distance beyond Pei-tsang the Japanese captured a
pontoon bridge, leading to a deserted Chinese camp on the other side
of the river.
    The Japanese losses were heavy. According to the official list
they had forty-two killed, eight missing, and twelve officers and two
hundred and thirty-four soldiers wounded.
     Eight guns were captured from the Chinese.
    It was decided to follow up the Chinese at once to Yangtsun,
and to give them no time to recover from the blow received at Pei-
tsang.
     The troops camped that night just beyond the pontoon bridge,
and the Russians, French, and Austrians, being unable to deploy on
their side of the river owing to the inundations, crossed over and
joined the main body of the force on the west side of the stream.
    One squadron of the 1st Bengal Lancers made a reconnaissance
towards Yangtsun, discovered the enemy in strong force, and returned
to camp during the night.
    The troops began to march forward again at 6 a.m. on the 6th,
and the Japanese (the Manabe Brigade), with the Russians, British,
Americans, French, and Austrians, crossed by the bridge, and all
marched this time on the east bank of the river.
   Vol.. XVI. (No. 95.)                                     2 y

             YANCTSUN
   cHlNCSC
   J Guna
San- tiervtano!
       Liujui uan         La_ne*r*
                      chieh-tsu

1901.]                   With the Allies in China.                675
    And here, with the rough roads, bogan the first and serious
troubles arising from hastily made transport arrangements. The
heavily laden carts sank deep into the road ; the teams of Chinese
mules, unaccustomed to foreign drivers, stampeded, kicked, and
smashed harness and carriages, and a considerable amount of strong
language, in many difiFerent tongues, was consequently used on all
sides.
    Acting on the information collected by the Bengal Lancers, the
British and Americans led the advance, marching about ten miles
before coming in touch with the enemy.
    The Cossack cavalry discovered the enemy commanding a strong
wedge-shaped position formed by the railway embankment and the
river, and intersected by a road. The Chinese left flank was pro
tected by three guns near a building, and four hundred cavalry some
distance beyond the railway embankment. There were also five guns
to the north. Five more stood further baok on the opposite bank of
the river, directly across the iron railway bridge ; and three others
on the south side of the railway.
    The railway embankment, being very high, and provided with a
long platform near the station, furnished a commanding position, with
most excellent protection.
    On the side of tho Allies the line of battle was formed as
follows :—
    On the left, along the river, were the Russian infantry and
artillery (4 guns). Next to them, on the south, and to the right,
came the British Royal Artillery, the 1st Sikhs, supported by the
14th United States Infantry on their right on the west side of the
track, and the 9th Infantry, supported by marines. Reilly's battery,
six guns, and the Bengal Lancers, were on the east side. The
Tskamoto Japanese Brigade was held in reserve, and occupied the
extreme right of the advance ; while more Russians, with the 7th
Bengal Infantry to their left, were near the Hsiao-chieh houses, and
the French infantry behind them.
    At about 1600 yards the line began to deploy with no very great
opposition. There was fair cover from trees, undulations in the
ground, and stray houses ; but when only at nine hundred yards the
advance became very slow, and was made under a terrifio fire with no
caver at all.
    As can be seen by a glance at the map, the wedge formed by the
embankment of the road and that of the railway becomes gradually
narrower, and eventually forms a point at its northern portion. It
was at this point that the 1st Sikhs and the 24th Punjab Infantry
were forced forward in close formation, with K and M Companies of
the 14th United States Infantry by their side.
    The 1st Sikhs advanced well until they found themselves in the
narrow depression shown in the photograph, where they got penned
in and were exposed to very heavy fire. They held fast to their
position, while the Americans came along in skirmishing order.
                                                        2 t 2

 676                   Mr. A. Henry Savage Landor,                    31,
 The 14th, which was ahead, came under the fire of the gun which the
 Chinese had placed on the embankment near the water-tower, and
 also to that from the rifles of the Chinese infantrymen in houses and
 behind trees.
     The Chinese, furthermore, were lining the whole of the Station
 platform, whence they kept up a hot fusillade. Their force consisted
 of Imperial troops in the centre, and well-armed Boxers at the sides.
     The Russians, advancing from the same direction, fired yolley
 after volley into the Chinese, and, having brought up their artillery,
 shelled the enemy with great effect.
     The Sikhs were for one moment under such heavy fire that they
could not advance. Those few of the Americans who were not ex
 hausted by fatigue and the terrible heat, were ordered by Colonel
 Daggett, when at eight hundred yards, and under a withering fire
from front and flank, to rush the Chinese position.
     A handful of them, led by brave Lieutenant Murphy, of the
 14th Infantry, and a handful of plucky Sikhs, with Major Scott at
their head, stormed the embankment, the Chinese bolting at their
approach.
     Lieutenant Murphy was the first to reach the position where the
 Chinese gun hod been; then, a second later, came Scott with six
Sikhs. Captaiu Martin, with six men of Company M (United States
Infantry) and one man of Company I, arrived next. The Chinese
were very smart, and dragged away their battery when the enemy was
only three hundred yards off.
     So narrow was the wedge when the Americans passed the Sikhs
that they actually formed two single lines. When double time was
ordered the Americans were so exhausted from the long march in
the morning—the attack began at 11 a.m.—and from hunger and
thirst, that many dropped on all sides and became delirious, or went
clean out of their minds.
     When once the enemy had been dislodged from the high embank
ment, the victory became easy. Captain Taylor, of the 14th United
States Infantry, was the first of the Allies to enter the village to the
left, and Colonel Daggett reached the platform just in time to see the
Chinese withdraw in good order up the river.
     In their rear to the north the Chinese had one line of trenches on
the road, one line at the bank of the river, and two lines across the
plain. When the Allies had seized the top of the embankment, the
Chinese infantry, having occupied their first line of trenches, about
eight hundred yards from it, opened fire principally from their left,
to protect the retreat of their artillery.
     They then leisurely withdrew, gaily flying their standards. The
American 9th, on the right flank, had a splendid opportunity of firing
into them at short range ; but as the Chinese were dressed in bine,
and flew white, red and blue flags, they were mistaken for Frenchmen
and so escaped. Later, the French mistook the Americans for Chinese,
and fired into them I Fortunately, they did not hit anybody. When

1901.]                    With the Allies in China.                 677
the first error was discovered it was too late to pursue the enemy
effectively.
    A worse mistake happened. Either the Russian or the British
gunners (nobody seemed to know for certain) sent a few shells among
E Company of the 14th United States Infantry, killing eight and
wounding nine.
    The first Chinese trench was taken by a regiment of " supports,"
and the others were evacuated.
     Two squadrons of the 1st Bengal Lancers went in pursuit of the
enemy in the evening, and succeeded in killing fifty. One of General
Ma's flags was captured, and five standards.
     The Yangtsun battle was over at 2.30 p.m.
     The Americans and British, who had borne the brunt of the
fighting, had a heavy list of casualties.
     American.—21 killed and 54 dangerously wounded.
     British.—46 killed and wounded.
     On August 9, the Allies were half-way between Tientsin and
Pekin.
     The Japanese advance guard, when 2500 yards from the town of
Ho-si-wu, discovered the enemy in the south end of the village.
The Chinese opened fire, but the Japanese stormed the position, and
the enemy ran away in confusion.
     The town had been ransacked by Boxers and Imperial soldiers
prior to our arrival, and this was the case with nearly every village
 we passed through.
     Ho-si-wu was captured at 8.50 a.m., and from some of the
inhabitants it was understood that the enemy had been there ten
thousand strong, under the supreme command of Generals Ma and
Lti. They had abandoned the position at the approach of the Allies,
after making a half-hearted defence.
     After resting here a while, the march was continued towards Matao,
and the enemy was now reported ready to fight ns at tho walled town
 of Shan Matao.
     I was then with the Japanese advance guard, composed of light
 cavalry. We started the next morning, the 10th, at 3.80, and at 4.30
 the Tskamoto Brigade followed. At Matao itself we had a skirmish
 with the enemy, and easily succeeded in putting them to flight.
     The right and left wing had come together again in one body, at
 An-ping, and spent the night at Shan Matao.
     The Allied cavalry started again at 3.30 the next morning (the
 11th), followed by the Tskamoto Brigade and the other Allies.
 When the advance guard reached Kao-tchan, south of Chang-chia-wan,
 we suddenly came in for a surprise. We were riding gaily through
 a narrow street of the suburbs, and had arrived at the bridge, when
 we were received with a few well-aimed shells, which compelled us
 quickly to turn back and get under cover of the houses.
     Some Japanese infantry came up, and at the same time the left
 wing reached the gate of Chang-chia-wan, while we galloped down

678                   Mr. 4. Henry Savage Landor, J          [May 81,
the side of the canal under a thick fusillade and occasional shells.
 The enemy, however, withdrew his artillery in time, covering the
retreat of his guns with rifle lire.
    A halt was called here that the Allies might make preparations
for an assault on the large town of Tung-chow, which they believed
to be strongly garrisoned.
    On the march, the Americans and the British possessed inadequate
maps, but somehow or other the British seemed to have a knack of
finding their way about and taking care of themselves. The Americans
were constantly losing their way, and, exhausted as they were through
heat and sickness, were on many occasions given extra suffering by
being mado to march several miles more than was necessary.
    The American soldier is a splendid soldier, although possibly he is
physically not very strong. A great many of them fell out of the
ranks on the march to Pekin.
    The Japanese went steadily and well, but looked somewhat over
laden. Some men dropped off, bnt the little fellows possessed such
strong will that when their physical strength failed them their pride
made them keep up with the rest.
    The Britishers were taking things in a calm fashion, sprawling
along in a pretty easy way. They were well fed and properly looked
after, and did not seem to suffer quite so much as some of the other
troops. They generally marched in the cool of the morning and
evening, which saved the men considerably, instead of doing like the
Americans, who were made to march in the hottest hours of the day.
    The thin-legged Indian troops stood the march very well. There
was, however, some fever and dysentery among them, and even more
so among the British white troops.
    The Russians stood the march in a magnificent manner. I never
saw one single man fall out of the ranks, and although, of course,
they felt the heat, they undoubtedly proved themselves to be, physi
cally, the strongest soldiers of the Allies.
    While the other troops took advantage of the day's rest at Chang-
chia-wan, the Japanese advance guard pushed on ahead, and at 1 p.m.
was again fighting the enemy, with whom they had caught up, and
who was running before them. In this race they had reached within
8000 yards of Tung-chow, when they perceived with spy-glasses a
great number of Chinese soldiers on the city wall as well as outside
the town. The Japanese artillery was brought up 1000 yards from
the city, and shelled the enemy till four o'clock in the afternoon.
There seemed, however, to be no sign that an effective resistance
would be offered.
    When a sufficient number of troops had arrived at Tung-chow,
the Japanese commenced the attack on the town at midnight. They
were fired upon from the wall, the Chinese actually using some
of their home-made guns, over a hundred years old. They had
spread a quantity of these primitive guns along the wall. Most of
them had not even a gun-carriage, and were merely resting on the

1901.]                    With the Allies in China.                    679
parapet of the wall. In firing them, 'one or two of these guns
actually fell off the wall on to our side.
     At 8.30 a.m. on August 12, the Japanese advance guard reached
the city gate, while the other troops were deploying. No resistance
was offered. One company of engineers blew up the gate with
dynamite.
     At 4 . 30 the whole army of the Allies entered the eity by the
south and south-west gates. A deputation had been received saying
that no fighting would take place if the lives and property of the
people were safeguarded.
     As far as this point the Allies had kept in touch with their
 transport, the communication being to a considerable extent by
 water. From Tung-chow, however, the Pei-ho had to be abandoned.
     The allied genorals held a conference, at which it was decided
 to march at once on Pekin.
     The
     A    Japanese
          Allies of
        distance    only
                     at tho
                 would   attack
                          fourteen
                             extreme
                                themiles  inseparated
                                    cityright the
                                               along
                                                  following
                                                      us.
                                                      the paved    :— ; the
                                                            order road
 Russians in the centre on the north bank of the canal ; while the
 Americans and British marched to the south of the canal.
     It was understood that the troops would encamp for a day some
 three miles from Pekin, in order to give our soldiers a rest, for
 through heat, dust, thirst and sickness, the men were in a pitiable
 condition. Hundreds had already fallen off the ranks—sunstroke,
 dysentery and typhoid fever playing havoc among them.
     During the whole afternoon of August 13, we of the Relief
 Expedition heard terrific firing in the direction of Pekin. It was so
 continuous that it resembled thunder. The sky was gloomy, and
 many thought that it was only an approaching storm.
     This, however, did not seem to be the impression prevailing in the
 Russian camp, where a final and determined attack on the Legations was
 suspected and feared. Russian scouts had already pushed to within
 two hundred yards of the wall, and were only fired upon when close to
 the city gate. They were pursued by a few soldiers, and brought
 back the news that, as far as the wall itself was concerned, no resist
 ance would be encountered.
      Acting upon this information, in the evening of Monday the 13th,
 one battalion of infantry and half a battery, under the command of
 Major-Goneral Vassielevsky, set out on a reconnoitring expedition
 towards Pekin. The object of this was to prepare the way for the
 attacking force, which was to follow the next morning. The night
  was very dark, and at 11 o'clock it rained so heavily that the Russians
 were able to extend their reconnoitring much further than was
 originally intended. They actually reached the Tung-Pien Men
  gate of Pekin without being discovered. Finding the enemy un
 prepared, General Vassielevsky decided not to lose his ohance of
 making a bold stroke.
      Along the wall there was a moat with water, which could be

680                   Mr. A. Henry Savage Landor,              [May 31,
crossed by a small bridge. Vassielevsky ordered his men to creep
silently over the bridge and make an attempt to force the gate. The
Chinese soldiers at the guard-house, awakened, gave the alarm. There
were some thirty of them, and all came to an untimely end.
    The Chinese on the wall immediately opened a fusillade on the
Russians. Two guns were brought up close to the gates, and firing
at once commenced to smash them open. After some twenty shots
had been fired, an aperture had been cut large enough for a man to
squeeze through.
     Two fearless men, General Vassielevsky and Mr. Munthe (a Nor
wegian aoting as guide on the staff of the Russian General), rushed
in—the two first men of the Allies to enter the Chinese city of Pekin
—and gave order to the soldiers to follow. Once inside, they were
under terrific fire in the small walled court which is found between
the outer gate and the inner.
     The Russian infantry crept in through the small aperture, and
answered as best they oould the rifle fire poured upon them from the
wall. The fusillade on both sides was terrific. The savage yells of
the Chinese from above, the flashes of musketry playing along the
edge of the wall and everywhere, the deafening din of their gingals
and of the Russian rifles, drowned the moaning of those unfortunates
who in scores fell wounded and dying.
     The side gates having been forced open, three guns were pushed
through and carried along the cluster of houses inside the wall. The
 infantry came in with them, and, in fact, walked ahead of the guns.
 The Chinese had by now retired little by little from the lower wall
 of the Chinese city to the adjoining higher wall of the Tartar city,
 from where they kept a heavy fire on the Russians. But not for long.
 Some twenty minutes later the firing ceased.
     It was now decided to take the inner road close to the wall towards
 the Ha-ta gate, more especially as the Chinese guides and prisoners
 declared the outer wall was only weakly defended by the Chinese.
 The main force, they stated, was guarding the wall of the Tartar city.
     The Russian infantry, escorting three guns, started on this road,
 and had no sooner passed in the vicinity of the higher wall with
 tower on the corner, than a murderous fire was opened from all
 along the wall against the advancing force. In a few minutes ten
 out of eighteen horses of the batteries were down, the officer leading
 the advance guard was severely wounded, and the majority of his men
 were killed.
     It was impossiblo to advance under such deadly fire. All the
 horses of one battery had been shot, and fears were entertained that
 one gun must be abandoned. It would have been, but for the bravery
 of the infantrymen, who succeeded, amidst the general enthusiasm, in
 rescuing the gun, but the loss of life was appalling.
     The Russians, unable to proceed, concentrated on the top of the
 wall at the gate. General Vassielevsky decided to hold the position
 until reinforoements arrived.

1901.]                    With the Allies in China.                681
     At daybreak the Chinese still occupied the higher wall, on which
they wero well nnder cover, and were therefore able to inflict great
damage on the Russians.
     To the south of the gate occupied by the Russians, tho top of the
wall was studded with mat sheds, whioh had been used as tents by
the Chinese soldiers. Three Chinese flags were still seen flying on
the wall. As it was of the utmost importance to ascertain whether
the position was still occupied by the enemy, a few volunteers, led
by the brave Munthe and a sergeant, under very heavy fire rushed
the position. The flags were captured and the party returned to the
gate.
     From the Tartar wall the firing was now becoming more and
more violent, and the Russian position was furthermore shelled from
the city. All the Russians could do was to keep quiet, it being im
possible for them to return the fire from the exposed position they
held.
     General Vassielevsky was all the time in the most exposed place
on the wall —a splendid example of valour to his men, as well as a
first-class target to the Chinese riflemen. In fact, a Mannlicher
bullet went through his chest, and he fell, dangerously wounded.
He behaved with much fortitude, and ordered his men to continue the
defence. It was impossible to carry the General down from the
perilous place in which he lay, and, in two attempts that were made,
two Cossacks who carried the stretcher were mortally wounded.
     It was not till ten o'clock in the morning that Russian reinforce
ments could be seen approaching, but instead of advancing immedi
ately—and unaware of tho position occupied by their advance guard—
they stopped to bombard the high tower on the south-east corner of
 the Tartar wall. They did so, as from this tower, still occupied by
 the Chinese, a stout resistance and continuous fusillade was kept up.
     Along the Chinese city wall occupied by the Russians, to the
 south, was seen approaching a large force of Mahommedan soldiers,
 waving their flags and standards. They advanced courageously
 towards the Russians in such masses that the latter found them
 selves in a very precarious position ; but they held their own, and
 fired volley after volley into the swarm of fanatics, keeping them at
 bay.
     At eleven o'clock, reinforcements commenced to arrive, and soon
 an American flag was seen waving from the wall itself in the
 position where Munthe and his brave companions had at sunrise
 captured the three Chinese flags. Later still, a number of plucky
 American soldiers scaled the wall and reached the Russian position.
 They were about twenty, under Captain Crozier.
     More reinforcements arrived. In fact, the whole American main
 force proceeded through the gates burst open by Russian artillery.
      The Russians called a halt to attend to their dead and wounded.
 They had twenty-six killed, and one hundred and two lay with mortal
 wounds, besides a large number of lighter casualties.

682                  Mr. A. Henry Savage Landor,             [May 31,
    An hour later, towards noon, white flags were seen hoisted all
along the Tartar wall, and firing practically ceased, except from
the south-east corner tower, which persistently continued firing all
day, notwithstanding that it was in return heavily shelled by the
Russian and later by the American artillery.
    The troops, unopposed, marehed along the Tartar wall :is far as
the Ha-ta Men gate, and others as far as the " Sluice " (Water gate),
through which, as we shall see, at about two o'clock p.m., an entrance
had already been made by the British.
    While this was taking place, the brunt of the fighting was borne
by the Japanese, who had come up by the pavod road leading from
Tung-chow to the Chi-ho gate (East gate) of the Tartar city.
     On the evening of the 13th, they had encamped some three miles
from the East gate of Pekin. Their advance guard was a quarter of
a mile in front of the main force. I selected as my own camping
ground an open space between the advance guard and the main
column. Colonel Mallory, attached to the Japanese force on behalf
of the American Government, and Mr. Bass, correspondent of the
Herald, were with me.
     During the night the rain was torrential, and we had to cover
ourselves with Colonel Mallory's poncho, when shots were heard in
close proximity, and presently a very smart fusillade was opened
from in front and behind us. Bullets were hissing over our heads.
 It was pitch dork, and we did not know exactly what was happening.
     There seemed to prevail great excitement in the Japanese camp,
and in the meantime the shooting in front could not have been more
than forty or fifty yards from us.
     At sunrise we discovered that the Chinese had boldly attacked the
Japanese advance guard, which had to fall back on the main body,
hence the exciting skirmish. They were eventually beaten off.
     We marched briskly on Pekin, meeting with no resistance until
 we got within four hundred yards of the gate, which we reached at
about eight in the morning of the 14th. A rush was made on the
 gate by the infantry—a scene of the wildest enthusiasm.
     We were met by a fearful fusillade from the gate and wall,
and a sudden shower of shells burst among us. We still advanced
for some time, seeking shelter along the road-side, until the firing
abated.
     Four more guns were sent to shell the Tung-chih gate, where
the wall was broken down and reported scaleable. The Chinese
 made quite a stout resistance on this side of the city. Probably
 they only expected to be attacked from the east side, and had accord
 ingly made preparations, so that, although British, Russians, and
 Americans were already inside the Chinese and Tartar city walls
 since the afternoon, the Japanese did not succeed in blowing up the
 gate till nine o'clock in the evening. Their losses during the day
 were two hundred killed and wounded.
     The British, in the meantime, had been steadily marching on

1901.]                   With the Allies in China.                 683
from Tung-chow. They found the country clear of the enemy, and
entered the wall of the Chinese city of Pekin by the Shan-huo gate.
They met with no opposition, the heavy gates being opened with the
help of the Chinese from inside.
     An immediate advance was made towards the south Tartar gate.
     Scouting parties were despatched in every direction to look for
Chinese soldiers, but none were found ; so General Gaselee, with his
staff, and half a company of the 7th Rajiputs, made a reconnaissance
through a lane leading towards the wall, about half-way between the
Ch'ien gate and the Ha-ta.
     They discovered that the portion of the wall near the Legation
was held by foreigners, and three flags—the Russian, the British and
the American—wore flying together on it, the British in the centre.
This was a pre-arranged signal, communicated to General Gaselee at
Tung-chow, by which he was to understand that the Legations were
still holding out.
     They were signalled to come up by the Sluice—an arched outlet
through the wall, and leading directly to the Legations. Hardly a
shot was fired at them, except by snipers inside mud-houses along the
road.
     They were signalled by the besieged that the wall was clear of
Chinese and was in the hands of the Legation guards. Taking
advantage of this, a company of the 7th Rajiput Infantry forced a
passage through the wall by the Sluice. Helped to no mean extent
by besieged Chinese Christians and a couple of Europeans from
inside, they cut an opening in the rotten wooden gate.
     Some forty Rajiputs, followed later by a handful of British, made
an entry, cheered by the crowd of Christian converts who had come
to meet them, and soon after greeted by the frantic hurrahs of
the white men, women and children, awaiting them with open arms
at the gato of the Legation—only a few yards further up on the left
side of the canal.
     The Legation was triumphantly entered.
     Considerable excitement prevailed when the Rajiputs, waving
their rifles, rushed into the British Legation.
     The enthusiasm reached its maximum when General Gaselee and
the 24th Punjab Infantry came in, and then the 1st Sikhs and the
 Bengal Lancers and the 9th and 14th American Infantry, who had
come unopposed along the Tartar wall by the Ha-ta gate.
     In Pekin there are four cities in one—the Chinese, the Tartar
the Imperial city and the Violet or Red Forbidden city.
     In the very centre of Pekin, and within the wall of the Imperial
city, stands the " Forbidden City," containing the Emperor's audience
halls, his private palaces, and those for the court, oflBcials and
attendants.
     The Allied forces had entered the Chinese and Tartar city, and
captured the Imperial city ; they had destroyed, burned and looted
wholesale the houses of friends and foes alike ; but the Forbidden

684                   Mr. A. Henry Savage Landor,              [May 31,
city, with all its palaces—that nest of infamy and corruption, where
the plans for the massacre of foreigners in China had been conceived
and organised—was respected and protected.
    Russians, British, Japanese, Americans and French were left
to guard each of the four gates, but for two whole weeks—until
August 28th—the Forbidden city was left untouched and closed.
The result ?
    The Chinese naturally concluded that we were afraid to take it,
that wo felt our inferiority, and therefore did not dare trespass on this
sacred ground. Rumours spread that foreign devils were not strong
enough to take the palace ; that when we had reached the gates we
were unable to go further. Hence, within the ten days after our entry
into Pekin, several American, French and Russian soldiers were
murdered by Chinese, while peaceably going about the streets.
    The Boxers in the neighbourhood of Pekin, encouraged by what
they believed to be our lack of courage and strength, again became
threatening.
    It was then decided by the Foreign Representatives, that a suit
able way of maintaining our prestige and of giving China a lesson
would be to make a formal entry into the Forbidden city, and that
the entry should take the form of an International procession. Only
one small detachment of each Power would be allowed to march
through the Forbidden grounds, each nation to be represented by a
number of men in proportion to the number of troops despatched for
the relief of Pekin.
     I immediately called on General Barrow (British) to obtain per
mission to accompany the British troops on this triumphant march.
The general was not approachable, but referred me to an officer, who
said that permits would be issued to no British subjects. A great
mystery was made about the whole affair, and it seemed that it was
the intention of the authorities to have the whole performance " on
the sly," as it were.
     The American general was no better than the British, and when
 interviewed by an American correspondent is reported to have struck
 a stage attitude and exclaimed : " There are things in this world that
 are sacred ! The Imperial Palace is one of them ! " He would see
non-military men anywhere rather than let them into the palace to
see the show.
     Personally, fortune attended me. An invitation was given me to
 ride into the palace with General Linievitch, who, being the senior
 general, would be the first foreigner to enter the Forbidden city.
     "Be here at 7.80 to-morrow morning, for I shall start at 8 to
 review the International troops," said General Linievitch, as I thanked
 him for his kindness.
      When morning came I rode briskly to the Russian Legation,
 reaching it an hour, or even two, before the time appointed.
     I was cordially received by the general and his staff, and we
 eventually started on our horses. We entered the first courtyard.

1901.]                   With the Allies in China                  685
     Here the troops that were to march through the palace were
already in line. The various generals were on foot at the head of
their respective columns, and as we rode past each contingent the
doyen general reviewed them, each general and staff in turn saluting
as we passed, and accompanying us to the end of his line.
     As far as numbers went, the Russians were most prominent of all,
then the Japanese, the British, the Americans, the French, the
Germans, tho Italians and the Austrians.
     The review of the troops completed, General Linievitch, his
staff, and myself, with an escort of Cossacks, rode up through the
second courtyard, followed by the diplomatic body, the Russian
marines, Russian line officers and infantry.
     We passed through the two gates of the approaches to the palace,
which had already been opened by the Americans, and were now
before the last gate, thatleading into the Forbidden city itself, upon
which no foot of " foreign devil had ever trespassed. The moment
was impressive.
     Three Chinese officials—two of them interpreters to the Yamto—
in their long blue State robes and white hats, stood with mournful
faces waiting for us at the closed gate. As wo approached, they
stooped and chin-chinned, joining their thumbs together.
     General Linievitch and I dismounted, and walked up the incline
to the gate.
     Opened from inside, the huge wooden doors, studded with iron
knobs, revolved slowly on their rusty hinges.
     General Linievitch and I stepped into the Forbidden city. The
British Artillery fired the first salute of one-and-twenty guns.
     " Entrez dans le Palais de FEmpereur I " said to the general the
Chinese official, Lien-fang, who spoke the most perfect French ; and,
having shown us the way with an extended arm and a grand bow, he
joined his companion ahead of us.
     They marched quickly, evidently in a hurry to get us through in
all speed.
     Behind us we had General Linievitch's staff, including the brave
Munthe and Yanchevetsky.
     Then came the third Chinaman, who kept with the diplomatic
body—an extraordinary-looking set, dressed up in the quaintest of
costumes, most of them hardly adapted to so grand an occasion.
     In front was prominent the bony figure of Six Claude MacDonald,
in an ample grey suit of tennis clothes, and a rakish Panama slouch
hat, which he wore at a dangerous angle.
     To his right the Russian Minister seemed quite reposeful by
contrast. He was clad in dark clothes, and bore himself with
dignity.
     Next to him came the Representative of the Frenoh Republic, in
a garb that combined the requirements of the Bois de Boulogne on a
Sunday with the conveniences of tropical attire on a week-day.
     Mr. Conger, the American Minister, strode ponderously behind,

686                   Mr. A. Henry Savage Landor,             [May 31,
dressed in white cottons and military gaiters, while a horde of
secretaries, students and interpreters, in various fancy garbs, made
part of the distinguished crowd.
    The march through the palace being a military affair, it seemed
as if the Ministers were sulky, and attached no importance whatever
to the occasion. In fact, some appeared quite bored.
    The remarkable head of Dr. Morrison (correspondent of the
London Times) could be seen among the crowd.
    The chief buildings and the Emperor's audience halls occupied the
central part of the palace grounds in a line. The troops were not
made to march through these throne-halls or other buildings, but we
skirted them to the right, through various courts of more or less
magnificence, passing buildings of great age and out of repair, and
going through quaint rock gardens, until we came to a centenarian
tree of gigantic proportions. Its branches were so heavy that they
had to be supported by strong beams. Beyond that, through delight
fully artistic grounds, was to be found a hill with curious grottos.
Iu the grottos were idols and statues of Buddha, besides a number
of silver and jade cups, vases, images, candlesticks and bowls.
    Each of the courts or passages through which we went had
massive gates that were opened by attendants as we approached.
These attendants, who had been besieged in the palace, seemed
famished and worn. Although apparently submissive, even servile,
any observant person could notice on their stolid faces an expression
of hatred and contempt for us as we went by.
    We reached the last and most northern court of the palace, and
here came the most impressive part of the procession.
    The Russian goneral with his staff, the diplomatic body, and Lady
MacDonald, stood under the northern gate leading out of the palace.
    The Russian band, an excellent one, took np a position in the
courtyard, while a strong force of Cossacks and Russian infantry
stood under the gate and round the wall of the court. Presently the
defile before the Russian general began, and with the first bars of the
Bussian National Anthem in marched the Russian marines, infantry,
and a contingent from each of their regiments in Pekin.
    A finer, healthier, sturdier, better or more sensibly-drilled or
clad body of soldiers it is impossible to imagine. They marched
manfully across the court amid the " hurrahs " and wild excitement
of all present. Some marched out of the palace, but a number of them
were ordered by the general to remain inside the court. The object
of this was a charming politeness on the part of the Russians towards
their Allies. The soldiers had been ordered to cheer themselves
hoarse as the contingent of each nation went by.
    Next to the Russians the Japanese marched through—these
wonderful and absolutely perfect soldiers and officers who have
astounded the world by their bravery. In their white uniforms and
black and yellow caps, perfectly equipped, they marched slowly and
sensibly—a delightful display of precision and neatness. Baron

1901.]                   With the Allies in China.                 687
Yamaguchi, their commander-in-chief, and General Fukushima, with
their staff, marched proudly at their head, taking a place next to the
Russian general when they reached him.
    The soldiers marched by the sound of their own bugles, as, alas,
the Russian band, excellent as it was, broke down when it came
to play a Japanese air ! The absence of what might have turned
out an ear-rending performance was, however, more than compensated
by the enthusiastic and prolonged cheering of the Russians, which
was much appreciated by the Japanese, and which continued until
the last of them was out of sight.
    And now for the British. One could not help being struck by the
fact that they wore better clothes than any other nation—everything
made of the best material instead of the cheapest. They looked as
smart and spick and span as if they had come out of a bandbox, the
officers especially. They had a dashing, free and easy, and extremely
manly and business-like way of marching along, with a graceful, un
affected swing that one could not help liking. You could seo as
they came along that they were men who belonged to a great nation.
They knew it, and were proud of it.
    As General Gaselee and his staff appeared in the courtyard the
Russian band played " God Save the Queen," and the most frantic
hurrahs and waving of hats and caps took place as the Marines and
Welsh Fusiliers marched by.
    In now came the Sikhs, with their bagpipes, which they seemed
to play as well as any Scotchman. The pipers remained in the court
yard, playing as delightfully as Scotch tunes permit, until the 1st
Bengal Lancers, the 7th Kajiputs, the Pathans, and at last the Wei-
hai-wei Regiment, all passed through, all received with thundering
cheers, moderated slightly towards the Chinese regiment, for it seemed
to go against the grain, even with the Allies, that Chinamen should
have been sent to fight against Chinamen. One felt rather sorry at
their position, for as a regiment they were a wonderful body of men.
    The Americans were ushered in with " The Star-Spangled Banner "
blown through the brass instruments by powerful Russian lungs.
The soldiers looked smart as they came through the gate. Officers
and men were in khaki, except General Chaffee, who wore his blue
uniform.
    They, too, like the British, were most enthusiastically cheered,
and they deserved it, for indeed they had done exellent work in the
campaign.
     On this particular occasion, when one could contrast and compare
them with other nationalities, one was particularly struck by the
individually intelligent appearance of each man, and by the matter-of-
fact mien of the line officers. At the same time they presented quite
as good a military appearance as soldiers of any other nation. The
boys marched through with pride, and waved their flag as cheers were
raised for them.
     The German contingent came next. Splendid men, tall, heavy,

688          Mr. Savage Landor, with the Allies in China.      [May 31,
machine-like, and all so perfectly alike in height, build and shape,
that they seemed made in the same mould. The contrast between
them and the natural, easy-going Americans was great. It was so
great that when they came in with their extraordinary parade march —
as unnatural a way of locomotion as was ever invented—there was a
general semi-suppressed laughter, drowned at once in " hurrahs."
One could not but admire the way they were drilled, their training
being absolutely perfect—that is, if a soldier who is a machine is to
be taken as a model soldier.
    If one received a mental shock at the contrast of the American
and German warriors, we had now a greater one when tho French
marched in.
    The poor fellows seemed so exhausted that they could scarcely
walk. Their uniforms were in a dreadful state. They hardly showed
the French army at its best—but how could they ? These men had
been for several years in the murderous climate of Saigon, whence
they had been despatched to Pekiu, where they had just arrived. It
is to be regretted that France was not better represented, for we all
knew she could easily have made a better show.
    A curious incident, noticed by few, happened. The Russian band
had been playing, at the full power of their lungs, the ' Marseillaise,'
the Republican march of France, but a forbidden air in the mon
archical neighbouring country of Italy.
    As the French were meagrely represented, the Italians came
immediately behind them, just as the ' Marseillaise ' was in full
swing. The Russian general discovered the faux pas at onoe, and
tried in vain to signal the bandmaster to stop. The musicians were
blowing their hardest when the general's aide-de-camp was des
patched across the line to them. Just in time. In a hurry-scurry
fashion the Republican march ceased abruptly, and the ' Inno Reale '
of Italy was struck up, much to the reassurance and relief of the
Italians, who seemed perplexed to march under an air foreign and
distasteful to their ears.
    They looked very manly and neat, well drilled, and carried them
selves splendidly. They were much admired and cheered.
    So was the small and last contingent—the Austrian Marines—
which worthily ended this marvellous International parade through
the Forbidden City.
                                                      [A. H. S. L.]

  1901.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                             689
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, Jane 3, 1901.
                          Vice-President,
  Sib James Cbiohton-Bbownb,                     the Chair.
                                         M.D.in LL.D.     F.R.S. Treasurer and
                         Henry J. Wood, Esq.
                         John T. Middlemore, Esq. M.P.
  were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
       The following Address to the University of Glasgow was read
 and adopted:—
      The Royal Institution of Great Britain, which celebrated its Centenary two
 yean ago, desires to offer to the University of Glasgow its congratulations on
      completionasof the Four
 the Dedicated                  Institution
                         RoyalHundred   andofFiftieth
                                               Great Year
                                                      Britain
                                                           of its illustrious
                                                               is to          history.of
                                                                     the diffusion
 knowledge, and to teaching the application of science to the common purposes of
 life, it recognises with sympathy and admiration the great work done by the
 University of Glasgow in maintaining and extending the higher education in
 Scotland, and so in spreading a knowledge of Science, the Arts and Letters,
 throughout the world : for there is no shore touched by the commerce of the
 great and enterprising city of Glasgow where the influence of that seat of learn
 ing, which is its chief ornament, has not been felt.
     The Royal Institution of Great Britain recalls with special interest that it
 was in the University of Glasgow that originated thnt distinctive Scottish
 Philosophy with which the names of Hutcheson and Reid must always be con
 spicuously associated, which, discarding mystical speculations, appealed to
 common sense and inductive methods, and thus carried into the sphere of
 mental phenomena the principles which Bacon had introduced into physical
 inquiry, and which has had a powerful practical bearing on national life and
 character. It recalls also with profound interest that it was in the University of
 Glasgow that Joseph Black made his dLscovery of latent heat, and laid the foun
 dations of quantitative analysis; that James Watt nursed that mechanical genius
 that has remodelled our civilisation and transfigured the face of the earth; and
 that Adam Smith, in an epoch-marking work, expounded those economical laws
by whioh the body politic is governed.
     The Royal Institution of Great Britain, at the time of its foundation in 1799,
 drew its first Professor of Natural Philosophy, Dr. Garnett, from Glasgow, and
since then a long succession of Professors and Graduates of the University of
 Glasgow have lectured in its Theatre on scientific and literary subjects. Lord
 Kelvin, while a Professor in the University of Glasgow, lectured at the Royal
 Institution to the edification and delight of its Members fifteen times ; and of
 the Professoriate of Glasgow, one Member, Professor McKendrick, has held the
office of Fullerian Professor of Physiology in the Royal Institution, while two
others, Professors Raleigh and Gray, have contributed to its Friday Evening
Discourses.
     The University of Glasgow has in a gratifying manner recognised the value
of the work now being done in the Laboratories of the Royal Institution by con
ferring an Honorary Degree on Professor Dewar—no unworthy successor of
Davy, Faraday and Tyndall—whose achievements have reflected honour on the
Institution which has afforded him facilities for carrying on his memorable
researches.
    Voi,. XVI. (No. 95.)                                                2 z

690                           General Monthly Meeting.                  [June 3,
     The links of common aims and mutual obligation uniting the Eoyal Insti
tution of Great Britain with the University of Glasgow are numerous and strong,
and it is therefore with feelings of the utmost cordiality that the Royal Insti
tution greets the University at this notable moment of its voyage, and expresses
the hope that, unenfeebled by affluence in the future as it has been undaunted by
obstacles in the past, it will strenuously and successfully pursue its beneficent
career.
      The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members retained fur the same, viz. :—
      FROM
 The Secretary of Statefor India—The Muhammadan Architecture of Ahmadabad,
      Part 1. By J. Burgess. 4to. 1900.
      Lord* of
 The (Cape      the Admiralty—Catalogue
             Observatory.)     8vo. 1899. of 1905 Stars for the Equinox 1865.0.
   Results of Meridian Observations at the Cape Observatory, 1886-1890. 8vo.
      1900.
   The Cape Photographic Durchmusterung for the Equinox 1875, Part 3.
      (Annuls of the Cape Observatory, Vol. V.) 4to. 1900.
   Researches on Stellar Parallax. (Annals of Cape Observatory, VoL VHL
      Part 2.) 4to. 1900.
   Greenwioh Spectroscopic and Photographic Results, 1898. 4to. 1899.
   Greenwich Second Ten Year Catalogue of 6892 Stars for 1890. 4to. 1900.
   Greenwich Observations, 1898. 4to. 1900.
      PartMuteum
 British             (Natural
            4 and Vol.            2. 8vo. 1900-1901.of Welwitsch's African Plants.
                        1L PartHistory)—Catalogue
   The Catalogue
   Hand               of the
           List of Birds,       II. 8vo.Plants.
                          Vol.Mesozoio     1900. By A. C. Seaward. The Jurassic
      Flora, Part 1. 8vo. 1900.
 Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Classe di Scienze Fisiche, Matematiehe e
      Naturali. Atti, Serie Quinta : Rendiconti. 1° Semestre, Vol. X. Fuse. 7-9.
Asiatic Society (Bombay Branch)—Journal, Vol. XX. No. 56. 8vo. 1901.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Proceedings, 1900, Nos. 9-12; 1901, Nos. 1, 2. 8va
   Journal, Vol. LXIX. Part 1, No. 2 ; Part 2, Nos. 2-4 ; Part 3, No. 1. 8vo.
      1900-1901.
 Astronomical Society—Monthly Notices, Vol. LXI. No. 6. 8vo. 1901.
 Bankers, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XXII. Part 5. 8vo. 1901.
 Basle, Naturforschende Qesellschaft—Verhaudlungen, Band XIII. Heft 1. 8vo.
      1901.
 Berlin Academy of Sciences—Sitzungsberiehte, 1901, Nos. 1-22. 8vo. 1901.
 Boston Public l.ibrary—Monthly Bulletin, Vol. VI. No. 5. 8vo. 1901.
 Boston Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Vol. V. Nos. 8, 9. 8vo. 1901.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, 3rd Series, Vol. VIII. No. 14.
      4to.Astronomical
 British     1901.       Association—Memoirs, Vol. XI. Part 7. 8vo. 1901.
 Camera Club—Journal for May, 1901. 8vo.
 Chemical Society—Proceedings, No. 238. 8vo. 1900.
    Journal for May, 1901. 8vo.
 Civil Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings, Vol. CXLIII. 8vo. 1901.
 Crawford, The Earl of, K.T. E.R.8. M.R.L(the Compiler)—Catalogue of English
      Newspapers, 1641-1666. 4to. 1901.
    Analyst for May, Journal
 Editors—American                of Science for May, 1901. 8vo.
                        1901. 8vo.
   Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for May, 1901. 8vo. ,
   Astrophysical Journal for AprU, 1901.
    Athenaium for May, 1901. 4to.
   Author for May, 1901. 8vo.
    Bimetallist, 1901, No. 1. 8vo.

 1901.]                         General Monthly Meeting.                    691
 Editort—continued.
    Brewers' Journal for May, 1901. Svo.
   Chemical News for May, 1901. 4to.
    Chemist and Druggist for May, 1901. Svo.
    Electrical Engineer for May, 1901. fol.
    Electrical Reviow for May, 1901. 8m
   Electricity for May, 1901. 8vo.
   Electro-Chemist and Metallurgist for May, 1901. 8to.
   Engineer for May, 1901. fol.
   Engineering for May, 1901. fol.
   Homoeopathic lleview for May, 1901. 8vo.
   Horologioal Journal for May, 1901. 8vo.
   Invention for May, 1901.
   Journal of the British Dental Association for May, 1901. 8vo.
   Law Journal
   Journal         for Medicine
             of State                 May, 1901. 8vo.
                       May, 1901.for 8vo.
   Lightning for May, 1901. 8vo.
   Machinery
   London       Market Education
             Technical               Gazette
                          for May, 1901.      for May, 1901.
                                           8vo.
   New Church
   Nature         Magazine
            for May,           4to.May, 1901. 8vo.
                       1901. for
   Nuovo Cimento for April, 1901. 8vo.
   Photographic News for May, 1901. 8vo.
   Physical Review for April, 1901. 8vo.
   PopularHealth
   Public              MonthlyforforMay,
             ScienceEngineer              1901. 8vo.
                                     May,1901.
   Science Abstracts, Vol. IV. Part 5. 8vo. 1901.
   Travel for May,
   Telepiione          1901.for8vo.
                Magazine        May, 1901.
   Tropical Agriculturist for May, 1901. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for May, 1901. 4to.
Electrical Engineer*, Institution of—Journal, Vol. XXX. No. 149. 8vo. 1900.
Fatter, Charlet H. Esq. (the Author)—The Common-sense Philosophy of Spirit or
      Psychology. 8vo. 1901.
Franklin Institute—Journal for May, 1901. 8vo.
Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for May, 1901. 8m
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, Vol. LVIL Part 2. 8vo. 1901.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XXV. Part 3. 8yo. 1901.
Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for May, 1901.
Johns Hopkins Univertity—University Circulars, 150, 151. 8vo. 1901.
Leighton, John, Esq. M.R.I.—Journal of the Ex-Libris Society for March, April,
      1901. 8vo.
Life-Boat Institution, Royal National—Annual Report, 1901. 8m.
Madrid, Royal Academy of Sciences—Memorias, Tomo XIX Fasc. 1. 8vo. 1893-
      1900. Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs and Proceedings, Vol.
Manchester
      XLV. Part 2. 8vo. 1900-1901.
Mayor, Rev. J. E. B. (the Editor}—The Centre of Unity. By O. Thirlwall.
      Edited by J. E. B. Mayor. 1901. 8vo.
Meteorological Society, Royal—Meteorological Record, No. 78. 8vo. 1900.
   Quarterly Journal, No. 118. 8vo. 1901.
Milan, Royal High School of Agriculture—Annuario, Vol. II. Fasc 2. 8m 1901.
   Notize, 1900-1901. Svo. 1901.
Navy League—Navy League Journal for May, 1901. 8vo.
New South Wales, Agent-General for—Statistics, History and Resources of New
      South Wales. 8vo. 1901.
Odontologieal Society—Transactions, Vol. XXXIII. No. 6. 8vo. 1901.
Perigal, f. Esq. (the Compiler)—Henry Perigal : A short record of his Life and
      Works. Svo. 1901.
                                                                 2 z 2

692                          General Monthly Meeting.                   [June 3,
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for May, 1901. 8vo.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for April, 1901. 8vo.
Hickman, T. H. Esq. MJt.I. (the Author)—Notes on the Life of T. Bickman.
      8vo. 1901.
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, A, Nob. 281, 282. 4to.
      1901.
   Reports to the Malaria Committee, 4th and 5th Series. 8vo. 1900.
   Proceedings, Nos. 444, 445. 8vo. 1901.
Sanitary Imtitute—Journal, Vol. XXII. Part 1, and Supplement. 8vo. 1901.
Scottish Meteorological Society—Journal, N.S. Nos. 70-79. 8yo.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes for May, 1901. 8vo.
Sell, R. Eta. (the Compiler)—Sell's Dictionary of the World's Press, 1901. 8vo.
Smith Premier Typewriter Company—Souvenir of the Siege of Mafeking. 8vo.
      1901.
Society of Arte—Journal for May, 1901. 8vo.
Swedish Academy of Sciences—Oftersigt, Vol. LVII. 8vo. 1900.
Tacchini, Prof. P. Eon. Mem. R.I. (the Author)—Memorie della Societa degli
      Spettroscopisti Italiani, Vol. XXX. Disp. 1-3. 4to. 1901.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for May, 1901. 8vo.
 United States Department of Agriculture—Monthly Weather Review for Feb.
United   States4to.
      1901.      Patent Office—Official Gazette, Vol. XOV. No. 4. 8vo. 1901.
Verein tur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preutsen—Verhandlungen, 1901,
      Nos. 4, 5. 8vo.
 Vienna, Imperial Geological Institute—Verhandlungen, 1901, Nos. 4-6. 8vo.
   Jahrbuch, Band L. Heft 3. 8vo. 1901.
 Washington Academy of Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. HL pp. 157-216. 8va
      1901.
Western Society of Engineers (U.S.A.)—Journal of the Western Society of Engi
      neers, Vol. VI. Part 2. 8vo. 1901.
 Yerkes Observatory—Bulletin, Nos. 16, 17. 8vo. 1901.
Zoological Soiety—Beport for 1900. 8vo. 1901.
Zurich, Naturforschende GeseUschaft—Vierteljahrsschrift, Jahrg. XLV. Heft 3, 4.
      8vo. 1901.

1901.]                      Mimetic Insects.                         693
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, June 7, 1901.
  Hib Gbace The Duke of Nobthumbebland, K.G. D.C.L. F.R.S.,
                        President, in the Chair.
             Pbofessob Raphael Meldola, F.R.S. M.R.I.
                            Mimetic Insects.
The Lecturer commenced by describing the production of colour
among insects by selective absorption due to pigments and by purely
physical structure causing interference. Images of butterflies {Cal-
lidryas and Morpho) illustrating the two classes of colouring were
thrown on the screen. The subject of insect coloration was not
considered in relation to physical, chemical, or physiological causes,
but rather with reference to its bionomic significance, i.e. its value so
far as it concerned the welfare of the species. It had long been
familiar to naturalists that the colour and pattern, form and habit
were often adaptive. This adaptation to environment, apart from
any hypothesis, is one of the most marvellous facts presented by
living organisms when examined in detail. The effect of the adapta
tion is concealment, whether for the purpose of enabling the insects to
escape from their foes, or in order to enable them to secure food by
approaching their prey undetected. It was convenient to distinguish
between protective and aggressive resemblance, although in all cases
it was not possible to decide off-hand without a full knowledge of
life-history to which class any particular case should be referred.
    Illustrations showing the harmony of colour, pattern and form
between insects and their surroundings were shown on the screen,
many examples being taken from native species at different stages in
their life-histories. The explanation of the adaptations considered
was referred to the action of natural selection, the advantage of con
cealment in such cases being sufficiently obvious to warrant the
application of the principles of selection as laid down by Darwin
and Wallace.
    The Lecturer next proceeded to the consideration of those cases
in which the colours and markings were conspicuous, and no attempt
at concealment was made. These were explained also by the
principles of selection as applied by Wallace in his well known
theory of " warning colours." With these two classes of facts, colour
for concealment and colour for warning, it was easy to carry the
mind forward to true mimetic resemblances in which the species

694                    Professor Raphael Meldola               [June 7,
instead of resembling its inanimate or vegetable environment, bore an
external resemblance to some other species, the latter often belonging
to a qnite different order. The association of protective and aggres
sive resemblance with mimicry as all ooming under the domain of
the Darwinian theory, was first suggested in 1861 by the late Henry
Walter Bates, who was soon followed and supported by Wallace and
Roland Trimen, these naturalists having observed similar cases among
the butterflies of the Eastern tropica and South Africa respectively.
     Beginning with the extreme cases in which insects belonging to
different orders resembled each other, illustrations were shown in
which a moth (JEgeria bembecifortnis) mimics a hornet (England) ; a
moth (Scoliomima) and a beetle (Nothopeus) mimic wasps (N. Borneo);
flies (Hyperechia) mimic bees (Xylocopa ; Mashonaland and Borneo),
and a remarkable case in which a bug mimics a leaf-bearing ant. The
groups of mimetic butterflies observed by Bates in the Amazon Valley
and which suggested the first scientific explanation of the phenomenon
were shown on the screen, the mimicry being between Pierinm
(Leplalis) and Heliconinae (Ithomia, Mechanics and Methona). The
departure in type on the part of the mimicking Leptalids was
strikingly shown by comparison with the Brazilian Leptalis nehemia
which retained the normal type of colour and pattern. The more
complex case recorded by Trimen from South Africa, in which a
Papilio (P. cenea) retains the normal colour and pattern in the male
while the female presents four different forms mimicking respectively
Amauris albimaculata, A. echeria, A. niavius and Dana-is chrysippug,
was also shown.
     The Batesian theory was based on the supposition, well supported
by evidence, that the imitated forms were more or less exempt from
persecution by insect enemies, by virtue of the unpleasant taste or
smell conferred by the acrid juices contained in them. Their gaudy
colouring and disregard of concealment thus brought them under the
category of " warning colours," and the advantage derivable from a
resemblance to such species was sufficient in this case to warrant the
application of the theory of selection. The application of the
Darwinian theory by Bates carried with it the implications that the
imitating forms or mimics were devoid of distasteful qualities, that
they were fewer in individuals and that they inhabited the same
districts and associated with their models. As far as the theory could
be tested by the evidence available at the time of its promulgation
it appeared to furnish a satisfactory explanation of the phenomenon.
But facts began to accumulate—and Bates himself was among the first
to call attention to this point—which seemed to indicate that there
must be some other influence at work bringing about mimetic re
semblances between the protected species themselves. In other words,
the Batesian theory, although applicable to such cases ns the mimicry
between Leptalids and Heliconids, did not explain the resemblances
among the Heliconids themselves. (A group was shown illustrating
some of the resemblances between distasteful species of Ituna, Methona

1901.]                     on Mimetic Insects.                       695
and Thyridia together with the Dismorphias and moths mimicking
these, the group being selected from Bates's original examples.)
     The first step towards the necessary extension of the theory of
mimicry was taken by Fritz Miiller in 1879. He showed how the
principle of selection could be applied also to these cases if it is
admitted, as the evidence warrants, that the so-called " protected "
groups are only relatively and not absolutely exempt from persecution.
In other words, it is considered that young birds and other insect-
eaters do not inherit a knowledge of distasteful forms, but have to
acquire their knowledge by individual experience at the expense of
a certain amount of sacrifice of life by such distasteful forms. Fritz
Miiller, who had been a keen observer in Brazil for many years, had
 frequently noticed that the requirements of the Batesian theory were
not always complied with. In some cases the mimics appeared to be
more numerous than their models ; in other cases both mimic and
model belonged to protected groups, and he finally suggested the
above explanation with special reference to Itvma and Thyridia, which,
 although not so closely related genetically as Miiller supposed at the
 time, are undoubted mimics belonging to protected genera. The
 fundamental requirement of the Mttllerian theory, that even protected
 species have to suffer a certain amount of persecution, was supported
 by the observation that butterflies belonging to such groups were
 frequently oaught with mangled wings, indicating an attack by birds.
 From the psychological side, it has since been proved by the observa
 tions of Lloyd Morgan on newly hatched birds, that the requirements
 of the theory are quite in harmony with the facts.
      The advantage conferred upon protected species by bearing a
 superficial resemblance to each other is capable of being expressed
 fas Miiller did express it) algebraically, and is sufficiently explained
 for ordinary purposes by the general statement, that if a number of
 individuals belonging to different species have to be sacrificed, the
 larger the number of species which resemble each other the smaller
 the number of sacrifices undergone by each species relatively to its
 whole number of individuals. Thus, while the Batesian theory might
 be considered an extension of the theory of ordinary protecive
 resemblance to cases in which the imitated object is another living
 organism, the Mullerian theory might be considered an extension
  of the theory of warning colours from individual species to groups of
  species ("common warning colours" of Poulton).
      On the principles indicated, it becomes intelligible why, among
  protected groups, there should so frequently prevail a general uni
  formity of type in colour and pattern. It is in such cases no longer
  an individual type that insect enemies have by experience to learn
  to avoid, but a generalised type of colour and marking, common to
  whole groups. In illustration of this point, the Lecturer showed a
  group of the British Yanessids in which there is extreme dissimilarity
  of colour and pattern on the upper surface of the wings, there being
  in this case no particular advantage conferred by a superficial re

 696                   Professor Raphael Meldola                 [June 7,
semblance to each other. On the other hand, there were shown the
 following groups illustrating the general resemblances between the
 species of protected genera :—
     Three genera of Euplaeinx from Malabar and Nilgiris, the mimetic
 resemblance between which had been recognised by F. Moore.
     Five species of Acraea from Mashonaland, and another group of
 two species caught in one day by Mr. Guy A. K. Marshall.
     A large group of butterflies belonging to different Heliconine and
 Dauaine genera, and some moths all converging in general pattern
round Thyridia and Methona.
     A group from Guiana showing resemblances between Danainee,
Erycinidae and certain Pierinm (possibly a protected group) and
between Iihomiinae and Heliconinae. The chief interest of this group
was the prevalence of a local peculiarity of colouring, viz. a darkening
of the colours of the hind-wing which was apparent in all the families
and sub-families furnishing genera for the Miillerian group.
    Pairs of Melinaea and Beliconius and of Tithorea and Heliconius
from various parts of Central America, these pairs being selected for
their close resemblance and as being centres of convergence for other
Miillerian groups.
    A group of specimens of Anosia plexippus from various parts of
North America, together with the mimicking Limenitis archippus and
another species of Limenitis preserving the normal type of colour and
pattern of the genus, in order to show how great had been the
divergence from the normal type.
    A group showing Miillerian mimicry between the female
Hypolimnas bolina, Papilio castor, P. panope, and the Danaine
Podemma kollari (both sexes) and Crastis core (both sexes), from the
western Ghats, taken by Mr. G. Keatinge.
    The Miillerian principle of mimicry was thus well illustrated by
the Lepidoptera both in its broad application to the explanation of
general resemblance among protected groups as well as to the more
special resemblances between local forms. Although observations
concerning other orders of insects were not so numerous as in the case
of the Lepidoptera, there was already good evidence of Miillerian
associations among such orders. In illustration of this point a group of
Aculeate Hymenoptera from Western Australia was shown, a general
similarity of colour and marking being observable among species of
Abispa, Eumenes, Alastor, Odynerus and Bembex. A still more
remarkable Miillerian group comprising insects of various orders
captured in Mashonaland by Mr. G. A. K. Marshall in January 1899,
was also shown. The general similarity in this case extended to
Coleojttera (Lycidw, Telephoridae, Cantharidae, Melytidsc, Phytophaga,
Cerambycidae), Hymenoptera (Aculeata, 3 genera), Hemiptera
(Reduvius), Lepidoptera (Zygaenidae, Arctiadae), and Diptera. It
was perhaps not possible at present to refer each particular case of
mimicry to its proper category, Batesian or Miillerian. But if a
group round which in some district a number of other groups

1901.]                      on Mimetic Insects.                     697
converged was in other districts the model imitated, it might fairly
be assumed that the group in question was protected and that the
mimicry was in such a case Miillerian. Thus among Coleoptera
the Lycidrn, which appeared as it were to set the fashion in the group
exhibited, were in other districts the subjects of imitation and so
were probably more or less " protected."
    The Lecturer in conclusion dwelt upon the objections that are
sometimes urged against birds, lizards, &c. being the selecting agents.
He considered that the difficulty in this case was of the same nature
as that which attends the theory of selection by natural agencies in
general. Although it is certain that a large amount of extermination
is constantly going on in nature, in scarcely any case can it be said
that the actual agent or agents have been observed or the process been
seen in operation. Four groups of butterflies caught at large with
damaged wings were shown on the screen, viz. a group of species
of various genera showing indiscriminate attack, a group showing
attack at the tips of the forewings, and two groups showing notches
on the hindwings. One of the latter, a group of Lycaenidae, was par
ticularly interesting as illustrating the deceptive adaptation of the
tailed prolongation of the hind-wing with the eye-like spot above it,
so as to resemble the head end of the insect with eyes and antennas.
This observation, which had been recorded before, had recently been
confirmed quite independently by Mr. Champion Russell in a South
African Lycaenid, and the frequent capture of these butterflies with
wings notched just about the eye-like spot lent support to the view
that the deception was successful against the attacks of birds, the
insect escaping vital injury by the sacrifice of a small portion of the
wing.
    One example was shown illustrating the difficulty of detecting
selecting agents at work even where experimental conditions had been
imposed which undoubtedly favoured selective extermination. In the
course of a series of experiments by Professor Poulton having for
their object the testing of the relative immunity of the variously
coloured pupae of Vanessa urticae according as they were exposed on
surfaces with which their colours harmonised or not, it was found
that a large percentage of individuals out of harmony with their sur
roundings was picked off by some foe, most probably a bird, leaving
only the tail attached to indicate where the chrysalis had been sus
pended. Although hundreds of pups had been removed in this way,
the most persistent observation had failed to reveal the enemy which
removed them ; on one occasion only did the observers suspect that a
bird was at work, but the tree on which the pupae were exposed was
too far off to be sure of the species.
    The Lecturer expressed Lis thanks to those who had helped to
furnish illustrations ; to Dr. Alfred Russel Wallace for the loan of
slides and to Professor Poulton for slides and for the free use of the
materials in the Hope Museum. All the groups illustrating the later
developments of the theory of mimicry had been arranged by Professor

698       Prof. Raphael Meldola on Mimetic Intectt. [June 7, 1901.
Poulton at Oxford and photographed by Mr. Sanger Shepherd by his
three-colour process with excellent results. Specimens illustrative
of the subject of the lecture had also been grouped by Professor
Charles Stewart for the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons,
and by the permission of the President and Council of the College
many of these had been placed for exhibition on the lecture table
and in the library.
                                                        [R. M.]

                       Low-Temperature Research.                     699
                          HODGKINS TRUST.
                   Essay by Miss Agnes M. Clebke.
    Low-Temperature Research at the Royal Institution, 1893-1900.
Eablt in 1895 the lato Mr. Thomas G. Hodgkins presented to the
Royal Institution a sum of 100,000 dollars,* as a source of income to
be employed in the " investigation of the relations and co-relations
existing between man and his Creator." On the ensuing 6th of
February the Managers resolved to carry out the intentions of the
donor, by devoting the resources thus placed at their disposal to the
work of the Institution, which, having for its aim the attainment of
truth, constitutes an effective means of " directing thought to the
source of all knowledge."
   " In der SchSpfung," Kepler wrote, " greife ich Gott, gleichsam mit
Handen " ; and Faraday reflected, " with wondering awe," on the
powers of interrogating nature " given by the Almighty to man."
These great men were no mere transcendentalists. The lofty aspect
under which they viewed physical research may indeed be temporarily
forgotten, but cannot permanently be lost sight of, for it corresponds
to an invincible human instinct. Law formulates intelligent purpose ;
and the laws of nature are an expression of the Will of God. In
tracing them out, man seeks, more or less consciously, the infinite ;
and his capability of tracing them is derived solely from the
analogy of his mind with the Creative Mind, which designed a uni
verse assumed by the necessities of thought to be a " cosmos "—an
orderly arrangement, such as his faculties can apprehend. Were it
unplanned, or planned according to a method incomprehensible by
human reason, science would have no locus standi : life should be
conducted on purely empirical principles. As a fact, however, we
find the world essentially intelligible ; and, by striving to enlarge the
limits of its intelligibility, we promote the purpose of the Creator in
placing us there, and, following in the track of His primal conceptions,
 bring our inchoate ideas more and more into harmony with them.
 The object of the present paper is to show what has been done
towards this end at the Royal Institution, during the last seven years,
 under the terms of the Hodgkins Trust.
     Research at low temperatures has long been recognised as the
characteristic task of the establishment. Resuming, after the lapse
of a third of a century, the traditions of Davy and Faraday, Professor
Dewar gave a new stamp to his operations by the enlargement of
                 * Investment in Consols amounts to 17,9861. 1*.

 700                       Miss Agnes M. Clerke
 their scale. They have been conducted, not for the mere purpose of
 scoring experimental successes by liquefying intractable gases, but
 with a view to extensive and profound investigations of the properties
of matter under conditions previously unattainable. The realisation
of these conditions, however, demands a profuse outlay of labour,
time, and money, to say nothing of the risks incurred through the
rebellion of natural forces against rigid mechanical constraint. Hence,
a colossal equipment, disposed of by an individual of untiring energy,
united to courage and inventiveness of no common order, was indis
pensable for the furtherance of this important enterprise ; and nowhere
has the combination been rendered so thoroughly effective as in the
laboratory of the Royal Institution. Its effectiveness, however, has
not been due to the generosity of one benefactor alone. Many have
contributed to it. The munificence of the Goldsmiths' Company has
twice brought timely relief in financial straits; the donations of
private individuals have furnished indispensable supplies, and merit
emphatic and grateful acknowledgment. The coincidence is note
worthy that the only considerable sum roceived by the Royal
Institution for the endowment of research has come from a fellow-
countryman of its versatile and far-seeing founder. What Count
Rumford had begun Mr. Hodgkins designedly continued, and by
sharing his subsidies between the Royal Institution of Great Britain
and the Smithsonian Institution of Washington, he evidently pro
posed to invite the cordial co-operation of the two great English-
speaking peoples for the investigation of those subjects in which he
was so deeply interested.
     The stage of the campaign arrived at when the Hodgkins fund
became available for its prosecution may be described in a few words.
All the known gases, except hydrogen and fluorine, had been reduced
to liquids in a statical condition, and of these, liquid oxygen alone
had refused to solidify when evaporated under diminished pressure.
A point of cold had been reached only 73° C. above the absolute
zero ( — 273°), and the altered electrical and chemical relations of
various substances cooled to — 182° had been investigated. The
observed progressive decrease, with increase of cold, in the electrical
resistance of pure metals, seemed to betoken its total disappearance
near the absolute zero, whilo alloys lost little of their resistivity, and
carbon followed an inverse course of change. The curious indi
vidualities, in this respect, of different metals were also noted. Thus,
the resistivity of iron is reduced to one twenty-third, that of copper
only to one-eleventh, by lowering its temperature from -f- 10u° to
— 197°, at which point an iron wire actually conducts better than
one of the finest copper when ordinarily warm. In these inquiries
Professor J. A. Fleming co-operated with Professor Dewar. On
December 10, 1891, the magnetic quality of liquid oxygen was dis
covered by Professor Dewar. Other well-known properties of the
gas proved to be equally persistent after condensation. Liquid, like
gaseous oxygen, is a bad conductor of hoat and electricity, while

               on Low-Temperature Eetearch, 1893-1900.               701
transparent to thermal radiations. Its absorption-spectrum, too, is
virtually the same as that of the gas ; so that it could be inferred that
the molecular constitution of the element was little affected by change
of state.
    The practical difficulties impeding the preservation and observa
tion of frigid liquids were, in great measure, overcome by Professor
Dewar's invention of vacuum-coated vessels for storing them. By
their means the access of heat, whether by convection or by radiation,
was so effectually checked that evaporation shrank at once to one-
fifth its former amount, and the deposition of a thin film of mercury
on the surface of the containing glass still further lessened the waste.
Added refinements of construction brought it down to a mere fraction
of what it had been in unprotected receptacles, and the durability of
volatile fluids thus obtained a thirty-fold extension. Tranquillity was
besides given to them, ebullition ceased, and they could be manipu
lated with ease. This essential improvement was effected late in
1892. Thus, at the beginning of the septennial period we have now
to consider, a steady and continuous advance was in progress, and
much new territory had been annexed and explored. A tract, it is
true, lay beyond, not wide, but most arduous to penetrate ; yet there
was a hope of its thorough conquest through the amelioration of
methods and the experience acquired in their application.
                      LlQUBFAOTION OF HYdROGEN.
     The main outstanding problem was the condensation of hydrogen.
This is the lightest of known substances, yet it resembles a metal in
being strongly electro-positive; in being a conductor of heat and
electricity ; and in forming, with palladium, sodium and potassium,
compounds possessing some of the properties of alloys. Upon these
grounds Faraday based the forecast that solid hydrogen would show
metallic lustre. Its liquefaction was first demonstrated by M. Wrob-
lewski, of Cracow, in January 1884. A froth of hydrogen became
momentarily visible when the gas, cooled to the temperature of nitro
gen boiling in vacuo, was suddenly released from a pressure of
180 atmospheres. This evasive appearance was reproduced by
M. Olszewski ; but neither experimenter succeeded in obtaining the
liquid in tangible form. This was accomplished at the Royal Insti
tution, as the outcome of a long series of efforts, frequently baffled,
and persistently renewed. The conditions that had to be met were
approximately known through Wroblewski's determination, by the
aid of Van der Waal's formula, of the critical constants of hydrogen.
He fixed the temperature fine qud non (as it may be called) at
 — 240° C, the corresponding pressure at 13 atmospheres, and the
boiling point at — 250°. With these conditions, Professor Dewar
made in 1894 a preliminary attempt to grapple, by mixing a small
percentage of air or nitrogen with hydrogen, and thus producing an
artificial gas capable of liquefaction by the nse of liquid air. This

702                      Mill Agnes M. Gierke
gaseous blend, subjected to powerful pressure at a temperature of
 — 200° C., and then permitted to expand, gave rise to a degree of cold
below any previously attained, and there resulted a deposit of solid
air, together with a clear liquid of small density, too volatile for
collection by any available device. This was, doubtless, the first
sample of genuinely liquefied hydrogen ever exhibited to view.
     Professor Dewar's object, however, was not merely to catch sight
of liquid hydrogen, but to get hold of it. Enclosed in a glass tube,
under pressure, it still remained comparatively inaccessible. Until
it could be made to accumulate, at its boiling-point, in open vacuum-
vessels, no satisfactory study of its nature was feasible. This goal
was finally reached through the introduction of the regenerating
coil. The principle of self-intensification had been, in 1857, applied
by Siemens to the production of cold. In subsequent years its
efficacy in this direction was turned to account for industrial pur
poses by Coleman, Solvay, Linde and others ; while Dr. Kamerlingh
Onnes had recourse to it in his cryogenic laboratory at Leiden in
1894. The prompt and copious liquefaction of refractory gases
thus became an ordinary operation ; but it was only at the Royal
Institution that the facilities secured wore made to serve for largely
widening the scope of research.
     In December 1895, Professor Dewar read a paper before the
Chemical Society describing the mode of production and use of a
liquid hydrogen jet. Owing to the rapid movement of the con
densing gas, and the low specific gravity of the resultant liquid,
attempts to collect it were fruitless ; but, with better isolation and
more perfectly adapted vacuum-tubes, their future success was antici
pated. Meanwhile, research at some 20° or 30° above absolute zero
was already practicable, by using a liquid-hydrogen spray as a
cooling agent. Financial difficulties alone stood in thu way, and
they were not allowed wholly to bar progress. The type of re
generative apparatus employed in 1895 being satisfactory, it was
resolved to develop it on a greatly enlarged scale in a liquid-air
plant, combining special arrangements for dealing with hydrogen.
Its construction took a year, and many months were occupied in
testing its capabilities. That they were of the high order required
to compel the unconditional surrender of the gas, was at last visibly
attested by the dropping of the condensed fluid into a triply-coated
vacuum-vessel, May 10, 1898. By a certain dramatic fitness, the
first display before an audience of this, so to speak, preternatural
substance was at Professor Dewar's lecture in commemoration of the
Centenary of the Royal Institution, June 7, 1899. A spheroidal
vessel, silvered and vacuum-protected, containing one litre of liquid
hydrogen, stood on the table, immersed in a bath of liquid air, for
the savants of two continents to see. With these precautions,
evaporation from it was not inconveniently rapid. The removal,
however, of a plug of cotton-wool from the mouth of the receptacle
caused an immediate deposition of air-snow; and the clogging of



               on Low-Temperature Retearch, 1893-1900.              703
tubes with solidified atmospheric air forms a constantly-recurring
embarrassment in the use and management of liquid hydrogen.
                  Low-Tkmpebatdee Thebmometebs.
    This brilliant result, achieved after a long series of discourage
ments and failures, was only the prelude to fresh enterprises. There
is no finality in science. Truth still flies before, enticing its
votaries to enter upon ground more and more difficult and broken.
This emphatically applies to researches on the production of artificial
cold. With every downward step the obstacles become more formid
able, the circumstances more critical. Even the exact determination
of the temperatures attained is encompassed with difficulties. Ordi
nary methods of heat-measurement collapse under extraordinary
conditions. Hence the choice of a thermometer for fixing the
boiling-point of hydrogen was a matter of the nicest delicacy.
Those giving changes of temperature in terms of electrical resistance
were the most readily available ; but the law of their construction,
being empirical, could scarcely be expected to hold good far beyond
the limit of experience. Recourse was then had to gas-thermometers
of the " constant volume " form, filled severally with hydrogen,
helium, oxygen, and carbonic acid. The two latter were employed
to resolve the doubt whether the rule of equable contraction with
cold continued valid down nearly to the boiling-points of the fiduciary
substances ; and they gave reassuring replies. It appeared that either
a simple or a compound gas might be depended upon for the deter
mination of temperatures until liquefaction set in. The results
obtained with the hydrogen and helium thermometers might accord
ingly be accepted with confidence, more especially in view of their
close agreement. From them it was concluded that hydrogen boils
under atmospheric pressure at — 262 • 5° C, or 20 • 53 above absolute
zero ; and that its critical temperature is —241° C, the critical pres
sure being about 15 atmospheres. Liquid hydrogen shows no
metallic affinities. It is a non-conductor of electricity, and freezes
into an ice-like solid. Its lightness is extraordinary; water is
fourteen times more dense. Perfectly transparent, it gives no
absorption-spectrum, and is entirely colourless. Its specific heat,
although not very different from that of liquid oxygen when volumes
are compared, is twelve times greater for equal weights, and is six
times that of water. Its scientific value depends, however, not only
upon its exceptional qualities, but upon its power as a frigorifio
agent. In this capacity, it was rendered serviceable only after some
months of severe experience, abnormally cold substances being as
troublesome to deal with as abnormally hot ones. The obstacles
surmounted in the case of liquid air were presented in an aggravated
form by liquid hydrogen, with the further complications due to the
solidification of all the ambient air. Its preservation thus offered
a twofold problem. Not only the access to it of heat had to be

 704                       Mil* Agnes M. Gierke
 hindered, but the approach of an universally diffused element.
 Facts learned by its use are indeed to be reckoned among the spolia
 opima of nature ; they represent the trophies of an arduous conflict.
                       Effects of Refbigebation.
      Research into the effects of refrigeration is almost co-extensive
 with the whole realm of physics. It is concerned with the relations
 of matter to light, heat, electricity and magnetism. Questions as to
 the mode of action of cohesive and chemical forces come fully within
 its scope ; nor is it possible to exclude from it the consideration of
 the intricacies of molecular structure, or even of the essential nature
 of material substance. These ultimate problems force themselves
 upon the attention of the least speculative " cryogenist." The nearer
 absolute zero can be approached, the more hopeful becomes the pro
 spect of their definitive solution ; and towards this " pole of cold "
 Professor Dewar has been pressing his way during two decades. Its
 actual attainment may perhaps be impossible ; but the separating
 interval must be reduced to a minimum. The ground already won
 has meanwhile been carefully surveyed. Contemporaneously with
 unceasing efforts for the liquefaction of hydrogen, experiments were
 vigorously prosecuted at the temperature of liquid air. Resuming
 the subject of electrical resistance, Professors Dewar and Fleming
 carried out in 1893, and several subsequent years, an extensive series
 of inquiries, with more complete appliances than before for the pro
 duction of refrigerating material in large quantities, with greater
care in the preparation of the metallic wires submitted to trial, and
 with more delicate precautions in the physical measurements executed.
The earlier result was confirmed that the resistivity of all pure
metals falls off with increase of cold, but many abnormalities and
peculiarities were brought to light. The various metals do not, in
 all cases, maintain the same relative places on the scale. At — 200° C.
 copper is a better conductor than silver, iron than zinc, aluminium
than gold. The electrical eccentricities of bismuth cost the investiga
tors protracted toil. They finally disclosed their origin from minute
chemical impurities, by disappearing when electrolytic bismuth was
employed. The further discovery was made that the known effect of
a magnetic field in augmenting the resisting power of a bismuth wire
is greatly intensified at the temperature of liquid air. That of so-
called insulators, such as glass, ebonite, guttapercha, and paraffin,
likewise gains as heat is subtracted. Alloys follow the opposite rule
—that obeyed by pure metals—but in a half-hearted way, and with
many perplexing incongruities. When liquid hydrogen was made
amenable to control, it became possible to push these inquiries con
siderably further. At this lower depth of cold, the resistance of
copper diminished to T^Tth its efficacy at the temperature of melting
ice, that of gold to ^th, while ^th the initial resistance of iron sur
vived. The general upshot was besides most significant. It had been



               on Low-Temperature Research, 1893-1900.                705
logically inferred from the behaviour of pure metals down to — 200° C.
that, at the absolute zero, they would entirely cease to dissipate the
energy of an electric current transmitted through thom. But at
 — 252° C, marked inconsistencies manifested themselves. Instead of
continuing their straight downward course, the resistance-curves bent
round, indicating the survival, at 0° absolute, of a finite value for this
property. An emphatic warning was thus conveyed against trusting
to the continuity of change.
    Thermo-electric action had been studied by Professor Tait at
temperatures above 0° C. ; the modifications produced in it by cooling
down to —200° C. were ascertained by Professors Dewar and Fleming
in 1895. They present no uniform character. The curves showing
the fluctuation with temperature of the thermo-electric power of
various metals, do not, in all cases, even approximate to straight
lines. Some—notably those of iron and bismuth—show abrupt
changes of direction, indicating reversals of the " Thomson effect" at
those points. Others are inflected in a manner suggestive of a zero
of thermo-electric power at the zero of cold. But these indications
are most likely misleading. There is every reason to believe that
the rate of diminution of thermo-electric power, as of electric re
sistance, would fall off notably before that extreme point was
reached.
    Another set of experiments served to test the influence of cold
upon magnetisation. They justified the expectation that magnetic
moment would gain strength proportionately to the deprivation of
heat. Its value was usually increased, in the fixed state established
after some alterations, to the extent of thirty to fifty per cent., by
lowering the temperature from +75° C. to —182° C. Exceptions to
this rule were, however, met with. A nickel-steel magnet, for instance,
is acted upon oppositely to one of carbon-steel. A subordinate result
of these experiments was to show that one of the best ways of ageing
a magnet is to dip it several times into liquid air. This removes
sub-permanent magnetism, and induces stable relations favourable to
definite observation.
    The magnetic permeability of iron over a descending range of
temperature was mado the subject of long and laborious comparisons.
They showed it to be slightly diminished by immersion in liquid
oxygen. That is to say, a greater magnetic force was needed to pro
duce a given amount of magnetisation in the cooled material. As
usual, however, apparent inconsistencies were recorded. Hardened
iron reversed the behaviour of soft iron. Its permeability increased
at low temperatures, and, for certain values of the magnetising force,
as much as five times. " Hysteresis loss," or the dissipation of energy
incidental to a cyclical process of magnetisation, was found, on the
other haud, to vary little, if at all, with temperature. These diverse
effects were attributed by Professor Fleming to the closer contiguity
at extreme cold of the " molecular magnets," from the collineation
of which external magnetio moment results. Their groupings and
      Vol. XVI. (No. 95.)                                     3 a

706                       Miss Agnes M. Clerke
mutual action might hence undergo modifications, the intricate con
sequences of which can only in part be divined.
    An investigation of the dielectric constants, or specific inductive
capacities, of frozen electrolytes was undertaken in 1897. It met
with numerous difficulties, but led to some important conclusions.
These may be summarised as follows. Such substances as ice and
alcohol are capable, at low temperatures, of acting as dielectrics,
notwithstanding that some of them possess, in the liquid state, rela
tively high electrolytic conductivity. They have dielectric constants
of large value near their freezing-points, which are greatly reduced
by cooling down to — 200° C. At the absolute zero, these values are
probably equal, all alike being two or three times that of the dielectric
constant of a vacuum. Near this point, too, all electrolytes tend to
acquire infinite resistivity, or to become perfect non-conductors of
electricity. Finally, at very low temperatures, frozen electrolytes are
nearly perfect insulators, but they rapidly regain sensible conducting
power at temperatures far below their melting-points.
    Oxygen and air in the liquid state were inferred from their re
markable insulating quality to be dielectrics ; and it was accordingly
desirable to ascertain their dielectric constants, in terms of that of a
vacuum taken as unity. They came out 1'493 and 1'495 respec
tively. Between the magnetic susceptibility of gaseous and liquid
oxygen a significant difference was elicited. The ratio for equal
volumes proved to be 1594 to 1. The magnetic susceptibility, in other
words, of the gas was, for equal masses, nearly doubled by lique
faction ; whence the inference was drawn that this property does not
simply appertain to " the molecule per te, but is a function of the
state of aggregation." Noteworthy, besides, was the verification for
liquid oxygen of Maxwell's law connecting magnetic permeability,
specific inductive capacity, and optical refractivity. Additional ex
periments on liquid oxygen made in 1898, on a different principle
from that previously adopted, afforded a qualified confirmation to the
law that magnetic susceptibility varies directly as the density of the
paramagnetic body, and inversely as its absolute temperature.
    So far from showing any tendency to disintegrate into " cosmic
dust," matter grows continually more rigid with cooling. A metallic
rod will sustain, for the same extension, four or five times the weight
at — 182° that it would at 0° C. A coil of fusible metal wire, which
the tension of a single ounce would pull out straight at the ordinary
temperature, will support a couple of pounds and vibrate like a steel
spring after immersion in liquid air. Tho most definite means, how
ever, of determining the changes in cohesive force produced by cold,
is to compare the breaking stresses of metals at moderate and very
low temperatures. The necessary experiments, it is true, involve the
expenditure of gallons of frigid and costly fluids ; they were, never
theless, carried out satisfactorily at the Royal Institution in 1893.
They showed a large increase with cooling in the tenacity of all
common metals and alloys. Exceptions presented by castings of zinc,

III. —Liquid Hydbogen .Appabatus of the Roval Institution.
i
                on Low-Temperature Relearch, 1893-1900.              707
 bismuth and antimony, were almost certainly more apparent than
 real ; an explanation of them lay ready to hand in the crystalline
 structure of these bodies, the internal strains occasioned in which by
extreme lowering of tomperature, would naturally result in the weaken
ing of some set of cleavage-planes, and comparatively easy rupture.
 Measurements of the elastic constant known as the " Young modulus,"
showed that it increased between four and five times by cooling from
 -f- 15° C. to — 182°, and balls of iron, tin, lead or ivory, rebounded
much higher after the same treatment when dropped from a fixed
height upon an iron anvil. The general outcome was to make it
clear that cohesion gains effectiveness with added contiguity of the
particles acted upon, in this resembling gravitation. Professor De war's
 experiments with liquid air thus lent countenance to Lord Kelvin's
 view that gravitation is adequate to account for cohesion.
      They also disclosed marked alterations, at low temperatures, in
the optical properties of certain bodies. Changes of colour, corre
sponding to changes in the specific absorption of light, were at once
obvious. Vermilion and mercuric iodide paled from brilliant scarlet
to faint orange ; nitrate of uranium and the double chloride of
platinum and ammonium turned white—the original hue returning in
all cases with the restoration of warmth. Blues, however, remain
unaffected by cold, and organic dyes are but slightly sensitive to it.
     Temperature has long been known to play an important part in
 the phenomena of phosphorescence ; their study, accordingly, under
the intensely frigid conditions realised by Professor Dewar's work in
liquefying intractable gases, Beemed desirable. It yielded a variety
of most interesting facts. On the whole, bodies gain greatly in
 phosphorescent capability by cooling to— 182° C. Gelatin, celluloid,
paraffin, ivory, born, indiarubber—in all of which the quality is
 ordinarily inconspicuous—emit a bluish luminosity, on being stimu
lated by the electric light, after immersion in liqtlid oxygen. Alka
loids forming fluorescent solutions invariably become phosphorescent
at low temperatures. Glycerin, sulphuric, nitric and hydrochloric
acids, and strong ammonia, are also very bright, as well as most sub
stances containing a ketone group. Milk is highly phosphorescent,
pure water hut slightly so. An egg shone as a globe of blue light ;
and striking effects were obtained from many other organic products
—from feathers, cotton-wool, tortoiseshell, piper, leather, linen,
sponge, besides some species of white flowers ; above all, from white
of egg, which, with proper management, became vividly self-luminous.
Complexity of structure was inferred to be one of the main conditions
upon which the possession of this quality depends. The discovery
that it belongs to oxygen alone among simple gases was accordingly
unexpected. A current of oxygen flowing into an exhausted tube,
after exposure to an electric spark, emits hazy white light, and the
attendant formation of ozone attests the simultaneous progress of
molecular change. The effect is completely stopped by the presence
of hvdrogen, or by the least trace of organic matter. At the tempera-
                                                           8 a 2

 708                      Miss Agnes M. ClerJce
tare of liquid hydrogen, phosphorescent action is still further intensi
fied ; it may, although exceptionally, even at — 250° C. be set on foot
by light deprived of its ultra-violet rays.
     The electric stimulation of crystals by cooling brings about actual
discharges between the molecules. In some plati no-cyanides and in
nitrate of uranium, the temperature of liquid air suffices to develop
marked electrical and luminous phenomena, which aro intensified and
extended through the agency of liquid hydrogen. The importance
of a systematic study of pyro-electricity under such conditions was
pointed out by Professor Dewar in the Bakerian Lecture delivered
June 18, 190L
    Chemical affinity is almost completely abolished by cold. Phos
phorus, sodium, potassium, remain inert in liquid oxygen ; and voltaic
combinations, brought down to its temperature, cease to give electric
currents. Photographic films, however, retain about one-fifth of their
ordinary sensitiveness to light, nor does it wholly disappear even
through the agency of liquid hydrogen. Possibly the decomposing
force which comes into play under these circumstances is not chemical,
but mechanical ; if so, no trace of photographic action would be
apparent were it possible to carry out development under the frigid
conditions of exposure.
    An elaborate course of experiments on thermal transparency,
carried out in 1897-8, completely negatived Pictet's conclusion that,
at a given degree of cold, non-conducting substances lose their
faculty of insulation. They were proved to retain it unimpaired at
the boiling-point of air, the abnormal transferences of heat observed
at Geneva having been due, not so much to the materials themselves,
as to the air contained in their interstices. The utility was thus
rendered apparent of investigating problems of heat-transmission
with the aid of liquid air. The comparative absorption of Rontgen-
rays by various frigid bodies formed about the same time a subject of
inquiry ; and the view that the atomic weight of argon is double its
density relative to hydrogen, obtained confirmation from the approxi
mately equal opacities found for that substance in the liquid state,
for liquid chlorine, and for potassium. This was the first use of the
Rontgen radiation for the purpose of defining atomic weight.
                      Liquefaction of Fluobine.
    The liquefaction of fluorine preceded by one year the liquefaction
of hydrogen. That this peculiar substance would prove highly
recalcitrant to condensation had long been known by sure indications
derived from the character of its compounds. Thus, while chloride
of ethyl boils at + 12° C, fluoride of ethyl boils only at -32° ; and
similarly, the boiling points of chloride and fluoride of propyl are
respectively + 45° and —2°. Analogous values for the same con
stant are given by the various inorganic haloid compounds. The
obstinate gaseity of fluorine was at length overcome through a com

               on Low-Temperature Researeh, 1893-1900.               709
 bination of forces. M. Moissan, a specialist in the practical chemistry
of the element, brought Lis apparatus for its production to the Royal
Institution, for the purposes of his lecture, on May 28, 1897, and it
was used next day, in connexion with Professor Dewar's refrigerating
plant, to obtain the first specimen of liquid fluorine. This is a clear
yellow fluid of great mobility, boiling in open vessels at — 187° C,
and refusing to solidify at — Jil0o. The following are its chief
ascertained properties. It is soluble in liquid air and oxygen ; its
density is 1 • 14 that of water ; it has a capillarity less than that
of liquid hydrogen ; it gives no absorption-spectrum, and is devoid
of magnetic quality. The energetic chemical affinities characteristic
of the gas are almost entirely suppressed by the extreme cold needed
for its condensation. The liquid rests harmlessly in glass bulbs ; it is
indifferent to oxygen, water or mercury ; only hydrogen and hydro
carbons excite it to reaction with incandescence.
                 Solid Hydbogen, Oxygen, and Aib.
    Tbe freezing of atmospheric air was first accomplished by Pro
fessor Dewar in 1893. A litre of liquid air, subjected to exhaustion
in a silvered vacuum-vessel, yields about half that volume of colour
less, transparent solid, which may last as such for half an hour.
Under magnetic compulsion, liquid oxygen is drawn to the poles
from the meshes of the " nitrogen-jelly," which forms the really solid
part of air-ice. This substance can only be examined in a vacuum
or in an atmosphere of hydrogen, since it instantly melts in con
tact with the atmosphere, giving rise, at the same time, to a further
liquefaction of air. The interaction of the two processes can be
watched, and is curious to discriminate. The difference between the
conditions of freezing of oxygen and nitrogen depends upon the
circumstance that the vapour-pressure of the former substance,
boiling in an exhausted receiver, is inappreciable ; that of the latter,
quite considerable. Solid oxygen can only be obtained through the
agency of liquid hydrogen. It is clear, blue ice. Hydrogen itself
whs solidified by Professor Dewar, not without much difficulty, in
1899. This final product of refrigeration has a fusing-point of about
15D absolute, at a vapour-pressure of 55 millimetres. It has the
appearance of perfoctly pure ice ; there is nothing metallic about it.
The exhibition to a crowded audience in the theatre of the Roynl
Institution, April 6, 1900, of a form of matter representing so much
victorious exertion was a triumph tempered by the reflection that
the hydrogen-route towards the absolute zero stopped with its pro
duction, leaving a trackless interval of narrow extent, but immense
importance.
    The era of " new gases " began in 1894, with the isolation of
argon ; helium was shortly afterwards extracted from clevite aud
other rare minerals; krypton, neon, and xenon were in 1898
spoctroscopioally identified as atmospheric constituents by Professor

 710                       Miss Agnes M. Clerke
 Ramsay and Dr. Travers, nsing the method of fractionation at low
 temperatures. These successive discoveries suggested new and un
 expected problems, and offered fresh opportunities for pioneering
 research. Argon, indeed, condenses with what may now be reckoned
 as tolerable facility. M. Olszewski reduced a sample of gas sent
 him by Professor Ramsay in 1895, to a colourless liquid, boiling under
 atmospheric pressure at — 187° C, and one-and-a-half times denser
 than water. It freezes into a transparent, glassy solid near — 190° C.
 Helium, on the other hand, is more volatile than hydrogen. Its lique
 faction will accordingly give a lower temperature— will give, for it
 lias not yet been accomplished. This strange and rare ingredient of
our planet is the one accessible substance which remained invincibly
 gaseous at the close of the nineteenth century; there is no reason
 to doubt, however, that liquid helium will, in the twentieth, form
one of the earliest trophies of research. Lord Kelvin's forecast of a
substance by means of which the distance to absolute zero would be
abridged from 15° to 5°, may then be realised.
                 Inebt Components of Atmosphebic Aib.
     The " inert " components of air may be ranked as a distinct cLiss
of bodies. They combine several exceptional peculiarities. They
resemble mercury in being monatomic : the physical unit or molecule,
is identical with the chemical unit, misnamed an atom ; hence their
density, as compared with hydrogen, is half their atomic weight.
They stand apart from all other known substances in being devoid of
chemical affinities ; to a very limited extent they are capable of being
dissolved by certain liquids, and absorbed by certain minerals ; but
they axe strictly " non-valent " ; they form no true compounds. For
this reason, and because of the minute proportions in which they
occur, ordinary tests fail to disclose their presence. They have no
visible function in nature ; they exist as if by a survival of an earlier
order of things ; their appointed part was perhaps played while the
earth was still in tho nebulous stage. They are wonderfully volatile
considering their densities, and for this reason are of especial interest
to cryogenists. The following little table gives the densities and
boiling-points, according to Ramsay and Travers, of the five members
of the group so far recognised :—
        Element.           density.      Aiomic Weight.    Bolltng-Point
                                                           (Centigrade).
                             1-98             3-96        below - 262°
                         about 10 0        about 20       about - 239°
                            19-96            39-92           - 187°
                            40-88            81-76           - 152°
                              64              128            - 109°

               on Low-Temperature Research, 1893-1900,               711
     Lord Rayleigh showed that the refractivity of helium was very
email, being only 0 • ) 238. On the same scale (refractivity of air
 = l'O), the value of the constant for hydrogen is 0-469, or nearly
four times greater, the opposite disparity of densities notwithstanding.
The monatomio constitution of all these gases was established by
finding 1-66 as the ratio between their specific heats at constant
pressure and at constant volume. While exercising no appreciable
absorption upon light, they glow brilliantly through the action of an
electric discharge. An excited neon-tube flames with an orange-
pink colour ; krypton shines pale violet ; xenon luminesces in
sky-blue. The corresponding spectra are extremely vivid and
characteristic. The progress of research at low temperatures led to
anticipatory partial disclosures of them. In a paper ' On the Spectra
of the Electric Discharge in Liquid Oxygen, Air and Nitrogen,'
published in 1894 in the Philosophical Magazine, Professors Liveing
and Dewar recorded the appearance, during the distillation and con
centration in vacuo of liquid oxygen and air under diminished pres
sure, of two unknown bright lines at wave-lengths 557 and 555, the
former coinciding approximately with the chief auroral ray. Both
were subsequently, by Professor Ramsay and Dr. Travers, associated
with krypton. Again, some strange bright lines, belonging to the
then unidentified spectrum of neon, were derived by Professor Dewar
in 1897 from a vacuum-tubo filled with a residuum of gas from the
 King's Well at Bath, collected by the kind permission of the Cor
poration of that town ; this is one of the most valuable among the
available sources for the supply of scarce aerial constituents.
             Low Tempebatube as an Analytic Agent.
     What may almost be designated a new branch of pneumatic
 chemistry, the analysis of gases by cold, was set on foot by Professor
 Dewar in 1897. On the 4th of November in that year, he described
 before tho Chemical Society an apparatus for determining the propor
 tion of any atmospheric ingredient that remains uncondensed at
 — 210° C. and is insoluble in liquid air under standard pressure.
 Preliminary experiments showed that one part of hydrogen in a
 thousand of air could just be detected by the newly devised method,
 and that liquid air can dissolve one-fifth of its own volume of
 hydrogen. Helium proved to be soluble, though in a less degree, in
 liquid nitrogen. With the powerful aid of liquid hydrogen, these
 researches were continued during four ensuing years. A striking
 illustration of its extraordinary effectiveness in refrigeration is
 afforded by tho rapid production, through its means, of high vacua.
 It was computed that the pressure of air in sealed tubes, frozen out
 by immersion in liquid hydrogen, could not exceed one-millionth of
 an atmosphere, apart from any that might result from the survival, in
 minute quantities, of gases more refractory than oxygen or nitrogen.
 The exhaustion, in other words, due to the frigorifio treatment of air

712                       Miss Agnes M. Clerke
bulbs, is theoretically about the same obtained by boiling out a space
with mercury. Practically, it turned out to be even higher. In
curefully prepared tubes, vacua so nearly perfect were produced that
heat had to be applied before a spark could be got to pass. Their
spectroscopic examination gave results of singular interest. Carbonic
oxide bands were generally present, but might be traced to emanations
from the glass ; they were associated with lines of hydrogen and
helium, and the distinctive yellow ray of neon. The path thus struck
out was pursued further in August 1900, when, by an improved
process, some tubes were filled at low pressure with the more volatile
gases of the atmosphere. Traces of nitrogen, argon, and carbon-
compounds, having been abolished by a bath of liquid hydrogen,
sparking brought out prominently the spectra of hydrogen, helium,
and neon, together with a number of less brilliant rays of unknown
origin. Excited by continuous electric discharges, tubes thus
prepared glow throughout with a strong orange light. The violet
and ultra-violet sections of the spectrum given by it seem, neverthe
less, to rival the strength of its red and yellow rays, so far as could
be judged from spectrographic evidence. Sensitive plates received
impressions of great intensity up to a wave-length of 314, despite the
opacity of glass to such rapid vibrations. The photographs, it is true,
were taken with a quartz calcite train, but there was still the glass of
the tubes to be reckoned with.
    The wave-lengths of nearly three hundred rays in the spectrum
derived in this manner from residual atmospheric gases, uncondensed
at the temperature of liquid hydrogen, were measured by Professors
Liveing and Dewar, the spark-spectrum of iron serving for a standard
of reference. Of these, 69 were identified, certainly or probably, as
emanating from hydrogen, helium or neon, and it was noted, as a fact
of no small significance, that among them were four members of the
ultra-violet hydrogen series. For, under ordinary circumstances,
they are emitted only by gas carefully purified ; yet here they
emerged with comparative facility on plates exposed to light from a
heterogeneous mixture. An unexpected hint is thus afforded regarding
the conditions that may tend to modify the hydrogen-spectrum in
passing from star to star. Coincidences were diligently sought
among the unknown lines with nebular, coronal and auroral rays,
but with dubious or partial success. The possibility, however, was
not excluded that "nebulum" might actually lurk, almost infini-
tesimally, in the earth's atmosphere, since, from one tube which,
owing to its somewhat different treatment, preserved traces of
nitrogen and argon, a faint additional ray was derived, agreeing
approximately in position with the chief bright line of gaseous
nebulae at A. 6007. Further observations were contemplated for the
verification of this curiously interesting suggestion. A good many
subordinate lines in the tube-spectra fell very near the places
assigned to radiations from the sun's corona ; yet here, again, con
firmation was needed before the terrestrial presence of coronium

                 on Lou-Temperature Research, 1893-1900.             713
 could be regarded as even probable. Instances of agreement with the
 auroral spectrum were also adverted to ; and some are likely to prove
 genuine. In this direction, certainly, lies the best hope of elucidating
 the baffling problem of the " Northern Lights."
     By the use of liquid hydrogen us an analytic agent, neon can be
 spectroscopically distinguished through its yellow line at X 5853, iu
 25 cubic centimetres of ordinary air. The searching nature of the
 method may be estimated from the consideration that the proportion
of the gas present is only one in 40,000. The fundamental neon-lino,
 indeed, predominates in the spectrum of the atmospheric residuum,
 very much as the adjacent ray of helium does in the prismatic light
 emanating from the more volatile portion of the Bath gas. Both
 rays shine in each spectrum, but with reversed brilliancy. Professor
 Dewar's inquiries thus confirmed the status of helium as an invariable
 atmospheric constituent. They, moreover, demonstrated the associa
 tion with it of hydrogen. In every sample of air there is a percentage
 of hydrogen. The ratio by volume, according to M. Armand Gautier's
 recent determination, is 1 to 5000. If, then, as Dr. Johnstone
 Stoney maintains, the velocities of its molecules are, in the long run,
 uncontrollable by gravity, the leakage thence ensuing must be com
 pensated either from within or from without. Subterranean sources
 perhaps supply the deficit ; or interplanetary space itself gives back
 as many vagrant molecules as it receives. A balance, at any rate, is
evidently struck somehow.
     In a later communication to the Royal Society (read June 20,
 1901), Professors Liveing and Dewar dealt with the least volatile, as
they had previously dealt with the most volatile of the atmospheric
gases. Separated from liquid air by careful processes of distillation,
xenon and krypton were submitted to spectroscopic examination, in
the course of which the variations of their spectra with the character
of the electric discharge attracted particular attention. The rays of
xenon measured and tabulated numbered 257, those of krypton, 182.
              Low Tkmpbbatubb and Vital Phenomena.
     Low-temperature research is of extreme importance to tho study
of vital phenomena. Our ideas as to the nature of life, and our con
jectures regarding the course of its history on this planet, must be
largely regulated by experience of its capability to resist extremes
of heat and cold. Now the upper limit of endurance is easily reached ;
it is never above, and is usually considerably below +100° C. ; but
germicidal cold has not yet been produced. Warm-blooded animals,
to be sure, necessarily perish, and perish promptly, under frigid con
ditions. The power of resistance, however, increases with simplicity
of organisation ; and the ultimate atoms of life (so to call bacteria)
bear with impunity an indefinite amount and degree of freezing.
Professor M'Kendrick found, in 1893, that sterilisation did not result
from an hour's exposure to a temperature of — 182° C. Samples of

714                       Miss Agnes M. Clerke
Wood, meat and milk, sailed in glass tubes, underwent putrefaction
in the ordinary course after prolonged immersion in liquid oxygen.
Nor was the germinating power of seeds impaired by subjection to
the ordeal. Seven years later, Dr. Allan Maofadyen carried out an
extensive series of experiments of this nature at the Royal Institution,
under the personal supervision of Professor Dewar. The action of
liquid air on bacteria was first tested. It proved entirely innocuous.
After twenty hours at — 190° C, no diminution in their powers of
growth, or in any of their functional activities, was perceptible.
Phosphorescent organisms supplied a striking illustration of the
alternate suspension and renewal of vital processes by freezing and
thawing. Cooled down in liquid air they become non-luminous, but
the intra-cellular oxidation producing the phosphorescence recom
menced with full vigour when the temperature was raised. The
sudden cessation and rapid renewal of the shining faculty of the cells,
despite extreme changes of temperature, were eminently instructive.
Seven days in liquid air proved no more deleterious to bacterial life
than twenty hours. The temperature of liquid hydrogen was tried,
with the same upshot ; the much-enduring series of organisms dealt
with suffered no injury. At 21° absolute, then, and probably much
nearer to the zero-point, life can continue to exist. It can continue
to exist, that is to say, under conditions bringing about an entire
cessation of chemical, and an approximate cessation of molecular,
activity. These facts, as Dr. Macfadyen remarked, "afford new
ground for reflection as to whether life, after all, is dependent for its
continuance on chemical reactions." Biologists, he added, " therefore
follow with the keenest interest Professor Dewar's heroic attempts
to reach the absolute zero " ; while his success so far has already
thrown open to them a new realm of experimentation, and placed in
their hands an agent of investigation from the effective use of which
they may " hope to gain a little further insight into the great mystery
of life itself." The speculative interest of those researches supplies,
indeed, the keenest incentive to their prosecution. The transmissi-
bility from planet to planet, for instance, of living germs or spores
has often been debated ; it is now known that the cold of space
would be unlikely to stand in the way. There are, however, other
difficulties less easily removable ; nor, even if a cosmic community
of bacterial species were established, should we find ourselves any
nearer to tho heart of the creative mystery of life's origin.
    The development of low-temperature chemistry is one of the
most striking features of scientific history during the last decade
of the nineteenth century. Many questions of profound interest have
been answered through its means, and a partial insight has been
gained into some of the most recondite secrets of nature. The
unique condition attends it, that the ne plus ultra cannot recede as it
advances. The absolute zero forms an irremovable landmark, a
boundary-line that may not be transgressed, an asymptote, as it were,
to the curve of future progress. And evory step nearer to it is

                  on Low-Temperature Research, 1893-1900.                              715
harder to take than the previous one. Among many causes of
augmenting difficulty is the circumstance that the molecular latent
heats of vaporisation diminish with the absolute boiling-point.
Hence, a continually more lavish expenditure of frigorific material is
necessitated, and of material the price of which, in money and labour,
rises rapidly with its frigorific efficacy. Still, although the bottom
of the temperature-Rcale may never be actually reached, the inter
vening space will surely be much abridged. But we shall never, it
is safe to predict, assist at the " death of matter." At the stage
arrived at, there is no sign of its being moribund. Forces still act
within and upon it. Gravity and cohesion maintain their normal
power. It sensibly impedes the passage of electricity in the purest
and most highly conducting metals. Its minute particles can take
up and modify luminous vibrations. Only chemical affinity seems to
be extinct ; the various species of matter cease to react upon each
other. The next cryogenic achievement, it is true, may alter the
situation as we now see it. Our present standing-ground may be
subverted, for the inquiry is just now in a critical phase. The lique
faction of helium, for example, may prove decisive of many things—
it may set at rest some doubts, and raise unlooked-for issues.
      The conditions for its accomplishment wero clearly set forth in
the Bakerian Lecture. They may be realised by the use of methods
actually available. This last fortress of gasoity cannot he regarded
as impregnable, although its capture will be at a high monetary cost.
Gaseous helium, to begin with, is of the utmost scarcity ; and what
is scarce demands outlay to procure. Its condensation can be effected
only by subjecting it to the same process that succeeds with hydro
gen, substituting, however, liquid hydrogen under exhaustion for
liquid air as the primary cooling agent. As the upshot, a liquid
vj ill bo at hand, boiling at about 5° absolute, or —268° O, but
more expensive than liquid hydrogen, in a much higher ratio than
liquid hydrogen is more expensive than liquid air. By comparison,
" potable gold " would bo a cheap fluid. Nor could the precious
metal, in that, or any other form, be employed for a higher intel
lectual purpose than in promoting and extending researches of such
boundless promise and commanding interest as those conducted at
 the Royal Institution.
                                    List op Papkhs.
1893 " Liquid Atmospheric Air." Proc. Roy. Inst. vol. xiv. p. 1. (Discourse
          delivered January 20. ltS9H.)
1893 " The Electrical Resistance of Metals and Alloys at Temperatures
           approaching the Absolute Zero." (With Professor J. A. Fleming.)
          Phil. Mag. vol. xxxvi. p. '271. See also Electrician, vol. xxxi. p. 529.
1893 " Refractive Indices of Liquid Nitrogen and Air." (With Professor
1894 " Solid
1893      Liveing.)
               Atmospheric
         PhosphorescencePhil. ofMag.
                                 Air."
                                   Bodies
                                      vol.Proc.
                                             at Low
                                                Roy.
                                            xxxvi.    Soc.
                                                      328. vol. liii. p. 80.Proc. Roy. Soc.
                                                   p. Temperatures."
          vol. lv. p. 340.

716                                   Mitt Agnes M. Clerke
1894 " Experiments in the Liquefaction of Hydrogen." Timet, September 1,
          1894, and Chemical News, September 7, 1894.
1894 " Phosphorescence and Photographic Action at the Temperature of Boiling
          Liquid Air." Proo. Chem. Soc. vol. x. p. 171.
1 894 " Relative Behaviour of Chemically Prepared and of Atmospheric Nitrogen
          in the Liquid State." Proc. Chem. Soc. vol. x. p. 222.
1894 "Spectrum of the Electric Discharge in Liquid Oxygen, Air and Nitro
          gen." (With Professor Liveing.) Phil. Mag. vol. xxxviii. p. 235.
          course delivered
1894 " Scientific    Uses of LiquidJanuaryAir."          Proc. Roy. Inst. vol. xiv. p. 393. (Dis-
                                                  19, 1894.)
1895 " The Liquefaction of Gases." Phil. Mag. vol. xxxix. p. 298.
          Electrician,
          (With
          of the Professor
                   Boiling
1895 " Thermo-electric    vol.Powers
                                 Point
                                  xxxv.
                                   J. A. of  p. 305.)
                                                 Metals
                                                 Water and
                                             Fleming.)     and
                                                             Phil.
                                                                Alloys
                                                                the  Boiling
                                                                    Mag. between
                                                                           vol.Point
                                                                                 xl.the
                                                                                     p.of95.
                                                                                           Liquid(SeeAir."
                                                                                         Temperatures  also
        The
          Spectrum
          the
          vol.
          Phil.
1895 " Refraction
              Variation
               xl.
                Temperature
                 Mag.
                    p. 268.
                        ofvol.inLiquid
                       and        xl.theof
                                        p. Electric
                                 Dispersion  Solid
                                             Air."of
                                            3'>3.   (See
                                                     Air."
                                                      (With
                                                        Resistance
                                                         Liquid  Professor
                                                                 Electrician,
                                                                   Oxygen
                                                           also(With   ofProfessor
                                                                          Bismuth
                                                                             Liveing.)
                                                                               and
                                                                                vol. xxxv.
                                                                                     J.when
                                                                                       theA.Phil.
                                                                                              p.Fleming.)
                                                                                                 cooled
                                                                                                  612.)
                                                                                                     Mag.
                                                                                             Absorption  to
          January
           Liquid Air."
1895 " Phosphorescence18, 1895.) Proc.
                                 and Photographic
                                           Roy. Inst. vol.     xiv. at
                                                            Action      665.Temperature
                                                                     p. the                        Boiling
                                                                                (Discourse ofdelivered
1895 " Liquefaction of Air and Research at Low Temperatures." Proc. Chem.
          Soc. vol.  xi. p. 221.on Liquid Air." Proc. Roy. Inst. vol. xv. p. 133.
1896 u New     Researches
        Low
          (Discourse
              Temperature
1896 " Electrio            Magnetic
                   and delivered   Research."
                                           March
                                             Research     1896.)
                                                           at Assoc.
                                                    27,Brit.           Rep. 1896, p. '758.
                                                               Low Temperatures.            Electrician,
         vol. xxxvii.
1896 "Electrical         pp. 301-338.
                      Resistance          of Bismuth." (With Professor J. A. Fleming.)
          Proc. Roy.
1896 -' Changes         Soc. vol.inlx.Monetised
                    produced                  p. 6.          Iron and Steels by Cooling to the
         Temperature of Liquid Air." (With Professor J. A. Fleming.) Proc.
         Roy. Soc. Resistivity
1896 " Electrical      vol. lx. p. 57.    of Bismuth at the Temperature of Liquid Air."
         (With Professor J. A. Fleming.) Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lx. p. 72.
1896 "Electrical Resistivity of Pure Meroury at the Temperature of Liquid
          Air." (With Professor J. A. Fleming.) Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lx. p. 76.
1896 "Magnetic Permeuhility and Hysteresis of Iron at Low Temperatures."
          (With Professor J. A. Fleming.) Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lx. p. 81.
1896 "Magnetic Permeability of Liquid Oxygen and Liquid Air." (With Pro
          fessor J. A. t leming. ) Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lx. p. 283.
1896 " Dielectric Constants of Liquid Oxygen and Liquid Air." (With Pro
          fessor J. A. Fleming.) Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lx. p. 358.
1896 " Electric and Magnetic Research at Low Temperatures." (By Professor
         J. A. Fleming.) Proc Roy. Inst., vol. xv. p. 239.
1897 "Properties of Liquid Oxygen." Proo. Roy. Inst. vol. xv. p. 555. (Dis
         course delivered January 22, 1897.)
1897 "Properties of Liquid Fluorine.'' (With Professor Moissan.) Proc.
          Chem. Soc. vol. xiii. p. 175. Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1897, p. 611.
1897 " Liquefaction of Air and the Detection of Impurities." Proc. Chem. Soc.
          vol. xiii. p.
1897 " Electrical        186.
                     Resistivity         of Electrolytic Bismuth at Low Temperatures and
         in Magnetio Fields." (With Professor J. A. Fleming.) Proc. Roy.
         Soc. vol. lx.
1897 "Nouvelles           p. 425. sur la liquefaction de fluor." (With Professor
                      experiences
         Moissnn.) Comptes Rendus, vol. cxxv. p. 505.

                  on Low-Temperature Research, 1893-1900.                                              717
1897 "Electric Research at Low Temperatures." Electrician, vol. xxxix.
          p. 645. Constants of Ico and Alcohol at very Low Temperatures."
1897 " Dielectrio
          (With Professor
1897 " Dielectric     Constants          certain Frozen
                                J. A.of Fleming.)       Proc.Electrolytes
                                                               Roy. Soc. vol.       and p.above
                                                                                at lxi.         2. the
          Temperature of Liquid Air." (With Professor J. A. Fleming.) Proc.
           Roy. Soc. vol. lxi. p. 'I'M.
1897 "Dielectric Constants of Pure Ice, Glycerine, Nitro- Benzol and Ethylene
          Dibromide at and above the Temperature of Liquid Air." (With
          ProfessorConstants
1897 " Dielectric                   of certain
                       J. A. Fleming.)        Proc.
                                                  Organic
                                                      Roy. Soo.    vol.atlxi.and
                                                              Bodies               below the Tem
                                                                               p. 316.
           perature of Liquid Air." (With Professor J. A. Fleming.) Proo. Roy.
           Soc. vol. lxi.
1897 "Dielectric            p. 358. of Metallic Oxides dissolved or xuspended in Ice
                       Constants
          cooled to the Temperatnre of Liquid Air." (With Professor J. A.
           Fleming.) Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lxi. p. 368.
 1897  "Further Observations on the Dielectrio Constants of Frozen Electrolytes
           at and above the Temperature of Liquid Air." (With Professor J. A.
           Fleming.) Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lxi. p. 380.
 1897  " A Note on some further Determinations of the Dielectric Constants of
           Organic Bodies and Electrolytes at very Low Temperatures." Proc.
           Roy. Soc. vol. lxii. p. 250.
 1897  " Properties of Liquid Fluorine." (With Professor Moissan.) Proc. Chem.
           Soc. vol. xiii. p. 175.
 1897  " Liquefaction of Air and the Detection of Impurities." Proc. Chem. Soo.
           vol. xiii. p. 186.
 1897  Influence of very Low Temperatures on the Germinative Power of Seeds.
           By Dr. H. T. Brown and Mr. F. Escorabe. Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lxii.
           p. 160.
 1898  " The BoiliDg Point and Density of Liquid Hydrogen." Proc. Chem. Soc.
 1898      vol. Liquefaction
       " The     xiv. p. 146. of Hydrogen and Helium." Proc. Chem. Soc. vol. xiv.
           p. 129.
  1898 " Note   on the Liquefaction of Hydrogen and Helium." Joum. Chem. Soc.
           1898, p. 528, vol. lxxiii.
 1898 " Application of Liquid Hydrogen to the Production of High Vacua and
           their Spectroscopic Examination." Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lxiv. p. 231.
           Mature,Point
  1898 " Boiling      Januaryof Liquid
                                  19, 1899.Hydrogen
                                                Annalesunder       Reduced
                                                            de Chimie,           xvii. p. 12. Proc.
                                                                           vol. Pressure."
            Roy. Soc. vol.
  1898 "Preliminaiy       Communication
                              lxiv. p. 227. Annales
                                                 on the de      Chimie, vol. ofxvii.Hydrogen
                                                             Liquefaction                p. 5.          and
           Helium." Susceptibility
  1898 "Magnetic          Proc. Roy. Sue.      Liquid
                                           of vol.          pp. 231, 256.
                                                     lxiii.Oxygen."      (With Professor J. A.
         The
           Fleming.)
                Reduction
  1898 " Liquefaction         Hydrogen
                              to Normal
                         ofProc.   Roy. Soc.and
                                             Airvol.
                                                   Temperatures
                                                     lxiii. p. 311.
                                                 Helium."            of the
                                                                 Timet,           11, 1898.Thermo
                                                                          MayPlatinum
           meter in the Low Temperature Researches of Professors Dewar and
           Fleming."
  1898 " Liquid     Air as(By
                   Hydrogen."      Analytic
                              an Mr.Phil.
                                       J. D.Mag.
                                              H.
                                               Agent."
                                                   vol. xiv.Proc.
                                                   Dickson.)      543.
                                                                    Roy.Mag.
                                                               p. Phil.                                 815.
                                                                             Inst.vol.vol.xiv.xv.p. p.525.
           (Discourse delivered April 1, 1S'J8.)
  1898 "Sur la liquefaction de l'hydrogcne et de l'helium." Comptes Rendus,
           vol. exxvi. p. 140S. Annales de Chimie, 7* sér. vol. xiv. p. 145.
  1899 " Liquid Hvdrogen." Proc. Roy. Inst vol. xvi. p. 1. (Discourse de
           livered January 20, 1899.)
  1899 " Influence of the Temperature of Liquid Hydrogen on the Germinative
            Power of Seeds." (By Sir Wm. Thiselton-Dyer.) Proc. Roy. Soc.
            vol. lxv. p. 361.

718      Miss Agnes M. Clerke on Low-Temperature Research.
1899 " The Boiling Point of Liquid Hydrogen as Determined by a Rhodium-
         Platinum Resistance Thermometer. Proc. Chem. Soc. vol. xv. p. 70.
1899 "Liquid Hydrogen." (Royal Institution Commemobation Lecture, June 7.)
         Proc. Roy. Inst. vol. xvi. p. 212.
1899 "Solid Hydrogen." Chemical News, August 18 and September 15.
1899 "Sur la solidification de l'hydrogene. Annales de Cbimie, voL xviii.
         p. 145.
1900 " Solid Hydrogen." (Discourse delivered at the Royal Institution, April
         6, 1900.) Times, April 9 ; Engineer, April 15.
1900 "Influence of Liquid Air on Bacteria." Two papers. (By Dr. A. Mae-
         fadyen.) Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lxvi. pp. 180, 339.
1900 " Influence of the Temperature of Liquid Hydrogen on Bacteria. (By
         Dr. A. Macfadyen.) Proc. Rov. Soc. vol. lxvi. p. 488.
1900 " The Spectrum of the More Volatile Gases of Atmospheric Air which
         are not Condensed at the Temperature of Liquid Hydrogen." (With
         Professor Liveing.) Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lxvii. p. 467.
1901 " The Boiling Point of Liquid Hydrogen, determined by Hydrogen nnd
         Helium Gas Thermometers." Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lxviii. p. 44. Annales
         de Chimie, July, 1901.
1901 " Gases at the Beginning and End of the C«ntuiy." f Discourse delivered
         at the Royal Institution, January 18, 1901.) Times, January 21 ;
        Engineer, January 25.
1901 " The Nadir of Temperature and Allied Problems." (Bakerian lecture
         by Professor Dewar, Royal Society, Juno 13, 1901.) Proc. Roy. Soc.
         vol.Separation
1901 " The                 of the Least Volatile Gases of Atmospheric Air, and
              lxviii. p. 360.
         their Spectra." (With Professor Liveing.) Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lxviii.
         p. 389.

                           General Monthly Meeting.                            719
                  GENERAL    Monday,    July 1, 1901.
                                    MONTHLY        MEETING,
    His Grace The Duke or Nobthumbebland, K.G. D.C.L. F.R.S.,
                             President, in the Chair.
                          Ashton Charles Allen, Esq.
was elected a Member of the Royal Institution.
     The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The Lords of the Admiralty—Taylor's General Catalogue of Stars for the Equinox
     1835.0. Edited by A. M. M. Downing. 4to. 1901.
   Report of the Astronomer Royal, 1901. 4to.
Accademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Classe di Soienze Morali, etc. Serie Quinta.
     Vol. X. Faso. 3, 4. 8vo. 1901.
   Classe di Scienze Fisicho. Matematiche e Naturali. Atti, Serie Quinta : Ren-
     diconti. 1° Semestre, Vol. X. Faso. 10, 11. 8vo. 1901.
American Academy of Arte and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XXXVI. Nos. 20-23.
     8vo. Geographical
American    1900.        Society—Bulletin, Vol. XXXIII. No. 2. 8vo. 1901.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. LXI. No. 7. 8vo. 1901.
Australian Museum, Sydney—Report for 1900. fol.
Boston Public Library— bulletin for June, 1901. 8vo.
Boston Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Vol. V. No. 10. 8vo. 1901.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, Third Series, Vol. VIIL Nos. 15, 10.
     4to. 1901.
British Astronomical Association—Journal, Vol. XI. No. 8. 8vo. 1901.
   Memoirs, Vol. IX. Part 4. 8vo. 1901.
Camera Clu>>—Journal for June, 1901. 8vo.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XX. No. 5. 8vo. 1901.
Chemical Society—Proceedings, No. 239. 8vo. 1901.
   Journal for June, 1901. 8vo.
Chicago, Field Columbian Museum—Annual Report for 1899-1900. 8vo.
   Anthropological Series, Vol. II. Xo. 4 ; Zoological Series, Vol. II. Vol. III.
     No. 3 ; Geological Series, Vol. I. No. 8. 8vo. 1900-1901.
Cracovie, I'Academie des Sciences—Bulletin International, 1901, Nob. 1-3. 8vo.
Crawford, The Earl of, K.T. F.R.S. M.R.L—Bibliotheca Lindesiana : Hand List
     of Proclamations, Vol. III. Victoria 1837-1901. fol. 1901.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for June, 1901. 8vo.
   Analyst for June, 1901. 8vo.
   Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for June, 1901. 8vo.
   Astrophysical Journal for May, 1901. 8vo.
   Athenieum for June, 1901. 4to.
   Author for June, 1901. 8vo.
   Brewers' Journal for June, 1901. 8vo.
   Chemical News for June, 1901. 4to.
   Chemist and Druggist for June, 1901. 8vo.

720                         General Monthly Meeting.                        [Jnlj !•t
Editors—continued.
  Electrical Engineer for June, 1901. fol.
  Electrical Review for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Electricity for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Electro Chemist and Metallurgist for June, 1901.
  Engineer for June, 1901. fol.
  Engineering for June, 1901. fol.
  Homoeopathic Review for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Horological Journal for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Invention for June, 1901.
   Journal of the British Dental Association for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Journal of Physical Chemistry for May, 1901. 8vo.
  Journal of State Medicine for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Law Journal for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Lightning fur June, 1901. 8vo.
  London Technical Education Gazette for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Machinery Market for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Motor Car Journal for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Musical Times for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Nature for June. 1901. 4to.
  New Church Magazine for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Nuovo Cimento lor May, 1901. 8vo.
  Photographic News for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Physical Review for May, 1901. 8vo.
  Popular Science Monthly for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Science Abstracts, Vol. IV. Part 6. 8vo. 1901.
  Telephone Magazine for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Terrestrial Magnetism for May, 1901. 8vo.
  Travel for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Zoophilist for June, 1901. 4to.
Electrical Engineert, Institution of—Journal, Vol. XXX. No. 150. 8vo. 1901.
Florence, Iteale Accademia dei Georgqfili—Atti, Vol. XXIIL Disp. 3, 4 ; Vol
     XXIV. Disp. 1. 8vo. 1901.
Franklin Institute—Journal for June, 1901. 8vo.
Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for June, 1901. 8vo.
Imperial
Johns  Hopkins
     XIX. Institute—Imperial
            Nos. University—University
                  1-3. 8vo. 1900-1901.
                               Institute Journal   Series
                                          Studies,for        1901. Nos. 5-12; Series
                                                      June,XVIII.
  University Circulars, Nos. 144-149. 8vo. 1900-1901.
  American Chemical Journal for June, 1901. 8vo.
Junior Engineers, Institution of—Transactions, Vol. X. 8vo. 1901.
Langley, S. P. Eso. (the Author)—Sur les derniers resultants obtcnug dans l'etudu
     de la partie infra-rouge du spectre solaire. 8vo. 1900.
Leighton, John, Esq. M.R.I.—Ex-Libris Journal for May-June, 1901. 8vo.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXVI. Part 6. 8vo. 1900.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology—Technology Quarterly, Vol. XIV. No. 1.
     8vo. 1901.
Mechanical   Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings, 1901, No. L 8vo.
  List of Members, 1901. 8vo.
Mexico, Sociedad Cientifica "Antonio Ahate"—Memoriae, Tomo XV. Nos. 3-6.
     8vo. 1900-1901.
Microscopical
Nares,         S., K.C.B.
        Sir G. Society,    F.RJ5. (the Conservatory-Report
                        Royal—Journal,    1901, Part 3. 8vo. on the Navigation of
     the River Mersey, 1900. 8vo. 1901.
Navy League—Navy League Journal for June, 1901. 8vo.
New South Wales, Agent-General for—The Seven Colonies of Australasia, 1899-
     1900. 8vo. 1900.
Odontological Society—Transactions, Vol. XXXIII. No. 7. 8vo. 1901.
Onnes, Professor H. K.—Communications, Nog. 68, 69. 8vo. 1901.

1901.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                      721
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for Jane, 1901. 870.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for May, 1901. 8vo.
Eadcliffe Observatory Trustees—Observations, Vol. XLVIII. 8vo. 1901.
Boyal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, A. Nos. 283-285; B. 195-
      197. 4to. 1901.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Statistical Tables for 1900. 8vo. 1901.
Selborne Society—Nature Notes for June, 1901. 8vo.
Smee, A. H. Esq. (the Author)—Scientific Papers and Letters. 8vo. 1901.
Smithsonian Institution—Annual Report, 1897, Part 2. 8vo. 1901.
Society of Arts—Journal for June, 1901. 8vo.
 Stirling, James, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Notes on the Brown Coal Industry of
      Germany and Austria. 8vo. 1901.
 Tacchini, Prof. P.—Memorie della Societa degli Spettrosoopisti Italiani, Vol.
      XXX. Disp. 4, 5. 4to. 1901.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for June, 1901. 8vo.
  Upsal, Royal Society of Sciences—Nova Acta, 3rd Series, Vol. XIX 4to. 1901.
  Washington, Philosophical Society—Bulletin, Vol. XIII. Vol. XIV. pp. 1-166.
      8vo. 1900-1901.
 Zoological Society—Proceedings, 1901, Part 1. 8vo.
        Vol. XVI.       (No. 95.)                                  3 B

722                        General Monthly Meeting.                    [Not. 4,
                  GENERAL            November 4, MEETING,
                         Monday,MONTHLY              1901.
  Sie James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer and
                         Vice-President, in the Chair.
                                   Mrs. Crowdy
was elected a Member of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Mr. Charles
Hofman for the munificent Gift of a Bust (by Sir Francis Chantrey,
R.A.) of Thomas Harrison, F.R.S., who was Honorary Secretary of
the Royal Institution from 1813-1824, presented in Memory of hi*
Grandson, Thomas Edward Harrison, who recently died in South
Africa while on Service with the Imperial Yeomanry.
     The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The Secretary of State for India—Report on the Kodaikanal and Madras Obser
     vatories for 1900-1901. 4to.
The Governor-General of India—General Report, 1900-1901. 8vo. 1901.
  Memoirs, Vol. XXXI. Part 1. 8vo. 1901.
   Palaeontologia Indioa, New Series, Vol. I. Part 3. fol. 1901.
The British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of the Sohreiber Playing Cards. Svo.
     1901. of Hebrew and Samaritan MSS. 4to. 1899.
   Catalogue
   Facsimiles of Biblical MSS. 4to. 1900.
   Catalogue of the Greek Coins of Lyoaonia, Isauria and Cilicia. 8vo. 1900.
   Catalogue of Sinhalese MSS. 4to. 1900.
" A British Field Officer " (the Author)—The, Army and the Press in 1900. 8to.
      1901.
Aceademia dei Lincei, Reale, Roma—Classe di Scienze Fisiche, Matematiche e
     Naturali. Atti, Serie Quinta : Rendioonti. 2° Semestre, Vol. X. Fasc. 5°-7°.
     4to.
Amsterdam., Royal Academy of Sciences—Verhandelingen, 1" Sect Deel VII.
      Nos. 1-7; 2j Sect. Deel VII. Nos. 1-7. 1899-1900.
   Zittingsverslagen, 1900-1901, Vol. IX.
   Jaarboek, 1899, 1900. 8vo. 1900.
   Verslag. Deel VHL 8vo. 1899-1900.
   Proceedings of the Section of Sciences, Vol. II. III. 8vo. 1899-1901.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XXXVI. Nos. 24-29.
      8vo. 1901.
American Geographical Society—Bulletin, Vol. XXXIH. No. 3. 8vo. 1901.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XL. Nos. 165, 166. 8vo.
      1901.
Aristotelian Society—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. I. 8vo. 1901.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal for July-Oot. 1901. 8vo.

 1901.]                          General Monthly Meeting.                               723
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Proceedings, 1901, Nos. 3-8. 8vo.
   Journal, Vol. LXIX. Part 3; Vol. LXX. Part 1, No. 1, Part 2, No. 1. 8vo.
      1901.
Agronomical Society—Monthly Notices, Vol. LXL No*. 8, 9. 8vo. 1901.
Banker; Institute of—Journal, Vol. XXII. Part 7. 8vo. 1901.
Baylit, T. H. Esq. K.C. (the Author)—On the Office of Reader or Lector. 8vo.
      1901.Royal Academy of Sciences—Bulletins, 1899-1900. 8vo.
Belgium
   Annuaires, 1900-1901. 8vo.
                     des savants
   Mem. cour. et autres                Tomes Tomes
                              mem.,étrang.,      LVHI.-LX.        8vo. 1900.
                                                          LVli. LVIII.    4to. 1900.
Berlin Academy of Sciences—Sitzungsberichte, 1901, Nos. 23-38. 8vo. 1901.
Boston Public Library—Monthly Bulletin for July-Oct. 8vo. 1901.
Boston Society of Medical Sciences—Journal, Vol. V. No. 11. 8vo. 1901.
   Forty-ninth Annual Heport of the Trustees. 1901.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Kalendar, 1901-1902. 8vo.
  Journal, 3rd Series, Vol. VIII. Noa. 18-20. 4to. 1901.
British Astronomical Association—Memoirs, Vol. XI. Parts 9, 10. 8to. 1901.
British South Africa Company—Reports on the Administration of Rhodesia, 1898-
      1900.
Brymner, D. Esq.—Report on Canadian Archives, 1899-1900. 8vo.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XI. Part 3. 8vo. 1901.
Camera Club—Journal
Canada,                       for July-Oct.
           Department of Marine                  1901. 8vo. of the Meteorological Service of
                                        Fisheries—Report
     Canada, 1898. 8vo. 1901.
Canada, Royal Society of—Proceedings and Transactions, Vol. VI. 8vo. 1900
Canadian Institute—Transactions, Vol. VII. Part 1. 8vo. 1901.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XX. No. 9. 8vo. 1901.
Chemical Society—Proceedings, No. 240. 8vo. 1901.
  Journal for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
Chicago, Field Columbian Museum—Publications, Nos. 55-59. 8vo. 1901.
City of
Civil  Engineers,
         London College—Calendar,
                    Institution of—Minutes           of Proceedings,
                                              1901-1902.      8vo.     Vols. CXLV. OXLVI.
     1901.
Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. XXXIV. 8vo. 1901.
Colonial Institute, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XXXII. 8vo. 1901.
  First Supplementary Catalogue of the Library. 8vo. 1901.
Colacurcio, P'of. S. G.—Soil' Opera lstituzioni Bibliche del Prof. Giovan Gia-
     cinto Cereseto. 12mo. 1901.
Connemara Public Library—Report, 1900-1901. 8vo.
Cornwall Polytechnic Society, Royal—Sixty-eighth Annual Report. 8vo. 1900.
Cornwall Royal Institution—Journal, Vol. XIV. Part 2. 8vo. 1901.
Cracode, t'Academic des Sciences—Bulletin, 1901, Nos. 4-7. 8vo. 1901.
Crawford, The Earl of, M.R.I.—Bibliotbeca Lindesiana, First Revision. Hand
     List of Proclamations, Supplement, 1521-1765. fol. 1901.
Box, Societi de Borda—Bulletins, 1900, Part 4 ; 1901, Parts 1, 2. 8vo.
Ducretet, E. Esq.—Catalogue Raisonng, 3me partie : Electricity. 8vo. 1900.
Editors—Aeronautical Journal for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
  AmericanforJournal
  Analyst        July-Oct.      1901. for
                          of Science      8vo.July-Oot. 1901. 8vo.
  Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
  Astrophysical Journal for July-Oct. 1901.
  Chemical
  Chemist
  Author
  Brewers'for
  Athenaram  Journal
              News
             andJuly-Oct.
                forDruggist
                     July-Oct.
                      forforJuly-Oct.
                              July-Oot.
                              1901.
                                for 1901.
                                        8vo.
                                         1901.
                                            1901.
                                     July-Oct.     4to.
                                                     8vo. 8vo.
                                              4to. 1901.
               Engineerforfor
  Electrical Review              July-Oot.1901.
                              July-Oct.         1901.8vo.fol.
                                                                               3 B 2

724                          General Monthly Meeting.                              [Nov. 4,
Editon—continued.
   Eleotrioity for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
   Electro-Chemist and Metallurgist for July-Oot. 1901. 8vo.
   Engineer for July-Oot. 1901. fol.
   Engineering for July-Oct. 1901. fol.
    Homoeopathic Review for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
    Horologies! Journal for July-Oot. 1901. 8vo.
   Invention for July-Oot. 1901.
   Journal of the British Dental Association for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
   Journal of State Medicine for July-Oct. 1901. 8TO.
   Law Journal for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
    Lightning for July-Oot. 1901. 8vo.
   London Technical Education Gazette for July-Oct. 1901.
    Machinery Market for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
   Motor Car Journal for July-Oot. 1901. 8vo.
   Nature for July-Oct. 1901. 4to.
   New Church Magazine for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
   Nuovo Cimento for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
   Photographic News for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
    Physical Review for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
   Popular Science Monthly for July-Oot. 1901.
   Public Health Engineer for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
   Science Abstbacts for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
   Travel for July-Oot. 1901. 8vo.
   Tropical Agriculturist for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for July-Oct 1901. 4to.
Electrical Engineer!, Institution of— Journal, Vol. XXX. Nos. 151, 152. 8vo. 1901.
Fleming, Prof. J. A. F.It.S. M.R.I. (t?ie Author)—K Handbook for the Electrical
      Laboratory and Testing Room, Vol. L 8vo. 1901.
 Geneva, Socie'Uf
Franklin            de Phyrique—Mémoires,
            Institute—Journal   for July-Oct.Tome        8vo.
                                                 1901. XXXIIL        Part 2. 8vo. 1899-
      1901.
Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for July-Oot. 1901. 8vo.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, Vol. LVIL Part 8. 8vo. 1901.
 Harlem, Sociele Hollandaise des Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises, Serie II-
      Tome IV. Livr. 8. 8vo. 1901.
   QSuvres oompletes de Christian Huygens, Tome IX. 4to. 1901.
Harvard College, Astronomical Observatory—Annals, Vol. XXVIIL Part 2. 4to.
      1901.
Horticultural
Imperial
Inner   Temple,
            Institute—Imperial
                 Society,
                  The Honourable
                          lioyal—Journal,
                                 Institute
                                  Society ofJournal
                                            Vol.
                                             the—Masters
                                                     for July-Oct.
                                                  XXVI.    Parts
                                                             of the1, Bench
                                                                      2.1901.
                                                                           8vo.   1901.
                                                                              of the Society,
      Supplement, 1883-1900. 8vo. 1901.
Jron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1901, No. 1. 8vo.
Johns HophinH University—American Journal of Philology, Vol. XXII. No. 117.
      8vo. 1901.
   American Chemical Journal for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
   University Circulars, 152, 153. 8vo. 1901.
Junior Engineers, Institution of—The Management of Engineering Workshops.
      By A. H. Barker. 8vo. 1901.
Kyoto Imperial University—Calendar, 1900-1901. 8vo.
Langley, S. P. Hon. Mem. R.I. (the Author}—The New Spectrum. 8vo. 1901.
Leighton, John, Esq. M.R.I.—Journal of the Ex-Libris Society for Sept. 1901. 8vo.
IAnnean Society—Journal, Nos. 182, 243. 8vo. 1901.
   Transactions : Botany, Vol. V. Parts 13-15, Vol. VI. Part 1 ; Zoology, Vol. VIII.
      Parte 1-4. 4to. 1900-1901.
Madras Government Museum—Bulletin, Vol. III. No. 3.
   Catalogue of Prehistorio Antiquities. By R. B. Foote. 8vo. 1901.

1901.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                                        725
Madrid, Royal Academy of Sciences—Memoriae, Tomo XIV. Faaciculo 1. 4to.
     1890-1901.
Manchester      Geological Society — Transactions, Vol. XXVII. Parts 3-5.                     8vo.
      1901. Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs and Proceedings, Vol.
Manchester
     XLV. Parts 3, 4. 8vo. 1900-1901.
Manchester Museum, Owens College—Publications, No. 34. fol. 1901.
Mechanical Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings, 1901, No. 2. 8vo. 1901.
Metropolitan Asylums Board—Annual Report, 1900. 2 vols. 8vo. 1901.
Microscopical Society, Royal - Journal, 1901, Part 5. 8vo.
Munich, Royal
Middlesex          Bavarian Academy
             jBbopitai—Reports          of Sciences—Abhandlungen,
                                   for the  year 1899. 8vo.                   Band XXI. Abt. 2.
     4to. 19H1.
   Sitzungsberichte, 1899, Heft 3; 1900, Heft 1 ; 1901, Heft 2, 3. 8vo.
Musee Teyler—Archives, Série II. Vol. VU. Fasc. 3. 1901.
Musical Association—Proceedings, Twenty-seventh Session, 1900-1901. 8vo. 1901.
Natal, Colony of—Reports on the Mining Industry of Natal for 1900. 8vo. 1901.
Navy League—Navy League Journal for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
New Jersey. Geological Survey—Annual Report for 1900. 8vo. 1901.
New York Academy of Sciences—Annals, Vol. XIII. 8vo. 1900-1901.
   Memoirs, Vol. EL Part 3. 4to. 1901.
Norfolk and Norwich Naturalists' Society—Transactions, Vol. VII. Part 2. 8vo.
        of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers—Transactions,
North1901.
Paris,
Odontological
 Onnes,
     Vol.
Numismatic
         Societi
          Prof.
            XLIX.
                Society—Chronicle
                  Francaise
                  Society—Transactions,
                 Dr. PartK.—Communications,
                     H.    6;deVol.
                                Physique—Seances,
                                    L.and
                                        Parts
                                            Vol.2-5.
                                                  XXXIII.
                                           Journal,    8vo.
                                                        1900,
                                                   No.1900,
                                                        70. Part
                                                              8vo.
                                                              No.
                                                              1900-1901.
                                                              Faso.4.8. 41901.1901, 1901.
                                                                           ;8vo.     Faso. 1. 8vo.
      1901.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for July-Oct 1901. Svo.
Philadelphia, Academy of Natural Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. VIII. Part 1. 8vo.
      1901.Dr. T. L. (the Author)—Researches on the Past and Present History of
Phipson,
     the Earth's Atmosphere. 8vo. 1901.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for June-Oct 1901. 8vo.
Physical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XVII. Part 6. Svo. 1901.
Quesneville, G. Esq. (the Author)—Theorie nouvelle de la Dispersion. 8vo. 1901.
   Recherches sur les Réseaux. 8vo. 1 899.
 Queensland Government—North Queensland Ethnography Bulletins, Nos. 1, 2.
      fol. 1901.
Righi, Prof. A. (the Author)—Sui Campi elettromagnetici. 8vo. 1901.
Rio de Janeiro, Observatory of—Bulletins for May-Sept. 1900.
   Annuario, 1901.
Rochechouart, La Soeiele'Us Amis des Sciences et Arts—Tome X. Nos. 5, 6; Tome
      XI. No. 1. 8vo. 1900-1901.
 Rorne, Ministry of Public Works—Oiomale del Genio Civile, March-June, 1901.
         Irish Academy—Transactions, Vol. XXXI. Parts 8-11. 4to. 1900.
 Royal8vo.
   Proceedings, Third Series, Vol. VI. No. 2; Vol. VII. 8vo. 1901.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Proceedings, Vol. XXIII. No. 4. 8vo. 1901.
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, A Nos. 287-289, 291-293;
      B, Nos. 98, 194, 199. 4to. 1901.
   Proceedings, Nos. 447-150. 8vo. 1901.
 Sanitary Institute—Journal, Vol. XXII. Parts 2, 3, and Supplement. 8vo. 1901.
 Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—
   Mathematisch-Physische Classe—
      Berichte, 1901, Nos. 1-3. 8vo.
      Abhandlungen, Band XXVI. Nos. 5-7. 8vo. 1901.

 726                          General Monthly Meeting.                    [Not. 4,
 Saxon Society efSciencee, Royal—continued.
    I'hilologisch-Historische Claue—
       Berichte, 1901, No. 1. 8vo.
       Abhandlungen, Band XXI. No. 1. 8vo. 1901.
 Seltiorne Society—Nature Notes for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
 Smithsonian Institution—Miscellaneous Collections, No. 125. 8vo. 1901.
    Annual Report, 1899. 8vo. 1901.
   Annual Report, C.6. National Museum, 1899. 8vo. 1901.
    Annals of the Astrophysics! Observatory, Vol. I. 1901. 4to.
 Society of Arte—Journal for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
 Statistical Society, Royal-Journal, Vol. LXIV. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1901.
 Tacchini, Prof. P. Hon. Mem. R.I. (the Author)—Memorie della Societa degli
       Spettrosoopisti Italiani, Vol. XXX. Disp. 7-9. 4to. 1901.
 Toulouse, SocUte Archeologique du Midi de la France—Bulletin, No. 27. 8tc
      1901.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for July-Oct. 1901. 8vo.
 United States Department of Agriculture—Report of the Chief of the Weather
       Bureau, 1899-1900. 4to. 1901.
    Experiment Station Record, Vol. XIII. No. 2. 8vo. 1901.
    North America Fauna, Nos. 20, 21. 8vo. 1901.
    Monthly Weather Review for June, July, 1901. 4to.
 United States Department of the Interior—Annual Reports, 1899, 7 vols. ; 1900,
       5 vols. 8vo.
   Geological Survey, Twenty-eighth Report, 1899-1900, Vols. I.-VI. 4to.
 United Slates Geological Survey—Twentieth Annual Report, Parts 2-5 and 7.
      4to. 1900.
   Monographs, Nos. 39. 40. 4to. 1900.
   Bulletins, Nos. 163-176. 4to. 1900.
   Geological Atlas, Folios Nos. 59-71. fol. 1901.
United States Patent Office—Annual Report for 1900. 8vo. 1901.
Verein tur BefSrderung dee Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, 1901,
      Nos. 6-8. 8vo.
 Vienna, Imperial Geological Institute—Verhandlungen, 1901, Nos. 7-10. 8vo.
   Jahrbuoh, Band L. Heft 4. 8vo. 1901.
 Washington Academy of Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. III. pp. 217-272, 297-370.
      8vo. 1901.
Western Society of Engineers (U.S.A.)—Journal of the Western Society of Engi
      neers, Vol. VI. Part 3. 8vo. 1901.
Wisconsin Academy—Transactions. Vol. XIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1901.
Woodhouse, A. J. Esq. M.R.I.—The Life and Poetical Works of J. WoodLouse
      (1735-1820).
Yorkshire             Edited
             Archmological     by Rev. R. J. Woodhouse.
                            Society—Journal,                   1901.1896.
                                              Part 63. 8vo.2 vols.
Zoological Society—Proceedings, 1901, Vol. II. Parts 1, 2. 8vo.
   Transactions, Vol. XVI. Parts 2, 3. 4to. 1901.

1901.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                           727
                   GENERAL          December 2, MEETING,
                           Monday,MONTHLY          1901.
  Sib James Cbiohton-Bbowne, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S., Treasurer and
                          Vice-President, in the Chair.
                   Sir Thomas Barlow, Bart. M.D. F.R.S.
                   K. M. Chance, Esq.
                   Sir Walter G. P. Phillimore, Bart. D.C.L.
                   Hon. C. S. Rolls
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      The Honorary Secretary reported that the following Address t
 M. Berthelot, on the occasion of the Jubilee of his Researches, had
 been presented by Dr. J. H. Gladstone on behalf of the Members,
 and that Professor Cornu and Professor Mai-cart, as Honorary
 Members, had represented the Royal Institution at the Celebration
 in Paris on November 24.
      "To M. Mabcellin Bebthklot, F.R.S. Grand Officier de la Legion
 d'Honncur, Membra de l'Institut, Secretaire perpétuel de l'Academie des
 Sciences, Paris ; Honorary Member of the Royal Institution of Great Britain.
      "The Members of the Royal Institution of Great Britain desire to offer you
 their cordial congratulations on the occasion of the Jubilee of your Scientifio
 Researches, and desire to express their great appreciation of the conspicuous
 services you have rendered in the extension and diffusion of scientific knowledge.
      "The Members of the Royal Institution of Great Britain recognise the
 extraordinary originality of your Researches in the varied fields of Orffanio
 and Biological Chemistry, Physical Chemistry, Organie Synthesis, Thermo
 chemistry, together with your Philosophical and Alchemystical Studies, and
 the supreme importance of labours which have produced such vuluable results
 and opened up new fields for Science.
      " The Members of the Royal Institution of Great Britain earnestly hope that
 yon will be long spared to continue such splendid researches and to further
 enrich your generation with sterling knowledge."
      The Special Thanks of the Members were returned for the fol
 lowing Donation to the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
  Research at Low Temperatures :
                    Dr. Ludwig Mond, F.R.S. . . . £100
      The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
  table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
        Governor-General of India, Geological Survey of India—Memoirs, Vol.
  The FROM
      XXX. Parts 3, 4; Vol. XXXI. Parts 2, 3; Vol. XXXII. Part 1; Vol.
       XXXIV. Part 1. 8vo. 1901.
  The Meteorological Office—Meteorological Observations at Stations of the Second
       Order for 1898. 4to. 1901.

728                        General Monthly Meeting.                    [Dec. 8,
Accademia dei Lincei, Ileal*, Roma—Classe di Scienze Morali, etc. Serie Quinta .
     Vol. X. Fane. 7, 8. 8vo. 1901.
   Classo di Scienze Fisiche, Matematiche e Naturali. Atti, Serie Quinta : Ren-
     diconti. 2" Semestre, Vol. X. Fasc. 8, 9. 8vo. 1901.
Allegheny Observatory, Pa. (U.S.A.)—Scientific Reports. N.S. Noa. 1-9. 8vo.
      1901.
American Geographical Society—Bulletin, Vol. XXXIII. No. 4. 8vo. 1901.
Bankert, Institute of—Journal, Vol. XXII. Part 8. 8vo. 1901.
Basel Naturforschende Gesellschaft—Verhandlungen, Band XIII Heft 2 ; Band
     XIV. 8vo. 1901.
Boston Public Library—Bulletin for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Journal, Third Series,lVoL IX. Nob. 1, 2.
     4to.Astronomical
British     1901.      Association—Journal, Vol. XII. No. 1. 8vo. 1901.
British South Africa Company—Directors' Report and Accounts, 1899-1900.
     8vo. 1901.
 Camera Club—Journal for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
Chemical Industry, Society of—Journal, Vol. XX. No, 10. 8vo. 1901.
Chemical Society— Proceedings, Nob. 241, 242. 8m 1901.
   Journal for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
Devonshire Association—Report and Transactions, VoL XXXIII. 8vo. 1901.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Nov. 1901. 8m.
   Analyst for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
  Anthony's Photographic Bulletin for Noy. 1901. 8vo.
  Astrophysical Journal for Oct. 1901.
   AthensBum for Nov. 1901. 4to.
   Author for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
  Brewers' Journal for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   Chemical News for Nov. 1901. 4to.
  Chemist and Druggist for Nov. 1901. 8m
  Electrical Engineer for Nov. 1901. fol.
  Electrical Review for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
  Electrioity for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
  Electro Chemist and Metallurgist for Nov. 1901.
  Engineer for Nov. 1901. fol.
  Engineering for Nov. 1901. fol.
  Homoeopathic Review for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   Horological Journal for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
  Invention for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
  Journal of the British Dental Association for Nov. 1901. 8m
   Journal of Physical Chemistry for Oct. to Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   Journal of State Medicine for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   Law Journal for Not. 1901. 8vo.
   Lightning for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   London Technical Education Gazette for Nov. 1901. 8m
   Machinery Market for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   Motor Car Journal for Nov. 1901. 8m
   Musical Times for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   Nature for Nov. 1901. 4to.
   New Church Magazine for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   Nuovo Cimento for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   Photographic News for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   Physical Review for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   Popular Science Monthly for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   Telephone Magazine for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   Terrestriul Magnetism for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   Travel for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
   Zoophilist for Nov. 1901. 4to.
Electrical Engineers, Institution of—Journal Vol. XXX. No. 150. 8m 1901 .
<U+FFFC>

 1901.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                         729
 Franklin Institute—Journal for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Geographical Journal for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
 Geological Society —Quarterly Journal, No. 228. 8vo. 1901.
 Glasgow Philosophical Society— Proceedings, Vol. XXXII. 8vo. 1901.
 Goppelsroeder, F. Esq. (the Author)—Capillaranalyae. 8vo. 1901.
Imperial Institute—Imperial Institute Journal for Nov. 1901.
Johns Hopkins University—American Chemical Journal for Nov. 1901. Svo
Johnston, Messrs. W. dc A. K. (the Publishers)—The Navy League Map of the
      British
Leighton,      Empire.
           John,   Esq. M.R.I.—Ex-Libris Journal for Oot. 1901. 8vo.
 Linnean Society—Journal, No. 188. 8vo. 1901.
   Proceedings, Oct. 1901. 8vo.
Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine—First Progress Report of the Campaign
      against Mosquitoes in Sierra Leone. 8vo. 1901.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 120. 8vo. 1901.
   Record, No. 80. 8vo. 1901.
Navy League—Navy League Journal for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
Neio South Wales, Royal Society of—Journal and Proceedings, Vol. XXXIV.
       Zealand,
New 8vo.     1900.Agent-General—Notes on New Zealand. 8vo. 1901.
 Odontological Scciety—Transactions, Vol. XXXIV. No. 1. 8vo. 1901.
Paris Exhibition, Royal Commission for the, 1900.— British Official Catalogue.
      8vo. 1900.
   Report of His Majesty's Commissioners, Vols. I. IL 8vo. 1901.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
Photographic Society, Royal—Photographic Journal for Oct. 1901. 8vo.
Quekett Microscopical Club—Journal, Series 2, Vol. VIII. No. 49. 8vo. 1901.
Rome, Ministry of Public Works—Giornale del Genio Civile, August, 1901. 8vo.
Royal College of Surgeons—Calendar. 1901. 8vo.
Royal Irish Academy—Proceedings, Vol. VI. No. 3. 8vo. 1901.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XL. Part 1. 4to. 1901.
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, A. Nos. 294-297 ; B. Nos.
      201-203. 4to.
   Proceedings,         1901.452. 8vo. 1901.
                   Nos. 451,
Selborne Society—Nature Notes for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
Society of Arts—Journal for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal for Nov. 1901. 8vo.
United States Department of Agriculture—Monthly Weather Review for August,
      1901. 8vo.
United States Geological Survey—Twenty-first Annual Report, Parts 1 and 6.
     4to. 1900-1901.
 Victoria Institute—Journal,
Washington                     Vol. XXXIII. 8vo. VoL
               Academy of Sciences—Proceedings,        III. pp. 371-486, 487-539.
                                                    1901.
     8vo. 1901.
Western Society of Engineers—Journal. Vol. VI. No. 5. 8vo. 1901.
Zoological Society of London—A Record of the Progress of the Zoological Society
     of London. 8vo. 1901.

730                         Professor Deicar                    [Jan. 18,
                 WEEKLY        January 18,MEETING,
                       Friday,EVENING        1901.
 His Gbace the Duke of Nobthumbebland, E.G. D.C.L. F.R.S.
                        President, in the Chair.
        Pbofessob Dewab, M.A. LL.D. D.Sc. F.R.8. M.R.I.
          Gases at the Beginning and End of the Century.
                                (Abstract.);
It is interesting to review in broad outline the century's progress in
some limited field of research. The subject of the Gases in its
widest sense is too large a province to cover in a single discourse,
but if the sketch is confined more especially to the growth of our
knowledge of the change of state in gases, then the compass of the
review becomes restricted to practicable dimensions.
    At the beginning of the oentury the doctrines put forth in
Lavoisier's ' Elements of Chemistry,' held overwhelming sway.
The various states of matter were explained as arising from variations
in the amount of caloric with which the body was penetrated. The
term caloric must be interpreted as meaning the repulsive cause,
whatever that may be, which separates the particles of matter from
each other. According as the repulsive power is equal to, stronger,
or weaker than, the attraction of the particles the substance became
liquid, gaseous or solid. As a general principle it was assumed that
every body in nature was susceptible of taking on solid, liquid or
aeriform states.
    The elastic aeriform fluids were now characterised for the first
time under the generic term gases. A clear distinction was, how
ever, drawn between the caloric which might be said to act like
a solvent and the substance or base of the gas with which it was
combined.
    The particles of bodies, according to Lavoisier's view, do not
make contact with each other, the intervals between them varying
according to the figures and magnitude and the existing proportion
between their inherent attraction and the repulsive force exerted in
them by the caloric. The presentation of caloric, sometimes as a
real material or very subtile fluid, did not prevent Lavoisier from
generalising with profound sagacity on the fundamental similarity of
all known gases. Thus, some thirty years before the definite liquefac
tion of any gas at that time regarded as permanent, in speculating on
what would occur provided the earth were suddenly transported into
a very cold region, he said, " In this case, the air, or at least some of
the aeriform fluids which now compose the mass of our atmosphere,

  1901.]    on Gases at the Beginning and End of the Century.         731
  would doubtless lose their elasticity for want of a sufficient tempera
 ture to retain them in that state ; they would return to the fluid stute
 of existence, and new liquids would be formed of whose properties
  we cannot at present form the most distant idea."
      Dalton, in his paper ' On the force of steam or vapour from water
 and various other liquids both in a vacuum and in air,' published in
  1802, arrived at the conclusion that, " there can scarcely be a doubt
 entertained respecting the reducibility of all elastic fluids of what
 ever kind into liquids ; and we ought not to despair of effecting it in
 low temperature and by strong pressure exerted upon the unmixed
 gases." Here we notice Dalton introduces the novelty of suggesting
 the application of combining high pressure and low temperature on
 the pure gases, which led in 1823 to the successful experiments of
 Northmore, and then of Faraday and Davy. Thomas Young, in the
 lectures he delivered in this Institution early in the last century, and
 subsequently published, in 1807, under the title ' A Course of Lectures
 on Natural Philosophy and the Mechanical Arts,' after a careful
 analysis of all the existing experimental data, strongly supported the
 view that heat was a quality of the particles of bodies, and that that
quality could only be motion. In explanation of the action of heat
 he says, " The effects of heat on the cohesive and repulsive powers of
 bodies have sometimes been referred to the oentrifugal forces and
 mutual collisions of the revolving and vibrating particles; and the
 increase of the elasticity of aeriform fluids has been very minutely
 compared with the force which would be derived from an acceleration
of these internal motions." (Young, 1807.) In the ' Elements of
 Chemical Philosophy,' published in 1812, Davy, in order to guard
 against the supposition that the doctrine of a specific fluid of heat
 was a necessary part of the principles of philosophical chemistry,
threw out the following suggestions as the basis of a rational theory
of the causes inducing change of state in matter ; following the dictum,
that the immediate cause of the phenomenon of heat is motion. Thus
he says, " It seems possible to account for all the phenomena of heat
if it be supposed that in solids the particles are in a constant state of
vibratory motion, the particles of the hottest bodies moving with tha
greatest velocity and through the greatest space ; that in fluids and
elastic fluids, besides the vibratory motion, which must be conceived
greatest in the last, the particles have a motion round their own axes
with different velocities, the particles of elastio fluids moving with
the greatest quickness ; and that in ethereal substances the particles
move round their own axes, and separate from each other, penetrating
in right lines through space. Temperature may be conceived to
depend upon the velocities of the vibrations ; increase of capacity on
the motion being performed in greater space, and the diminution of
temperature during the conversion of solids into fluids or gases, may
be explained on the idea of the loss of vibratory motion in conse
quence of the revolution of particles round their axes at the moment
when the body becomes fluid or aeriform, or from loss of rapidity
vibration in consequence of tho motion of the particles through grea*

732                        Professor Deicar                  [Jan. 18,
space." Later investigators, while altering the details of Davy's
theoretical explanations of the gaseous state, in substance acknow
ledged the legitimacy of his ideas by extending and perfecting
his hypothesis. A short time after the publication of Dalton's ' New
System of Chemical Philosophy,' Leslie and Wollaston made their
memorable experiments on the freezing of water by inducing rapid
evaporation of the isolated liquid in a receiver by chemically absorb
ing or condensing the vapour as quickly as it is produced in a
separate part of the same vessel. Thus originated the process of
reaching lower temperatures and maintaining them by the continuons
distillation of a fluid, or what is now called distillation in vacuo
or under reduced pressure. Gay Lussac succeeded in showing that
by such means a temperature as low as the freezing-point of mercury
could be reached. Cagniard de la Tour in 1822 made his most
startling experiments, proving that the dilatation of liquids has a
limit beyond which, in spite of compression, they become gases. He
succeeded in vaporising ether in a space twice the volume of the
liquid, and noticed that before disappearing the liquid seemed to
occupy the whole space ; the tube finally looking empty, until on
cooling a thick mist appeared for a minute, and then suddenly the
liquid in the old state. This change in the case of ether from tbe
liquid to the gas ho showed took place at 160°, the pressure then
being 37 to 38 atmospheres. Ho made similar experiments with
alcohol, bisulphide of carbon and water, showing that the same state
could be brought about in each case, only at different temperatures
and pressures for each substance. This beautiful investigation, in
volving the use of sealed tubes together with manometric observations
—the temperatures and pressure being very considerable—was indeed
of first-rate importance, but its real value was not appreciated until
many years later.
    In the experiments of Faraday and Davy high pressures were
obtained by generating the gases in sealed tubes bent into the shape
of an inverted U, so that one leg containing the re-acting chemicals
might be heated if necessary, and the other cooled to form a con
denser for the liquefied gas. Davy, who was always alive to the
possibility of practical utility resulting from scientific discovery,
had the idea of using liquid gases as agents for the production of
motive power and as the means by which great reductions of tempe
rature could be effected, owing to the rapidity with which they
could be rendered aeriform. Although Davy's mechanical sugges
tion has not been generally adopted, there can be no doubt about
the successful application of such liquids to command steady low
temperatures by their evaporation.
    The next great advance was the production of large quantities of
liquid carbonic acid by Thilorier in 1885, and the remarkable dis
covery that when ejected into the air its rapid evaporation reduced
the temperature to such an extent as to cause its own solidification
into the well-known snow. He further observed that the coefficient
of expansion of the liquid gas is greater than that of any aeriform

1901.]     on Oases at the Beginning and End of the Century.       733
body. No wonder that Thilorier should say that inside a Faraday
tube was a new world in which totally unexpected phenomena
occurred.
     Faraday, by evaporating the carbonic aoid snow in an exhausted
receiver, succeeded in lowering the boiling point from — 78° C. to
 — 110° C. Combining the action of this low temperature with pros-
sure, all gases by the year 1844 were liquefied, with the exception
of the three elementary gases, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, and the
compound gases, carbonic oxide, marsh gas and nitric oxide. An
drews, some twenty-five years after the work of Faraday, attempted
to induce change of state in the unoondensed gases, by using much
higher pressures than Faraday employed. Combining the tempera
ture of the solid carbonic acid bath with pressures of 300 atmo
spheres, Andrews found that none of the gases exhibited any
appearance of liquefaction even in such high states of condensation ;
so far as change of volume by high compression went, Andrews
confirmed the earlier work of Natterer, showing that the gases
become less and less compressible with growing pressure. While
such investigations were proceeding, Regnault and Magnus had
made refined observations on the laws of Boyle and Gay Lussac,
but none had made a complete study of the isothermals of a liquefiable
gas through wide ranges of temperature. This was accomplished by
Andrews in 18G9, and his Bakerian Lecture ' On the Continuity of
the Gaseous and Liquid States of Matter' will always be regarded
as an epoch-making investigation.
    During the course of this research Andrews observed that liquid
carbonic acid raised to a temperature of 31° C. lost the sharp concave
surface of demarcation between the liquid and the gas, the space
being now occupied by a homogeneous fluid which exhibited, when
the pressure was suddenly diminished or the temperature slightly
lowered, a peculiar appearance of moving or flickering striae, due to
groat local alterations of density.
    At temperatures above 31° C. the separation into two distinct
kinds of matter could not be effected even when the pressure reached
400 atmospheres.
    This limiting temperature of the change of state from gas to
liquid Andrews called the critical temperature. He showed that this
temperature is constant, and differs with each substance, and that it
is always associated with a definite pressure peculiar to each body.
Thus the two constants, the critical temperature and pressure,
which have been of the greatest importance in subsequent investiga
tion, came to be defined, and a complete experimental proof was
given that " the gaseous and liquid states are only distinct stages
of the same condition of matter, and are capable of passing into one
another by a process of continuous change."
    The fundamental idea that gaseous pressure was the result of a
succession of strokes of bombarding particles was first put forward
by Bernouilli about the middle of the eighteenth century. Later the
same suggestion was employed by Lessage, of Geneva ; and Herepath,

 734                        Professor Dewar                     [Jan. 18,
 in his * Mathematical Physics,' published in 1847, made a consider
 able advance in the application of the theory. Joule made a great
step in 1821 by calculating the mean translational velocity of the
particles of hydrogen required to produce in a closed space the pres
sure of one atmosphere at the melting point of ice; but the great
advance in the application of the theory was due to Clausius, ably sup
ported later on by Maxwell, Boltzmann, Meyer and Van der Waals.
     A very important series of experiments was made by Joule and
 Kelvin ' On the Thermal Effects of Fluids in Motion,' about 1862,
in which the thermometrical effects of passing gases through porous
plugs furnished important data for the study of the mutual action of
the gas molecules.
     Such experiments, along with a knowledge of the specific and
latent heat, together with the rate of diffusion, viscosity and thermal
conductivity, furnished material for a complete thermo-dynamical
treatment of the gaseous state. Professor Van der Waals entered
upon this difficult inquiry in 1873 by publishing an essay ' On the
Continuity of the Gaseous and Liquid States,' full of new and sug
gestive ideas.
     The equation of continuity Van der Waals developed involved the
use of three constants instead of one, as in the old law of Boyle
and Charles, the latter being only utilised to express the. relation of
temperature, pressure and volume when the gas is far removed
from its point of liquefaction.       Of the two new constants, one
represents the molecular pressure arising from the attraction between
the molecules, the other four times the volume of the molecules.
    Oiven these constants for a gas, Van der Waals showed that his
equation not only fitted into the general characters of the isothermals,
but also gave the values of the critical temperature, the critical pres
sure and the critical volume. In the case of carbonic acid the theo
retical results were found to be in remarkable agreement with the
experimental values of Andrews. This gave chemists the means of
ascertaining the critical constants, provided sufficiently accurate data
derived from the study of a few properly distributed isothermals of
the gaseous substance were available. Such important data came
into the possession of chemists when Amagat published his impor
tant paper on the isothermals of oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen, ethy
lene, etc., in the year 1880. It now became possible to calculate
the critical data with comparative accuracy for the gases oxygen and
nitrogen. This was done by Sarrau in 1882, and the subsequent
static liquefaction of oxygen by Wroblewski in 1883 confirmed the
theoretical conclusions. No doubt a great impulse had been given
to research in this department by the suggestive experiments of
Pictet and Cailletet in 1878.
    The theory of Van der Waals has been of the greatest importance
in directing experimental investigation in attacking the difficult
problem of the liquefaction of the permanent gases. In the space
of an hour's lecture it is impossible to do justice to all the workers
who have contributed materially to the advance of this department.

1901.]       on Gases at the Beginning and End of the Century.           735
The following table of the names of investigators who have con
tributed to the experimental, theoretical, or practical study of gases
at once suggests much deserving work that otherwise ought to have
been discussed had time permitted. All we can do is to make in
rapid succession the fundamental experiments illustrative of the
great advances made during the century. [Experiments here.]
                            Table of Investigators.
      Dalton, Gay Lussac, Faraday, Davy, Avogadro, Caignard de la
Tour, Regnault, Magnus, Thilorier, Natterer, Deville, Graham,
Joule, Kelvin, Andrews, Herepath, Wollaston, Clausius, Rankine,
Maxwell, Boltzmann, Stoney, Tait, Van der Waals, Mendeleef,
Amagat, Rayleigh, Crookes, Pictet, Cailletet, Wroblewski, Olszewski,
Kundt, Warburg, Witkowski, Gnnes, Young, Ramsay, Leduc, Mathias,
Siemens, Kirk, Coleman, Liude, etc. etc.
      It is unnecessary to enter into any detailed discussion of the pro
gress made since liquid air came to be an instrument of scientific
research, as this has been done in previous Friday Evening Dis
courses; but recent improvements in apparatus and methods of
 manipulation may be worthy of consideration. The facility and
 ease of handling, storing and working with liquid gases is de
 pendent on the use of vacuum vessels, many types of which may
 be seen in Diagram 1.
      Fig. 8 of the diagram is a copy of the highly exhausted calori
 meter used in 1875 in a research 'On the Physical Constants
 of Hydrogenium,' * and which for all intents and purposes was a
 vacuum vessel made of brass instead of glass. The use of such an
 arrangement to guard against gain or loss of heat was a natural
 deduction from the early work of Dulong and Petit on radiation.
 Many convenient forms may be given to such vessels, and several
 varieties are represented in the diagram. The types 3 and 9, con
 taining a spiral-tube arrangement to relieve the contraction when
 the inner vessel hus to be joined to the outer by a tube, are of special
 importance when regenerative methods have to be employed, because,
 while isolating the metallic coil, it allows the liquid gas as it is formed
 to drain away from the interior, and be collected in another vacuum
 vessel outside of the main apparatus. This device, developed after
 many unsuccessful attempts to construct such a vacuum vessel, was
 found to be essential for the easy production and collection of liquid
 hydrogen, and as all the Royal Institution designs for such special
 vessels have been made in Germany, they have been supplied to and
 utilised by other workers, unconscious, it may be, where or how they
 originated. Such vessels may be silvered in whole or in part, or
 the vacuum may be nothing but mercury vapour. When liquid
  hydrogen has to be kept naturally, the vacuum vessel in which it is
  collected is placed in another vessel full of liquid air, so that the
  external wall of the hydrogen vacuum vessel is kept at about — 190° C,
                    * Trans. Royal Society of Edin. vol. xxvii.

736                        Professor Dewar                        [Jan. 18,
or better at a lower temperature by exhausting the surrounding air.
Many combinations of vacuum vessels can be arranged, and the lower
the temperature at which we have to operate the more useful they
become.
    As the great object in producing liquid gases is in the first place
scientific utility in opening up new fields of research, the application
of liquid hydrogen as an agent by means of which the more volatile
gases contained in atmospheric air may be separated is of some
interest.
    The diagram, Fig. 1, will make the process of separation intel
ligible. A represents a vacuum-jacketed vessel, partly filled with
liquid air, in which a second vessel B, was immersed. From the
bottom of B a tube, a, passed up through the rubber cork which
closed A, and from the top of B a second tube, b, passed through
the cork and on to the rest of the apparatus. Each of these tubes
had a stopcock, m and n, and the end of the tube a was open to the
air. A wider tube also passed through the cork of A and led to an
air-pump, whereby the pressure above the liquid air in A was reduced,
and consequently the temperature of the liquid by resultant evapo
ration. To keep the inner vessel, B, covered with liquid, a fourth
tube, r, passed through the cork, and its lower end, furnished with
a valve, p, which could be opened and closed by the handle q,
dipped into liquid air contained in the vessel C. As the pressure
above the liquid in A was less than that of the atmosphere, on open
ing the valve p some of the liquid air was forced through r into A
by the pressure of the atmosphere, and in this way the level of liquid
in A was maintained at the required height.
    Since B was maintained at the temperature of liquid air boiling
at reduced pressure, the air it contained condensed on its sides, and
when the stopcock n was closed and m opened more air passed in
through the open end of a, and was in turn condensed. In this way
B could be filled completely with liquid air, the whole of the most
volatile gases being retained in solution in the liquid.
    The tube 6, passing from the top of B, was connected with a three-
way stopcock d, by which it could be put in communication with the
closed vessel D, or with the tube e, and by which also D and e
could be connected. The tube e passed down nearly to the bottom
of the vacuum-jacketed vessel E, and out again through the cork ;
and so on to a gauge /, and through a sparking tube g to a mercury
 pump F.* The stopcock n being still closed, the whole of the
 apparatus between n and the pump, including the vessel D, was
 exhausted, and liquid hydrogen introduced into E. The three-way
cock d was then turned so as to connect 6 with D, and close e, and
 then n opened. B was thereby put in communication with D, which
 was at a still lower temperature than B, the air being at 63° absolute,
 while the hydrogen is at 2 1° absolute, and any gas dissolved in the liquid
air in B, along with some of the more volatile nitrogen, distilled
               * The Sprengel in figure is simply diagrammatic.

Fio. 1.

I
Kio. 2.
1901.]     on Oases at the Beginning and End of the Century.        737
over, and the latter condensed in a solid form in D, while any gas
incondensable at the boiling point of hydrogen filled the vessel at
a low pressure, the latter being recorded by the manometer /. When
a small fraction of the liquid in B had thus distilled, the stopcock d
was turned so as to close the communication between D and b and open
that between D and e. Gas from B passed into the sparking tube g,
but in so doing it had to pass through the portion of e which was
immersed in liquid hydrogen, so that condensable matter, like
nitrogen or oxygen vapour, carried forward by the stream of gas,
was frozen out.
    On passing electric discharges through the tubes containing the
most volatile of the atmospheric gases collected as above, they glow
with a bright orange light, not only in the capillary part, but also
at the poles, and at the negative pole in particular. The spectro
scope shows that this light consists in the visible part of the
spectrum chiefly of a succession of strong rays in the red, orange,
and yellow, attributed to hydrogen, helium, and neon. Besides
these, a vast number of rays, generally less brilliant, are distributed
through the whole length of the visible spectrum. They are
obscured in the spectrum of the capillary part of the tube by the
greater strength of the second spectrum of hydrogen, but are easily
seen in the spectrum of the negative pole, which does not include
the second spectrum of hydrogen, or only faint traces of it. Putting
a Leyden jar in the circuit, while it more or less completely oblite
rates the second spectrum of hydrogen, it also has a similar effect on
the greater part of these other rays of, as yet, unknown origin. The
violet and ultra-violet part of the spectrum seems to rival in strength
that of the red and yellow rays, if we may judge of it by the inten
sity of its impressions on photographic plates.
     As these gases probably include some of the gases that per
vade interplanetary space, search was made for the prominent
nebular, coronal and auroral lines. No definite lines agreeing with
 the nebular spectrum could be found, but many lines occurred closely
 coincident with the coronal and auroral spectrum. Before any
final conclusion can be reached, larger quantities of the gases must
 be collected, but this will not be difficult now that the method of
 separation has proved a success. It may safely be predicted that
 liquid hydrogen will be the means by which many obscure problems
of physics and chemistry will ultimately be solved, so that the
liquefaction of the last of the old permanent gases is as pregnant
 now with future consequences of great scientific moment as was
 the discovery of the liquefaction of chlorine in the early years of
 the century.
     Vol. XVI. (No. 95.)


                 INDEX TO                 VOLUME               XVI.
Abel, Sir F., Donation, 481                 Buosen, Discourse on, 437
Aotonian Prize awarded to Sir William       Bushy House, 658
   and Lady Huggins, 360                    Busk, George, Portrait Presented, 223
 Address to the King, 481
       to Glasgow University, 689           Callekdab, H. L., Measuring Extreme
       to M. Berthelot, 727                    Temperatures, 97
Aerial Locomotion, 487                      Cambridge, Duke of, Speech at Cen
Africa from South to North, 532                tenary Banquet, 199
Alfred, King, 75                            Cavendish's Apparatus, 280
Alpine Tunnels, 422                         Centenary, tee under Royal Institution,
Aluminium as Fuel, 499                         197
Amphibia, Colour in, 587                    China, with the Allies in, 668
Andes, Climbs and Explorations, 189         Clerke, Miss Agnes M., Essay by
Annual meetings (1 899) 1 39,(1900) 398,       (Hodgkins Trust): Low Tempe
   (1901) 595                                  rature Research at the Royal In
Ashley, Hon. Evelyn, Presents Letter           stitution, 1893-1900, 699
   from Count Rumford, 193                  Climbs in the Andes, 189
Atoms, the Existence of Bodies Smaller      Clowes, Frank, Bacteria and Sewage,
   than, 574                                   317
                                                   Donations, 45, 412
Bactebia and Sewage, 317                    Coherers, 72
Bacterial Life, Effect of Physioal          Colour in Amphibia, 587
      Influence
   Agents        of Low Temperature on,
            on, 448                         Conway, Sir William Martin, Climbs
                                               and Explorations in the Andes, 189
                                            Comu, A., Speech (in French) at Cen
Baker,
   456 Sir Benjamin, Donation, 120             tenary Banquet, 203; Report to
Balance Experiments, 283, 285                  French Academy of Soienoes, 219
Balloons, 487                               Cunynghame, H. Hardinge, Enamels,
Bolivian
Berthelot,Andes,
Boltzmann's  M.,Doctrine
                 Address
                   189 on    727
                         to, Distribution     510
                                           Davy, Sir Humphry, Bust of, Pre
   of Energy, 370                             sented, 464
Boscovich Atoms, 370                       Devonshire, Duke of, Speech at Com
Bose, J. C. Response of Inorganic             memoration Lecture, 208
   Matter to Stimulus, 616                 Dewar, Hugh, Donation, 147
Boys' Apparatus, 281                       Dewar, J., Awarded Hodgkins Medal,
Brain, Structure of the, 125                  120
Bramwell, Sir Frederick, Resolution on            Centenary Commemoration Lec
   Retirement from Office of Honorary               ture, Liquid Hydrogen, 212
  Secretary, 458                                  Donations, 45, 481
Bristol, Bishop of. Runic and Ogam                Gases at the Beginning and End
  Characters and Inscriptions in the                of the Century, 730
  British Isles, 164                              Liquid Hydrogen, 1
Brown, H. T., Some Recent Work on                 Solid Hydrogen, 473
  Diffusion, 547                           Dewar, Prof, and Mrs., give Reception
Browne, Sir James Crichton-, Speech           to Guests of the Institution, 218:
  on Presenting Honorary Members at          Thanks, 219
  Centenary Commemoration, 206             Diffusion, Recent Work on, 547
Bryan, G. H., History and Progress of      Duff, Sir M. E. Grant, Epitaphs, 15
  Aerial Locomotion, 487                   Dynamical Theory, 363
                                                                     3 O 2

740                                   INDEX.
Eabth Currents and Eleotrio Traction,     Hele-Shaw, H. 8., The Motion of a
   124                                       Perfect Liquid, 49
Eleotrio Fish of the Nile, 114            Hereditary Resemblance, 352
      Induction Motor, 135                Hodgkins Medal awarded to Professor
      Response, 620                          Dewar, 120
      Waves, 72, 493                      Hodgkins Trust, Essay by Miss Agnes
Electricity, Passage of, through Gases,      M. Clerke. 699
  574                                     Holmes, R. R„ George the Third as a
Emimels, 510                                 Colleotor, 65
Epitaphs, 15                              Honorary Members Presented at Cen
Ether, Motion of, 363                        tenary Commemoration, 207
Ewing, J. A., The Structure of Metals,    Horsley, Victor, Roman Defences of
                                             South-East Britain, 35
Explosives,
  419        Modern, 329                  Huggins, Sir William and Lady,
Extrapolation, 97                            Actonian Prize awarded to, 360
                                          Hughes, D. E., Resolution on Decease,
Fabbeb, Sir William J., Donation, 522        257Solid, Liquid,
                                          Hydrogen,    473 1, 213, 701
Fermentation, Symbiotic, 261
Flight, 233, 487
Fluorine, Liquefaction of, 708
Fox, Francis, The Great Alpine Tun        Indo-China, Life in, 274
  nels, 422                               Inheritance, Facts of, 346
  Presented, Sir
Frankland,    360 Edward, Portrait of,
                                          Jena Glass, 659
  Allan Maofadyen
Fullerian            elected,
           Professor of       470 Dr.
                        Physiology,
                                          Kelvin, Lord, Dynamical Theory of
Fusing Points of Metals, 102                 Heat and Light, 363
                                                 Speech at Centenary Commemo
Gadow, Hans, Colour in Amphibia,             ration Lecture, 217
  587                                     King, Address to, 481
Galton's Law of Inheritance, 357                becomes Patron, 571
Gases at the Beginning and End of the     King's Library, 67
  Century, 730                            Kraftmeier, Edward, Donation, 93
George the Third as a Collector, 65       Kurdistan, 640
Gibbons, Major A. St. Hill, Through       Landoe, A. H. Savage, With the Allies
  the Heart of Africa from South to          in China, 668
  North, 532                              Langley, S. P., Speech at Centenary
Glasgow University, Address to, 689
Glass Manufacture, 659                       Banquet, 201
Glazebrook, E. T., The Aims of the        Lead in Manufacture of Pottery, 399
  National Physical Laboratory, 656        Lee, Sidney, Shakespeare and True
Goldsmiths' Company, Grant of £1000          Patriotism, 416
  from, on occasion of Centenary Com       Leonard, Hugh, Donation, 522
   memoration, 229                        Leonard Limousin, 517
Gotch, Francis, The Electrio Fish of      Library at Windsor, 69
  the Nile, 114                           Light, Dynamical Theory of, 363
Gravitation, Recent Studies in, 278       Limoges Enamel, 514
Green, J. Reynolds, Symbiosis and          Liquid, Motion of a, 49
   Symbiotic Fermentation, 261            Lodge, Oliver, Coherers, 72
Gunpowder, Experiments with, 329          Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress give
                                             Reception toMembers and the Guests
                                             of the Institution, 211 ; Thanks, 219
   Speech atEarl
Halsbuby,         of (Lord
              Centenary     Chancellor),
                         Banquet,  201    Low Temperature Research, 1, 212,
  722
Harrison,  Thomas, Bust of, Presented,    Low   Temperature
                                             456, 473         Research at the Royal
                                             Institution, 1893-1900, 699; List of
Hawksley, C, Donation, 257                   Papers, 715
Heat, Dynamical Theory of, 363            Lympne, Roman Defences at, 36

                                         INDEX.                                     741
Macfadyen, Allan, Effect of Physical         Nile, Electric Fish of the, 114
   Agent* on Bacterial Life, 448                 120 Explosives Company, Donation,
                                             Nobel's
       Elected Fullerian Professor of
   Physiology, 470                            Noble, Sir Andrew, Some Modern Ex
McClean, Frank. Donation, 257, 464               plosives, 329
Magnetic Forces, Lines of, 60, 151                   Donations, 93, 257
       Perturbations of the Spectral          Northumberland, late Duke of, Reso
   Lines, 151                                    lution on Decease of, 45
Malaria and Mosquitoes, 295                   Noithumberland, Duke of, Elected
Manson, Patrick, Researches in Mal               President, 93
   aria, 299                                         letter from, 94
Marconi,
Massachusetts
            G., Wireless
                  Board ofTelegraphy,
                            Health Experi
                                       247           Speeohes at Centenary Banquet,
                                                  197, 200
   ments, 318
Maxwell's
Matthey, George,
              DoctrineDonation,
                         on Distribution
                                 223     of   Odling, Professor Win., and Teaohers
                                                 of Natural Science at Oxford, Enter
   Energy, 369                                   tain Guests of the Institution, 218 ;
Measuring
MechanicalExtreme
                Response,Temperatures,
                           616          97       Thanks, 219
                                              Ogam Characters and Inscriptions, 171
Melohers, C. E., Donation for Altera          Opacity, 117
   tion in Theatre, 45
Meldola,
Memory, R., 596 Mimetic Insects, 693          Pabsons, C. A., Motive Power—High
                                                  Speed Navigation Steam Turbines,
                                                  235
Merchant Taylors' Company, Cen
   tenary Banquet held in Hall of,            Percy, Earl, Turkish Kurdistan, 640
   197; Thanks, 219                           Pevensey, Roman Defences at, 36
Metals          Memory,
Merrier,asC,Fuel,   496 596                       on, in the Dark,
                                              Photographic             Pictures produced
                                                               Plate,140
        Fusing Points of, 102                     Records, 325 Applied to Historic
                                              Photography
        Microscopic Examination of, 662
        Structure of, 419                      Pictorial Historic Records, 325
Mond,
 MimeticDr.
 Molloy,      and Mrs.,
          Ludwig,
           Gerald,
            Insects,Donations.
                     Electric
                     693give Garden
                              Waves, Party
                                461, 727
                                     493       Plants, Symbiosis in, 261
                                               Polish, 563
                                                  75
                                               Pollock,   Sir Frederiok, King Alfred,
    to Guests of the Institution, 211;         Porchester, Roman Defences at, 38
 Mont
 Monthly
   Thanks,
         Cenis
            Meetings
               219
                Tunnel,:—427                   Pottery and Plumbism, 399
                                               Poynting, J. H., Recent Studies in
                                                  Gravitation, 278
    (1899) February, 45 ; March, 93 ;          Preston, Thomas, Magnetic Pertur
       April, 120; May, 147; Adjourned            bations of the Speotral Lines, 151
       Meeting, 188; June, 192; July,
       219; November, 223; December,           Quabtz, VitriHed, 525
       229
    (1900) February, 257; March, 314;          Radiation, Formulas of, 98
       April, 360; May, 412 ; June, 458;       Radio-active Substances, 583
       July, 461 ; November, 464 ; . De        Rayleigh, Lord, Centenary Commemo
       cember. 470                                 ration Lecture, Work of Thomas
    (1901) February, 481 ; March, 522 ;            Young, 204
       April, 571 ; May, 613; June, 689 ;             Flight, 233
       July, 719; November, 722; De                   Polish, 563
       cember, 727                                    Transparency and Opacity, 117
 Motion of a Liquid, 49                         Refrigeration, Effects of, 704
 Mott, F. W., Structure of the Brain in            Stimulus,of616 Inorganio Matter to
                                                Response
     Relation to its Functions, 125
                                                Roberts-Austen, Sir Win., Metals as
 National Physical Laboratory, The                 Fuel, 496
    Aims of the, 656                            Rogers, Thomas A., Donation, 194J

742                                       INDEX.
Roman Defences of S.E. Britain, 35              Telegbaphy, Wireless, 247
Roscoe, Sir Henry, Bunsen, 137                  Temperatures, Measuring Extreme, 97
Boss, Major Ronald, Malaria and Mos                   ses under Low Temperatures
  quitoes, 295                                  Thermometers, 665; Low Tempera
Royal Institution, Centenary ofFounda             ture, 703
  tion, 197; Banquet, 197; Commemo              Thompson, Sir Henry, Donation, 219
  ration Lecture. Lord Rayleigh. 204 ;          Thomson, J. A., Facts of Inheritance,
  Addresses and Letters, 209; Recep               346
  tion at Mansion House, 211 ; Garden             smaller J.
                                                Thomson,     J., The
                                                           than      Existence
                                                                 Atoms,   574 of Bodies
  Party by Dr. and Mrs. Mood, 211 ;
  Commemoration Lecture, Professor                399 T. E., Pottery and Plumbism,
                                                Thorpe,
  Dewar, 212 ; Reception by Professor
  and Mis. Dewar, 218; Guests visit             Transparency and Opacity, 117
   University of Oxford, 218                    Transpiration Balance, 112
Riicker, A. \\\, Earth Currents and             Tunnels, Alpine, 422
   Electric Traction, 124                       Turbines, 235
Rumford, Count, Letter to Lady Pal-             Turbinia, 242
   mcrston from, Presented, 193                 Turkish Kurdistan, 640
Runic Characters and Inscriptions, 164
Russell, W. J., Pictures produced on            Usmab, John E, Donation, 147
  Photographic Plates in the Dark,
   140
St. Gothabd Tunnel, 428                         Vaughan, Henry, Donation, 219
Sewage and Bacteria, 317                        Vincent, Benjamin, Decease of, 147
Shakespeare and True Patriotism, 416            Ftper, 244
Shenstone, W. A., Vitrified Quartz, 525
Silica, Vitrified, 525                          Wales, Prince of, Speeches at Cen
Simplon Tunnel, 432                               tenary Banquet, 198 ; at Commemo
Smith, Basil Woodd, Resolution on                 ration Lecture, 208
   Decease of, 482                                368
                                                Waterston's  Paper on Physics of Media,
Smvth, H. Warington, Life in Indo-
   Chino, 274                                   Wigan, Mrs., Donation, 194
Sowerby, Thomas H, Donation, 147                   Motor,C.135
                                                Wilson,     A. Carus, Electric Induction
Spectral Lines, Magnetic Perturbations
   of, 151
Spectroscope,    Evanescent Refraction          Wind Pressure, 663
                                                  69
                                                Windsor,   Drawings of Old Masters at,
   applied to, 117
Spottiswoode, Hugh, Presents his                Wireless Telegraphy, 247
   Father's Collection of Physical
   Apparatus, 194
Steam Engines, 235                              Yotog, Thomas, Work of, 205
Stone, Sir Benjamin, Pictorial Historic
   Records, 325
Swithinbank, H., Donation. 458                  Zekman, P., Work on Spectral Lines,
Symbiotio Fermentation, 261                        154
                   LONDON : FEINTED 11Y WILLIAM cLOWES AND SONS. LIMITED,
            ORKAT WINDMILL STBEET, W,t AND DL'KE STBEhT, STAMPED STREET, S.E.




1
