



              PROCEEDINGS
                           OF TBK
ROYAL SOCIETY                        OF LONDON.
      From March     24, 1881, to     June   16, 1881.
                    VOL. XXXII.
                       LONDON         :
 HARRISON     AND SONS, ST              MARTIN'S LANE,
           ||rinttr« in •ihinarjj to $tr gtajtsty,.
                        MDCCCLXXXI.

                          LON DON :
ICAHItrSON AND HONS, PRINTERS IN ORDINARY TO TIKR MAJESTY,
                     ST. martin's TANK.

                            CONTEXTS.
                               VOL. XXXII.
                            No. 212.— March    24, 1881.
                                                                              Page
The   Croonian Lecture.— Observations         on the Locomotor System of
  Echinodermata.       By George  J.  Romanes, M.A., F.R.S., and Professor
  James C. Ewart, M.D                                                             1
The  Functional Relations of the Motor Roots of the Brachial and Lumbo
  sacral Plexuses.       By David Ferrier, M.D., F.R.S., Professor of
  Forensic Medicine, and Gerald F. Yeo, M.D., F.R.C.S., Professor of
  Physiology in King's College                                                  12
On the   Histology and Physiology of the Pepsin-forming Glands..      By J.
  N. Langley,     M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge                    20
                                 March   31, 1881.
On the   Coefficients of Expansion of the Di-iodide of Lead, Pbl2, and of
  an  Alloy of Iodide of Lead with Iodide of Silver, PbI2AgI. By G. F.
   Rodwell, F.RA.S., F.C.S., Science Master in Marlborough College       ....   23
Permanent      Molecular Torsion of Conducting Wires produced by the
   Passage  of an Electric Current By Professor D. E. Hughes, F.R.S             25
On the    Tendinous Intersection     of the  Digastric.   By  G. E. Dobson,
   MJL, M.B.                                                                    29
Note on   Protagon.    By Henry E. Roscoe, LL.D.,      F.RS                     36
                                  April  7, 1881.
 On the   Minute Structure of the Lung of the Newt with especial reference
   to its Nervous Apparatus.     By William Stirling, M.D., Sc.D., Regius
    Professor of the Institutes of Medicine (Physiology) in the University
   of Aberdeen                                                                  37
 On an    Electrodynamic Balance.      By H. Helmholtz,     For. Mem. RS.,
    Professor of Physics in the University of Berlin                            39

                                           IV
On the Internal Forces of Magnetized and Dielectrically Polarized Bodies.
   By Professor H. Helmholtz, For. Mem. B.S                                       40
                                   April   28, 1881.
The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Action of Physical Forces.          By
   Herbert Tomlinson, B.A                                                         41
Lucifer   : a Study in Morphology.       By W. K. Brooks, Associate in Bio
   logy and Director of the Chesapeake Zoological Laboratory of the
   Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md., lf.S.A                               46
List of  Presents                                                                 48
Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids.          By G. Gore,
   LL.D, F.RS                                                                     56
Phenomena      of the Capillary Electrosco]>e.    By G. Gore, LL.D., F.R.S        8~>
                               No. 213.— May     5, 1881.
List of Candidates for Election                                                  104
On the Determination of the Ohm in Absolute Measure.              By Lord Ray-
  leigh, F.R.S., and Arthur Schuster, Ph.D., F.RS                                104
On the Structure and Development         of the Skull in Sturgeons (Acipenser
  rut/ienus and A. sturio).    By W.   K. Parker, F.R.S                          124
On the Estimation of the Amylolytic and Proteolytic Activity of Pan
   creatic Extracts.    By William Roberts, M.D., F.R.S., Physician to the
   Manchester Royal Infirmary, and Professor of Clinical Medicine in
  Owens College                                                                  145
                                   May    12, 1881.
On the Physiological Action of /3 Lutidine.            By C. Greville Williams,
   F.R.S., and W. H. Waters, B.A., Demonstrator in the Physiological
   Laboratory, Cambridge                                                         162
Discussion    of the Results of some Experiments          with Whirled  Anemo
   meters.     By Professor G. G. Stokes, Sec. RS                                170
Investigations on the Spectrum of Magnesium. By G. D. Liveing, M.A.,
   F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, and J. Dewar, M.A., F.R.S., Jack-
  sonian Professor, University of Cambridge.           (Plate 1)                 189
Note on the        Reduction of the Observations of the Spectra of 100
   Sun-spots    observed at Kensington.       By   J.  Norman Lockyer, F.R.S.
   (Plate  2)                                                                    203
                                    May   19, 1881.
On Discontinuous Phosphorescent        Spectra in     High Vacua.    By William
     Crookes,    F.RS                                                            206
Molecular Magnetism.        By Professor D. E. Hughes,       F.RS                213

                                                      V
                                                                                                Pago
On the Identity of Spectral Lines of Different Elements.  By G. D.
  Liveing, M.A., F.RS., Professor of Chemistry, and J. Dewar, M.A.,
  F.R.S., Jacksonian Professor, University of Cambridge                                         225
Observations concerning Transplantation of Bone. Illustrated by a Case
  of Inter-human Osseous Transplantation, whereby over two-thirds of
  the Shaft of a Humerus was restored.   By W. MacEwen, M.D            232
                   Determination
         Experimental                    of the Velocity of White and of Coloured
         t.     By Dr.     J.   Young,   F.RS., and Professor G. Forbes           247
List of Presents                                                                                249
On the Absorption Spectra of Cobalt Salts. By W. J. Russell, Ph.D.,
  F.E.S., Tresis. C.S., Lecturer on Chemistry at the Medical School,
  St. Bartholomew's Hospital                                                                    258
On the Female Organs and [Placentation of the Racoon (Procyon lotor).
  By M. Watson, M.D., Professor of Anatomy, Owens College, Man
  chester.           (Plates 3-6)                                                               272
On the    Diastase        of K6ji. By R W. Atkinson, B.Sc. (Lond.), Professor
  of Analytical           and Applied Chemistry in the University of T6ki6,
  Japan       ..."                                                                              299
                                     No. 2.U.—June         3,    1881.
Annual Meeting for              the Election of Fellows                                         332
                                              June   16, 1881.
On the Differences in the Physiological Effects produced by the Poisons
  of certain species of Indian Venomous Snakes.     By A. J. Wall, M.D.
  (Lond.), Surgeon H.M. Indian Army                                     333
On Pendent Drops.               By A. M. Worthington, M.A.                (Plate   7)           362
Postscript to the Chronological Summary of Methods of Computing
  Logarithms in my Paper on the Potential Radix. By Alexander J.
  Ellis, B.A., F.R.S., F.S.A                                     377
Note on the Spectrum of Carbonic Acid.                             By Charles Wesendonck
  (Berlin)                                                                                      380
The Wave of Translation and the Work                      it   does as the Carrier Wave of
  Sound. By John Scott Russell, F.RS                                                            382
On the Effect of Electrical Stimulation of the Frog's Heart, and its Mo
  dification by Cold, Heat, and the Action of Drugs.      By T. Lauder
  Brunton, M.D., F.RS., and Theodore Cash, M.D                          383
On the Action of Ammonia and its Salts, and of Hydrocyanic Acid upon
  Muscle and Nerve.    By T. Lauder Brunton, M.D., F.RS., and
  Theodore Cash, M.D                                                 384
On Stratified Discharges. VI.                  Shadows of Strife.         By William Spottis-
  woode, President RS., and              J.   Fletcher Moulton,          F.RS                   3So

                                          vi
On Stratified Discharges.    VII. Multiple Radiations from the Negative
   Terminal. By William Spottiswoode, President R.S., and J. Fletcher
   Moulton, F.RS           _                                                 338
Note on the Existence in the King Crab (Limultu polyphemut) of Stig
   mata corresponding    to the Respiratory Stigmata of the Pulmonate
   Arachnida, and on the Morphological Agreements between Limulus
   and Scorpio.   By E. Ray Lankester, M.A., F.B.S., Jodrell Professor of
   Zoology in University College, London                                     391
Effects of Stress on the Thermoelectric Quality of Metals. Part I. By
   J. A. Ewing, B.Sc., F.RS.E., Professor of Mechanical Engineering in
   the University of T6ki6, Japan                                            399
On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours. No. VIII. (Iron,
   Titanium, Chromium, and Aluminium.)             By G. D. Liveing, M.A.,
   F.RS., Professor of Chemistry, and J. Dewar, M.A., F.R.S., Jackso-
   nian Professor, University of Cambridge                                   402
Note on a Comparison    of the Diurnal Ranges of Magnetic Declination at
   Toronto and Kew.      By Balfour Stewart, LL.D., F.RS., and William
   Dodgson                                                                   406
On the Absorption     of Gases by Solids.        By J. B. Hannay,   F.RS.E.,
   F.C.S                                                                     407
On the States of Matter.     By J. B. Hannay,     F.RS.E., F.C.S             408
The Relation of the White Blood Corpuscles to the Coagulation of the
   Blood.   By L. C. Wooldridge, B.Sc. Lond., Physiologische Anstalt,
   Leipzig                                                                   413
A New Line of      Research   bearing on the Physiology of Sugar in the
   Animal System.     By F. W. Pavy, M.D., F.RS                              418
On the Stresses caused in the Interior of the Earth by the Weight of
   Continents and Mountains. By G. H. Darwin, F.RS                           432
On the Refraction of Electricity.      By Alfred Tribe, F.I.C., Lecturer on
   Chemistry in Dulwich College                                              435
Note on the Spectrum      of Sodium.      By Captain W. de W. Abney,    RE.,
   F.RS                                                                      443
Formulae    of sn 8u, cn 8u, dn 8u, in terms        of sn u.  By Ernest   H.
   Glaisher, B.A., Trinity College, Cambridge                                444
On Riccati's Equation and its Transformations, and on some Definite
   Integrals which satisfy them.     By J. W. L. Glaisher, M.A., F.RS.,
   Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge                                      444
Sur la Surface de l'Onde, et Theoremes relatifs aux Lignes de Courbure
   des Surfaces du Second Ordre.      Par A. Mannheim                         447
On certain Definite Integrals.    No.  9.    By W. H. L. Russell, F.RS        450
On the Influence of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions.        No. III.  By W.
   Galloway                                                                   454
                                      No.   215.
The Molecular Volume of Solids.       By E. Wilson                            457

                                      vii
                                                                           Tage
On  a New Form of Febrile     Disease associated with the presence of an
   Organism distributed with Milk from the Oldmill Reformatory School,
  Aberdeen.     By J. C. Ewart, M.D., Professor of Natural History in the
   University of Aberdeen                                                  492
List of Presents                                                           498
On Gravimeters ; with special reference to a Torsion Gravimeter, designed
   by the late J. Allan Broun, F.R.S.       By Major J. Herschel, R.E.,
   F.R.S., Deputy-Superintendent of the Survey of India. (Plates 8, 9).... 507
On the Coefficients of Expansion of the Di-iodide of Lead, Pblj, and    of
  an Alloy of Iodide of Lead with Iodide of Silver, PblA-gl. By G.      F.
   Rodwell, F.RAS., F.C.S., Science Master in Marlborough College          540
Index                                                                      553
Obituary Notice : —
  Michel   Chasles                                                             i

J/)
                                                                     Gray Herbarium
                                                                    Harvard University
                         PKOCEEDINGS OF
              THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
VOL.   XXXII.                                                                   No. 212.
                                     CONTENTS.
                                    March  24, 1881.
                                                                                    PAGE
  I. The Ckoonian Lecttoe. — Observations on the Locomotor System of
       Echinodennate. By Geobge J. Bomajjes, M.A., F.B.S., and Professor
       Jakes C. Ewaet, M.D                                                              1
 IL   The Functional Kelations of the Motor Boots of the Brachial and Lumbo
        sacral Plexuses.     By David Fkkbiee, M.D., F.E.S., Professor of
        Forensic Medicine, and Gehald F. Yeo, M.D., F.E.C.S., Professor of
        Physiology in King's College                                                   12
TO. On the    Histology   and Physiology   of the Pepsin-forming      (Hands.    By
        J. N. Lahglet,    M.A., Fellow of Trinity     College, Cambridge      .        20
                                     March  31, 1881.
   I. On the Coefficients of Expansion of the Di-iodide of Lead, Pblj, and of an
        Alloy of Iodide of Lead with Iodide of Silver, PbI3AgI. By G. F.
        Eodweli, F.B.A.S., F.C.S., Science Master in Marlborough College .
      Permanent Molecular     Torsion of Conducting Wires produced by the
        Passage  of an Electric Current.  By Professor D. E. Hughes, F.B.S. .         25
      On the Tendinous Intersection of the Digastric. By     Gr. E. Dobson, M.A.,
        M.B
      Note on Protagon.    By Henbt E. Eoscoe, LL.D., F.B.S.
              HARVARD UNIVERSITY HERBARIUM.
                                 THE GIFT OF

        PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.
                           Contents     op  Paet  III,  1880.
  XXI. A   Memoir    on the Single and Double Theta-Functions.           By A. Caylby,
            F.R.S., Sadlerian Professor of Pure Mathematics         in the University of
            Cambridge.
 XXII.   Revision of the Atomic Weight of Aluminum. By J. W.            Mallet, F.R.S.,
            Professor of Chemistry in the University of Virginia.
XXIII.   Description of some Remains of the Gigantic Land-Liiard (Megalania
            prisca, Owbn), from Australia. — Part II.         By Professor Owen, C.B.,
            F.R.S., *c.
XXIV.    On the Ova of the Echidna       Rystrix.   Bv Professor Owen, C.B., F.R.S.,
            &c.
  XXV.   On the Determination of the Constants of tho Cup Anemometer by Experi
            ments with a Whirling Machine. — Part II. By T. R. Robinson, D.D.,
            F.R.S., Ac.
XXVI. On      the Dynamo-electric Current, and on Certain Means to Improve             it*
            Steadiness. By C. William Siemens, D.C.L., F.R.S.
Index to Part   HI.
                             Contents of     Part I,   1881.
On   the  Structure   and Development of the        Skull in the Batrachia — Part    III.
                               By W. K. Paekeb, F.R.S.
                       PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.
                             Part  III,  1880,  price  £1 Is.
                              Part  1, 1881, price £2 10».
 Extra volume (vol.   168) containing   the Reports of the Naturalists    attached to the
                       Transit of Venus Expeditions.      Price £3.
                              Sold by Harrison and Sons.
 Separate copies of Papers in the Philosophical Transactions, commencing with 1875,
                   may be had of Triibner and Co., 57, Ludgatc Hill.

                        PROCEEDINGS
                                       or
            THE ftOYAL SOCIETY.
                                March  24, 1881.
                     THE PRESIDENT in          the Chair.
    The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered for
them.
    The following Papers were read      : —
L The Croonian Lecture. — " Observations on the Locomotor
      System of Echinodermata."            By George J. Romanes, M.A.,
      F.R.S., and Professor James C. Ewart, M.D. Received
      March 5, 1881.
                                   (Abstract.)
                               I. — Mobpholoqt.
    In Holothuria the polian vesicle opens freely into     a wide circular
canal a   short distance from the termination of the stone canal. From
tliis circular canal five lozenge-shaped sinuses project forwards, and
from each of these two large oval sinuses run forward parallel with each
other — the ten oval sinuses becoming continuous with the hollow
stems of the tentacles.     Injection of the polian vesicle shows that it
forms one continuous tube system with the circular canal and its
sinuses, oval sinuses and tentacles, ampullae and pedicels. Unless the
pressure is kept up for a considerable time there is no penetration of
the injected fluid into the stone canal, and either the ring, the vesicle,
or a sinus gives way before the fluid reaches the madreporic plate.
Specimens     injected with a gelatine mass show that each canal sinus
opens   into a csecal tube, which runs forwards internal to the sinuses
of the tentacles as far as a wide circum-oral space.      This space com-
    TOL. XXXII.                                                 B

2             Mr. G.  J. Romanes and Prof.      J. C. Ewart.    [Mar. 24,
mnnicates by well-defined apertures with that portion of the body
cavity which lies between the sinuses and the oesophagus, and which
is reached through the circular apertures between the sinuses of the
circular canal.     Each canal sinus has three other apertures in its
walls.   It  opens by a small round aperture into a radial canal, and
the two other apertures occur as minute slits, one at each side of the
orifice of the radial canal leading into the adjacent tentacle sinuses.
When the tentacle into which the sinus opens is protruded, there is no
constriction between the sinus and the tentacle ; but when the ten
tacle is retracted, there is a well-marked constriction at the junction
of the sinus with the tentacle.    The e version of the perisome and the
protrusion of the tentacles are effected chiefly by the shortening of the
polian vesicle and the constriction of the longitudinal muscular bands,
which run from the inner surface of the body wall between each two
adjacent tentacle-sinuses ; but the circular fibres of the body wall also
assist in the process by contracting immediately behind the group of
sinuses, so as to act on them by direct pressure, and also indirectly by
forcing the body fluid against them.
   The amount of the body cavity fluid is constantly changing.         At
the entrance to the cloacal chamber there is a circular valve which is
constantly dilating and contracting, except when the aboral end of
the animal is forcibly retracted.   When open, this valve allows water
to pass into the respiratory tree ; when it begins to retract, water
escapes from the cloaca.      This alternate opening and closing takes
place with perfect rhythm, at a rate of about six revolutions         per
minute.     At the end of every seventh or eighth revolution a large
stream of clear water is ejected, which sometimes contains sand and
the remains of food particles.      When the tentacles are being pro
truded, more water is taken in at the cloaca than escapes ; on the
other hand, retraction of the tentacles is preceded by an escape of a
large stream of water.
   In Echinu*, two tubes spring from the under surface of the madre-
poric plate.     The one is dilated at its origin, so as to include the
greater portion of the plate, and ends in the so-called heart; the
other is small, deeply pigmented, and runs along a groove in the
heart to open into a circular canal at the base of the lantern.     From
the under aspect of this circular canal the five radial ambulacral
vessels take their origin.   Immediately within the oral margin of the
shell,  and alternating with the inner row of pedicels, are the five
          "
pairs of tree-like organs." If a fine glass cannula be forced through
the membrane which extends from the apex of each tooth to the oral
margin of the interambulacral plates and sides of the alveoli, coloured
fluids may be injected into the space between the membrane and
the alveoli of the lantern; the fluid then slowly diffuses upwards
into the vesicles around the apices of the teeth.        It reaches these

 1881.]        On the Locomotor System    of Echinodermata.                3
vesicles partly by passing directly upwards external to the alveoli, and
partly by passing into the cavities of the alveoli and ascending through
the circular sinus.
   In  Spatangus the ambulacral circumoral canal has no polian vesicles
or sinuses    developed in connexon with it. Some of the pedicels
have suckers, others are conical and devoid of them, while others
again are flattened at their tips, and sometimes split up into
segments.
   If one of the arms of Solaster papposa is divided transversely, and
a coloured fluid introduced into the open end of the radial canal, the
ampullas and pedicels of the injected arm are at once distended.       The
fluid next penetrates the circular canal, polian vesicles, ampulla*, and
pedicels of the other arms ; but unless considerable pressure be kept
up for some time, none of the solution enters the madreporic canal.      If,
however, the pressure is maintained for several hours with a column
of fluid 2 feet high, the fluid ascends through the stone canal and
diffuses slowly through the madreporic plate.        When a thin slice is
then    shaved off the plate, the fluid is observed escaping from a
small circumscribed area situated between the centre and the margin
of the plate, and corresponding    in size and position with the termi
nation of the stone canal on the inner surface. The stone canal,
gradually increasing in diameter as it passes inwards from the
madreporic plate, runs obliquely over its accompanying sinus, till it
finally hooks round this sinus to open into the circular canal.
Springing from this canal and opposite to each inter-radial space
(with the exception of the space occupied by the stone canal) is a
polian vesicle. The size and form of these vesicles are largely de
termined by the amount of fluid in the pedicels.       In none of the in
jected specimens was there any evidence of a communication between
the ambulacral vessels aud the body cavity, or between the ambulacral
and the blood (neural) vessels. There was, however, abundant evi
dence of communication     between the latter and the exterior.      When
a cannula was introduced    into the outer  end   of the sinus, a coloured
solution could be easily forced through the sinus into the circular
blood-vessel, and from this into the radial blood-vessels.      But when
the cannula was introduced into the proximal end of the sinus, the
solution rapidly rushed along tbe sinus and escaped through the
madreporic plate, proving that the blood-vessels of Solaster commu
nicate far more freely with the exterior than do the water-vessels.
   The ambulacral system of the common star-fish only differs from
that of the sun-star in having no polian vesicles. Astropecten, on
the other hand, has polian vesicles ; but in it the pedicels have de
parted from the usual form in being short, conical, and unprovided
with terminal suckers.     In Ophiura the pedicels are morphologically
 similar to those of Astropecten, though shorter and more slender.
                                                              B 2

4             Mr. G.  J. Romanes and Prof.     J. C. Ewart.    [Mar. 24,
They diminish in size as they proceed outwards,         and at the ends
of the arms are scarcely visible.
                        Nervous System of Echinus.
    The internal nervous system of Echinus consists of five radial
trunks, which may be traced from the ocular plates along the ambu-
lacral areas external to the radial canals to the oral floor, where they
bifurcate and unite with each other so as to form the pentagonal nerve-
ring. This ring lies between the oesophagus and the tips of the
teeth which project from the lantern.     Small branches leave the ring
and supply the oesophagus, and lateral branches arise from the
several trunks to escape with the pedicels through the apertures of the
pore plates.    Each trunk lies in a sinus situated between the lining
membrane of the shell and the ambulacral radial canal.        The lateral
branches which accompany the first series of pedicels through the
oral floor are large and deeply pigmented.         The branches within
the auricles are small; those external to the auricles         gradually
increase in size until the equator is reached, and from the equator
to the ocular plates they diminish in size.   At the equator, the trunk
is wider than at either pole, and it is often partially divided for some
distance at each side of the equator by a deep longitudinal fissure.
    When the nerve-trunk, after being stained with chloride of gold or
with osmic acid, is removed from its sinus, it is seen to be enveloped
by a thin fibrous sheath.       This sheath contains numerous large
pigment cells, and has scattered over it irregular masses of protoplasm
which have been deposited from the fluid of the neural sinus.
    When the sheath is removed, the trunk is seen to consist of delicate
fibres and of fusiform cells.   The cells consist of a nucleus and a thin
layer of protoplasm, which projects at each end, and terminates in a
nerve- fibre.
    The lateral branches of the trunk escape along with and are partly
distributed to the pedicels; the remainder break up into delicate
filaments which radiate from the base of the pedicel under the surface
epithelium. When one of the large branches already referred to as
escaping with the inner row of pedicels is traced through the oral
floor, after sending a branch to the foot, it breaks up into delicate
fibres, some of which run towards the bases of the adjacent spines
and pedicellariae, while others run inwards a short distance towards
the oral aperture.
    Either in connexion with, or anatomically independent of, these
filaments from the lateral branches of the nerve-trunks, there arises
an external plexus lying almost immediately under the surface epithe
lium and extending from the shell to the spines and pedicellarisB.
The fibres of this plexus closely resemble the fibres of the lateral
branches of the trunk, but generally they are smaller in size and have

 1881.]            On the Locomotor System          of Echinodermata.              5
a   distinct     connexion     with nerve-cells.     The cells consist of an oval
nucleus and of a          layer   of  protoplasm, which is generally seen to pro
ject in two, or sometimes in three, directions — the several processes
often uniting with similar processes from adjacent cells, so as to form
a fibro-cellnlar chain or network.
    In preparations from portions of Echini treated with both chloride
of gold and osraic acid, we have succeeded in tracing the plexus over
the surface of the shell between the spines and pedicellariro, and from
the surface of the shell to the capsular muscles at the bases of the
spines; we repeatedly observed delicate fibres passing beyond the
muscles to end apparently under the epithelium over the surface of
the spines.
    In the case      of the pedicellarias the plexus on reaching the stem runs
along       between     the    calcareous stem and the surface epithelium,
to   reach and extend          over and between the muscular and connective
tissue fibres between the stem and the bases of the mandibles.                  The
plexus,      now    in   the   form   of  exceedingly   delicate  fibres connecting
small bipolar cells, reaches the special muscles                 of the mandibles.
In several        preparations     delicate   fibres appeared to extend towards
the sensitive epithelial pad situated on the- inner surface of each man
dible a short distance from the apex.                Although this plexus is espe
cially related to the muscular fibres, lying over and dipping in between
them,      it is also related to the surface epithelium, and delicate fibres
often   extend from it to end under or between the epithelial cells.
                                     II. — Physiology.
    1.  Natural      Movements.    — The ordinary crawling movements of Astro-
pecten     aurantiacus are peculiar, the ambulacral feet acting the part of
walking-poles and cilia combined. Brittle-stars progress by using two
opposite arms upon the floor of the tank, with a movement like swim
 ming    ;   at each stroke the animal          advances with a sort of leap, aud
 can thus      travel at the rate of six feet per minute.         The ordinary pro
 gression of Echinus and Spatangas is assisted by the co-ordinated
 action of the spines, and when placed upon a flat surface out of the
 water the       animal advances by means of its spiues alone. In Echinus
 the lantern      and pedicellariaa are also used to assist in locomotion.
     All the Echinodermata that we have observed are able, when placed
 upon their dorsal           surfaces on the floor of a tank, to recover their
 normal position on their oral surface.             The common star-fish does so
 by twisting the ends of two or more of its rays round, so as to bring
  its terminal suckers into action upon the floor of the tank, and then,
  by a successive and similar action of the suckers farther back in the
  series, the whole ray is progressively twisted round, so that its ambu
  lacral snrface is applied flat against the floor. The rays which perform

6              Mr. G.   J.   Romanes and Prof.     J.   C. Ewart.   [Mar. 24,
 this action twist their semi-spirals in the same direction, and by their
 concerted action serve to drag the disk and the remaining rays over
 themselves as a fulcrum.    Other species of star-fish, which have not
their ambulacral suckers sufficiently developed to act in this way,
 execute their righting movements by doubling under two or three of
their adjacent rays, and turning a somersault over them, as in the
 previous case.    Echinus rights itself when placed on its aboral pole,
 by the successive action of two or three adjacent rows of suckers, so
gradually rising from aboral pole to equator, and then as gradually
falling from equator to oral pole.         Spatangus executes a similar
manoeuvre entirely by the successive pushing and propping action of
its longer spines.
   2. Stimulation. — All the echinoderms that we have observed seek to
escape from injury in a direct line from the source of stimulation.      If
two points of the surface are stimulated, the direction of escape   is the
diagonal between them. When several points all round the animal are
simultaneously stimulated, the direction of advance becomes uncertain,
with a marked tendency to rotation upon the vertical axis.      If a short
interval of time be allowed to elapse between the application of two
successive stimuli, the direction of advance will be in a straight line
from the stimulus applied latest. If a circular band of injury be
quickly made all the way round the equator of Echinus, the animal
crawls away from the broadest part of the band — i.e., from the greatest
amount of injury.
   The external nerve plexus supplies innervation to three sets of organs
— the pedicels, the spines, and the pedicellarisB ; for when any part of
the external surface of Echinus is touched, all the pedicels, spines, and
pedieellarise within reach of the point that is touched immediately
approximate and close in upon the point, so holding fast to whatever
body may be used as the instrument of stimulation. In executing this
combined movement the pedicellariae are the most active, the spines
somewhat slower, and the pedicels very much slower.              If the shape of
the -stimulating body      admits  of it, the  forceps of  the pedicellariae seize
the body and hold    it   till the spines and pedicels come up to assist.
   And here we have proof of the function of the pedicellarisB.                 In
climbing perpendicular or inclined surfaces of rock covered with
 waving sea-weeds,      it must be no small advantage to an echinus to be
provided    on  all sides with a   multitude of forceps adapted, as described,
to the instantaneous grasping and arresting of a passing frond for, in ;
this way, not only   is   an immediate hold obtained, but a moving piece of
seaweed   is held steady till the pedicels have time to establish a further
and more permanent hold upon          it with their sucking disks.       That this
is the chief   function   of   the pedicellarisB
                                              is    indicated  by the facts that,
1st, if  a piece of seaweed      is  drawn over the surface of an Echinus,
this function may clearly be seen to be performed 2nd, the wonder
                                                           ;

 1881.]          On the Locomotor System         of Echinodermata.               7
fully tenacious grasp       of the forceps is timed as to its duration with
an    apparent    reference  to the requirements of the pedicels, for after
lasting about two minutes (which is about the time required for the
suckers to bend over and fix themselves to the object held by the
pedicellariae, if such should be a suitable one), this wonderfully tena
cious grasp is spontaneously        released  ; and, 3rd, the most excitable part
of   the trident pedicellariae is the inner surface of the mandibles, about
a   third of the way down their serrated edges —i.e., the part which
a   moving body cannot touch without being well within the grasp of
the    forceps.    When the forceps are closed, they may generally be
made immediately         to expand by gently stroking the external surface
of their bases.
    With regard to stimulation of the spines, if severe irritation be
applied to     any part of the external or internal surface of an Echinus,
the spines all over the animal take on an active bristling movement.
The tubercles at the bases of the spines are the most irritable points
on the external surface.
     With regard to stimulation of the pedicels, if an irritant be applied
 to any part of a row, all the pedicels in that row retract in succession
 from the seat of stimulation, but the influence does not extend to
 other rows.      A contrary eiTect is produced by applying an irritant to
 auy part of the external nerve plexus,             all the pedicels being then
 stimulated into increased activity.          Of these antagonistic influences,
 the former, or inhibitory one, is the stronger, for if they are both in
 operation at the same time the pedicels are retracted.
     Star-fish   (with the exception of brittle-stars) and Echini crawl
  towards, and      remain in, the light; but wheu their eye-spots are
  removed    they no longer do so.       When their eye- spots are left intact
 they can    distinguish light of very feeble intensity.
     3. Section. — Single rays detached from the organism                crawl as
  fast and in as determinate         a direction as do entire animals.       They
 also crawl towards light, away from injuries, up perpendicular sur
  faces, and, when inverted, right themselves.            Dividing the ray-nerve
  in any part of its length has the effect of destroying all physio
  logical continuity between the pedicels on either side of the division.
  Severing the nerve at the origin of each ray, or severing the nerve-
  ring between each ray, has the effect of totally destroying all co
  ordination among the rays; therefore, the animal can no longer crawl
  away from injuries ; and, when inverted, it forms no definite plan for
  righting itself.     Each ray acting for itself, without reference to the
  others, there is, as a result, a promiscuous        distribution of spirals and
  doublings, which, as often as not, are acting in antagonism to one
   another.    This division of the nerves usually induces, for some time
   after the operation,     more or less tetanic-like rigidity of the rays.
   The   operation, however,     although    so completely     destroying physio

8             Mr. G.   J. Romanes and Prof.     J. C. Ewart.    [Mar. 24
logical continuity in the rows of pedicels and the muscular system of the
rays, does not destroy, or perceptibly impair, physiological continuity
in the external nerve-plexus ; for however much the nerve-ring and
nerve-trunks may be injured, stimulation on the dorsal surface of the
animal throws all the pedicels and the muscular system of the rays into
active movement.       This fact proves that the pedicels and the muscles
are all held in nervous connexion with one another by the external
plexus, without reference to the integrity of the main trunks.
    If a cork-borer be rotated against the external surface of an Echinus
till the calcareous substance of the shell is reached, and therefore
a continuous     circular section of the overlying tissues effected, the
spines and pedicellariaB within the circular area are physiologically
separated from those without it, as regards their local reflex irrita
bility. That is to say, if any part of this circular area is stimulated,
all the spines and pedicellarise within that area immediately respond to
the stimulation in the ordinary way, while none of the spines or pedi-
cellarise surrounding the area are affected, and conversely.    Therefore
we conclude that the function of the spines and pedicellariaa of local
ising and gathering round a seat of stimulation is exclusively dependent
 upon the external nervous plexus. If the line of injury is not a closed
curve, so as not to produce a physiological island, the stimulating
 influence will radiate in straight lines from its source, but will not
 irradiate round the ends of the curve or line of injury.
    Although the nervous connexions on which the spines and pedi-
 oellariee depend for their function of localising and closing round a
 seat of stimulation are thus shown to be completely destroyed by
 injury of the external plexus, other nervous connexions, upon which
 another function of the spines depends, are not in the smallest degree
 impaired by such injury. This other function is that which brings
 about the general co-ordinated     action of all the spines for the pur
 poses of locomotion.     That this function is not impaired by injury of
 the external plexus is proved by severely stimulating an area within a
 closed line of injury on the surface of the shell ; all the spines over
 the whole surface of the animal then manifest their bristling move
 ments, and by their co-ordinated action convey the animal in a straight
 line of escape from the source of irritation.
     We have, therefore, to distinguish between what may be called the
 local reflex function of the spines, which they show in common with
 the pedicellariaB and which is exclusively dependent upon the external
 plexus, and what we may call the universal reflex function of the
 spines, which consists in their general co-ordinated action for the
 purposes of locomotion and which is wholly independent of the
 external plexus.     Evidently, therefore, this more universal function
 must depend upon some other set of nervous connexions (which,
 however, we have not been able to detect histologically), and experi

1881.]           On the Locomotor System    of Echinodermata.             0
ment shows that these, if present, are distributed over all the internal
surface of the shell.     For if the internal surface be painted with acid,
or scoured      out with emery paper and brick-dust, the spines and
pedicellarise, after a short period of increased activity or bristling,
become perfectly quiescent, lie flat, and lose both their spontaneity
and irritability.      After a few hours, however, the spontaneity and
irritability of the spines return, though in a feeble degree, and also
those of the pedicellariae in a more marked degree. These effects
take place over the whole external surface of the shell, if the whole
of the internal surface be painted with acid or scoured with brick-
dust ; but if any part of the external surface be left unpainted or
nnscoured,      the corresponding part of the external surface remains
uninjured.        From these experiments we conclude : — 1st, that the
general co-ordination       of the spines is wholly dependent on the
integrity    of   the  hypothetical internal plexus ; 2nd, that the hypo
thetical internal plexus is everywhere in intimate connexion with the
external, apparently through the calcareous substance of the shell ;
and 3rd, that complete destruction of the former, while profoundly
influencing through shock the functions of the latter, nevertheless
does not wholly destroy them.
     Echini may be divided into pieces, and the pedicels, spines, and
pedicellari® upon these pieces will continue to exhibit their functions
of local reflex irritability, however small the pieces may be.        If an
 entire double row of pedicels be divided out as a segment, and then
placed upon its aboral end, it may rear itself up on its oral end by
the successive action of its pedicels, and then proceed to crawl about
 the floor of the tank.       We have therefore to meet the question : Is
 the action of the ambulacral feet in executing these righting move
ments of a merely serial kind — a, b, and c, first securing their hold on
the tank floor, owing to the stimulus supplied by contact, and then by
their traction tilting over the globe till d, e, and   / are able to touch
 the floor, and so on ; or does the righting action depend upon nervous
 co-ordination ? We conclude that both principles are combined, the
 action of the pedicels being serial, but also assisted by nervous co
 ordination. This conclusion is sustained by the experiment of shaving
 off the spines and pedicels over one-half of one hemisphere — i.e., the
 half from the equator to the oral pole. When then inverted and forced
 to use their mutilated pedicel-rows, the Echini reared themselves upon
  their equators, and then, having no more pedicels wherewith to con
  tinue the manoeuvre, came to rest. This rest was permanent, the
  animal remaining, if accidents were excluded, upon its equator till it
  died. The question, then, here seems to resolve itself simply into this :
  Is the mechanism       of the pedicels so constructed as to ensure that
  their serial action shall always take place in the same direction ? For if
   it can be shown that their serial action may take place indifferently in

 10              Mr. G.   J.   Romanes and Prof.         J.    C. Ewart.     [Mar. 24,
 either direction,    it would follow that the persistency           with which the
 partly shaved Echini continue   reared upon their equators, is the ex
pression of some stimulus (such as a sense of gravity) continuously
acting upon some central apparatus, and impelling the latter to a con
tinuous, though fruitless, endeavour to co-ordinate the absent pedicels.
If the pedicels are able to act serially in either direction, there is no
more reason why a partly shaved Echinus should remain permanently
reared       upon   its equator,    than      it should remain permanently
                                            that
inverted upon its pole ;         and therefore the fact that in the latter
position the pedicels set       about an immediate rotation of the animal,
while in the former, and quite as unnatural position, they hold the
animal in persistent stasis — this fact tends to show that the righting
movements of the pedicels are something more than serial.     Thus the
whole question as between the two hypotheses amounts to whether
the pedicels are able to act serially from oral to aboral pole. Observa
tion has shown us that they     are  so, for we have seen Echini spon
taneously rear themselves from their normal position on the oral pole,
to the position of resting upon their equators. Farther, as additional
evidence that the righting movements are at least assisted by some
centralising influence, is the fact that when the evolution is nearly
completed by the pedicel-rows engaged in executing          the lower  it,
pedicels in the other rows become strongly protruded and curved
downwards, in anticipation of shortly coming into contact with the
floor of the tank.
   But, on the other hand, there   evidence to show that the action of
                                           is
the pedicels in executing this manoeuvre, although, as we have seen, in
some    measure,    not exclusively dependent upon this centralising
                     is
influence   and we found that the centre from which this influence pro
             ;
ceeds    the nerve-ring that surrounds the lantern.
        is                                           For when this                  is
removed, the following results are produced.   The pedicels have their
spontaneity impaired, though not destroyed — the animal still continuing
to crawl, but only feebly, and no longer in a determinate manner,
frequently changing its direction of advance, and showing a marked
tendency to rotate upon its vertical axis.      Moreover the echinus                is
now no longer able to escape from injury, but when stimulated crawls
indifferently in any direction.     Thus, removal of the nerve-centre
seriously impairs the activity of the pedicles, and totally destroys their
co-ordination.       Yet when specimens         so mutilatedare inverted, one out
of every four specimens   able is        to right itself. This, however,      only
                                                                               is
done with much difficulty and            after a long time, so that, under these
circumstances,      the execution of      this manoeuvre seems to be just barely
possible.  Still the fact of its         being possible at all proves that the
integrity of the nerve-centre       is   not absolutely essential to its perform
ance.    Therefore,    as experiment       has failed  to reveal to us any other
general nerve-centre       in the animal,        and as even     segment of the
                                                                 a

  1881.]        On the Locomotor System     of Evhinodermata.                 11
 animal containing only a single row of pedicels is in       many cases able
 to perform this manoeuvre, we conclude, as already           stated, that the
 action of the pedicels is partly of a serial character,       though largely
 assisted by the co-ordinating influence that emanates        from the nerve-
 centre.
    The effect of this operation upon the spines and pedicellariee still
 remains to be considered.     No effect at all is produced upon the pedi-
 cellariae ; but upon the spines a profound influence  is seen to be exercised.
 Their spontaneity, indeed, remains unimpaired,       as does    also the func
 tion which they share with the pedicellariee of closing round any
 instrument of stimulation ; likewise their power of responsive bristling
 all over the animal when any part of the animal is severely stimulated
 continues to be manifested as before, although for an hour or two after
 the operation this power is suspended by shock.          But the general co
 ordination of the spines is totally and permanently destroyed, for if
 the animal be placed upon a table and a spirit-lamp flame held against
 one side, although all the spines will manifest their bristling movements
 (if the period of shock has been allowed to pass away), they will no
longer co-operate to remove the animal from the source of irritation.
These facts prove, 1st, that the general co-ordination of the spines is
wholly dependent upon the nerve-centre ; 2nd, that the spontaneity
and local reflex irritability are wholly independent of that centre —
they depend entirely upon the external nerve plexus ; and, 3rd, that
the universal nervous connexions revealed in the bristling movements
of the spines, and which, as shown by previously narrated experiments,
depend upon the hypothetical internal nerve plexus, are themselves in
nervous connexion with the nerve-centre.           For only thus can we
explain the long period of shock which removal of this centre entails
upon the functions of this supposed internal plexus.              Nevertheless,
the fact that these functions are eventually resumed in the general
bristling of the spines, proves that this general communication between
the spines is maintained by the direct couductility of the supposed
internal plexus, and is not of the nature of a reflex action, in which the
nerve ring is concerned as a general centre for the responsive, as distin
guished from the co-ordinated, action of the spines.
   These results taken together prove that all parts of the nervous
system of the Echinodermata are, in function as in structure, both
central and peripheral, although the nerve-ring exercises a larger
share of centralising influence than does any other part of the system.

12                  Profs. D. Ferrier and G. F. Yeo.          [Mar. 24,
II.   " The Functional Relations of the    Motor Roots of the Brachial
       and Lumbo-Sacral Plexuses."          By David Ferrier, M.D.,
       F.R.S., Professor of Forensic        Medicine,  and  Gerald F.
       Yeo, M.D.. F.R.C.S., Professor        of Physiology in King's
       College.   Received March 10, 1881.
    The functions subserved by the plexiform arrangement of the
nerves of the limbs, and the mode of distribution of the several roots
of the brachial and lumbo-sacral plexuses, have been the subject of
frequent speculation and of occasional experimental research ; and
the question is one of considerable physiological       and pathological
interest.   A mere naked-eye examination of the mode in which the
roots unite to form the larger trunks allows of an approximate deter
mination of the possible roots of each trunk ; and by more minute
dissection and maceration in dissociating liquids, as has been done by
W. Krause in the case of the brachial plexus (" Beitrage znr
Neurologie der Oberen Extremitat," 1865), the constituent fibres of
the nerve-trunks may be determined with greater precision.
    But it is obvious that anatomical dissection, however minute,       is
unable to discriminate between the sensory and motor constituents of
the nerve-trunks, or to indicate their functional relations and dis
tribution. The only possible methods by which this can be arrived at
are by determining the effects of excitation or destruction of the
individual roots of the plexus.
    Both methods have been employed by different investigators in the
case of several of the lower animals.
    Johannes Miiller and Van Deen experimented on the crural plexus
of the frog. From these, as well as from a consideration         of the
results of Kronenberg's experiments referred to below, Miiller came
to the conclusion that
                          " the
                                plexuses of nerves seem to be destined,
 as far as their motor power is concerned, to convey to each muscle
 fibres from different parts of the brain and spinal cord. . . .     The
 plexuses may also be intended to intermingle the sensitive and motor
 fibres in accordance with the wants of the parts to which the nerves
 are distributed
                  "             "
                     (Miiller's Physiology," translated by Baly, vol. i,
 p. 682).   Kronenberg (" Plexuum Nervorum Structura et Virtutes,"
 Berol, 1836, quoted by W. Krause, op. cit.) found that by mechanical
 or electrical stimulation of the roots of the brachial plexus in the
 rabbit, almost every muscle of the limb was thrown into action by
 each. His conclusions as to the functions of the plexus were essentially
 the same as those quoted from Miiller.
     A similar view was maintained by Bartolomeo Panizza, from the
 results of experiment on the crural plexus of frogs and goats.

1381.]          The Brachial and Lwnbo-Sacral Plexuses.                 13
("Rieherche Sperimentali Sopra i Nervi," Lettera del Professore
Bartolomeo Panizza al Professore Maurizio Bnfalini.               " Annali
Universali di Medicina," December, 1834.       Translated in   "
                                                                 Froriep's
Notizen," No. 945, March, 1835.)
    Panizza found that section of one root caused only temporary
weakness of the limb as a whole, a weakness which increased in pro
portion to the number of roots divided ; but there was no complete
paralysis till the last root was cut. He was of opinion that the
various roots had a community of function, the whole forming a
solidarity, but each by itself capable of maintaining the functions in
their integrity.
    The researches of Peyer (" Zeitschrift fur Rationelle Medicin,"
N. F., Bd. iv, 1854) on the peripheric distribution of the sensory
and motor roots of the brachial plexus in the rabbit were of greater
precision than those of Kronenberg.
    Peyer cut the roots of the plexus and ascertained, by exposure and
dissection, which muscles were made to contract by weak electrical
stimulation of each root. He also determined the region of distribu
tion of the sensory roots by cutting all the roots save one, and then
ascertaining in which area cutaneous stimulation still excited reflex
movements.
    The results obtained by Peyer as to the distribution of the motor
roots differ considerably from those of Kronenberg, and he gives, in a
tabular form, the respective muscles related to each root, from the
fifth cervical to the first dorsal.
   He found that most muscles received fibres from more than one
root, and that the muscles supplied by each root did not fall into such
simple groups as extensors, flexors, &c, but were more complicated.
The muscles nearer the hand were supplied by the roots nearer the
dorsal part of the cord.     As regards the sensory distribution, the rule
was that the sensory roots were distributed to the cutaneous surfaces
overlying the muscles supplied by the corresponding motor roots.
    Peyer's results were, in the main, confirmed by the researches of
W. Krause ("Beitrage zur Neurologie der Oberen Extremitiit," 1865).
Krau.se adopted the method of dividing the individual roots and then
tracing the lines of degeneration in the sensory and motor nerves,
according to the Wallerian law. He gives a tabular view of the
peripheric distribution of the various roots, sensory and motor, in
the work quoted, and again, with slight variations, in his work on the
anatomy of the rabbit (" Anatomie des Kaninchens," 1868, p. 247).
    Krause also made one interesting experiment on a monkey (Macactu
 eynomolyus) . He divided the sixth and seventh cervical nerves, and
 ascertained that no degeneration ensued in the ulnar or median
 sensory nerves of the hand.        He concluded, by analogy from the
 ascertained distribution in the rabbit, that the ulnar and median

14                 Profs. D. Ferrier and G.     F. Yeo.          [Mar. 24,
digital nerves were derived from the first dorsal and eighth cervical
nerves respectively.
   Passing from these experimental researches in the lower animals to
observations in man, we have a fact of considerable significance in
reference to the functional relations of the roots of the brachial
plexus, which was first pointed out by Erb (" Diseases of the Peri
                                                     "
pheral Cerebro-Spinal Nerves," in Ziemssen's           Cyclopaedia of the
Practice of Medicine," vol. xi, p. 561).        By faradisation over the
brachial   plexus, at a point corresponding with the exit of the sixth
cervical nerve from between the scaleni muscles, the deltoid, biceps,
brachialis, and supinator longus can be thrown into simultaneous con
traction.     At the same time, he says it is difficult to avoid the
mnsculo-spiral nerve, which can also, however, be separately excited.
We have ourselves found extension of the wrist a constant accompani
ment of the action of the above muscular group when it is at all distinct.
From the collocation      of  the  muscles   affected  in atrophic spinal
paralysis, it has been ably argued by B. Remalc (" Zur Pathogenese
der Bleilahmungen, Archiv fur Psychiatrie," 1876 ; and
                                                               " Ueber die
Localisation Atrophischer Spinal lahmungen nnd Spinaler Muskel-
atrophien," ibid., 1879) that functionally related or synergic muscles
are represented together in the anterior horns of the spinal cord ; and
he indicates, more or less tentatively, the probable position of the
centres of certain brachial and crural muscular groups in the cervical
and lumbar portions of the cord respectively.
   With the view of throwing light on these various questions by
physiological researches, which may be regarded as almost directly
applicable to man, we have made a series of experiments on the
motor roots of the brachial and lumbo-sacral plexuses in monkeys.
   The brachial plexus in the monkey corresponds in its constitution,
configuration, and distribution almost exactly with that of man.         It
is formed by roots from the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth
cervical, and the first dorsal nerves.    These unite and form the larger
nerve-trunks in essentially the same way as in man. The phrenic
nerve, however, arises from the third and fourth cervical, and does
not, so far as we have examined, receive a branch from the fifth, as is
usually the case in man.
   The lumbar and sacral plexuses, however, do not at first sight
appear to correspond, at least as regards the origin of the roots which
enter into their composition.     This is owing to the fact that there are
seven lumbar vertebrae in the monkeys we have examined.            If, how
ever, we detach the first lumbar vertebra and add it to the dorsal, so
as to make thirteen dorsal vertebrae, and count the last lumbar as the
first sacral, the harmony, as regards the mode of distribution of the
several roots, becomes complete. And, in one case which we examined,
there were rudimentary ribs attached to the first lumbar vertebra.       It

 1881.]           The Brachial and Lumbo-Sacral            Plexuses.              15
seems,   in fact, warrantable to make the constitution of the lumbar and
sacral   plexuses a means of determining to which group the variable
dorsal, lumbar,     and sacral vertebrae in monkeys should be referred.
    The mode of operation carried out by Dr. Yeo was as follows : — The
animals were deeply narcotised with chloroform, the vertebras over the
cervical   or lumbar nerves exposed, the arches removed so as to expose
the cord.      The dura mater was opened, and in the case of the cervical
and dorsal nerves the posterior roots were cut in order to avoid all
reflex movements on stimulation.            In the case of the roots forming
the cauda equina this was not necessary, as the anterior and posterior
roots run a long separate course, and can easily be isolated.                   The
motor roots were stimulated with closely approximated needle elec
trodes by means of the induced current of Du Bois Reymond's secon
dary coil.     A minimal current, barely perceptible on the tongue, and
just sufficient to produce distinct action, was employed, the distance
of the secondary coil varying from 20 centims. or less, according to
the degree of excitability of the nerves, which is liable to considerable
variation at various stages.         Every precaution was taken to insulate
the roots, and unavoidable        diffusion was more or less eliminated by
frequent repetition and uniformity in the results.            Occasionally, in the
case of the brachial plexus, where the clear exposure               of the roots is
somewhat difficult, we used as one pole aflat electrode over the sacrum
as a neutral      point, and stimulated the root by hooking it up on a
carved needle, which formed the other pole of the circuit.               The roots
were stimulated either inside or outside the sheath, according to where
they were    most conveniently reached.
    In observing the effects of stimulation, we directed our attention
more especially to the resultant muscular combination               rather than to
the mere    number of the muscles thrown into action.               It will be seen
that this is of no little importance, as the actions excited are all com
plex co-ordinated movements of great significance.             It is very difficult,
where so many events are occurring simultaneously,                to analyse each
 muscular combination into the individual factors at work ; and there
 fore the muscles which we state to be in action are those which we
 have collected from various observations,            the muscles being felt or
 partially exposed where it was       difficult to be  sure of their co-operation
 otherwise.      But we wonld not exclude, except when so stated, the co
 operation of other muscles which were necessarily removed from actual
 observation, except by dissection.
    But we believe    that these may be fairly determined by anatomical
 considerations    and by ascertained principles respecting the physiology
  of movements    applied to the individual actions described.
     We have experimented      seven times on the brachial plexus, once un
  successfully  ; and  six  times  on the lumbo- sacral plexus, twice with
  only partial success on two roots.

16                  Profs. D. Ferrier and G. F. Yeo.               [Mar. 24,
    The resultant actions have been very uniform, though occasionally
incomplete, any variations of importance being specially indicated.
                            The Brachial Plexus.
    Comprising the roots of the first dorsal, and the eighth to the fourth
cervical.
    First Dorsal.— Adduction of    the thumb,  and flexion  of  the fingers at
the   metacarpophalangeal joints. — The distal phalanges are slightly ex
tended, and the fingers spread. The transverse diameter of the hand
is diminished, and the dorsal aspect rendered more convex.
    The action is that of the intrinsic muscles of the hand. Along with
the action in the hand there is also contraction of the muscles on the
same side of the neck, causing the head to be drawn towards the
 shoulder.
    In our first two experiments      this action was more or less compli
cated by that described under the eighth cervical, due without doubt
 to imperfect isolation of the irritation.
     Eighth Cervical. — A complex action comprising _/?rrrc closure of the fist
 (intrinsic muscles and long flexors of fingers and thumb), pronation
 and flexion of the wrist (to the ulnar side), extension of the forearm
 with retraction of the upper arm (long head of the triceps specially in
 action). The extensor muscles on the back of the forearm generally
 were specially observed in two instances to be rigid also.
     The action here described may be exactly imitated by pulling some
 object hanging in front downwards and towards the hip, or by draw
 ing a scimitar from heel to point through some object lying in front.
     The muscles involved imply stimulation of nerves conveyed in the
 ulnar, median, and musculo-spiral.
     The pectoralis major seems also to co-operate in this movement in
 man, but it was not specially observed in our experiments, though the
 shoulder was observed to be depressed.          This would imply also the
 internal anterior thoracic, which anatomically is related to the cord
 formed by the eighth cervical and first dorsal.
     Seventh Cervical. — The upper arm is adducted, rotated inwards and
 retracted, and the forearm extended so as to bring the dorsum of the
  hand against   the rump, the wrist and fingers flexed (at their second
  phalanges), so as to bring the tips of the fingers towards the radial
  side and against the rump.
     The action here described is the scalptor ani movement, and involves
  the co-operation of numerous muscles.        The teres major, latissimus
  dorsi, and subscapularis appeared to be in action. The pectoralis major
  was noted in one instance also.       The triceps was also observed to be
  contracting, and also the long flexors of the fingers.
     These muscles would indicate stimulation of nerve-fibres       contained

  1881.]         The Brachial and Lumbo-Sacral         Plexuses.             17
 in the subscapulars, mnsculo-spiral, and median — possibly           also  the
 external anterior thoracic to the pectoralis major.
    Sixth Cervical. — The upper arm is adducted and retracted,        the fore
 arm extended and pronated, the wrist flexed, and the palm of the hand
 brought against the pubes.
    This movement generally occurs quickly, and the palm of the hand
 is brought smartly backwards towards the middle line.
    It seems to be the action which, if the hands were the fixed point,
 would raise the body upon a trapeze or branch.
    We noted the contraction of the pectoralis, the latissimus dorsi,
 triceps, and flexors of carpus.     The pronators were also evidently in
 action, though not visible.
    These muscles imply stimulation of the external anterior thoracic,
 long subscapular, and branches of the musculo- spiral and median
 nerve.
    Fifth Cervical. — The upper arm is raised upwards and inwards, the
forearm flexed and supinated, the wrist and basal phalanges extended.
 The fingers assume a claw position with their distal phalanges bent. —
 The result of this action is to bring the hand up to the mouth.
 Among the muscles in action we specially noted the deltoid, its
 clavicular portion more particularly, the serratus magnus, the flexors
 of the forearm — biceps, brachialis       anticus, and supinator longus.
 Also the extensors of the wrist and basal phalanges.
    These muscles imply stimulation of nerves conveyed by the circum
 flex, musculo-cutaneous,     and musculo-spiral,   and apparently     also the
 median    (long flexors of fingers).
    Fourth Cervical. — The shoulder and upper arm      are raised upwards and
 backwards, the forearm flexed and supinated (and the wrist extended). —
 The action here is in other respects similar to that of the fifth cervical,
 except in the raising the arm upwards and backwards.             The muscles
 we observed in action were the deltoid, the rhomboid, the supra- and
 infra-spinatus muscles, the flexors of the forearm and extensors of the
 wrist, though occasionally the last were not observed.
     During stimulation of this root respiration ceases from spasm of the
 diaphragm.
     The action described implies stimulation of fibres conveyed by the
 rhomboid, supra-scapular, circumflex, musculo-cutaneous, and musculo-
 spiral nerves, and also of the phrenic.
     We would likewise note a fact which may require further investiga
 tion, viz., that in one case in which we specially directed attention to the
 pupil, during stimulation of the motor roots from the first dorsal up
 to the fourth cervical, no action on the pupil was observed, though
 the usual movements of the limb occurred.          This is a fact which is of
  importance   in reference  to  the question of  a cilio-spinal centre in the
  lower cervical region of the cord.
     VOL. XXXII.                                                    C

 18                   Profs. D. Ferrier and G. F. Yeo.               [Mar. 24,
    At   present we merely note the above fact, reserving the subject for
future inquiry.
                       The Lumbo-Sacral (Crural) Plexus.
     The roots which supply motor fibres to the lower extremity comprise
 the first sacral, seventh, sixth, fifth, and fourth lumbar in the monkey,
 corresponding, as already indicated, to the second sacral, first sacral,
 fifth, fourth, and third lumbar in man respectively.
     Stimulation of the second sacral, and of the third and fourth sacral
in the instance where we exposed these roots, gave rise to movements
 of the tail.       We could not determine movements of the pelvic
 muscles.
    First Sacral (second sacral in man). — Adduction and flexion of hallux
 (basal phalanx), flexion of the proximal phalanges of the toes with
 slight separation and extension of the distal phalanges.         The tail also
moves     to  the  same  side. — The action   here  is  identical with that of
the first dorsal in the brachial plexus, and is due to the intrinsic
 muscles of the foot.
     Seventh Lumbar (first sacral in man). — Flexion of the leg (ham
 strings), plantar flexion of the foot (Rural muscles), adduction of
 the hallux and flexion of the toes at the proximal phalanges (as in first
 sacral) with the addition of flexion of the hallux at the distal plialanx
 (long flexor). — The thigh is slightly rotated outwards, so that the
 plantar aspect looks towards the middle line.
     The tibial and peroneal muscles and long flexors of the fingers do
 not act.
     The nerves in action are branches of the great sciatic and its internal
 popliteal divisions.
     Sixth Lumbar (fifth lumbar in man). — Rotation outwards of thigh
 (which assumes a position midway between extension and flexion),
flexum of the leg with inward rotation, so that the foot points inwards,
plantar flexion of the foot with flexion of the hallux and toes at their
 distal phalanges.      The outer edge of the foot is somewhat raised. —
 This complex action involves the co-operation of many muscles difficult
 to analyse.      We noted action of muscles in the gluteal region, the
 hamstrings,    sural muscles, long flexors, the tibialis anticus and posticus,
 the peroneal muscles, and also the extensors of the toes.
    This involves stimulation of nerves from the trunk, and from the
 external and internal divisions of the great sciatic nerve.
     Fifth Lumbar (fourth lumbar in man). — Extension of the thigh, exten
 sion   of the leg and pointing of great toe. — The combined result is
 straightening of the whole limb directly backwards, and seems to be
 the movement which immediately precedes the lifting of the foot to
take another step forward in the act of walking.

1881.]            The Brachial and Lumbo-Saeral        Plexuses.           1!)
    The innscles we observed in action are the gluteal, the adductors,
extensor     cruris, and the peroneus longus.      This latter explains the
pointing of the great toe by depression of the base of the first meta
tarsal bone ; and at the same time the raising of the outer edge of the
foot.     The sural muscles did not appear to contract.
    This apparently involves stimulation of nerves conveyed by the
superior gluteal, anterior crural, obturator, and musculo-cutaneous
branch of the external popliteal nerve.
    Fourth Lumbar (third lumbar in man). — Flexion of the thigh on the
pelvis and extension of the leg. — This brings the leg in the line straight
forwards.
    In addition to the ilio- psoas (evidently in action, though not visible),
the sartorius, adductors, and extensor cruris were observed to contract.
No action was observable in the muscles of the leg or foot.
    The nerves involved are conveyed by the anterior crural and obtu
rator trunks.
    Stimulation of the third lumbar (second in man) caused contraction
of muscles in the flank, but no action in the leg. The cremaster muscle
was not observed, though its contraction should be expected here.
 Stimulation of the second (first in man) and of the first lumbar nerves
caused contraction of some muscles in the flank and hypogastric region.
    It will be seen that the movements which result from stimulation of
 the individual roots of the brachial and crural plexuses are not mere
 contractions, more or less strong, of various muscles (though many
muscles are excited to contraction      by more than one root, as previous
 experimenters      have found), but a highly co-ordinated functional
 synergy in each case, as Remak has supposed.
    The muscles thrown into action by each root are innervated in most
 cases   by several nerve-trunks, whence it would appear that the plexi-
 form junctions of the various roots are for the purpose of distributing
 the requisite motor fibres in different trunks to the various muscles
 engaged in each functional combination.
     The result of section of each motor root would, therefore, be
 paralysis of the corresponding combination, not necessarily, however, of
 the individual muscles involved.      For, as many of these are innervated
 by more than one root, the degree of paralysis of the muscles would
 depend on the degree of motor innervation by the root divided ; and,
 therefore, while weakened, they might yet act in other combinations in
 so far as they were supplied by other roots.         Such appears to us the
 real explanation of the fact stated by Panizza, that there was no abso
 lute immobility of the limb in his experiments until every root was
 cut.
     It is evident that the cervical and lumbar enlargements of the spinal
  cord are centres of  highly co-ordinated muscular combinations.      Theso
  (as  Krause's researches on rabbits, compared with ours, would seem to
                                                                 C 2

  20              Mr.   J. N. Langley.       On the Histology and        [Mar. 24,
  indicate) may differ in different animals according to their habits and
  modes of activity.
      The results we have obtained are capable of numerous physiological
  and pathological applications, but for the present we content ourselves
  with the above brief statement of some of the more obvious conclu
  sions which they seem to justify.
  III.   " On the Histology and Physiology of the Pepsin-forming
         Glands." By J. N. Langley, M.A , Fellow of Trinity
         College, Cambridge.           Communicated            by Dr. MlCHAEL
         Foster, F.R.S. Received March 11, 1881.
                                    (Abstract.)
      This paper contains an account of observations upon Jtana tempararia,
 Bafo vulgaris, Triton tceniatus, Triton cristatus, and Coluber natrix.
     In these animals the changes which take place in the pepsin-forming
 glands under various conditions, viz., digestion of varying amounts of
 food, attempted digestion       of indigestible      substances, as sponge, and
fasting, were noted.
      Omitting the pyloric glands, which in these animals form only a
 minimal amount of pepsin, all the pepsin-forming                  glands present
certain phenomena in common.             In  all, the living gland-cells contain
granules, which diminish during digestion.                In each the amount of
pepsin* contained by a definite weight of the gland-bearing mucous
membrane is proportionate to the amount of granules contained by the
gland-cells.      An increase or diminution of the cell-granules, in what
ever way it is brought about, is accompanied by a corresponding
increase or diminution in the pepsin-content of the cells.             Further, in
different parts of the pepsin-forming region the amount of pepsin
present is proportional to the granularity of the cells.
     Hence we may conclude that the granules consist wholly, or in part,
of pepsin or of some substance capable of giving rise to pepsin.
     In some of these animals certainly, and probably in all, the fresh
glands contain only a minimal quantity of pepsin, but, on the other
hand, a large quantity of a substance from which pepsin can be
obtained, i.e., zymogen.       It follows, then, that in the previously men
tioned estimation of pepsin, the pepsin found resulted from the splitting
up of zymogen, and consequently that the amount of zymogen con
tained by the gland-cells is proportional to their granularity.
    * The dried mucous membrane    was extracted   with one hundred times its weight
of hydrochloric acid, 0-2 per cent.   Griitzner's  colorimelric method was used in
niiiking the estimations.

1881.]           Physiology of   the Pepsin-forming Glands.              21
   Hence we may conclude that the granules consist not of pepsin, but
wholly or in part of zymogen.
   The processes in these pepsin-forming glands, then, closely resemble
the processes which go on in the pancreatic gland.          The cell-proto
plasm stores up zymogen.        At the moment of secretion the- zymogen
is converted   into ferment, and   probably other organic substances found
in the fluid secreted.
   In all the glands, with the exception perhaps of those of the snake,
the cells, which diminish somewhat in size as well as in granularity in
the first period of digestion, recover more or less completely their
normal size and their normal granularity during the latter period of
digestion.    In  other words, at a time when the using up of granules
is still proceeding, fresh granules are formed ; and, since the granules
result from protoplasmic metabolism, we may conclude, bearing in
mind the increase in size of the cells, that the protoplasm is also
growing.
   Thus in any gland-cell,       during at any rate the greater part of
digestion, three processes     are going on at the same time, viz., the
growth of protoplasm, the       formation of zymogen by^the protoplasm,
the conversion of zymogen      into secretory products.    There are certain
reasons which make it in a     high degree probable   that  these three pro
cesses go on during the whole of the digestive period.        Under certain
conditions, there is a preliminary increase in the size of the cells and the
granules before the normal decrease sets in. When the decrease in the
size of the cells does set in, it is not sufficient to allow us to suppose
that there is no growth of protoplasm ; the casting out of the granules
which have disappeared would, if there were no protoplasmic growth,
leave the cell much smaller.          The analogy of the change in the
mucous salivary glands during secretion affords an instance in which
the cell- protoplasm increases steadily during activity.
   Lastly, as regards the granules, it is clear that there might be a
fairly rapid formation of granules without any obvious change in the
cell, provided the using up of granules went on at an equal rate.
   On the whole, then, it may be, I think, fairly concluded, that, from
the beginning to the end of the digestive period, the three processes
mentioned go on. If this be the case, the different appearances of any
cell as regards size and granularity depend upon the relative rates
with which the three processes proceed at different times.
   When the amount of change which takes place in the gland-cells of
different animals during digestion is compared, very wide differences
are found.     The most striking comparison is perhaps afforded by the
glands in Triton tceniatus and those in Triton cristatus. At the fourth
hour of digestion, when the cells have apparently secreted approxi
mately proportional amounts of pepsin, i.e., when they have used up
an approximately      proportional amount of granules, the observable

22       On  the  Histology, fyc,   of Pepsin-forming Glamls.       [Mar. 24,
diminution of granules in the gland-cells of Triton cristatns is enor
mously less than the observable diminution of granules in the gland-
cells of Triton tceniatus.
   This can, I think, only result from the formation of granules pro
ceeding more hand-in-hand with the using up in the former than in
the latter.
   This and other similar facts lead us to conclude that the differences
in the amount of histological change which takes place in the pepsin-
forming glands of different animals, is the consequence of the three
changes above-mentioned proceeding in each animal at different
relative rates.
   It is well known that in various glands, typically the pancreas, the
granules are found during secretion aggregated around the lumina,
the outer portions of the cells being non-granular and homogeneous.
The cause of this appearance is, no doubt, in part due to a more rapid
growth of protoplasm in the outer than the inner portions of the
cells ; in part, also, I  think it is due to the granules being moved by
the protoplasm towards the lumen.              It is necessary, I think, to
assume fluch a transference of granules, 'since neither the unequal
growth of protoplasm, nor, what might also be imagined, an unequal
using up of granules in the two regions of the cells, is sufficient to
account for the changes which take place.           Since the granules before
they disappear become smaller, they will be smaller in that part of
the sell in which they are being used up most actively.             But, as a
matter of fact, the granules are equally affected throughout the cell,
so that the outer clear zone cannot arise       from a more rapid using up
of granules   in that  part  of the cell.   As   to the more rapid growth of
protoplasm, it fails to explain how the granules, which in the first
stage of digestion become few and scnttered in the outer half of the
cell, can in the latter stages of digestion be arranged in a dense mass
around the lumen ; it leads, moreover, to the very improbable hypo
thesis that when the granules have entirely disappeared from the cells,
the cell protoplasm has completely regrown from the periphery.
   The pepsin-forming glands which we are considering in this paper,
offer some other interesting forms of cell activity. In some no dis
tinction of zones occurs, the granules become smaller and less
frequent in all parts of the cells, without any alteration in their
relative distribution ; in others there is formed a small non-granular zone
in the inner part of the cells: This inner non-granular zone, though
obvious enough in certain states of the glands, does not reach the
proportions which the outer non-granular zone attains in the pancreas
and other similarly constructed glands.
   Further, we find, in these glands, all stages of transition between
the three types of cell-change in activity which have just been men
tioned.    Thus, the oesophageal glands of the frog form a large outer

1881.]               On the Coefficients      of Expansion,      fyc.
non-granular zone, the oxyntic glands* of Triton tamiatus, form nor
mally a less developed, though distinct, outer zone, this being less in
the posterior than in the anterior oxyntic glands.                  In the glands of
 Triton cristatus, the outer zone is reduced to a minimum, or is repre
sented only by a greater thinning out of granules in the peripheral
part of the cells ; the scanty oesophageal glands of the toad show
a bare trace of a similar difference in the two parts of the cell. In the
greater number of the oxyntic glands of the snake, and in the anterior
oxyntic glands of the stomach of the toad, neither an outer nor an
 inner zone is formed, but in passing backwards to the posterior oxyntic
 glands in both of these animals, an inner non-granular zone gradually
 becomes obvious.       The inner zone reaches its greatest development, so
 far as I have observed, in the posterior oxyntic glands of the frog.
    In this brief account the general conclusions which can, think,            I
 be drawn from the study of the pepsin-forming glands are only given,
 I have made no reference to the important papers of Heidenhain,
 Griitzner, Swiecicki, Nussbaum, Partsch, and others on the same
subject.      I have discussed their work in the fuller paper, which con
tains the details on which the conclusions here given are based.
                                  March 31, 1881.
                        THE PRESIDENT in                the Chair.
    The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered
for them.
    The following Papers were read          : —
I. " On     the Coefficients of Expansion of the Di-iodide of Lead,
        Pbl^ and of an Alloy of Iodide of Lead with Iodide of
        Silver, PbI2.AgI." By G. F. Rodwell, F.R.A.S., F.C.S.,
        Science Master in Marlborough College.                       Communicated
        by Professor A. W. Williamson, For. Sec. R.S. Received
        March 10, 1881.
                                    (Abstract.)
    The    author having referred to his previous papers on the co
efficients of the iodides of silver and mercury, and of certain chloro-
                                " oxyntic" (o^vveiv, to make sour, to
   •  I propose to use the term                                           acidulate) for
those glands which are called by    different   observers  by the  inappropriate names
" fundus," " peptic," or " rennet " glands.

21                    On   the Coefficients  of Expansion,     fyc.        [Mar. 31,
bromidides of silver, continues the same methods of determining the
coefficients of the iodide of lead, and of an alloy of the iodides of lead
and    silver.    Various alterations in the apparatus, which by the
diminution      of  friction and other means have rendered it much more
delicate than before, are described.           The iodide of lead was found to
possess    three    coefficients  of expansion ; the first for temperatures
between 0° and 205°C.—
                                        •00008317    cubical expansion for 1°C.     ;
the second, a very high coefficient, between 205° C. and 253° C. —
                                        •0006378   ;
and    the    third, for     temperatures     between     253°C.    and   the  fusing
point —
                                        •000180.
The volumes at the different temperatures are given and tabulated,
and the curve of expansion is plotted.
   The lead silver iodide, PbI3.AgI, is next examined.
   It contains in 100 parts : —
      Iodide of lead                66-206            Lead             29-7449
      Iodide of silver              33 794            Silver            15 5642
                                                     Iodine             54 "6909
                                  100 -000                            100 -0000
   Between       0°  and 118°    C, it slowly     expands when heated, with a
cubical coefficient for 1° C. of
                                       •0000306.
   Then for a few degrees (118—124° C), it simply absorbs heat
without contracting or expanding.                On reaching a temperature of
124° C, the mass commences to contract on further heating, and this
continues until a temperature of 139° C. is attained.                 Details of the
contraction are given, and the curve of contraction is compared with
that of the iodide of silver.         Between 139 and 144° C, heat is again
absorbed without change of volume ; and above 144° C. the alloy
expands somewhat rapidly, with a coefficient of
                                       •0001150.
The volumes at various temperatures between 0° and the fusing point
are given, and are shown in a curve.
   The following points are noted in regard to the alloy : —
   1. It possesses a similar density at three different temperatures, as
at 0° C, 130° C., and 282° C.
   2. Although it contains only 33'794 per cent, of iodide of silver, it
contracts as considerably during heating as the iodide of silver itself.

1881.]    Permanent Molecular Torsion       of   Conducting    Wires.    25
   3. While the iodide of silver commences its contraction at 142° C,
and finishes it at 145°"5 C, the alloy commences to contract 18° C.
lower (viz., at 124c C.) and finishes 6°-5 C. lower (viz., at 139° ¥.).
   4. The chlorobromiodides      of silver (" Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 25,
p. 292)   also began to contract  on heating (an effect which, of course,
we must attribute solely to the presence of iodide of silver), at 124° C,
but they finished at 133° 0.
   5. The harsh sounds emitted by the alloy during cooling, and the
tremors simultaneously propagated through the mass, prove that
violent molecular agitation is going on at such time as the iodide of
silver is passing from the amorphous plastic condition to the brittle
crystalline condition, within the mass of the iodide of lead.
   6. The fusing point of the alloy is 125° C. lower than that of the
iodide of silver, which constitutes one-third of its weight, while it is
only 19° C. higher than that of the iodide of lead, which constitutes
two-thirds of its weight.
    7. If the lowering of the fnsing point (also markedly apparent in
the case of the chlorobromiodides       of silver) is due to the fact that
similar particles of matter attract each other more powerfully than
dissimilar, and hence when the particles of two bodies are mutually
diffused, the attraction becomes less, and the molecular motion is
consequently more readily assimilated, the same cause may serve to
explain the commencement of the phase of contraction on heating the
alloy at a temperature of 18° C. lower than the substance to which it
owes this property.
   The lead silver iodide alloy is finally compared with a chlorobrom-
iodide of silver, which latter, although it contains 8 per cent, more of
iodide of silver than the lead silver iodide alloy, undergoes a contraction
on heating, which is more than twenty times less, although in both
cases we must regard the effect as solely due to the iodide of silver.
II.   "Permanent Molecular Torsion of Conducting Wires pro
       duced by the Passage of an Electric Current." By Pro
       fessor D. E. Hughes, F.R.S. Received March 17, 1881.
  In   a paper   on   " Molecular Electro-Magnetic Induction,"     presented
to the Royal Society March    7, 1881 (p. 524), I gave a description of
the  induction currents produced by the torsion of an iron wire, and
the method by which they are rendered evident.      The electro-magnetic
induction balance there described is so remarkably sensitive to the
slightest internal strain in anywise submitted to        it,
                                                          that   Iat once
perceived that the instrument could not only determine any me
chanical strain such as torsion or longitudinal stress, but that it might
indicate the nature and cause of internal strains.      Upon putting tho

26                                    Prof. D. E. Hughes.                               [Mar. 31,
question to      it,   does    the passage of electricity through   wire produce
                                                                               a
a change     in its structure           the answer came,
                                          ?                  does, and that to a
                                                                it
very considerable             extent  for an iron wire adjusted to perfect zero,
                                      ;
and which would remain    free from any strain for days, becomes in
stantaneously changed by the first passage of   current from a single
                                                                a
cell of Daniell's battery  the wire has now a permanent twist in a
                                      ;
direction coinciding with that of the current, which can                               be   brought
again to zero by mechanically untwisting the wire, or undoing that
which the passage of electricity has caused. Before describing the
new phenomenon,      will state that the only modification required in
                          I
the apparatus,      switch or key by means of which the telephone
                        is   a
upon the wire circuit     thrown out of this circuit, and the current
                                     is
from a separate battery of two bichromate cells passed through the
wire alone, at the same time, care being taken that no current
passes through the coil, but that its circuit should remain open during
the passage of the electric current through the wire under observation                            ;
an extra switch on this circuit provides for this.     The reason for not
allowing two currents to react upon each other,         to avoid errors of
                                                                     is
observation which may be due to this cause alone.        When, however,
we take an observation,  the battery   upon the coil and the telephone
                                                      is
upon the wire alone an experiment thus consists of two operations.
                                 ;
First, all external communications interrupted, and an electric current
passed through the wire and, second, the electric current taken off
                                          ;
the wire, and all ordinary communications restored.     As this is done
rapidly by means of the switches, very quick observations can be
made, or    desired the effects of both currents can be observed at the
            if
same instant.
     Now,   Iplace upon the stress bridge a soft iron wire
            if                                                      millim. dia    ^
meter, 25 centims. long,     find,   no previous strain existed in the wire,
                                              it if
                                     I
a perfect zero, and    canImake      so  either by turning       slightly backit
wards or forwards, or by heating    the   wire  to a red heat. If now give             I
a torsion to this wire, find that its maximum value
                                 I                             with 40° torsion,
                                                                          is
and that this   torsion  represents   or  produces    electric  currents whose
value in sonometric    degrees    50   each degree of torsion up to 40
                                              is      ;
produces    regular
             a       increase, so that  once knowing the value of any
wire, we can predict from any sonometric readings the value in torsion,
or the amount of torsion in the opposite direction     would require to  it
produce a perfect zero.
   If now place this wire at zero, and thus knowing that
            I                                                   entirely            it   is
free from strain,   pass an electric current through it,
                             1                            find that this       I
wire   isno longer free from strain, that     now gives out induction
                                                           it
currents of   the value of 40, and   although   there    no longer any    is
battery current passing through this wire that the strain    permanent,            is
the outside coil neither increasing or diminishing  the  internal strain
                                                                     ;
ithas received by the passage of an electric current through the wire,

1881.]       Permanent Molecular           Torsion   of   Conducting        Wires.        27
npon giving a torsion to the wire in one direction,              I
                                                       find the inductive
force increase from 40 to 90, but in the other direction it is brought to
zero, and the amount of torsion some 35° required to bring the wire
again to zero represents exactly    the twist or strain that had been
produced instantaneously   by the passage of an electric current.   If                     I
repeat the experiment,  but reverse  the battery current  sent  through
the wire,    I
            find an opposite twist of exactly the same value as pre
viously, and that         it now requires an opposite torsion to again bring
the wire to zero.    It is not necessary, however, to put on an equal
opposite  torsion on  wire to bring the currents to zero, for, as have               I
shown in my late paper, the sonometer not only allows us to measure
the force and indicate its direction, but allows us to oppose an equal
electric current of opposite name, thus producing an electrical zero in
place of the mechanical one produced by torsion.
   Evidently here there has been a sudden change in the structure of
the wire, and it is a twist which we can both measure and reproduce.
The question at once becomes, has a molar twist been given to the
wire such as would be detected by the arm or free end of the wire,
or a molecular change leaving no trace upon its external form of what
has passed       ?
   It will    be found that, notwithstanding that it requires some 40°
of torsion to annul the effects of a passage of an electric current, no
visible movement nor any tendency of the free end to turn in the
direction of the twist it has received can be observed. I believe,
however, to have noticed a slight tremor or movement of half a
degree, but as I could not always reproduce                it,and as   it    so slight
                                                                             is
compared with the 40° of internal twist,              I     have not taken        into
                                                                                     it
account, for        the wire
                     if          is  firmly   fastened     at   both  ends,  no  molar
torsion being possible, except an elastic one, which would instantly
spring back to zero, the current on passing produces its full effects of
twist and
             it
             is   permanent.       Thus, the molecules have in some extra
ordinary way rearranged          themselves     into a permanent twist, without
the slightest external indication of so great a change having taken
place.   An equally remarkable change takes place in aid of, or against
(according to direction of current) an elastic permanent strain.
Thus,  ifI   first put the wire under 40° right-handed permanent tor
sion,
    I   find its value to be 50.         Now, passing the positive of battery
through its free end, and negative to fixed end, the induction currents
rise at once in value to 90           ;   if,
                                            now, the negative          ismomentarily
passed   through     the   free   end   and  positive    to   fixed  end  the induced
currents at    once   fall to  10, and   these   effects  remain,    for on taking off
the elastic torsion the wire no longer comes to zero, but has the full
twist value produced by the current.
   Tempered steel gave only one or two degrees against 50 for soft
iron, but supposing this might be due to its molecular rigidity,                 care
                                                                                  I

28       Permanent          Molecular Torsion   of   Conducting   Wires.   [Mar. 31,
fully brought          the wire to zero, and then observed the first contact
only.         I   found, then, that the first contact gave a value of 40, but
the second and following only one or two.       By bringing the wire
back to zero by a momentary touch with a magnet, a continued force
of 40, or if constant reversals were used instead of a simple contact,
there was constant proof of a similar great molecular change by the
passage of a current in steel as well as iron.
     I
     can find no trace of the reaction of the wire upon the magnetism
of the earth, as in all positions the same degree of force was obtained
if great care is take that the wire is absolutely free from longitudinal
magnetism.   There              is,
                      however, a slight reaction upon its own return
wire   brought within
         if             centim. distance of the wire, and this reduces
                                  1
the twist some 10°.   The maximum effects are obtained when the
return wire   not nearer than 25 centims. thus, the action
                    is                                   ;         not           is
one produced by a reaction, but by direct action upon its internal
structure.
   Copper and silver wires so far show no trace of the action.                        I
believe, however, that a similar strain takes place in all conductors,
and  I have obtained indirectly indications of this fact in order, how
                                                                   ;
ever, to verify this, would require a different method of observation
from the one       have described, and
                        I                   have not yet perfected the
                                                 I
apparatus required.
   It seemed probable that    approached a strong permanent magnet
                                      if
                                      I
to the wire,  should perceive
                  I           a twist similar to that produced by the
passage of a current but no such effects were observed, but
                                ;                                 has            it
a most remarkable effect of instantly bringing to zero a strain pro
duced by the current, and, no matter which pole, the effect was the
same.   Thus,  strain of 50°, which remains a constant, instantly dis
                        a
appears upon the production of longitudinal magnetism, and       have            1
found this method of reducing an iron wire to zero of strain far more
effective than any other method yet tried, such as vibrations, heat,
twisting, &c.
   It will be seen from this that the molecular arrangement set up
by magnetism         very different from that produced by the passage
                         is
of an electric current. It evidently has a structure of its own, else
it  would not have instantly destroyed the spiral strain left by the
passage of electricity         had not taken up a new form, as rendered
                                if
                                it
evident in the longitudinal magnetism, which we could at once per
ceive on the wire. This question, however, belongs to a separate
investigation, and hope the apparatus will aid me later in throwing
                            I
some new light upon this subject.
   Another method of reducing the wire to zero, after the passage of
a current,       to keep the wire in a constant state of vibration. It
                   is
requires  in  time  about one minute to bring     to zero, but
                                                          it     on the    if,
contrary,    set the wire vibrating during the passage of the current,
              I

  1881.]       On the Tendinous   Intersection  of the Digastric.        29
 the permanent       twist becomes greater and more difficult to reduce
 to zero.
    If a wire which has internal      strains  is heated to redness, these
 strains almost entirely disappear, and I      can thus reduce by heat a
 strain which a current had produced, but heat, whilst allowing of
 greater freedom and motion of its molecules, does not prevent an
 internal strain being set up, for whilst heat can reduce the wire to
 zero, after the passage of the current, the effects are increased.      If,
 during the time that the wire is at a red heat, the current is passed
 in the same time, and at the same instant we take off the current and
 the external heat, the wire when cold will be found to have a higher
 degree of strain than previously possible with the wire when cold.
    We have seen that both mechanical vibrations and heat can reduce
 the wire to a zero, but its action is very slow, several minutes being
 required ; but the action of electricity in producing a permanent twist
 is exceedingly quick.     I have found that a single contact, whose dura
tion was not more than O'Ol of a second, was equal to that of a
prolonged contact of several minutes, and magnetism was equally as
quick in reducing this strain to zero. And it is the more remarkable
when we consider the very great mechanical force required by torsion
of the wire to untwist the strain produced in an instant of time by
electricity.
    The results   I have given are those obtained upon soft iron wires of
^  millim.,  but  I have experimented with different sizes up to 3 millims.
diameter. The results with 1 millim. diameter were quite as evident
as the   \  millim., but on the 3 millim. wire the strain was reduced
to 25° instead of 50°, owing to the extreme rapidity and low electrical
resistance compared with my small battery wires.           On a telegraph
line, the wire of which is almost entirely of iron, there must be a very
great strain set up, which, however, would remain a constant, except
where reversed currents are used, and in this case a constant move
ment of the molecules of the wire must be the result.
    I believe it to be most important that we should determine, as far
as we can by experimental         research, the nature of all molecular
changes produced by electricity and magnetism, and in this belief
1 am happy in being able to bring this paper before the Royal
Society.
III. " On    the Tendinous Intersection of the Digastric."          By G.
       E.  Dobson, M.A., M.B. Communicated by Professor              J.  D.
       Macdonald, M.D., F.R.S.          Received March 14, 1881.
    The digastric muscle in man and in many other mammals consists
as  is well known, of an anterior and a posterior portion, united by a

 30                             Mr. G. E. Dobson.                          [Mar. 31,
 tendon, or having their limits defined by an intermediate tendinous
 intersection.     In most mammals, however, this tendinous intersection
 is either very feebly defined, or it is altogether absent.             What, then,
is its meaning when present, and on what does its relative development
 depend ?
    The distinct tendon which exists between the anterior and posterior
bellies of the digastric in man and in other Primates, might reasonably
be supposed to be produced by tension from the aponeurotic               loop, which
attaches    it to the greater   cornu of the hyoid bone ; but in many species
of other orders a tendon        or tendinous intersection is found where the
connexion of this muscle         with the hyoid bone is either very feeble, or
distributed equally over         the whole extent of its anterior belly, or
obsolete ; and in which, moreover, the direction of the intersection,
where it traverses the substance of the muscle, is almost invariably
oblique* and directed downwards, forwards, and inwards in a direction
leading from and not towards the hyoid. The true significance of the
tendinous intersection       is to be found, as     I shall  endeavour to show,    in
the remarkable       form assumed by the anterior belly of the muscle in
certain species.
    While engaged in the dissection of a specimen of that rare mammal
 Gymnura rafflesii,\      I was much struck by the peculiar form of the
anterior belly of     the digastric.     About the middle of the muscle, at its
narrowest part, it is traversed by an oblique tendinous intersection
more marked internally, arising from the upper margin, which is con-
tinned inwards and slightly forwards from its lower and internal
 margin as a tendinous band across the mylo-hyoid muscle, to unite in
front of the hyoid bone with the corresponding band from the opposite
side. From the tendinous raphe thus formed, muscular fibres arise,
which, extending forwards and inwards, cover the anterior three-
fourths of the mylo-hyoid and part of the genio-hyoid muscles, and
passing above the margins of the anterior bellies of the digastric
muscles of opposite sides, are inserted with them and for some distance
in front of them, into the rami of the mandible.
    This horizontal muscular expansion, which takes its origin thus
from the tendinous intersection and its median continuation, might
also be described as a deep division of the anterior belly of the muscle,
commencing at the tendinous intersection, and uniting with its fellow
of the opposite side along the middle line between the jaws. Its
   • In some species it is nearly straight, but this does not depend on attachment to
                                          I
the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, as purpose showing further on.
     I
   t owe the opportunity which has been afforded me of examining the anatomy
of this rare species to the kindness of Mr. W. T. Blanford, F.R.S., whom       I have
also to thank for many specimens of Oriental Insectivora, which have furnished me
with much valuable material in working out my systematic and anatomical mono
graph of the Imectivora.

 1881.]        On the Tendinous Intersection        of the Digastric.            31
 posterior   margin, the tendinous raph6, above described, is concave,
quite free from the hyoid bone, but attached to a fascial aponeurosis,
which passes backwards over it and the sterno-hyoid muscles.
   On   removing this muscular expansion, the mylo-hyoid muscles are
 fonnd   beneath, very thin, not extending half the distance between
the hyoid bone and the symphysis menti.
   In Ttipaia ellioti the anterior bellies of the digastric also unite in the
middle line between the jaws, but there is no separate superficial
external    lamina in direct continuation with the posterior belly as in
 Gymnura rafflesii.     The intersecting tendon is narrower but more dis
tinct, arises as in that species from the upper margin of the muscle,
and is continued downwards, forwards, and inwards to unite with the
corresponding tendon from the opposite side across the mylo-hyoid,
precisely as in O. rafflesii; but, unlike its condition in that species,
it is closely adherent to the muscle on which it lies, and is connected
 by a strong fibrous aponeurosis with the body of the hyoid bone, while
the greater cornn receives also some tendinous fibres from the lower
margin of the posterior belly.     The united anterior bellies pass forwards,
taking   their  origin  from  the tendinous      raphe, and, separating slightly
near the symphysis, are inserted into the rami of the mandible, and
by a fibrous aponeurosis into the symphyseal angle.                The mylo-hyoid
muscles, nearly wholly concealed by them, are, as in 0. rafflesii, feebly
developed, and do not extend more than half their length.
   In Chiromys madagaseariensis, the anterior bellies of the digastric
muscles are united between the jaws,* but in other Lemuroids, as also
in man, they are separate, each
                                                              " two thick
                                             consisting of                    fleshy
bellies with a long and strong median tendon. "t               In Loris gracilis I
fonnd a strongly marked oblique tendinous intersection                 (which has
been described       as a rudimentary tendon),         J connected by a fibrous
aponeurosis with the greater cornu of the hyoid bone and also with
the surface of the mylo-hyoid in front of it, so that here we have
evidently a case of oblique           tendinous       intersection passing into
tendon.
   In E. macrocephahts and in E. minor, among the Chiroptera,               I found
the    anterior bellies double, the deep lamina united and forming a
horizontal muscular expansion extending backwards even behind the
hyoid bone, but wholly unconnected with it, its posterior                   margin
being    connected      laterally  with      the   tendinous     intersection and
medially with a fascial aponeurosis loosely covering the sterno-hyoid
muscles.      It is especially interesting to note that here, where union of
the muscles extends        so far backwards, the tendinous intersection is
vertical, or nearly so, and the direction of the fibres of the deep or
     * Owen, " Trans. Zool. Soc.," v, p. 43.
                            "
        Murie and Mivart, Trans. Zool. Soc.," vii, p. 18.
     t
      X By Van der Kolk and Vrolik, referred to by Murie and Mivart, loc. cU.

32                                Mr. G. E. Dobson.                              [Mar. 31,
internal lamina transverse, while those of the superficial external part
spring from it at right angles to its direction and pass forwards to
their insertion into the jaw at a short distance in front of their origin.
Here then we have a vertical tendinous intersection unconnected with
the hyoid bone. The mylo-hyoids are altogether absent, their places
and part of their function being evidently taken by the united
digastrics, which extend almost the whole length of the jaws ; while
their action on the hyoid is performed by the greatly developed genio
hyoid muscles.
   In the much larger but externally very similar species,* Epomo-
plioriis franqueti, the anterior bellies of the digastrics are single and
not united between the rami of the mandible, and the mylo-hyoids
are present and well developed ; the tendinous intersection described
above     nevertheless, visible, and though much less defined than in
            is,
E. minor, occupies precisely the same relative position, and has the
same      vertical direction.
     In        nipaleiisis the digastrics are very large and united
          Herpestes
between the jaws the tendinous intersection
                          ;                     nearly vertical and
                                                            is                          is
continued inwards to unite with the corresponding band from the
opposite side slightly behind the hyoid bone. The raphe thus formed
is connected with the fascia covering the sterno-hyoid muscles     and              ;
the deep surface of the united bellies   inseparably united, along the
                                               is
middle line, with the very feebly developed mylo-hyoids which they
conceal altogether.
   In man, as an anomaly, the fibres of the two anterior bellies have
been found blended with each other, and expanded into a muscular
plane with considerable attachment to the jaws         or the anterior
                                                                  ;t
belly has  been found double, the  second part uniting  with its fellow
in a median    raphe below the chin, overlapping the mylo-hyoid
muscle    or the tendon of intersection not unfrequently
          J ;                                               continued   is
from one side across to the other, forming    zone immediately above
                                                        a
the hyoid bone, to the body of which      tied down by fibrous tissue
                                              it   is                                    ;
from the upper surface of this the anterior bellies arise, either a,
distinct, or      (3,   more rarely inseparable.
                                               §
     It   may be observed       that this last described conditionprecisely is
that of the same muscles in Tupaia ellioti, and        extremely interest
                                                                 is
ing, as evidently indicating reversion to a state of the muscle, pro
bably once normal in ancient mammalian types, and which                now         is
represented  in man  and  most other  mammals    by a fascial layer only —
the supra-hyoid apo)ieurosis — which,  springing  from  the tendons of the
  *   All the species of this genus agree very closely in certain external characters.
     " Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus.," p.
(See                                     5.)
 t   Fleischmann, quoted by McWhinnie, " Lond. Med. Otaz.," xxxTii, p. 186.
                                     " Trans.
  X  Wood, quoted by Macalister,              Koy. Irish Acad.," xxv,   33.
                                                                       p.
 §   Macalister, Inc. cit.

 1881. J         On the Tendinous       Intersection     of the Digastric.           33
  digastric muscles of opposite sides, extends between their anterior
  bellies, covering the mylo-hyoid and part of the genio-hyoid muscles,
  as the similarly placed muscular expansion in Gijmnura and in Tupaia.
     In the species of the genus Erinaceus (the only other genus in
  cluded with Gymnura in the family Erinaceidce), a superficial oblique
  tendinous intersection occupies precisely the same position as in Gym
  nura, but is much less developed; it extends from the upper margin
  of the muscle (which is nearly of the same calibre from its origin to
 its insertion), appearing on both surfaces as an oblique tendinous
 inscription, and on reaching its lower margin is continued inwards
  into a fascial expansion extending between the anterior bellies of the
 muscles of opposite sides, covering the mylo-hyoid          muscle, but no
 muscular fibres arise from it, as in Gymnura. In Gentnles ecaudatas and
 Hemicerttetes   madaijascarieiisis, in Pteropus edulis and medius, and pro
 bably in all the species of that genus, in Epomoplwrus franqueti
  (referred to above), in Megaderma lyra, in Phoca communis, and in
 Cavia aperea, for instance, though the fascial expansion may be either
 absent or feebly marked, the transverse tendinous inscription is trace
 able, although its presence in some, as in Centetes ecaudatus, is indicated
 only by a fnint superficial oblique line surrounding the muscle in the
 usual position.* In these species, in which the anterior bellies of the
 digastrics are not expanded and united between the jaws, the mylo
 hyoid muscles are well developed.
     The peculiar development of the anterior bellies of the digastric
 muscles in the species referred to above, and the relations between it
 and the tendinous intersection, demonstrate that whatever form this
 intersection may assume, whether that of a rounded tendon, tendinous
band traversing the substance of the muscle, or feeble superficial ten
dinous inscription, it has evidently been originally developed in
ancestral forms in the same manner, namely, as the point of attach
ment of a tendinous raphe extending inwards from the digastrics of
opposite sides, and giving a fixed point from which the greatly ex
panded internal laminae of their anterior bellies take their origin.      In
most species of mammals the anterior bellies are no longer united
between the jaws, but the presence in many of a transverse tendinous
intersection or inscription still indicates their original connexion.
    While it appears evident that the original form and relations of the
tendinous intersection of the digastric, if not in all mammals, at least
  * Professor    Humphry    thus   describes   it in Phoca communis and in Cavia
          "
aperea : — Near its middle it presented      in the seal a superficial transverse tendi
nous division which is probably the representative    of the more distinct tendinous
division in man ;" in the latter species, " where the muscle passes further forwards
nearer to the symphisis, the tendinous division is still more marked, involving the
greater number of the fibres, yet the muscle has nearly a straight course from its
                           "
origin to its insertion." — Journ. Anat. Phys.,"   ii,   320.
                                                         p.
   VOL. XXXII.                                                               D

34              On the Tendinous Intersection         of the Digastric.     [Mar. 31,
in all those now showing a trace of tendinous inscription in that muscle,
were such as we still find it in Qymnwra rafflesii and Epomophonu
minor, its modified form or apparent total absence in most species
remains to be accounted for.
     The leading modifications of the muscle, including what consider       I
its primary form, may be arranged as follows : —
     A. With the anterior bellies nnited across the space between the
rami of the mandible, the mylo-hyoid muscles feeble or absent.
       a.  Anterior belly double.        Ex., Oymnura.
       b.  Anterior belly single.       Ex., Tupaia.
     B. With the anterior bellies separate, scarcely or not exceeding the
posterior in calibre.
       c.  Tendinous intersection distinct. Ex., Homo.
       d.  Tendinous intersection rudimentary.             Ex., Erinaceus.
       e.  Tendinous intersection absent. Ex., Canis.
     And with respect      to  its attachments to the hyoid bone        : —
     C. Connected by ligament or by tendinous fibres with the hyoid
bone.       Ex., Homo, Tupaia.
     D. Unconnected.         Ex., Cani*, Qymnura.
     Where the digastric is directly connected by ligament with the greater
cornu of the hyoid bone, as in man, other Primates, and the Rod^ntia,
tension on the middle of the muscular mass would tend to the dis
appearance of the muscular fibres in the part directly acted upon, and
 so the tendinous intersection would alone remain forming a tendon ;*
 where, on the other hand, as in the dog and most other mammals, there
 is no such connexion, or the connexion is by fascial aponeurosis equally
 distributed between the sides of the anterior bellies of the muscles and
 the hyoid bone, as in Erinaceus, the character of the digastric would
 be mainly muscular throughout.                Now, the special development of
  the central tendon, or its absence, appears to me to be directly related
  to the attitude of the head of the animal with respect to its body
  when engaged in swallowing its food.              In the Primates, in most of the
  Rodentia, and in the arboreal Insectivora, the food is swallowed while
  the body is in the erect or semi-erect posture, and the head being bent
  forwards the cavity of the mouth is at right angles with the ceso-
  phagus.f In this position the mylo-hyoid and genio-hyoid muscles
   are relaxed, and cannot act efficiently in
                                                          drawing the hyoid bone
  upwards and forwards, so as to allow the masticated mass of food to
  pass into the oesophagus ; this duty, therefore, partly devolves on
                                                                                      the
     * The
             intermediate condition is well seen in Loris gracilis and in Tupaia   ellioii,
  as described   above.
     t The attitude of the head with respect to the
                                                      body is of course mainly connected
             P0Mti0n ^  ^  f0ramen m08num' and tho latt«r with the
                                                                          development    of
  the brain

 1881.]            Dr. H. E. Roscoe.        Note on Protagon.                  3o
digastric muscles, and the strain on their central parts, as explained
above, leads to the disappearance of muscular fibre in the neighbour
hood of the tendinous insertion, which accordingly becomes a tendon
uniting two fleshy bellies. On the other hand, in most of the Mam
malia, the usual attitude is prone, and the cavity of the mouth, when
the food is being swallowed, is in a line with the oesophagus, or nearly
go ; in such a position the mylo-hyoid and genio-hyoid muscles can act
effectively in elevating and drawing the hyoid bone forwards, and
deglutition is effected without the aid of the digastric muscles, which
are accordingly simple and unconnected with the hyoid, as in the
dog ;* or, if intersected, the tendinous band is either the origin of a
raphe' continued inwards, as described in Qynmura and Epotitophnnis
(which may be, as in these genera, wholly unconnected with the hyoid) ,
or the rudiment of such in an ancestral form.
IV. " Note on Protagon."            By Hekry E. Roscoe, LL.D., F.R.S.
                          Received March 16, 1881.
   In his communication to the Royal Society of January 6th last, on
the subject of the presence or absence of potassium in protagon,
Dr. Thndichum endeavours to raise an entirely false issue. The
question   I had to decide was not whether protagon contains a trace of
potassium, but whether, to quote Dr. Thudichum's own words, it con
tains " no less than 0"76 per cent, of potassium."         In the first instance
I endeavoured to settle this matter by spectroscopic investigation, and
employed two samples of protagon which had been prepared under
Dr. Gamgee's direction in the course of the research of which he com
municated the results to the Royal Society.          In one of these samples,
which had been four times crystallized, I was unable to detect any
potassium ; the quantity of the body at my disposal was however
small, as the rest of the specimen had been employed in previous
work, and Dr. Gamgee placed in my hands a large sample of protagon
only twice crystallized, which had been prepared by Dr. Blankenhorn
under his direction, and it was an analysis of this latter specimen
which I communicated to the Royal Society. As stated, I estimated
by spectroscopic means the amount of potassium present in 1 grm. of
the substance to be -fa of a milligram, that is, 0 005 per cent.               To
these observations of mine, Dr. Thudichum replied by a paper entitled
" On the Modifications of the
                                       Spectrum of Potassium which are
effected by the presence of Phosphoric Acid, and on the Inorganic
  • The difficulty experienced by a dog in swallowing when the head is bent for
wards  is well  known to every one who has seen one attempting to swallow even
a moderate sized morsel when seated erect in the familiar attitude known as " beg
ging"
                                                                   D  2

 3(5              Dr. H. E. Roscoe.      Note  on Protagon.      [Mar. 31,
Bases and Salts which are found in combination with the Educts of
the Brain."      In this paper an attempt is made to prove that
remarkable difficulties exist in obtaining the characteristic potassium
line, and when even pure potassium phosphate is strongly heated.           I
do not deem it necessary to discuss with Dr. Tbudichum, as bearing
upon the detection of potassium by the spectroscope, the accuracy of
such a statement as the following : — " Even a large bead of pure
potassium phosphate, when ignited before the slit of the spectroscope
never produces even at a white heat any such intense red potassium
line as the smallest bead of potassium chloride," but shall merely
state that, by numerous experiments,     I have satisfied myself of the ease
 with which traces of potassium phosphate can be detected spectro-
scopically even in presence of a large excess of phosphoric acid ; and
that I am convinced thatthe estimate of the quantity of potassium
present in the protagon reported upon in my first communication was
a remarkably    close approximation to the amount really present.
    After Dr. Thudichum's reply, which seemed to leave it an open
question, whether any reliance should still be placed upon his state
ment that protagon contained 0 76 per cent, of potassium, I deter
mined to check that statement by a gravimetric analysis.          Unfortu
nately a sufficient quantity of the sample first analysed was not
available, and Dr. Gamgee supplied me with the remains of 130 grins,
of protagon, twice crystallized, which had been prepared under his
eye by Mr. Adolph Spiegel for experiments on the products of decom
position of that body.       It was this specimen in which an analysis
proved   the presence  of  0 0236 per cent, of potassium.    So far, there
fore, from confirming Dr. Thudichum's statement, this specimen was
found by me to contain less than one-thirtieth of the amount of potas
sium which Dr. Thudichum asserts to be present in protagon.
    That the first crystallizations of a proximate principle of the brain,
such as protagon, should contain a trace of potnsh-salts is what would
naturally have been anticipated from a knowledge of the nature of
the soluble salts of the brain, and, therefore, to argue against the in
dividuality of protagon, because of the presence of 0-0236 per cent, of
potassium in a second crystallization-product, appears to be entirely*
fallacious.

1881.]         Dr. W. Stirling.      On    the  Lung   of the Newt.         37
                                 April  7,  1881.
                     THE PRESIDENT             in the Chair.
    The Presents received were     laid on the table, and thanks ordered for
them.
   The   following Papers were read : —
I. " On     the Minute Structure of the Lung of the Newt with
       especial reference to its Nervous Apparatus."              By William
       Stirling, M.D.j Sc.D., Regius Professor of the Institutes of
       Medicine (Physiology) in the University of Aberdeen.
       Communicated by Professor Huxley, Sec. R.S.                   Received
       March ID, 1881.
                                  (Abstract.)
   The lungs    of the newt and triton are essentially simple sacs without
any septa projecting into their interior, so that they are remarkably
well suited for microscopic examination.           They are covered externally
by   a  layer of endothelium,      but  there    are   no stomata to be fonnd
between the endothelial cells.         Under this is a small quantity of
areolar tissue containing a plexus of yellow elastic fibres, with the
long axis of the meshes        arranged in the long axis of the lung-sac.
Under this is a layer of non-striped muscular fibres, which forms a
complete investment for the lung.          These muscular fibres are disposed
circularly.    They    present  the  same    structure as similar cells in the
mesentery of the newt.       Each cell contains an iutra-nuclear and intra
cellular plexus of fibrils.
    The arrangement       and distribution of the blood-vessels is then
described. The pulmonary artery runs along one side of the lung and
the pulmonary vein runs on the opposite side.                The trunk of the
pulmonary vein lies quite superficially, i.e., next the peritoneal snrface.
It is covered only by the serous investment of the lung, so that it lies
superficial to, i.e., outside, the muscular layer.        The pulmonary artery
lies deeper,    below the muscular coat.             The capillaries are then
described.     No capillaries exist internal to the line of distribution of
the pulmonary       vein, but capillaries are found over, i.e., internal to,
 the line of distribution of the pulmonary           artery.  The epithelium is
 then described.     Ciliated epithelium is found along the course of the
 pulmonary vein and at the origin of its chief branches, but the other
 parts of the lung are covered by a single layer of squamous epithe

  ;»8          Dr. W. Stirling.      On  the Lung of the Newt.      [Apr.  7,
  lium.    The ciliated epithelium is directly continuous with that lining
  the short trachea.
      The nerves of the lung are very numerous and are branches of the
  vagus. They enter the lung in three or four main strands at its base.
  These strands    are of    unequal thickness, i.e., a varying number of
  nerve-fibres enters   into   their composition.     At once they proceed
  towards the pulmonary vein, which they follow very closely in their
 distribution. They form a plexus along the course of the vein, which
 is readily revealed with the aid of gold chloride. Only a few non-
 medullated nerve-fibres pass on to the pulmonary artery.         The nerve-
 strands lie outside the muscular coat, and as they pass onwards in the
 pulmonary walls they give off branches right and left.             A large
 number of multipolar nerve-cells exists in the course of the nerve-
 strands, and they are especially numerous where a branch is given off.
 More than twenty medullated nerve-fibres and a considerably larger
 number of non-medullated fibres enter the lung. The nerve-strands
 in their course along       the pulmonary     vein lie in spaces lined by
 squamous epithelium.
     The branches of the nerve-strands       lie outside the muscular coat.
 The axial cylinders split up into fibrils, many of which divide dicho-
 tomously, and afterwards unite to form a wide meshed primary nerve
2>lexus   external to the muscular coat.        From this branches are given
 off which form a much finer secondary plexus, which gives off very
 fine branches which run towards the muscular fibres in which they
 seem    to terminate.    It  cannot, however, be maintained that all the
 nerve-fibres which enter the lung terminate in the muscular coat.
 The majority of the non-medullated nerve- fibres distributed along the
 course of the pulmonary artery seem destined for the muscular tissue
 in its walls.    The author has found a plexus of nerve-fibres in the
 adventitia   and  another in the muscular coat of the pulmonary artery.
 Some of the nerve-fibres must, undoubtedly, have other relations than
 those indicated above.
     The author points out that, as the lungs are developed from the
 alimentary canal, it is to be expected that structures, the exact
 homologues and representatives of those occurring in the wall of the
 alimentary canal, may be expected to occur in the lung. He suggests
 therefore, that the non-striped muscle in the wall of the lung of
 the newt, and the tracheal and bronchial muscles in the mammalian
 lung, are the representatives of one or more of the muscular tissues
 of the alimentary canal ; and, as each of these muscular tissues has a
 nerve plexus in relation with it, a similar condition may be expected
 to occur in the lung.        The plexus in the wall of the lung is com
 parable   to Aucrbach's   or Meissner's plexus, or perhaps to both.

1881.]      Prof. Helmholtz.        On an Electrodynamic Balance.             3'J
II. " On an Electrodynamic Balance."               By H. Helmholtz, For.
        Mem.   R.S., Professor of Physics in the University of Berlin.
       Received    April  7, 1881.
    In order to avoid     the disturbances    produced     by the variations of
direction and    intensity of terrestrial   magnetism     in  measuring the in
tensity of galvanic     currents by their electromagnetic effects, I have
tried to   construct an electrodynamic balance. I have suspended at
the ends of the lever of a smaller chemical balance, instead of the
scales, two coils of copper        wire, their height being equal to the
diameter of the cylinder around which the wire is coiled up.               Their
axis is vertical, and they are suspended in such a manner that they
cannot turn around this axis.         Two larger spirals of the same height,
but of greater radius, are placed into a fixed position,            borne by a
hori£ontal metallic rod, the middle of which is fixed on the column
bearing the balance.        The connexions of the wires are arranged in
such a way that one of the movable coils is attracted by the fixed
coil, the other is repelled.       Both the fixed coils are placed a little
higher    than  the  movable    coils.    The attracted coil rises, the other
sinks down as soon as a current passes through the circuit.
    There are two difficulties to be overcome in the construction of such
a balance.     At first, the current must be introduced into the movable
spirals   without   diminishing their mobility, and without introducing
places of contact of too small a pressure, which would make the
resistance variable.     I have succeeded to do this in a very satisfactory
manner by using a kind of very thin sheet- brass, used for playthings of
                               "               "
children, called in German       Rauschgold (tinsel), because it looks like
gold, and makes a crackling noise when it is moved.              Strips of this,
about 30 centims.      long  and   6   or 7 millims.   broad, are very flexible,
and show no signs of internal friction, their resistance to electric
currents is   very moderate, and they are not easily heated even by
strong currents, because they have a relatively large surface in con
tact with air.     I  have connected each of the movable spirals with
the other wires conducting the current by two such strips hanging
 loosely down from four pieces of brass fixed at the upper parts of the
case of the balance.      I  may be allowed to remark, that strips of the
 same kind, and of greater     length, are very useful to demonstrate the
 action of a magnet on a movable current.            If you suspend the strip
 so that it hangs      down in a curve, it is attracted, repelled, even
 r.iised against gravity, or coiled up around the magnet with great
 rapidity, in a very striking way.
     The second difficulty is to bring the coils into such a position that
 neither the stability nor the sensibility of the balance is impaired.
  In order to do this, it is necessary that the intensity of the electro
  dynamic force does not vary sensibly during the usual small oscillations

40      Prof. Helmholtz.       On an Electrodynamie Balance.         [Apr. 7.
of the balance.     Now the force is zero if the middle of the movable
coil is at the same height as that of the fixed coil.     The force is again
zero if the distance of the two coils becomes infinite.       Between those
two   zero  points  there  exists a maximum    value  of   the  force, which
corresponds nearly to that situation where the upper surface of one of
the coils is at the same height as the under surface of the other.
Between the central position of the two coils and this position of
maximum force, therefore, the differential        coefficient of the force
related to increasing distance of the centres is positive, and turns into
negative when we pass the position of the maximum.          This differential
coefficient becomes again zero at an infinite distance.            Therefore,
between the position of maximum force and infinite distance there must
be a distance where the differential coefficient of the force has itself a
negative maximum, and the second differential coefficient, therefore, is
zero.   This is the position which must be given to the coils. As always
the distance of one pair of the coils is diminished as much as that of
the other pair is increased, the variation of the force depends only on
the second differential coefficient.     If this is positive, the electric
current produces unstable equilibrium ; if it is negative, the stability of
the equilibrium is increased ; that is to say, the balance becomes less
sensitive than it is without current.    If the coils are brought into the
right distance, neither the sensibility nor the stability of the balance is
altered, and by this circumstance itself the right position can be found
out.
   If  the instrument is well adjusted, you can determine the weight
which balances the electrodynamie force with errors not exceeding
one milligramme.      As the force exerted by the current is proportional
to the square of its intensity, you determine the intensity of a current,
which is counterbalanced by one gramme with an accuracy of ¥
and the force which opposes the electrodynamic force and measures it
is gravity alone, and therefore not subject to any variations, like those
of terrestrial magnetism, or like the elasticity of a twisted wire on
which one of the coils is suspended.
    The observations of the electrochemical equivalent of the current
corresponding     to one gramme of weight, performed            by different
observers during the course of last year, have given a very satisfactory
agreement.
 III.  "On the Internal Forces of Magnetized and Dielectricauy
       Polarized Bodies."       By Professor H. Helmholtz, For. Mem.
       R.S.    (Oral Statement at the request of the President.)
    The Society then adjourned over the Easter Recess          to  Thursday,
 April  28th.

 1881.]           The Influence   of Stress and Strain,    §-c.           41
                                April  28, 1881.
                    THE PRESIDENT in            the Chair.
    The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for
 them.
    The following Papers were read : —
 I. " The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Action of
      Physical Forces."        By Herbert TOMLINSON, B.A. Com
      municated by Professor W. Grylls Adams, M.A., F.R.S.
      Received April 5, 1881.
                                  (Abstract.)
                            Part I. —Elasticity.
                             " Young's Modulus."
   The values of " Young's modulus " were determined for several
metals by a method devised by Sir W". Thomson.             According to this
method wires of the same material and diameter are suspended in
pairs about an inch apart from each other, and are attached by one
extremity of each to the same support; the other extremities being
fastened in the one case to a scale-pan, and in the other to the centre
of a bar of wood or metal carrying constant equal weights at each
end : the latter wire is provided with a scale and the former with an
index of some sort, which being level with and close to the scale, serves
to measure any alteration of length produced by weights placed in the
pan.
   In these particular experiments the wires were about thirty feet in
length  ; a scale divided into half-millimetres and a vernier reading to
 jLth of  a millimetre attached respectively to the two wires, served to
measure the temporary      alterations   of length produced by loading or
unloading. The vernier was forked so that, though capable of free
up and down motion, it could not readily be dislodged sideways, and
by  using a compound microscope an alteration = Troth of a millimetre
in the length of the wire could be estimated.
   A large number of experiments with different loads were made,
and after a great many unsuccessful attempts to account for certain
discrepancies which could not be explained away as errors of observa
tion, the following facts were elicited : —
   (1.) After a wire has suffered permanent extension, the temporary
elongation which can be produced by any load becomes less as tho

    42            Mr. H. Tomiinson.         The Influence     of Stress     [Apr. 28,
    interval between the period of permanent extension and that of
    applying the load becomes greater.
        (2.) This increase of elasticity is greater in proportion for large
   loads than for small ones.
        (3.) The increase of elasticity takes place whether the wire be
   allowed to remain loaded or unloaded between the period of permanent
    extension and that of the testing for the elasticity.
       (4. ) The rate of increase of elasticity varies considerably with different
   metals ; with some the maximum elasticity is apparently attained in a
   few minutes, and with others not till some days have elapsed, iron and
   steel being in this last respect very remarkable.
       (5.) The elasticity can also be increased by heavily loading and un
   loading several times, the rate of increase diminishing with each
   loading and unloading.
                                 "                 " more or less decided,
       (6.) A departure from Hooke's law                                       always
  attends recent permanent extension even when the weights employed
  to test the elasticity do not exceed one-tenth of the breaking weight.
       ( 7.) This departure is diminished very noticeably in the case of iron,
  and much less so in the case of other metals, by allowing the wire to
  rest for some time either loaded or unloaded           ; it is also diminished by
  repeated loading and unloading.
      With aluminium and zinc both the maximum temporary increase of
  length caused by putting on weight, and the recovery on the removal
 of the load are attained          only after several hours,        if the weights
 employed be not very small.
      With tin and lead the loads employed were so small, in order to
 avoid permanent set, that the values of " Young's modulus " obtained
 for these metals cannot be relied on within 2 per cent.
      A   small though decided departure from " Hooke's law
                                                                        "  was found
 in all cases, and the experiments abundantly proved that this law can
 only hold good practically for much smaller loads than are usually
                                                 "                        "
 employed in determining the value of               Young's modulus          from the
 method of static extension.
      A discussion of Wertheim's* experiments on elasticity will be found
in the paper, and it is there pointed out that a principal cause of the
differences of the values of " Young's modulus," obtained by him from
the method of static extension, and from longitudinal or transverse
vibrations, is to be found in his manner of experimenting according
to the first of these methods.
     The effect of permanent extension on the value of "Young's
modulus," was tried according to the direct method for iron and
c opper, and indirectly for most of the metals.
     From both the direct and indirect methods results were obtained
which showed : —
                      * " Ann. de Chem. et
                                           Phye.," torn, xii, 1844.

 1881.]         and Strain on    the Action of Physical Forces.                 43
    (1.) That, in all metals, provided the wire has not been kept heavily
loaded for some time before testing, permanent extension produces
decrease of elasticity, if the strain be not earned beyond a certain
limit.
    (2.) That, if the extension be carried beyond the above-mentioned
limit, farther permanent increase of length causes increase of
elasticity.
    (3.) That, in the case of iron, heavy loading for some time so in
creases   the elasticity that, even when the extension would have
caused diminution of elasticity without such continued loading, the
latter will, if sufficient time be allowed, change this diminution into an
increase  ;  in the case of copper this is not so.
   It was also observed that, with iron which has been very heavily
loaded for some time, the ratio of the temporary elongation to the
load producing it becomes less as the load employed becomes greater,
until a certain limit, depending upon the extent of the previous heavy
loading, has been reached ; whereas, with the other metals, and with
iron which has suffered permanent extension without allowing the
load producing the extension to remain for any appreciable time on
the wire, the elongation increases in a greater proportion than the
load.
   The behaviour of iron in this respect, as well as the fact that this
metal does not, until many hours have elapsed, attain its maximum
elasticity, after having undergone permanent elongation, is probably
to be attributed to the great coercive force of the metal.
   To a similar cause may also be assigned the well-known increase of
portative power of a magnet which can be produced by gradual load
ing ; and the great difference between the tenacity of iron when
loaded by slow degrees, and when loaded quickly.*
   One of the above-mentioned indirect methods of determining the
effect of permanent extension on the elasticity consisted in combining
torsion with traction. The wire to be examined, some 95 centims. in
length, passed through a small hole in a stout table, and was clamped
at its upper extremity into a brass block, the latter resting on the
table, and being sufficiently secured by a heavy weight placed on the
top of it. Near the lower extremity, which was looped to receive
a scale-pan, was clamped a second small brass block, to one end of
which was attached a light mirror ; the latter used in connexion with
a scale and lamp enabled the observer to detect very small changes of
torsion.    The wire having previously received a certain amount of
permanent torsion        was loaded and unloaded several times with
different weights, and the amount of temporary twist or untwist pro
duced thereby determined.
      •
        See J. T. Bottomlej's              " Proc. Boy. Soc.," vol. 29, p. 221.
                              experiments,

44           Mr. H. Tomlinson.         The Influence     of Stress   [Apr.  28,
   The effect of suddenly chilling steel heated to a high temperature
was    found to be similar to that of excessive permanent extension
of iron  ; and in general,   it was concluded to be highly probable that
whether the distance between the molecules be increased by mechanical
strain or by the strain caused by sudden cooling, the elasticity in the
direction of the line of separation of the molecules diminishes to a
minimum as the separation increases, and then begins to increase.
   Moreover, it would appear from the results which will be described
in the other parts of this paper, that most, if not all, the physical
properties of a substance are affected in a similar manner by stress and
strain ; whether these latter be the result of mechanical or of any
physical agency.
                              Torsional Rigidity.
   The torsional rigidity of the wires was determined by the method of
vibrations.    The vibrators were similar to those employed by Sir
W. Thomson in his experiments on the rigidity and viscosity of metals,*
namely, thin cylinders of sheet brass, supported by a thin, flat, rect
angular bar. The wire to be tested passed perpendicularly through a
hole in the middle of the bar, and was there soldered ; the other end
of the wire was then soldered into a stout iron bar, firmly held in a vice
attached to a rigid support.
   Great difficulty was experienced in making good observations of the
rigidity of zinc, tin, and lead, in consequence of their great viscosity.
   Several experiments were made to test the effect of permanent tor
sion and permanent extension on the modulus of rigidity.
   From these experiments was concluded : —
   (1.) That the loss of rigidity produced by twisting or stretching a
wire beyond the limits of elasticity is partly diminished by rest.
   (2.) That the loss is more sensible with large arcs of vibration than
with small ones.
   (3.) That the influence of rest is more apparent in the case of large
vibrations than in that of small ones.
   (4.) That continual vibrating through large arcs has a similar effect
on the rigidity to that produced on the longitudinal elasticity by heavily
loading and unloading. And —
   (5.) That in the case of hard steel the effect of vibrating through a
large arc for several minutes makes temporarily the rigidity as deter
mined from such vibrations greater than that determined from smaller
vibrations.
   From the values of the torsional rigidity and " Young's modulus "
were calculated the ratios of lateral contraction to elongation for the
different metals, the formula used for this purpose being          <j=_e_ — 1
                                                                              ' in
                                                                       2r
                      * " Proc.  Roy. Soc," vol. 14, p. 289.

1881.]           and Strain  on the  Action  of Physical     Forces.             45
which     e = " Young's modulus," r=rigidity, both in grams per square
centimetre,     and <r=the required ratio.
   In the following table are given the values of        e, r, and a for most of
the annealed metals      :—
                                  "              Torsional
                                                                Ratio of lateral
                                    Young's
                                                                 contraction to
            Name of metal.        modulus."       rigidity.
                                                                   elongation.
                                                                         <T.
                                  1981 x 10s     773 1 x 106           ¦281
                                  14'JO          692-7                 -076
                                  1335           493-7                 •354
                                  1160           440-6                 ¦315
                                  1051           369 -9                ¦420
                                    767          338-4                  133
       Silver                       742          271 "8                •367
                                    673          265-2                 •269
       Tin                          277          120-9                  145
                                    167            74 -0                136
    The mean value of a for the different substances employed in the
annealed condition =-2515, a number closely according with that
assigned by Poisson from mathematical considerations, as the value of
a for each.
    The metals copper, platinum, aluminium, silver, and platinum-
silver were obtained from Messrs. Johnson, Matthey, and Co., as
chemically pure, and the zinc, lead, and tin wires as being as pure as
could be got from the ordinary process of distillation.
    Experiments on the permanent alteration of density which can be
produced by longitudinal traction proved, as the investigations                  of
Wertheim and Thomson have already shown, that such alteration is
very slight.      In these particular experiments no change amounting to
        cent, was detected, though the wires were strained to breaking.
 ^ per
    Certain calculations were made to verify Wertheim's formula
 <>x«'=a constant, where e=" Young's modulus," and a=the mean
 distance between one molecule and another, and it was found that
 this formula was approximately true.          Moreover, the products of r
 and a1 were calculated and found to be approximately                constant for
 the different metals.
    The influence of an electric current and of magnetism on the tor
 sional rigidity of metals was also investigated, and the following
 results arrived at : —
    (1.) The torsional rigidity of copper and iron is temporarily decreased
 by the passage of a powerful electric current, but is very little, if at all
 appreciably, altered by currents of moderate intensity.
    (2.) The torsional rigidity of iron is temporarily diminished to a
  small but perceptible extent by a high magnetising force.

4f?                           Mr. W. K. Brooks.                   [Apr. 28.
    (3.) The effects mentioned in (1) and (2) are independent of any
changes produced by the current in the temperature of the wire.
    Finally, certain critical points are alluded to, there being at least
two such for each metal, at which sudden changes take place in the
ratio of the permanent extension produced by any load and the load
itself.
    The existence of the first of these critical points seems to prove
beyond a doubt that, in all well-annealed metals, there is a true limit
of elasticity, which is intimately connected with the elasticity of the
substance, and it will appear from the investigations made in the other
parts of this paper, that changes more or less profound take place in
most, if not all, of the physical properties of the substance at these
points.
II.   " Lucifer                                      By W. K. Brooks.
                 : a  Study in Morphology.*'
       Associate in Biology and Director of the Chesapeake Zoo
       logical Laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University, Balti
       more, Md., U.S.A.        Communicated by Professor Huxley.
       Sec. R.S. Received April 6, 1881.
                                  (Abstract.)
    Our knowledge     of the life-history of this extremely interesting
genus is very scanty, and the only published observations are con
tained in a short paper, without illustrations, in "Proc. Roy. Soc,"
vol. 24, p. 132, by Willemoes-Suhra.
    The death of this naturalist, only a few months after his paper was
written, put an end to his studies, which he had expressed a hope of
finishing, and I therefore take pleasure in stating that I have been so
fortunate as to procure the eggs of Lucifer, and to trace every stage of
the metamorphosis, from the time the larva leaves the egg up to the
mature male, by the actual moulting of isolated specimens in captivity ;
and    I have also been able to add a few observations        upon  its em
bryology.
    The early stages of development are extremely interesting, since the
segmentation is quite different from that of any arthropod egg which
has been described.      The egg undergoes total regular segmentation ;
there is a true central segmentation cavity, and during the early
stages there is nothing to represent the yolk-pyramids of the ordinary
crustacean egg.      When segmentation is somewhat advanced, the
granular matter becomes restricted to one of the spherules ; this then
pushes into the segmentation cavity, and appears to correspond to
a single   yolk-pyramid.     Its outer end splits off as a blastoderm   cell,

 1881.]                  Lucifer  :  a Study in Morphology.                     47
and     its inner granular end, which is now situated in the segmentation
cavity, soon divides up into a number of food-yolk spherules.
     The   primitive digestive cavity is next formed by an invagination,
at the point where the yolk-pyramid has been pushed in.
     The larva leaves the egg as a Nauplius, which, after two moults, is
changed into a Prntozocea, with nanplins-like antennules and antenna? ;
mandibles like those of the adult; two pairs of maxillae; two pairs of
maxillipecLs, and a long hind-body divided at its anterior end into four
zoonites.
     After a number of moults         it becomes changed into Dana's Erich        -
Ihina     demissa,   which Willemoes-Suhm          has shown to be a Lucifer
larva.
     The    Erichthina gradually changes by three           moults    into Dana's
Serhatina      arniata, which seems to be the same         as  Willemoes-Suhm's
Amphion stage.
     After a number of moults         it becomes   a Mastigopus,   and then both
sexes     gradually assume the adult female form, the characteristics of
the    adult male appearing last.
     The first four sections of the paper describe the structure, embryo
 logy, and metamorphosis            of Lucifer. Among the more important
 points are    the total absence at all stages of the fifth thoracic zoonite
 and    its appendages ; the origin of the metastoma as a pair of buds
 homologous       with the other appendages, and the absence of larval
 stages    with the distinctive features of the Elaphocaris and Acanthozocea
 lame of Sergestes.
     The fifth section gives an account       of the metamorphosis of another
 Sergestid,     which   there  is reason   to believe to be Acetes, although it
 was not reared to the adult form. At the Elaphocaris and Acanthozocea
 stages this form is intermediate between the highly modified larva of
  Sergestes and the simple larva of Lucifer.
     The sixth section discusses the relation between the larvae of Lucifer,
  Acttet, Sergestes, Penwus, and Euphausia, and the significance            of the
  deapod Zo(na and crustacean Nauplius.
     As one result of the comparison, I attempt to show that, while the
  life-history of Lucifer, Acetes, Sergestes, and Penticus, tends to confirm
  Clans' view that the Zooea is a secondary modification             of the more
  primitive Protozoma, a comparison of these forms with Euphausia
  shows that this view is not without difficulties,           since these genera
  differ from each other in the very point in question ; the manner
  hi which      the zoonites and appendages of the thorax make their
  appearance.
      The seventh     section discusses the phenomena of serial homology
   and bilateral symmetry      in the Crustacea, and is an attempt to show
   that these resemblances cannot be explained by heredity               from the
   parts of an    nnspecialised   form, since the facts of embryology       do not

 48                                Presents.                        [Mar. 24,
 support the view that the remote ancestor of the Crustacea was a long
 series of independent zoonites or metameres.         Even if this view were
supported by facts, the embryology of Lucifer compels ns to recognise
a recent and persistent bond of homology between its appendages.
    The next section is an attempt to show that, while we are unable to
believe that serially homologous organs, in all cases, owe their resem
blance to heredity from the unspecialised organs of a remote ancestor,
they may still be due to heredity ; but to heredity from the same part
of the developing egg, rather than from a remote ancestor.
    The last section is an attempt to show that, by making a slight
change in Darwin's
                        " Pangenesis Hypothesis," it can be so
                                                                   simplified,
that the germinules which      it demands   may be few in numbers, simple
in their properties, and not infinitely small. In its modified form the
hypothesis accounts for the phenomena of serial homology and sym
metry, and it removes some of the most serious difficulties of the
theory of natural selection, especially by showing why variations
appear when they are needed.
                          Presents, March 24, 1881.
Transactions.
   Amsterdam: — K. Akademie van Wetenschappen. Verhandelingen.
        Afd. Natuurkunde. Dl. XX. Afd. Letterkunde. Dl. XIII.
        4to. Amsterdam 1880.         Verslagen en Mededeelingen.         Afd.
        Natuurkunde. 2e Rks. Dl. XV. Afd. Letterkunde. 2e Rks.
        Dl. IX. 8vo. Amsterdam 1880. Jaarboek 1879.               Processen-
        Verbaal 1879-80.      Prijvers : Satira et Consolatio.      Naam-en
        Zaakregister op de Verslagen en Mededeelingen : Afd. Natuur
        kunde. Deel 1 — XVII. 8vo. Amsterdam.                 The Academy.
                 —
   Cincinnati : Society of Natural History. Journal. Vol. I. No. 4.
        Vol. II. Nos. 1-4. Vol. III. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. Cincinnati 1879-80.
                                                               The Society.
   Danzig : — Gesellschaft     Deutscher     Naturforscher und Aertzte.
        Tageblatt der 53 Versammlung. 4to. Danzig.             The Society.
  Dublin: — Royal Geological Society of Ireland.            Journal.    N.S.
        Vol. V. Part 3. 8vo. Dublin 1880.                      The Society.
   Edinburgh : — Scottish Meteorological        Society.   Journal.     N.S.
        Nos. 60-63.   8vo. Edinburgh    1880.                  The Society.
  Falmouth : — Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society.         Annual Report,
        1879.   8vo. Falmouth.                                 The Society.
  Freiburg    in         —
                 Baden : Naturforschende Gesellschaft.        Berichte iiber
        die Verhandlungen. Band VII. Heft 4. 8vo. Freiburg iB. 1880.
                                                               The Society.

1881.]                               Preterits.                                4<>
Transactions     (continued).
  Kiel :— Universitat.        Schriften.    Band   XXVI.   4to.   Kiel 1880.
                                                                The University.
  London    : — Entomological      Society.    Transactions.    1880.     Part 5.
       8vo. London.                                                 The Society.
     Geological Society.        Quarterly Journal.     Vol. XXXVII. Part I.
        Abstracts of the Proceedings.          Nos. 388-399.   8vo. London.
                                                                    The Society.
     Institution of Mechanical Engineers.          Proceedings. 1880. No. 4.
        8vo. London.                                            The Institution.
     Institution of Naval Architects.          Transactions. Vol. XXI. 4to.
        London 1880.                                            The Institution.
    Mathematical Society.          Proceedings.     Nos. 165, 166. 8vo.
                                                                    The Society.
    National       Association    for the Promotion of          Social Science.
        Sessional Proceedings.       Vol. XIV. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
                                                               The Association.
     Royal    Astronomical     Society.   Monthly   Notices.  Vol.  XLI. No. 3.
        8vo.                                                        The Society.
     Royal Institution.        Proceedings. Vol. IX. Part 3. List of the
        Members.       Additions to the Library, No. 23.
                                                                The Institution.
     Royal Society of Literature. Transactions. 2nd Series. Vol. XII.
        Part 2. 8vo.                                                The Society.
  Louvain     : — Universite   Catholique.    Annuaire.  1881.   12mo.   Louvain.
        Bibliographic      Academique.        8vo. Louvain 1880.          Theses.
        1879-80.     Nos.   475-487.     8vo.   Lovanii.     Revue   Catholique.
        1880. 8vo. Louvain.          De Fide Divina. 8vo. Lovanii. 1880.
        De Dnbio Solvendo. 8vo. Lovanii.                        The University.
            —
  Madrid : Sociedad Espanola de Historia Natural. Anales. Tomo
       IX. Cuaderno 2, 3. 8vo. Madrid 1880.                         The Society.
Observations and Reports.
  London : — Local Government           Board. Report on the Composition
       and Quality of Daily Samples of the Water supplied to London
       from January 20 to February 19, 1881. 4to. London 1881.
                                                                     The Board.
  Paris : — Ministere de l'Agriculture et du Commerce.                Exposition
       Universelle, 1878.        Comptes Rendus du Congres International
       de Geologie.      8vo.  Paris 1880.
            Le Bureau permanent du Congres, per T. Davidson, F.R.S.
  Zi-ka-wei : — Observatoire Magnetique et M6teorologique.               Bulletin
       Mensnel. September, October, 1880. 4to.                The Observatory.
  vol. xxxir.                                                         T,

50                                     Presents.                           [Mar. 31,
Hooker (Sir        J.  D.)    The Flora of British India.           Part   VIII.   8vo.
     London.                                                       The India Office.
Joly (N.)        Snr le Placenta de l'Al. 8vo. Toulouse.          Une Lacune dans
     la Serie Teratologique, remplie par la decouverte du Genre
      Ileadelphie. 8vo. Toulouse.                                       The Author.
Lcewy (M.)          Etude   de  la  Variation    de  la   Ligne   de  visee,  faite au
     grand cercle meridien de l'Observatoire de Paris, construit par
     M. Eichens, au moyen d'un nouvel appareil. 4to. Paris.
                                                                        The Author.
                             Presents, March 31, 1881.
Transactions.
   London : — Linnean Society.          Journal.      Zoology.    Vol. XV. No.      85.
         8vo. London 1881.                                              The Society.
     Physical Society.         Proceedings.    Vol.   IV. Part     1.  8vo.    London
         1881.                                                          The Society.
      Quekett Microscopical Club. Journal. No.              46. 8vo. London 1881.
                                                                           The Club.
      Royal College of Physicians.
                                '            List of Fellows, &c. 8vo. London
         1881.                                                          The College.
   Naples : — Zoologische Station. Mittheilnngen. Band II. Heft 3.
         8vo. Leipzig 1881.                                             The Station.
   Oxford : — Ashmolean Society.           Journal of the Proceedings.          No. 3.
         List of the Society, 1880. 8vo.                                The Society.
     RadclifEe Library.         Catalogue of Books added, during the year
         1880.      4to. Oxford 1881.                                  The Library.
   Presbnrg:     —  Verein fur Natur- und Heilkunde. Verhandlungen.
         Neue Folge. Heft 3. 8vo. Poszony-Presburg 1880.
                                                                   The Association.
   Rome : — Accademia Pontificia de' Nuovi Lincei. Anno XXXIII.
         Sessione 6. 4to. Roma 1880.                                  The Academy.
     R. Accademia dei Lincei. Transunti. Serie 3a. Vol. V. Fasc.
         3-7. 4to. Roma 1881.                                         The Academy.
                         —
   St. Petersburg : Academie Imperiale des Sciences. Memoires.
         Tome     XXVII.     Nos. 13,14.    4to. St. Pe'tersbourg    1880.   Bulletin.
         Tome     XXVII.     No. 1. 4to..                             The Academy.
   Salem :— Essex Institute. Bulletin.           Vol.  X. Nos. 10-12.        Vol. XI.
         Nos. 1-12. 8vo. Salem 1879-80.                               The Institute.
   Sydney    : —  Linnean    Society   of   New     South     Wales.    Proceedings.
         Vol.   IV.   Part  4. Vol.  V.  Parts   land    2.  8vo.  Sydney 1880.
                                                                       The Society.
     Royal Society       of  New   South   Wales.      Journal    and  Proceedings.
         Vol. XIII. 8vo. Sydney 1880.                         Professor Liversidge.

1881.]                                Presents.                                51
Transactions {continued).
  Toulouse : — Academie des Sciences. Memoires.             8e Serie.    Tome II.
        2me Semestre.         8vo.  Toulouse 1880.                The Academy.
  Tromsö : — Museum.           Aarshefter   III. 8vo. Tromsö 1880.
                                                                   The Museum .
  Upsala : — K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften.               Nova Acta. 3rd
        Series. Vol. X. Fasc. 2. 4to. Upsaliw 1879.                 The Society.
            —
  Venice : R. Istituto Veneto. Atti. Appendice al Tomo V. Serie 5.
        4to. Venezia 1880. Tomo VI. Disp. 10. 8vo. Venezia 1879-
        80.                                                     The Institution.
  Vienna : — Anthropologische Gesellschaft.           Mittheilungen. Band X.
        Nr. 1-4. 8vo. Wien 1880.                                    The Society.
     K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt. Jahrbuch. Band XXX. No. 2
        und 3. 8vo. Wien 1880. Verhandlungen Nos. 6-11 . 8vo.
                                                                The Institution.
     Washington       : — Philosophical Society.     Bulletin.    Vols. 2 and 3.
        8vo. Washington 1875-80.                                     The Society.
  Würzburg       : —  Physikalisch-Medicinische.       Gesellschaft.    Verhand
        lungen.      Neue Folge.       Band XIV.        Hefte
                                                         '
                                                                3 und 4 : XV.
        Hefte 1 und 2. 8vo. Würzburg 1880-81.                       The Society.
     Zoologisch-Zootomisches          Institut.   Arbeiten. Band V. Heft 3.
        8vo. Wärzbvrg 1881.                                        The Institute.
Observations       and Reports.
   Coimbra: — Observatorio         da   Universidade.      Ephemerides     Astro-
        nomicas 1882. 8vo. Coimbra 1880.                       The Observatory.
   Lisbon : — Observatorio do Infante d. Luiz. Annaes. Vol. XVI. 4to.
        Lisboa 1879. Postos Meteorologicos.            Annexos ao Vol. XV.
        4to. Lisboa 1880.                                      The Observatory.
   Paris : — Observatoire de Montsouris. Annuaire, 1881 . 16mo. Paris.
                                                               The Observatory.
   Sydney      — Ministry    of  Public   Instruction.     Report   upon certain
                                                                 ....
             :
        Museums for Technology, Science, and Art                         in Great
         Britain and on the Continent of Europe. By Archibald Liver-
         sidge. 4to. Sydney 1880.                                  The Reporter.
      Department of Mines. Annual Reports, 1878-79. 4to. Sydney
         1879-80. Maps to accompany Report for 1879. 4to.
                                                               The Department,
Bonney (T. G.), F.R.S. On some Serpentines from the Rhsetien
      Alps. 8vo. Hertford [1880]. On the Serpentine and Associated
      Rocks of Anglesey. 8vo. [London 1881].                         The Anther.
Tidy (C. M.)         River   Water    (No. 2). A reply to Dr. Frankland.
      8vo. London 1881.                                               The Author.
                                                                     e 2

52                                Presents.                            [Apr. 7,
                          Presents,  April  7, 1881.
Transactions.
   Adelaide : — Royal Society of South Australia. Transactions and
        Proceedings.    Vol. III. 8vo. Adelaide 1880.             The Society.
     South Australian Institute. Annual Eeport, 1879-80. 4to. Adelaide
        (2 copies).                                              The Institute.
   Batavia:  — K. Natuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch- Indie.
        Natuurknndig Tijdschrift.       Deel XXXIX. 8vo. Batavia 1880.
                                                             The Association.
   Buenos Ayres : — Museo Publico.       Description Physique de la Re-
        publique Argentine. Tome III. 8vo. Buenos- Ayres 1879. Atlas.
        2e Livraison. 4to. Buenos Aires 1880.          Bericht fiber die Feier
        des 50 jahrigen Doctor- Jubilaeums des Prof. Dr. Hermann Bur-
        meister. 8vo. Buenos Aires 1880.                         The Museum.
   Calcutta : — Asiatic Society of Bengal. Proceedings, 1880.              Nos.
        9, 10 : 1881, No. 1.    Journal.    Vol. XLIX. Part 1, No. 4 ;
        Part 2, Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. Calcutta 1880-81.                 The Society.
             —
   Cordoba: Academia Nacional de Ciencias.               Boletin. Tomo III.
        Entrega 2 y 3. 8vo. Cordoba 1879.                       The Academy.
            —
   Emden: Naturforschende Gesellschaft.            Jahresbericht LXV. 8vo.
        Emden 1880.                                               The Society.
  Geneva :  —  Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle.           Memoires.
        Tome XXVII. Partie I. 4to. Geneve 1880.                   The Society.
  Gottingen : — K. Societat der Wissenschaften.                Abhandlungen.
        Band XXVI. 4to. Gottingen 1880. Nachrichten. 1880. 12mo.
        Gottingen 1880.                                           The Society.
  Haarlem : — Societe Hollandaise des Sciences.              Archives Neer-
       landaises.    Tome XV.      Livr. 3-5. 8vo. Harlem 1880.
                                                                  The Society.
  London: — Geological Society.        Catalogue      of the Library.      8vo.
       London 1881.                                               The Society.
     Linnean Society.     Transactions.     2nd Ser.       Zoology.    Vol. II.
        Part 2. 4to. London 1881.                                 The Society.
     National Association for the Promotion of Social Science. Trans
       actions.    1880 (Edinburgh). 8vo. London 1881.           List of Mem
       bers, &c.    1880-81. 8vo.                            The Association.
Observations   and Reports.
  Calcutta : — Home, Revenue, and Agricultural           Department.      Sug
       gestions regarding   the  management     of   the  Forests   in the Jal-
       paiguri and Darjeeling Districts, Bengal. 4to. Calcutta 1881.

 1881.]                            Presents.                               53
Observations,    &c. (continued).
         Suggestions regarding Forest Administration in British Burma.
        4to. Calcutta 1881.              The Inspector-General of Forests.
      Geological Survey of India.       Records.    Vol.  XIV. Part   1. 8vo.
        1881.                                                    The Survey.
   Geneva :  —  Commission Geodesique F6derale.          Nivellement de Pre
        cision de la Suisse. Livr. 7. 4to. Geneve, Bale, Lyon 1880.
                                                            The Commission.
             —
   London : Local Government Board. Report of the Medical Officer
        for 1879. 8vo. London 1880.                               The Board.
              —
   Sydney : Council of Education. Reports upon the condition of
        the Public Schools, and of the Certified Denominational Schools
        for 1879. 8vo. Sydney 1880.
                                  The Royal Society of New South Wales.
                  —
   Washington : United States Coast Survey. Report of the Super
        intendent for 1877. 4to. Washington 1880.                The Survey.
      United States Naval Observatory.        Reports on the Total Solar
        Eclipses of July,'   1878,  and  January,*   1880. 4to. Washington
        1880.                                               The Observatory.
             —
   Zurich : Meteorologische Centralanstalt. Schweizerische Meteoro-
        logische Beobachtungen. Jahrg.XIV. Lief. 7. Titel u. Beilagen.
        Jahrg. XV. Lief. 5. Jahrg. XVI. Lief. 4. 4to. Zurich.
                                   Schweiz. Naturforschende Gesellschaft.
Bartolini (G. B.)     Prospetto indicante le tensioni del vapore acqueo
     da — 30a + 1200 (Termometro Centigrado).           With an explanatory
     letter.   (Lithographed.)                                   The Author.
Edelmann (Th.) Versnche vermittels des Platten-Elektrometers iiber
     die Volta'schen Fundamentalversuche.        I. 8vo. Miinchen.
                                                                 The Author.
Fisichella (Sac. Alfio) S. Tommaso d' Aquino. Leone                XIII  e la
     Scienza. 8vo. Catania 1880.                                 The Author.
Gill (David) The Determination of the Earth's Distance from the
     Sun. [From the " Cape Times."]                              The Author.
Guy (William     A.), F.R.S.    The   Factors of   the Unsound    Mind. 8vo.
     London 1881.                                                The Author.
Lewis (Henry Carvill)       Note on the Zodiacal Light. 8vo. [1880].
                                                                 The Author.
Pickering (Edward C.) Variable Stars of Short Period. 8vo. Cam
     bridge 1881.                                                The Author.
Plantamour (E.)        Resume Meteorologique de l'Annee 1879, pour
     Geneve et le Grand Saint-Bernard. 8vo. Geneve 1880.
                                                                 The Anthor.

54                                 Presents.                        [Apr. 28,
Struve (Otto)      Sur le temps universel et sur le choix à cet effet d'un
      premier méridien.      Rapport fait à l'Académie Impériale.
                                                                 The Author.
Wardle (Thomas) The Wild Silks of India, principally Tusser. fol.
      London 1880.                                               The Author.
Weinberg (Max)         Ueber Methoden der Messung der Wellenlangen
     des Lichtes mittelst Interferenzstreifen. 8vo. Wien 1879.
                                                                 The Author.
Zinno (Silvestro)      Collezione di alcune Memorie, Note ed Opnscoli.
     8vo. Napoli 1880.      Nuova Produzione del Glucosio. 8vo.
                                                                 The Author.
                           Presents,  April 28, 1881.
Transactions.
  Brussels : — Académie Royale des Sciences. Mémoires des Membres.
        Tome XLIII. Ire Partie. 4to. Bruxelles 1880.                Mémoires
        couronnés, &c. Tome XXXIX. 2e Partie. Tomes XLII,
        XLIII.    4to.   Bruxelles    1879-80.     Mémoires   couronnés,   &c.
        Tomes   XXIX, XXX, XXXII.           8vo. Bruxelles 1880-81.     Tables
        des Mémoires.    1816-57; 1858-78.      12mo. Bruxelles 1858, 1879.
        Biographie Nationale.        Tome VI, 2e Partie ; Tome VII,
        Ire Partie. 8vo. Bruxelles 1878, 1880.                 The Academy.
      Société Malacologique.        Annales. Tome XII. 8vo. Bruxelles
        1877. Procès-Verbaux. Tomes VIII-X. 8vo. Bruxelles.
                                                                 The Society.
   Gloucester: — Cotteswold Naturalists' Field Club.             Proceedings.
        Vol. VII. 8vo. Gloucester 1880.                            The Club.
   Liège : — Société Géologique.       Annales. Tome VI. 8vo. Liège 1879.
                                                                 The Society.
              —
   London : Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society.               Proceedings.
        Vol. IX. No. 1. 8vo. London 1881.                        The Society.
      Society of Antiquaries.        Proceedings.   2nd Series. Vol. VIII.
         No. 4. 8vo. London.                                     The Society.
             —
   Madrid : Comision del Mapa Geolôgico de Espana.                    Boletin.
         Tomo VII. Cuaderno 2o. 8vo. Madrid 1880.
                                                            The Commission.
   Mexico : Museo Nacional. Anales. Tomo II. Entrega 2a y 3a.
             —
         4to. Mexico 1880.                                      The Museum.
              —
   Munich : K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften.              Sitzungsberichte.
         Math.-Phys.    Classe.  1880,   Hefte   4, 5 : 1881,   Heft 1. 8vo.
         Munchen 1880-81.                                      The Academy.
   Paris : — Comité International des Poids et Mesures.                Procès-
         Verbaux, 1880. 8vo. Paris 1881.                     The Committee.

                                 Presents,                              55
1881.]
Transactions (continued).
     Dépôt de la Marine.         Annales    Hydrographiques.     1880.  2e
        Semestre.   8vo. Paris 1880.                       '
                                                               The Dépôt.
     École des Mines.     Annales.   7e Série.  Tome XVIII.     8vo. Paris
        1880.                                                 The School.
     École Normale Supérieure.       Annales. 2e Série. Tome IX, Sup
        plement. Tome X. Nos. 1-4. 4to. Paris 1880-81.
                                                              The School.
     École Polytechnique. Journal. 48e Cahier. Tome XXIX. 4to.
        Paris 1880.                                           The School.
     École Pratique des Hautes Études. Laboratoire d'Histologie du
        Collège de France. Travaux 1879-80. 8vo. Paris 1880.
                                                              The School.
     Faculté des Sciences.    Thèses. 4to. Paris 1880.       The Faculty.
     Société de Géographie.      Bulletin. Décembre, 1880. 8vo. Paris
        1880.                                                The Society.
     Société Française de Physique. Séances. Juillet-Décembre, 1880.
        8vo. Paris 1880. Résumés, Juin, 1880—Mars, 1881. 8vo.
                                                             The Society.
     Société Philomathique.     Bulletin. 7e Série. Tome IV. No. 4.
        Tome V. No. 1. 8vo. Paris 1880-81.                   The Society.
Observations and Reports.
  Dehra Dun : — Great Trigonometrical Survey of India.            Synopsis
        of the Results. Vols. VII-IX. 4to. Dehra Dun 1878-79.
                                                             The Survey.
  St. Petersburg: — K. Akademie der Wissenschaften.             Die Tem-
        peratur-Verhâltnisse des Russischen Reiches. Halfte II. 4to.
        St. Petersburg 1881. With Atlas.                  The Academy.
             —
  Toronto : Magnetic Observatory.          Tracings from Photographic
        Record of Magnetic Storm, January 30 to February 1, 1881.
        Single sheet.                                  The Observatory.
Abel  (F. A.), F.R.S.    Report on the Results of Experiments made
     with Samples of Dust collected at Seaham Colliery. 4to. London
     1881.                                                   The Author.
Duncan (P. M.), F.R.S., and W. P. Sladen.       A Memoir on the Echino-
     dermata of the Arctic Sea to the West of Greenland. 4to. London
     1881.                                                   The Author.
Evans (John), Treas. R.S. The Ancient Bronze Implements, Weapons
     and Ornaments of Great Britain and Ireland. 8vo. London 1881.
                                                             The Author.

   5fi                                 Dr. G. Gore.
   Liversidge (A.) Waters from Hot Springs, New Britain and Fiji.
         The Action of Sea- water upon Cast-iron.                  Notes upon some
         Minerals from New Caledonia.                On the Composition of some
         Coral Limestones, &c., from the South Sea Islands. The Alkaloid
         from Piturie.      On some New South Wales Minerals. On the
         Composition      of some Wood inclosed in Basalt. 8vo. Sydney
         1880-81.                                                       The Author.
   Nicholson (H. A.)         On the Structure and Affinities of the Genus
         Monticulipora and its Sub-genera. 8vo. Edinburgh and London
         1881.                                                          The Author.
   Siemens (C. W.), F.R.S.              On    the  Dynamo-electric     Current.    4to.
         Gas and Electricity as Heating Agents. 8vo. London 1881.
                                                                        The Author.
      Impression in Wax of Seal-portrait of Sir Isaac Newton.
                                                         R. Etheridge, Esq., F.R.S.
  " Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids."*
          By G. Gore, LL.D., F.R.S. Received December 1, 1880.
          Read December 16.
                       1. General Statement       of the Phenomena.
      In  a recent preliminary statement (see " Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 30,
  p. 322)    I have mentioned that " when an electric current was passed
 between the surfaces of mutual contact of certain aqueous solutions of
 different specific gravities, the boundary surfaces of contact of the two
 liquids became indefinite where the current passed from the lighter
  rato the heavier solution, and became sharply defined where the current
  left the heavier and re-entered the lighter liquid ; and that on reversing
  the direction of the current several times in succession after suitable
 intervals of time, these effects were reversed with each such change.
 Also, in various cases in which the contiguous boundary layers of the
 two liquids had become mixed, the liquids separated, and the line of
 separation of the two solutions became by the influence of the electric
 current as perfect as that between strata of oil and water lying upon
 each other."
     These and other phenomena which accompany them form the subject
of the present communication.
     The chief additional phenomena observed have been — 1st. The pro
duction of definite lines, not only where the current passed from the
'   • This research arose out of one on " The Phenomena       of the Capillary Electro
            See
                " Proc. Boy. Soc.," rol. 31, p. 295.
scope."

        Influence   of  Voltaic Currents on    the  Diffusion  of Liquids.   57
 heavier   into the lighter solution, but also (in certain cases) at the sur
 face  where it passed from the lighter to the heavier one ; 2nd. The
production      in some  cases  of two or three separate lines at the former
situation, and less frequently also at the latter one ; and, 3rd. An
apparent movement of the mass of the heavier solution, usually in the
direction of the electric current, but in certain exceptional cases in a
reverse direction.       In all cases there occurred in addition the more or
less influencing      circumstance, rise of temperature (by conduction,
resistance, &c.), with its usual effects.
    The earliest allied experiment        known to me is one by Faraday
(Erp. Res. 494), who passed an electric current from forty cells, four
inches square, by means of platinum plate electrodes, through a strong
solution of magnesic sulphate into a layer of distilled water, half an
inch deep and about seven square inches in area, lying upon it.              In
less than one minute magnesia appeared at the boundary surface of the
two liquids, forming a layer one-eighth          of an inch deep in the water
immediately upon the magnesic solution.              The water above was quite
clear.    There was no alkali at the negative platinum plate, but plenty
of acid at the positive one.        This experiment was repeatedly verified.
 Daniell subsequently in a research on the " Electrolysis of Secondary
                 "
 Compounds         (" Phil. Trans.," 1840, pp. 209-224), passed an upward
current through solutions of the nitrates of silver, mercury, and lead,
and the sulphates of palladium, copper, iron, and magnesium                into-
a dilute one of caustic        potash, separated from them by a thin hori
zontal diaphragm of bladder.           Oxygen was determined to the upper,
 and the respective metals to the lower, surface of the diaphragm, and
 deposits of metal, more or less oxidised, were formed upon the latter
surface, the oxidation being more complete the more oxidisable the
metal ; with the magnesium salt oxide alone was obtained.
             2.  The Influence of  Kind and Strength of the Liquids.
    In order to obtain       a general   basis of facts,   I  made a number   of
experiments       with the following apparatus     :—
    A is  a glass   cylinder, 20 centims. high and 6 or 7 centims. diameter,
open at both ends ; B is a vulcanised india-rubber bung, tightly fitting
the cylinder ; C is a glass cup
                                      (of nearly equal diameter to that of the
inside of the cylinder), with a perfectly flat and watertight lid of gutta
percha, secured by means of varnish ; D and E are open tubes of glass,
about 15 or 18 millims. high and 8 or 10 millims. internal diameter,,
flat at their ends, and fitting tightly in the lid of the cup ; F is an
open glass tube, about 17 centims. high and 26 millims. diameter, per
 fectly flat at its lower end ; G and H are large electrodes of sheet
 platinum.
    The apparatus       whilst being used should be situated in a strong
 light.   The cup is first filled with a heavy and strongly coloured elec

 58                               Dr. G. Gore.
 trolyte to about half the height of the tubes D and E, care being taken
 to exclude all bubbles of air, and the lid of the cup is coated with
 grease over that portion upon which the end of the tube F is to stand ;
 the cup is then placed upon the bung B, and the latter inserted tightly
 in the cylinder, and the cylinder fixed steady. Two corks (secured
 upon the ends of stout platinum wires, about 20 centims. long) are now
 inserted in the ends of the tubes D and E, and the cylinder A nearly-
 filled with the lighter and colourless electrolyte.     The electrode of the
 tube    P is now fixed in position by means of a cross-bar of cork.     The
 tube (enclosing one of the platinum wires) is next simultaneously
                                       Fio.  1.
                                     >
                                                  >>
                                   ii             i
                                                \
                                      G      H
                                                     A
                                             F
                                       D     E
                                                ¦
                                  )      -        I
                                                   B
immersed, together with the electrode G, in the liquid, and its lower
end verj slowly and carefully placed so as to stand perfectly flat and
watertight upon the lid of the cup. Both the upper end of the tube F
and of the electrode G are now fixed tightly in the cylinder by means
•of   pieces of cork.   The cork from the tube E is then withdrawn -with
extreme slowness, so as not to destroy the definite meniscus, and then
the one in D similarly removed.            The current from five or ten (or
more)      Grove's elements  is  now    at  once passed from G to H (before
•the   liquids in D and   E have time to mix), and the effects upon       the

        Influence  of Voltaic Currents   on the   Diffusion of Liquids.       59
contact surfaces of the two liquids (and especially upon the portions
of liquid immediately above them) continually observed and noted.
   To those of the lower liquids which were colourless, strong colour
was imparted by addition beforehand of solution of litmus. Although
purity of the liquids does not appear to materially affect the pheno
mena under examination, distilled water, pure acids, and usually salts
of a high degree of purity were employed in all cases.          In all the first
six experiments of the following series a current from a single row of
five Grove's elements, each of one pint capacity, was used; and the
apparatus already described was employed in all those to No. 36.
   Experiment 1. — Meniscus tabes 12 millims. high and 3'5 millims.
bore.     Lower liquid, a saturated solution of cupric chloride of a green
colour ; upper one, dilute sulphuric acid, 1 in 10. After passing the
current during five minutes, the cupric solution in the tube under
anode was deep green, and its meniscus indefinite ; and under cathode
blue, with meniscus definite. Reversed current repeatedly and obtained
similar effects each time after about ten or fifteen minutes. Remarks. —
The blue colour at the positive end of the cupric solution was probably
due to the accumulation of basic chloride by the influence of the
current.
   Exp. 2. — Same tubes. Lower liquid, a saturated aqueous solution
of cupric sulphate ; upper one, same as in last experiment.          Free con
duction.     Positive meniscus definite and negative one indefinite.* By
reversing the current the previously definite one thickened out and
rapidly became lower in position, whilst the other one gradually be
came definite and rose in position, as if the mass of the liquid moved
in the same direction as the current.
   Exp. 3. — Same tubes. Lower liquid same as last; upper one, 1
volume of hydrochloric acid and 6 of water.            Conduction free. No
green colour at negative meniscus below anode. (Found by a separate
experiment that the addition of hydrochloric acid to a solution of
cupric sulphate did not make the latter green.)              Positive meniscus
was definite, negative one indefinite and diffused.        The anode became
coated with solid hydrate of chlorine, which fell off and decomposed
with evolution of gas on stopping the current.
   Exp. 4. — Meniscus tubes 15 millims. long and 4 millims. bore, were
now used in all experiments to No. 12. Lower liquid a saturated
solution of cupric chloride; upper one a saturated solution of potassic
sulphate.     Conduction moderate. Positive meniscus definite, and soon
a second and parallel line appeared beneath it, the intervening stratum
being weak in colour; negative meniscus diffuse.                Reversed the
current, first an upper, and then a second and lower line appeared
under the cathode     ; the other meniscus became diffuse and indefinite.
   * By positive meniscus I mean the one under the cathode, and by negative that
 under the anode.

                                 Dr. G. Gore.
    Exp.  5. — Lower  liquid, H ozs. of potassic bichromate dissolved in
 12 ozs. water; upper one a half saturated solution of sodic carbonate.
 Conduction moderate. The bulk of the lower liquid appeared to move
 in a direction opposite to that of the current, and its level became
                                                                                *
 8 millims. lower in the tube under the cathode than in that under
 anode. A double meniscus line formed in the positive tube (i.e., under
cathode).     Gas was evolved at the positive meniscus, probably car
 bonic anhydride.      Positive meniscus became ultimately 12 millims.
lower than negative one.          On stopping the current the positive
meniscus rose and the negative one fell immediately.
    Exp. 6. — Lower liquid, a saturated solution of cupric sulphate,
 upper one dilute nitric acid 1 in 12.           Copious conduction.      Blue
 liquid rose in tube under cathode, and sank in that under anode.
 Positive meniscus very definite, negative one diffuse.
    Exp. 7. —Now employed a single series of six Grove's elements in
all the experiments to No. 34. Lower liquid a saturated solution of
mercuric nitrate (not coloured) ; upper one, dilute nitric acid 1 in 12.
 Free conduction.     A layer of white powder, 25 millims. thick, soon
accumulated at the positive end of the lower liquid.               Reversal of
current quickly   caused   the  salt  to disappear,  and   to reappear at the
opposite (now the positive) meniscus.          Remarks. —   The white powder
was probably salt accumulated by the influence of the current.
    Exp. 8. — Lower liquid a nearly saturated solution of yellow potassic
chromato ; upper one same as in last experiment.          A thin layer of solid
red salt set free at each meniscus by chemical action.         Now passed the
current. Salt at positive meniscus dissolved quickly. Positive meniscus
descended slowly and negative one ascended, as if the lower solution
moved in an opposite direction to that of the current.
    Exp. 9. — Lower liquid a saturated solution of cupric nitrate ; upper
one same as in last experiment.          Copious conduction.      The definite
line commenced     to be visible at  positive  meniscus  in  two minutes,  and
soon became of a deeper blue colour than the layer of solution imme
diately below it, as if the blue colour ascended and caused the colour
to become concentrated as it progressed.
    Exp. 10. — Lower liquid a saturated solution of cupric chloride ;
upper one same as in last experiment.         Copious conduction.     Definite
line of blue colour soon formed at positive meniscus.             The solution
below negative meniscus being green.          Reversal of current reversed
these effects. Remarks. — The line of blue colour at the positive
meniscus may have been due to electrolytic accumulation of basic
chloride, or to electric diffusion of nitric acid. Dilute nitric acid does
produce such a change of colour in a solution of cupric chloride.
    Exp. 11. — Tubes 18 millims. long and 5 millims. bore. Lower
liquid a nearly saturated solution of cupric nitrate ; upper one dilute
nitric acid 1 in 10. Very free conduction.         In two minutes the nega

        Influence  of Voltaic Currents    on tJie Diffusion of Liquids.   61
tire meniscus     became diffused, and the positive one a distinct line ;
the   solution   was of a lighter colour 3'0 millims. below the latter
meniscus     than lower down.     Several reversals of the current reversed
these effects   each time in a few minutes, the period requisite increasing
each time.
   Exp. 12. — Same tubes as       in Experiments 5 to 11. Lower liquid a
saturated solution of cupric nitrate; upper one dilute hydrochloric
acid 1 volume to 8 of water.        Copious conduction.      Coloured liquid
below anode seemed to sink.           A definite line appeared at positive
meniscus in one and a half minute.          By reversal of current that line
became indefinite almost at once, and a definite one appeared at the
other surface of contact in two and a half minutes.            The mass of
lower solution appeared to move in the direction of the current.
   Exp. 13. — Tubes 15 millims. long and 7"5 millims. bore.           Lower
liquid same as in last experiment ; upper one, 2 ozs. potassic bromide
dissolved in 12 ozs. water.      Each contact surface of the lower liquid
became green previous to passage of current.           Conduction moderate.
Green colour extended downwards at surface below anode, and did not
decrease at the other meniscus.           Definite lines were produced at
both meniscuses, the negative meniscus also became bluish.         Reversed
current, a definite line was produced in an extremely dilute part of
lower solution below cathode ;          the other appearances were also
reversed.
                                     Fig. 2.
   Exp. 14. — Lower     liquid the same as in the last experiment ; upper
one dilute nitric acid 1 in 10.     Two definite horizontal lines formed in
the lower liquid below cathode in about one minute, about 1*75 millim.
asunder, with a pale yellow stratum of liquid beneath them, and soon
merged into each other.       The other meniscus sank and became diffuse.
    Exp. 15.  — Lower liquid a strong green solution of enpric bromide ;
upper one same as in last experiment.         Upper surfaces of lower solu
tion were convex and became blue without the aid of the current.
 Copions conduction.       Blueness of surface disappeared from negative
 meniscus and increased to positive one, and became deeper in colour
 to 175 millim.     thick. Definite line at surface below cathode, and
 diffused meniscus     below anode. Negative meniscus became strongly

62                               Dr. G. Gore.
convex and cloudy, the other one was blue, clear, and           slightly con
cave ; its blue portion became nearly 12 millims. thick.         Reversal of
current was soon followed by reversal of     these effects.   The total bulk
of the lower liquid increased during the experiment.
   Exp. 16. — Lower liquid a saturated solution of potassic cyanide,
coloured blue by litmus ; upper one, 2 ozs. potassic chloride dissolved
in 12 ozs. of water.    Conduction copious. Definite line produced in
two minutes at about 2 millims. above the blue solution below cathode,
and the blue colour soon ascended to it. Positive meniscus became-
definite and greenish.    The mass of lower liquid appeared to move in
a direction opposite to the current.
   Exp. 17. — Lower liquid same as in last experiment; upper one,
4 ozs. of a saturated solution of sodic carbonate and 8 ozs. of water.
Weak conduction.       The line at negative meniscus was more definite
than that at positive one. After reversal of current this effect was
also reversed.    The line began to form at about 2 millims. above the
blue liquid under anode. The blue liquid appeared to move in a
direction contrary to that of the current.
   Exp. 18. — Tubes 18 millims. long and 7"5 millims. bore.            Lower
liquid as in last experiment; upper one, 1 oz. of acid sulphate of
sodium in 12 ozs. of water.       Free conduction.     A line appeared at
once in very dilute part of cyanide solution below anode, and on re
versing current it appeared immediately in the other tube.          Soon also-
solid salt formed at the positive meniscus (probably potassic sulphate),
as if much downward electric diffusion of acid occurred there, the
colour also became weaker ; no salt formed at the very definite nega
tive meniscus.     By reversing the current a dilute space was produced
between the deep blue coloured cyanide below and the light blue
above near the line of negative meniscus.       The mass of lower liquid
 appeared   to move   in the   direction of the  current, contrary to what
 usually occurs with a solution of potassic cyanide.        The total bulk of
 the blue liquid increased.
    Exp. 19. — A one-fourth saturated solution of acid sulphate of sodium
beneath, and dilute nitric acid 1 to 10 above.         Copious conduction.
In three minutes a line commenced to appear l-75 millim. above
positive meniscus in pale red portion.      Liquid appeared to move in
 the direction of the current.
    Exp. 20. — Same solution of coloured potassic cyanide below as in
 Experiment No. 18, and one of 1£ oz. of potassic ferrocyanide in
 12 ozs. of water above.     Free conduction.    Definite concave line in
 half a minute in tube below anode. Stopped current, the line became
 at once flat.  Reversed current, a curved line appeared in colourless
 portion of liquid of tube below the anode in 1£ minute, 175 millim.
 above visible blue portion, and sank down into the blue in half
                                                                               a
 minute.    Blue colour in tube below cathode rose, and became weaker

        Influence of Voltaic  Currents on the   Diffusion  of Liquids.     63'
than in the other.     Reversed   current again, line in tube below anode
produced immediately.
    Exp. 21. — Lower liquid a saturated solution of chloride of cobalt,
upper one dilute nitric acid 1 to 10. Copious conduction. Two lines
soon formed about 2 millims. apart in the liquid of tube below cathode,
they merged and formed one concave line. The lower liquid appeared
to move in the direction of the current. By reversal of current the
line appeared in the tube under the cathode, and the coloured liquid
in the tube under anode became diffuse. Previous to the line appear
ing, the surface of lower liquid under the cathode was convex ; when
the line first appeared that surface became straight, and when the line
was fully developed it was concave. The liquid again appeared to
move in the same direction as the current.
    Exp. 22. — A saturated solution of yellow potassic chromate below,
and one of 3 ozs. of sodic sulphate in 12 ozs. water above. Conduction
free. A line appeared in one minute, in liquid of tube below anode, at
the verge of dilute part ; a second line also appeared but did not
merge into the first ; a third line also came, but did not merge into
the next one.     The solution in the tube below anode diffused upwards,
and that in the other concentrated downwards, so that the mass ap
peared to move in a direction opposite to the current.         Reversed the
current, similar effects occurred.
    Exp. 23. — Lower liquid a saturated solution of perchlorate of nickel ;
upper one dilute nitric acid 1 to 10. Conduction moderate.            In two-
minntes the surface beneath       cathode became     perfectly flat and defi
nite, and then concave. Soon also a second line appeared 5 millims.
below the other, with increased colour of solution beneath.              The
liquid in the other tube became diffused in colour.        Reversed current,
similar effects occurred after about ten minutes.
    Exp. 24. — Small tubes 16 millims. long and 10'5 millims. bore.
Lower liquid 1 volume of sulphuric acid to 2 of water, coloured by
litmus ; upper one dilute sulphuric acid 1 in 20, not coloured.         Con
duction free. Positive meniscus became a little more definite.            No-
other apparent effect.
    Exp. 25. — A saturated solution of cupric nitrate beneath and dilute
 nitric acid above. Moderate conduction (battery weak). A definite
 line, concave and rising, developed in tube under cathode.         Reversed
 current, similar effect but feebler.
    Exp. 26. — Lower liquid a saturated solution of sodic carbonate,
 coloured by litmus; upper one dilute solution of the same salt, con
 sisting of 1 volume of the saturated solution and 12 volumes of water.
 Feeble conduction. The liquid in tube below anode diffused, that in
 the other tube did not.     Mass of lower liquid did not appear to move
  in direction of the current, but ascended by diffusion at negative
  meniscus.    No production of a visible line.

 64                             Dr. G. Gore.
    Exp. 27. — Small tubes each 14 millims. high, one 5 millims. bore,
and the other 15 millims. Lower liquid 1 volume of sulphuric acid to
 2 of water, coloured ; the upper one consisted of 1 volume of sulphuric
 acid and 20 of water.     Battery strong, current from broad to narrow
 tube.    In two minutes a line appeared in narrow tube about 2 millims.
 above red liquid ; the liquid rose a little in the tube.   Remarks. — Ex
 periments Nos. 24, 26, and 27 show that it is difficult to obtain the
 definite line with liquids which differ only in strength.
    Exp. 28. — Lower liquid a saturated solution of cupric nitrate ;
 upper one, dilute sulphuric acid 1 in 8. Current from broad to narrow
 tube.    Two lines developed in narrow tube 3"0 millims. asunder ; the
 upper   one  concave and the lower one flat.        No line produced in
 broad tube.    Reversed current, lines in narrow tube disappeared, and
 the meniscus became diffused.       Two lines developed slowly in broad
 tube 1'75 millim. apart, the upper one concave in weakest part of the
 red liquid ; the lower one flat, and merged after a while into the other.
    Exp. 29. — Lower liquid same as in last experiment; upper one
 dilute nitric acid, 1 volume of acid to 5 of water.   Current from broad
 to narrow tube.      Free conduction.     A straight line developed in
 narrow tube in about forty-five seconds. Reversed current, a line
commenced to appear in broad tube in about seven minutes, and was
 fully developed in about four minutes more. Reversed again. Straight
line developed in narrow tube in about four minutes ; it quickly be
came concave, and the liquid rose in that tube as if moving in the
direction of the current.
    Exp. 30. — Lower liquid a saturated solution of sodic carbonate,
coloured by litmus ; upper one dilute solution of the same salt, viz.,
1 oz. of the saturated solution and 12 ozs. of water.        Current from
broad to narrow tube.       Conduction very feeble, though battery was
strong. No line produced in either tube. Liquid in narrow tube
sank and became weaker in colour and diffused ; that in the broad
tube rose slightly and became less diffused.      The mass of the liquid
appeared to move in a direction opposite to that of the current.
    Exp. 31. — Lower liquid a saturated solution of potassic cyanide,
coloured by litmus; upper one, 1 oz. of the same salt in 12 ozs. water.
Current from broad to narrow tube.           Conduction feeble. An im
perfectly developed line produced in narrow tube.            The coloured
liquid sank in the narrow tube as if moving opposite to the current.
Liquid surface was less definite in the broad tube than in the narrow
one.
    Exp. 32. — Lower liquid, equal volumes of nitric acid and water,
coloured ; upper one, 1 volume of nitric acid and 10 of water.        Both
meniscuses convex.      Current from broad to narrow tube.       Free con
duction. Imperfectly developed line in colourless portion of liquid in
narrow tube in four minutes, 2 millims. above the red liquid. The

         Influence   of Voltaic Currents  on the Diffusion  of Liquids.     65
  red liquid rose in narrow tube as if moving in same direction as the
  current. Bemarks. — Experiments Nos. 31 and 32 also show the diffi
  culty of producing definite lines in liquids which differ only in degree
  of concentration.
     Exp. 33. — Now employed a current from twelve Grove's cells
 arranged in single series, until Experiment No. 37. Small tubes 15
  millims. high and 8 millims. bore. Lower liquid same as in last expe
  riment; upper one, 1 volume of nitric acid and 5 of water. Very
 copious conduction.        Deep curved line produced in tube beneath
  cathode, and three distinct lines in the other tube, the middle one of
  which merged itself into the upper one, and the two others remained.
 The lines were not as definite as those produced by two liquids of
  more widely differing chemical composition.
     Exp. 34. — Small tubes 17 millims. high, 5"5 millims. bore. Liquids
 same as in last experiment.         Copious conduction.      A definite line
 produced in colourless part of liquid in tube below cathode 1"75 millim.
 above coloured portion, and a very faint one produced in the other
 tube.     These lines disappeared during the stoppage of current, and
 reappeared whilst it was passing.         They disappeared in about two or
 three seconds and reappeared in about six seconds, and were the most
 definite in the tube under cathode. This was verified several times.
                 3. Experiments with Trehle Meniscus Apparatus.
    In the following experiment a different apparatus was used. A is
 a rectangular cell 20 centims. high, 12"5 centims. long, and 5-5 centims.
 wide, with front and back of polished plate glass, held together by
 clamp screws. B and C are glass cups, fitted with lids and tubes as
 the previously described apparatus (see p. 58), B having one tube and
•C  two (each tube being        15 millims. high and  12 millims. bore).   D,
 E, and F are three similar glass tubes, E and F being provided with
 platinum electrodes, Gr and H. The cups were first filled with the
-coloured     liquid and placed in the cell, and the latter filled as in the
 former apparatus.       The object of the experiment was to compare the
effects of an up current and of a down current with ordinary diffusion
 without current in the small tube within D.
    Exp. 35. — Lower liquid a saturated solution of cupric nitrate ;
upper one, 1 volume of nitric acid and 5 of water.         A curved line was
quickly produced in each of the two tubes, highest up in the one
under the anode ; that line remained in the colourless part of the
liquid whilst the one under the cathode descended or merged quickly
into the blue solution.        The blue solution rose in height under the
 cathode, as if the liquid moved in the same direction as the current.
 Three permanent lines were produced in the tube under the cathode,
 the top one slightly concave, the two lower ones straight.       The line in
colourless portion in the tube under anode rose slowly as the lower
    VOL.  XXXII.                                                   F

66                            Dr. G. Gore.
liquid increased in bulk. No manifest difference of diffusion appeared
during   lj  hours in the tube under the anode when compared with
that in the tube with no current, excepting that the liquid had risen
more in the former than in the latter, probably in consequence of the
heat of conduction resistance.
                                  Fig. 3.
   Exp.  36. — The usual double meniscus apparatus (see p. 58) was   now
used again, and a single series of twenty-five Grove's elements was
employed in this and the following experiments to No. 40.            The
meniscus tubes were 17 millims. high and 8 millims. bore.          Lower
and upper liquids same as in last experiment.       Copious conduction.
Almost instantly a line with strong concavity downwards was pro
duced, about 2 millims. above the blue surface of positive meniscus,
and another in the diffused portion of blue liquid below the anode.
This was followed by the production of two less-defined lines in the
blue portion of solution below cathode, and this was immediately
succeeded by a strong wave-like motion at positive meniscus, and a
projection upwards of portions of the blue liquid, and soon afterward
large bubbles of gas or vapour were produced in the middle part of
the positive meniscus in the position of the lowest line.  On reversing
the current the gas was produced strongly in the meniscus under
cathode, and continued    a short time also at the other meniscus.   The

       Influence   of Voltaic Currents   on the Diffusion   of Liquids.       67
violence of the action caused the liquids to mix, and required the ex
periment to be stopped. The current was too strong for the persistent
production of definite lines.
    Exp. 37. — Same tubes. Lower liquid, 1 volume of sulphuric acid
and 2 of water ; upper one, 1 volume of nitric acid and 5 of water.
Very copious conduction.         A line with convexity downwards was
immediately produced      at  each meniscus, and was soon followed by a
strong action at each surface, strongest at the positive one, causing a
streaming upwards of the lower liquid as if unequally heated, and a
down rushing of the upper liquid, which destroyed the definite line.
Small bubbles of gas or vapour were also produced all over the surface
of the positive meniscus only.
    Exp. 38. — Meniscus tubes 22 millims. high and 12 millims. wide.
Lower liquid a mixture of 2 measures of saturated solution of cupric
sulphate and 1 measure of dilute sulphuric acid, consisting of 1 volume
of acid to 2\ volumes of water ; upper liquid, 1 volume of sulphuric
acid and 7 of water.         Two lines were produced at the negative
meniscus.     The violence of the action soon put a stop to the experi
 ment. Remarks. — The stronger action at the positive meniscus than at
the negative one in Experiments 37 and 38 was probably due to the
 more definite accumulation of acid and basic products in contiguous
 layers at the former than at the latter meniscus.
     Exp. 39. — Meniscus tubes, 17 millims. high and 8 millims. bore.
 Lower liquid, 1 volume of nitric acid and 1 volume of water ; upper one,
 1 volume of nitric acid and 5 of water.      Conduction copious. A line
 with convexity downwards produced at once above positive meniscus,
  followed soon by one above negative meniscus ; this was succeeded by
  strong wavy movements at those surfaces, as if the effect of heat or
  of liquids of different specific gravity.
                     Remarks on the Foregoing Experiments.
   The phenomena in all the experiments are evidently very complex,
and are a mixture of physical and chemical effects. The effects to be
explained consist chiefly of the production of the fine lines, and an
apparent movement of the mass of the liquid. The hypothesis which
seems to be the most completely consistent with them               that is,
they are chiefly due to electrolytic changes, to differences of specific
gravity, to ordinary liquid diffusion, to electric transfer and diffu
sion of liquids, and to heat of electric conduction resistance.   That
also the surfaces of mutual contact of the two solutions, and of
those solutions with the layers of liquid produced by electrolysis,
 act    in some degree      as   electrodes   and as   diffusion   diaphragms.
 That by the electrolytic liberation and subsequent accumulation               of
 electropositive and electronegative ingredients, and the transference
 of water by electric diffusion and its accumulation on the sides of the
                                                                   f2

 68                                Dr. G. Gore.
 surfaces of mutual contact of the liquids, various phenomena, such as
 layers of liquid of different specific gravities and adhesive powers,
 lines, layers of colour, alterations of forms of meniscus, downward
 liquid currents, <fec, are produced.       That also by the heat of con
 duction resistance evolved in the tubes in consequence of the reduced
 area of section of the solutions ; by the surfaces of the layers of liquid
 acting as electrodes ; and by the chemical union of acids and bases set
 free in contact with each other at the meniscuses, thermic expansion and
 streaming upwards of liquids, &c, are produced.         In order to be able
 to understand the results of each separate experiment, these and the
 subsequent explanations require to be applied to the particular case.
    The apparent transfer of mass may be partly explained upon the
 assumption that the colouring matter acts as a base towards acids,
 and as an acid towards bases, and is transferred accordingly, thus
 producing in the former case, by diminution of colour at the negative
and increase of it at the positive end, an appearance of bodily transfer
 of the heavier liquid in the direction of the current. Others may be
explained upon the supposition that basic matter is set free at the
liquid cathodes, and acid matter at the liquid anodes ; thus, with the
lower liquid containing a salt (such as cupric sulphate) composed of
a coloured base and a colourless acid, the blue basic matter accumu
lated at the liquid cathode, and the colourless acid at the liquid
anode, and the      liquid appeared to move in the direction of the
current ; but with one containing a salt (such as potassic chromate)
composed of a coloured acid and a colourless base, a reverse move
ment appeared to occur.
    The downward movement of the meniscus under the cathode which
occurs in some cases (see Experiments 41, 42, and 43), may probably
be explained    as follows    : — By the upward passage of the electric
current and the meniscus acting as a kind of diaphragm, a greater
volume of liquid was transferred by electric diffusion from the
negative to the positive side of the division than in the reverse
direction (see " Experiments on Electric Osmose," " Proc. Roy. Soc.,"
No. 208, 1880, vol. 31, p. 253). This explanation, however, does not
appear very consistent with the fact that the lines when first observed
are not usually close to the coloured surface of the true meniscus, and
do not separate farther from it by continuance of the current.
    The influence of chemical composition of the liquids upon the
formation of lines is illustrated on page 85. The greater the differ
ences of specific gravity of the two liquids, the more easily were the
lines produced.     The line occurs more frequently where the current
goes from concentrated to dilute solutions of different substances than
the reverse ; out of 42 lines, 28 were at the positive, and 14 at the nega
tive meniscus.     The definiteness of the lines where the current passes
upwards,    and  the   indefiniteness usually produced where it passes

      Influence       of Voltaic Currents    on the Diffusion    of Liquids.       69
downwards through the meniscus, may be explained as follows : — In
the former case the layer of liquid accumulated above the meniscus
by the united action of electrolysis, ordinary and electric diffusion, is
of less specific gravity than the layer produced below it, and con
sequently the two layers do not as readily mix with each other ; but
in the latter case the layer produced above the meniscus is usually of
greater specific gravity than that immediately below the meniscus,
and the liquids more readily mix. These circumstances probably also
partly explain the greater frequency of the lines at the positive
 meniscus than at the negative one.
    Numerous observations have shown as very probable that the upper
 line nearly always originates at some distance from the meniscus, and
 in some      cases    subsequently      moves down to     it,
                                                             whilst in others      it
separates     from     (see Experiment No. 40)
                      it                              ;   and in cases where the
  two liquids have somewhat mixed, and there              no definite meniscus,
                                                          is
  the line commences in an extremely dilute and nearly colourless
  stratum of the lower liquid. The line sometimes commences nearly
5   millims. above the visibly coloured layer.
     The apparent thickness of the lines          probably due to convexity.
                                                 is
  The lines produced are usually straight with a moderate current, and
  curved with convexity downwards with          astrong one.     The commonest
 case is, that the line at first     curved and barely visible, but gradually
                                    is
  becomes   definite and  flat, and  remains so.     The form of the meniscus
is   sometimes changed by the passage of the current this would be
                                                                 ;                 a
 necessary consequence of the alterations produced in the composition
 and adhesive properties of the layers of liquid on each side of the
 meniscus.      Each newly formed line also possibly acts as a meniscus, a
 liquid electrode, and a diffusion diaphragm.          A series of lines could
 probably only     occur where   each  successive  layer of liquid in ascending
 order was lighter than the one next below it, and heavier than the
 one next above it.        Such a series occurs more frequently at the
 meniscus beneath the cathode than in the one beneath the anode.
    Whether the meniscus       is rendered more permanent or not by tem
 porary passage of an upward current through             it,
                                                         and the accumulation
 of ions against each of its surfaces,      Ihave not definitely ascertained       ;
 the free acid of the upper layer, and the free base of the lower one
 must, however, subsequently unite and form a third separating stratum
close to it.
    Time is    an important element in the formation of the lines          long
                                                                           ;
continued action is, within certain limits, more favourable than a
strong current to their production. The first line usually appears in
about one to five minutes, the second takes more time, especially                  if
the current has been passing a long time in an opposite direction           the;
length   of  time required for the line to appear in the opposite tube on
reversal of current, depends upon the period during which the current

 70                             Dr. G. Gore.
has been passing in the previous direction, the greater that period the
longer must it pass in the other direction. The greater difficulty of
producing lines with two liquids, which differ only in degree of con
centration (see Experiments Nos. 24, 26, 27, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, and
39), shows that the rapidity of production of the definite line is not
proportional alone to the amount of current passing.      I did not ascer
tain for how long a period the line could be maintained.
   The bulk, or form of the mass, of either the lower or upper solu
tion, have little or no effect upon the phenomena, except so far as they
affect the electric conduction resistance.    It was frequently observed
that the lower liquid increased in bulk during an experiment, probably
in consequence partly of heat of conduction resistance and partly
because of ordinary diffusion transferring more liquid from weak to
strong solution than from a strong to weak one, partly also because
electric osmose is nearly always more copious from a dilute to a con
centrated liquid than the reverse (see
                                              " Experiments on Electric
Osmose" loc. cit.). I have not ascertained whether the usually greater
electric osmose is wholly or only partly due to ordinary diffusion.
              4. Experimen ts with single Meniscus Apparatus.
    In order to be able to more perfectly analyse the phenomena by
reducing them to their simplest state,     I  employed in the following
experiments an apparatus having only a single meniscus tube (see
fig. 4).
                                   Fio. 4.
     The outer vessel contained the heavier liquid and the inner cylinder

       Influence   of Voltaic Currents   on the Diffusion        of Liquids.   71
the lighter one, the latter being artificially coloured when necessary
by means of litmus. The inner vessel was supported, and capable
of being steadily raised by means of a vertical rack and pinion (not
shown in the sketch).
    In using this apparatus (after placing the electrodes in position),
the small cylinder was first raised, and then the exact bulk (viz.,
^    ozs.) of solution was poured into the outer vessel. The inner
cylinder being next depressed until its lower end was level with the
liquid, the lighter solution was allowed to flow very slowly down the
 inner surface of that vessel, and the cylinder simultaneously depressed
 with great regularity (by means of the rack and pinion), so as to
 keep the meniscus within the small tube, until the vessel was suffi
 ciently immersed.      In cases where it was desirable to colour the
 heavier liquid instead of the lighter one, the meniscus tube projected
 into the lighter liquid instead of into the heavier one.
    This apparatus is more easily managed than the one described on
 p. 58 ; the arrangement also offers less conduction resistance, and a less
 powerful battery suffices; the phenomena obtained with it and re
 quiring to be observed are less numerous, but at the same time less
 complete ; reversal of the current, however, usually enables the
 remainder of the changes to be perceived.      In this apparatus also the
 phenomena at one meniscus are not liable to be neutralised, or in any
 other way interfered with by those at the other, this is particularly
 advantageous with regard to the visible movements.          By raising the
 inner cylinder slightly and then depressing     it,
                                                   a definite meniscus can
 also be obtained at any time. The following experiments were made
 with  it  by the aid of a current from twelve Grove's cells in single
•series.
   Exp. 40. — Meniscus tube 17 millims. long,      millims. bore. Outer
                                                   7
liquid a saturated solution of sodic sulphate.    Inner and coloured one
a one-fourth  saturated  solution of potassic chloride.  Current sent up
the meniscus tube. Conduction moderate.         A line produced at once.
The meniscus moved in the direction of the current.           Acid accu
mulated at the upper surface of the meniscus and produced a red layer
of liqnid about 1'75 millim. thick. By reversing the direction of tho
current the meniscus descended at once about 2'5 millims. A line
with its convexity npwards soon formed in the colourless portion
about 4*0 millims. below the border of colour and another in the
                                                       ;
coloured portion. There was thusthree lines, the middle one being the
original meniscus, now somewhat indefinite and dividing the coloured
and colourless liquids.    By raising the cylinder until a little of the
coloured liquid escaped, and then depressing               it,
                                                    a clear definite
meniscus was obtained, which soon became indefinite by the influence
of the downward current in the tube, and two other lines, one above
and one below   soon began to develop and separate further asunder,
                   it,

 72                              Dr. G. Gore.
 as  if two distinct layers of liquid (the upper one probably basic and
 the lower one acid) were accumulated by electric action.
    Exp. 41. — Outer liquid, 1 volume of sulphuric acid and 7 volumes
of water, sp. gr. of mixture ] -16 ; inner one 5 volumes of a saturated
solution oxalic acid, and 3 volumes of water, sp. gr. of mixture 1"02.
 Conduction     feeble.   Current sent up the meniscus tube.             The
meniscus descended quickly, i.e., in a direction opposite to that of the
current.    No line (in addition to that of the meniscus) was formed.
On stopping the current, the meniscus ascended and, on renewing it,
descended again.      Reversed direction of current. No line produced.
Very little effect, the meniscus descended a little.
    Exp. 42. — Inner liquid, 1 volume of a saturated solution of amnionic
sulphate, and 3 volumes of water (sp. gr. of mixture l-08). Outer one,
a strong solution of potassic chloride (sp. gr. 1'13).         Current was
sent up the meniscus tube.         Conduction moderate.       The meniscus
descended rapidly.       A line developed in the colourless portion,
near meniscus.      Under the influence of the current the coloured
liquid crept down the sides of the meniscus tube ; a colourless portion
of liquid of low density also formed at the under surface of meniscus
and streamed downwards ; on stopping the current these effects ceased,
and the meniscus rose. By sending the current now down the tube,
a very definite and deeply curved line, with its convexity downwards,
was produced.       The meniscus soon became flat and descended.
Similar streaming of liquid upwards from upper surface of meniscus
now took place to that which had occurred downwards ; and the
layer of liquid immediately upon meniscus, which was previously pink,
now became blue, showing that the meniscus acted to some extent like
an electrode, in causing the liberation of ions at its surface.     Stopped
the current ; the meniscus became indefinite.             Renewed it ; the
meniscus became definite.      Reversed it (i.e., sent it up the tube) ; the
colourless liquid rose in the tube, and the meniscus was very definite.
    Exp. 43. — Inner liquid, 1 volume of a saturated solution of sodic
hydrate and 3 volumes of water (sp. gr. 1'07).           Outer one, a satu
rated solution of sodic carbonate (sp. gr. I'll).          Current sent up
meniscus tube.      Conduction very moderate.      The meniscus descended
at once, and a line was produced, with its convexity upwards, in
colourless portion close to the colour.    Similar wavy appearances just
below the meniscus, and falling of colourless stream as in Experiment
No. 42. On stopping the current the meniscus rose and became in
definite and the other line faded away.      A definite meniscus was now
made by raising and lowering the large tube ; and the current was
then reversed, i.e., sent down the tube.       A line was soon produced
with its convexity downwards, in the deep blue liquid ; and another
in the colourless portion, about l-75 millim. below meniscus. There
was now no wavy appearance or streaming down in the colourless

       Influence   of Voltaic Currents   on the Diffusion of Liquids.     73-
liquid.    On stopping the current the convex line ceased and the
meniscus was flat.       By again reversing the current and sending it
down the tube, the liquid descended at once, and two lines were
formed, one in the colourless liquid, and the other at the edge of the
blue ; wavy and falling appearances also occurred again.          A layer of
liquid of deep blue colour formed upon and above the meniscus.
               I
Remarks. — have not found the cause of the reversal of the movement
of the meniscus in Experiments Nos. 41, 42, and 43.
    Exp. 44. — Inner liquid, 1 volume of saturated solution of sodic-
carbonate and 3 volumes of water (sp. gr. l-09).         Outer one, a strong
solution of ammonic nitrate, slightly acid (sp. gr. 1*19). Current sent
up the tube. Conduction very moderate. Definite line produced.
The meniscus did not ascend or descend. A layer of red colour was
produced in the lowest layer of blue liquid, and around that liquid,
showing that the acid set free above the meniscus from the electrolysis-
of the liquid ascended by capillary action between the blue liquid and
the tube.      Stopped the current ; no such change occurred.      Reversed
its direction (i.e. sent it down the tube).        The blue colour became
strongly curved with its convexity downwards, the layer of red liquid
gradually disappeared, and the meniscus slightly descended in the
direction of the current. A wavy appearance of the colourless liquid
close to meniscus and streaming of it downwards was produced, as in
a previous experiment, as if a heavier liquid was set free at the under
surface of the meniscus by electrolysis of the outer solution.
    Remarks. — The results of these experiments with the single tube
apparatus, may (most of them) be explained in a similar manner (see
 p. 67, et seq.~) to the previous ones.   They also show that the move
ments of the meniscus, up or down, depend upon the particular com
 bination of liquids employed, as well as upon the direction of the
current : for instance, in Experiment No. 44, no such movement took
 place ; whilst in Experiments Nos. 40, 41, 42, and 43, it occurred
 freely. The comparatively quick movements of the meniscus in these
latter experiments and the circumstances that the contiguous liquid
surfaces appear to act as electrodes, favour the view that the movement
is partly a result of pressure, and that a somewhat similar movement by
the influence of an electric current, takes place to a small extent with
miscible liquids in glass tubes as occurs with immiscible ones (such as
 mercury and an aqueous solution) in a capillary electroscope.
                      5. Transfer of the Mass  of Solution.
    All the foregoing experiments show that the apparent movement of
mass and production of definite lines, is not confined to capillary
tubes.      With the double meniscus apparatus, the lower liquid ap
 peared to move in the direction of the current in Experiments Nos. 2,
 12, 18, 19, 21 (25), 29, 32, and 35 ; and in the opposite direction in

 74                             Dr. G. Gore.
 Experiments Nos.     5, 8, 16,  17  (26?), 30, and 31. It may be re
 marked respecting this, that in the whole of the latter class, one of
the solutions consisted either of sodic carbonate, potassic cyanide, or
 yellow chromate of potassium, whilst in the former class the only
 experiment in which an alkaline liquid occurred was No. 18.          The
apparent movement of the mass in some of this latter class has been
 already partly explained (see p. 68, et seq.).
    With the single meniscus apparatus, the meniscus moved in the
direction of the current in Experiment 40 ; and in the opposite direc
tion (with certain variations) in Experiments Nos. 41, 42, and 43 ;
whilst in Experiment No. 44, the meniscus moved very slightly.         The
direction of movement was occasionally reversed during an experi
ment (see Experiments Nos. 41, 42, and 43).               In Experiments
Nos. 40, 41, 42, and 43, the movements were quick, as if they resulted
from pressure.      The slower movements have been already partly
explained (see p. 68, et seq.).
    In order to ascertain more definitely whether there existed a trans
fer of the body of the heavier liquid due to the passage of the current
in the constricted portion of the solution, and also to compare the
effects obtained with those recorded of the movement of water by an
electric current, as discovered by Armstrong (see " Phil. Mag.,"
vol. xxxiii, 1843, pp. 194 — 202), and investigated by Quincke and
Jiirgensen (see Wiedemann's
                                  " Galvanismus," vol. i, 1872, p. 585,
or Miller's " Chemical Physics," 4th Edition, p. 530),      I employed the
following apparatus, fig. 5.
    A and B are two glass gas chimneys supported by two transverse
and perforated pieces of wood C, joined by screws.        D and E are two
 T-pieces of glass tube, similar, open     at   all their ends, and joined
together by means of a very short india-rubber bung F, and kept from
separating by means of two binding wires G, H.             These tubes are
fixed tightly in A and B by means of perforated india-rubber bungs       I
and J, their lower ends being closed by perforated corks K and L,
through which pass two very narrow glass tubes M and N, open at
their ends, and connected by a long vulcanized india-rubber tubing O,
of very small internal diameter (about 2 or 3 millims.). The intended
use of the india-rubber tube was to allow of a more ready flow of the
liquid in the tube P. The bung F is perforated, and a small glass
tube P, open at both ends, fits tightly in it. Q and R are two large
electrodes of sheet platinum, with terminal wires S and T connected
with a battery consisting of a single series of twelve Grove's elements.
The vessels are filled throughout with liquid up to the level of the line
U and V (W and X are dotted lines, indicating something which
appertains to subsequent experiments).
    In using the apparatus, a liquid was employed containing a very
small amount of minute suspended particles of precipitated sulphur,

     Influence   of   Voltaic   Currents on      the   Diffusion of Liquids.   75
which had been rubbed up with        it,
                                    taking care not to use sufficient to
block up the finer tubes. After filling the apparatus with the liquid,
the tube     was wound tightly upon a narrow cylinder to expel
             0
bubbles of air, and then unwound.           The apparatus being now placed
                                     Fio.   5.
so that the tube P was in a strong light, the liquid in that tube was
closely examined by means of an eyeglass. As soon as the flow of
liquid (arising from inequality of level) ceased, the wires     and     S      T
were connected with a voltaic battery, and the liquid in the tube
again closely watched, in order to detect any flow, both whilst the tube
O  remained open throughout, and also whilst closed, by means of a
pinch-tap.
  With the tube 15 millims. long, and 1'3 millim. internal diameter,
                  P
and the apparatus filled with     mixture of 19 measures of water,
                                     a
and 1 of pure sulphuric acid, not the slightest horizontal movement

76                              Dr. G. Gore.
of the liquid in the tube could be detected, either during the passage
of the current, or immediately afterwards, the only visible movement
•was that of vertical currents of the liquid outside the
                                                            tube, evidently
caused by change of specific gravity, due to heat of electric con
duction resistance produced within the tube.
    In three further trials, three solutions consisting of 5, 55, and
255 grs. of potassic cyanide, dissolved in 12 ozs. of water, were em
ployed, but with less effect than in the previous experiment.
    To further determine whether there existed a movement of mass
due to actions taking place at the mutual contact surfaces of the
           I
liquids, made some experiments with two liquids in the apparatus,
the mode of operating being as follows: — A heavier coloured liquid
 (containing suspended sulphur) was poured by means of a long- necked
funnel into the tubes D, E, and P, until after expulsion of all air from
 O, the meniscus of the liquid stood at the level indicated by the
dotted lines W and X.           Corks (previously fixed on the ends of
platinum wires) were now placed rather tightly in the upper ends of
 D and E, the two electrodes inserted, and the lighter colourless liquid
poured simultaneously into A and B, until the level of liquid was
 exactly the same in each. After all flow of liquid in P had
                                                                     ceased,
 the corks were withdrawn with extreme slowness, so as not to cause
 the two liquids to mix at their surface of mutual contact. The further
 details of manipulation were the same as those previously described.
     In a first experiment with two liquids, the lower one consisted of a
 saturated solution of cupric sulphate, containing suspended particles
 of sulphur, and the upper one of a mixture of 19 volumes of water
 and 1 of pure sulphuric acid, and the glass tube P was of the dimen
 sions already given.      No movement of the solution in or near P,
 except those already mentioned, could be detected.
     In a second experiment, the lower liquid consisted of 1 measure
 of strong pure nitric acid, and 7 measures of a saturated solution
 of cupric nitrate ; and the upper one of a mixture of 1 volume of
 pure nitric acid, and 6 of water.      The glass tube P was 15 millims.
 long, and 2-3 millims. internal diameter.      The results were similar to
 the previous one.
      The small tube P was now removed, and a very thin disk of talc,
  having a minute hole about l'O millim. diameter in its centre, was em
  ployed in its stead.      The disk was fitted water-tight by means of
  varnish.     A  current from twenty-five Grove's cells in single series
  was now used ; and a single liquid consisting of 1 measure of
  sulphuric acid, and 2^ measures of water was employed. Free conduc
  tion occurred, and large bubbles of steam were produced on each
  side of the hole.      The current was reversed in direction several
  times  ;  the tube  0  being occasionally closed.  No translation of the
  mass due to the current could be detected, the only movements pro

       Influence  of  Voltaic  Currents on  the  Diffusion of Liquids.  11
duced appeared      to be due to the heat of conduction resistance and
the explosive    action of the hubbies of steam.
   In another experiment       I employed two liquids and a current from
twelve Grove's cells in single series, the lower liquid being a mixture
of 3 volumes of saturated solution of cupric sulphate and 2 volumes of
a mixture of 1 volume of sulphuric acid and 2£ volumes of water ;
and the upper one of 1 volume of sulphuric acid and 7 volumes of
water.     The action at the two meniscuses produced no visible flow of
liquid through the hole in the talc.
   From these results, from considerations already stated (see p. 68,
*t feq.), and also from the circumstance        that in Armstrong's experi
ment pure water (a liquid of great electric conduction resistance) was
necessary, and in the experiments of other investigators the flow of
liquids required badly conducting liquids, and either porous diaphragms
or tubes of capillary diameter,    I conclude that the bodily flow of the
unchanged mass of the heavier liquid in my experiments is, to a large
extent, only apparent.       The considerable length of time also required
for the apparent flow is consistent with this conclusion.
                    6. Experiments   with Capillary Tubes.
   In order to test the question whether a similar to-and-fro movement
by an electric current takes place with miscible liquids in capillary
tabes, as occurs with mercury and an aqueous solution in a capillary
electroscope, and also to ascertain whether the quicker movements of
the liquids in Experiments Nos. 40, 41, 42, and 43 was of this kind,       I
made a number of experiments           with a small apparatus similar to
 %• 4 (see p. 70), having (in place of the inner cylinder and tube) a
capillary tube, fig. 6 (containing the lighter liquid) immersed in the
                                    Fig. 6
 heavier  solution, the lighter liqnid being very strongly coloured with
 "manve" aniline     dye. The electric currents employed were from a

78                             Dr. G. Gore.
single cell of copper and platinum in dilute sulphuric acid, and from
a single series of twelve Grove's elements.           The electrodes were of
platinum, and the capillary tube was capable of being raised or
lowered through very minute distances by means of the rack and
pinion. Tubes of various internal diameters were used, varying from
 1*, -6, "45, to '35 millim.    The only pair of solutions employed con
sisted of   a  one-fourth saturated solution of potassic chloride as the
lighter liquid, and a saturated one of sodic sulphate as the heavier one
(as in Experiment No. 40). The currents were only continued during
periods of less than half a minute at the utmost.
   With a tube millim. diameter, and the electric current from either
                    1
source, or in either direction, no movement of the meniscus was visible.
With   a    tube     millim. diameter, or with one -45 millim. diameter,
                    -6
either an upward current or a downward one from the twelve cells
caused a downward motion of the meniscus, strongest with the upward
current. The motion was more rapid than in the experiments with
the usual wider meniscus tubes of this research, and less rapid than
with mercury in a capillary electroscope   ;   it   appeared to be due partly
to heat of conduction resistance (producing expansion) and partly to
electric convection.      (N.B. — Electric osmose would have produced a
more rapid movement of the meniscus upward by a downward current,
than of downward movement by an upward one.)                   Solid particles
suspended in the liquid were accelerated in their velocity of falling by
the passage of the current.          The meniscus did not continue very
definite, and no lines (if any existed) were sufficiently distinct to be
perceived.      The meniscus also showed no return movement on stop
ping the current. (In this respect       it    differed from the movement
with mercury, &c.)       I  could not ascertain that the meniscus influenced
the motion      ;the latter continued the same when the meniscus was at
the extreme end of the tube as when           it   was within it.   It
                                                                     is   pro
bable that the movements were to some extent of the same kind as
those observed by Armstrong, Quincke, and Jiirgensen (see p. 74),
and would have occurred with one liquid alone.             The current from
the single cell had either no effect, or else a barely perceptible one
similar to that produced by the one from the Grove's battery. With
a tube '35 millim. bore, a very slight downward movement was pro
 duced by the upward current from the battery. The downward
current had the same effect, but in a less degree. No effect was
 observed with the current from the single cell.
    From the comparative slowness of the movement and the great
 strength of electric current necessary to produce       it,
                                                          I      consider that
nearly the whole of the movement of two miscible liquids in capillary
tubes  is   very different from that occurring with mercury and solution
in such tubes. The tubes, however, used with mercury are usually of
 much smaller diameter.

       Influence    of  Voltaic  Currents on  the  Diffusion   of Liquids.    19
   The results obtained with the single meniscus apparatus, and with
the capillary tubes, support the conclusion that there is a small
amount of real transfer of the bulk of the liquid otherwise than by
diffusion. The rapidity of such movement appeared to vary, being
slowest in wide tubes with feeble electric current, quicker in the
single meniscus tube and in the capillary tube experiments, but in
no case was it as rapid as the movement of the mercury in a capillary
electroscope.       The conditions of motion observed in these cases differ,
however, considerably from those in the experiments of Armstrong,
Quincke, Jiirgensen, and "Wiedemann.              In their experiments badly
conducting liquids only were used, and no movement occurred if good
conducting solutions were employed ; in mine it only took place in the
latter liquids.
                          7. Relation to Electric  Osmose.
   In order to be enabled to judge more correctly respecting the
influence of
                 " electric osmose," I made a number of
                                                                    experiments
similar to that performed by Porrett (" Annals of Phil.," vol. viii,
p. 74).     The results of these experiments have been made the subject
of a separate paper (see "Experiments on Electric^Osmose," loc. cit.)r
for more convenient reference by future investigators.
   As in all those experiments (numbering 68) except one, the liquid
was observed to flow in the same direction as the positive electricity,
and showed no signs of reversal of movement with solutions of potassic
cyanide, yellow potassic chromate, acid chromate of potassium, or
sodic carbonate,      I again conclude that the apparent movement of the
lower liquids in my experiments with a double meniscus apparatus is
of a considerably different character from that known as " electric
osmose."
   I also made experiments of electric osmose with the same pairs of
liquids as those used in the single meniscus apparatus in Experiments
Nos. 40 to 44.       The electric currents were sent from strong to weak
solution   in  the  osmose   experiments corresponding to Nos. 40, 41, 42,
and 44, and from weak to strong in that agreeing with No. 43.                 In
each case    the   greatest   osmotic transfer   occurred   in  the direction of
the current, and was strong in No. 42 and weak in No. 44.                  These
directions of movement do not agree with those obtained in the
experiments referred to, and the results indicate that the direction
of the diffusion at a liquid meniscus is largely affected by the presence
of a diaphragm.
        8. Influence    of Form and Dimensions of      the Meniscus Tube.
   Experiments Nos. 40 to 44 were repeated with a meniscus tube of
 the form of an hour-glass (fig. 7), and having an internal narrowest
 diameter of about 3 millims., but no new results were obtained.

SO                                Dr. G. Gore.
                                       Fio. 7.
   One influence of the dimensions        of the meniscus tubes consisted in
•enabling a suitable magnitude of liquid surface to be presented to the
action of the current ; a sufficiently narrow tube in relation to the
power of the current was necessary in order to enable the effects to be
produced quickly.       Another effect of narrow tubes was to produce
•conduction resistance, and thereby give rise to evolution of heat.
The dimensions of the meniscus tube have also several effects, some of
which appear to be independent of the meniscus itself ; for instance,
the narrower the tube the greater is the ratio of surface of tube to the
mass of the liquid, and consequently the relatively greater are the
effects due to surface action , such as the quick mechanical movements
of the mass due to electric convection.
             9. Influence   of Molecular Structure of the Liquids.
    That the relatively different molecular structures of the opposed
liquids lies at the basis of the phenomena, and are the static con
ditions which permit the uniform cause (viz., the electric current) to
produce different effects at the surfaces of contact, to those it pro
 duces in the homogeneous mass of each liquid is evident, because the
 special local effects (such as lines and layers) were usually more con
 spicuous in proportion to the degree of physical and chemical differ
ences of the two solutions ; for instance, they were more difficult
 to produce and more feeble when two portions of the same acid, but
of different degrees of dilution, were employed (as in Experiments
Nos. 24, 27, 32, 33, and 39), than when one of the liquids was a dilute
acid and the other a solution of a heavy metallic salt.
 10. Influence  of Cohesion,   Viscosity, Specific Gravity, Adhesion, Ordinary
                         Diffusion, fyc, of the Liquids.
    The different degrees of cohesion, fluidity, viscosity, and specific
 gravity of the liquids, probably all affect the phenomena ; the greater
 the difference of specific gravity between the two liquids the more
 easily were the lines produced, and the more distinct usually were the
•chief phenomena.       Some liquids, however, such as syrupy solution of

       Influence     of Voltaic Currents      on the Diffusion   of Liquids.     81
phosphoric acid, by being too viscous, as well as badly conducting,
prevented the effect.
   Both the absolute and relative degrees of adhesion of the two liquids
to the tubes, especially in very narrow ones, must also affect the results.
In   a separate paper on the     " Phenomena of the Capillary Electroscope,"
" Proc. Roy. Soc," No.        209, 1881,      I       that adhesion per
                                                  have shown
forms an important part ; and that mercury flows more rapidly from a
capillary glass tube into dilute sulphuric acid when an electric current
is passing in the same direction than when it is not passing ; and it
would be desirable, therefore, to examine the influence of adhesion
upon the rates of flow of electrolytes (as well as of mercury) through
tubes of glass (and other material) whilst under the influence of an
electric current.
   That the phenomena of lines and movement of mass of liquid in
these experiments are not wholly capillary is proved by the circum
stance that they have been produced in tubes of as large a diameter
as 15 millims.     Capillary action, however, affects the results (see
p.  78).
   Assuming that the explanation I have offered of the phenomena
(see p. 67, et seq.) is correct, ordinary diffusion is affected during
the passage of the current, the whole of the molecules being subjected
to electric influence, which probably aids diffusion at the one meniscus
and neutralizes it at the other. A result obtained in the experiments
on electric osmose, viz., that the liquid flow is more rapid when the
direction of electric osmose coincides with that of ordinary osmose,
than when it is opposite to        it,
                                    supports the conclusion that ordinary
diffusion (although suspended) influences the results. In Experiment
No. 15 the dilute nitric acid diffused into the cupric bromide          this
                                                                           ;
diffusion was by the influence of the current decreased at the negative
meniscus and increased at the positive one an opposite effect to that
                                                     ;
exerted by the current upon water. The interference of ordinary
diffusion might probably be largely obviated by using liquids of equal
specific gravity.
   The less rapid osmose which occurs where an electric current passes
from a strong (through       adiaphragm) to a weak solution, than where              it
passes   in  the reverse direction,   not likely to be due to difference of
                                         is
chemical action, because at each junction of the liquids in the cells
divided by porous partitions (see " Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 31,         253),p.
there was opposed equivalent quantities of acid and bases set free by
 electrolysis, and therefore equal chemical action.    Much more investi
 gation, however, remains yet to be made in this part of the subject.
 Although the experimental evidence of an influence of the current upon
 ordinary diffusion without a porous diaphragm         not extensive,
                                                          is                    it   is
 sufficient in Experiments Nos. 40, 41, 42, and 43 to prove that diffusion
 of liquids      greatly affected by the passage of
                is                                     current, and that
                                                           a                         it
     VOL.   XXXII.                                                     G

82                                Dr. G. Gore.
varies with the nature of the liquids and with other circumstances not
yet determined.      The electric current, by liberating electrolytic pro
ducts at the two surfaces of each meniscus, must also further affect
ordinary diffusion and electric osmose at the meniscus.
                 11.  Influence of Miicihility of the Liquids.
   It would be interesting to examine the influence of non-miscible
electrolytes upon each other under the usual conditions in the single
meniscus apparatus, if a pair of suitable ones could be found.              I
attempted    to pass a current from a single series of twenty-five
Grove's cells through two immiscible liquids lying in contact with
each other in a U glass tube 10 millims. diameter.           One liquid con
sisted of water saturated      with   ether and  mercuric   chloride, and the
other of ether saturated with water and that salt.             No perceptible
current passed, or other visible effect was produced.
              12. Influence   of Light, Heat, and Temperature.
   I have  not observed that the phenomena are in any way related to
the influence of luminous rays ; nevertheless, as light is well known
to affect chemical union, it is not unreasonable to suppose that it in
fluences (though in a very much less degree) mechanical mixture.
   The influence of temperature of the liquids upon the phenomena
has not been experimentally examined, partly because no valuable
addition of knowledge was likely to accrue, and partly because rise of
temperature is a disturbing condition in the case, and it would be
difficult to manipulate with heated liquids. The effects of heat of
conduction resistance interfere in nearly every instance with the
detection and accurate observation of the other phenomena, especially
in cases where a powerful current circulates.            By the influence of
such heat, the lower liquid expands, and thus appears to increase in
volume by diffusion.        When the temperature is higher, wavy lines
are produced at the meniscuses, especially at the positive one, and
as the heat increases, streams of upflow of the lower solution or of
downflow of the upper one occur ; and finally, bubbles of steam
or gas are produced at the positive meniscus, and stop the experiment.
The heat evolved appears to be mostly at the contiguous liquid surfaces,
probably because acids and bases are transferred there by the current
and chemically unite ; it is greatest at the positive meniscus, because
the relative densities of the acid and basic layers there tend to
localise the effect.
                     13. Influence  of Electric Conditions.
   With the exception        of ordinary liquid diffusion, adhesion, and
capillary action, all the effects are primarily due to the electric current,
and therefore dependent upon conduction and magnitude of flow. The
chief locality of action is at and near the meniscuses, apparently also to

        Influence  of Voltaic Currents    on the Diffusion of Liquids.      83
a less extent at the surface of contact of the liquids with the meniscus
tube ; but exactly in what manner the current operates at the contact
surfaces is a difficult question.
     The effects of the current are both physical and chemical.              A
uniform cause or homogeneous force (such as an electric current is
commonly supposed to be), whilst acting under uniform conditions is
usually considered to produce uniform immediate effects.                In the
present case,     however,   it  appears  as  if one  portion of the   electric
current produces direct chemical decomposition of the solution ; a
second immediately disassociates water from saline matter by diffusion,
and a third produces direct electric convection, or simple mechanical
movement of the liquid ; or the diffusion may be viewed as a result of
electric convection.     Either then the total current of uniform property
acts not under uniform conditions, but in several different ways, pro
ducing effects which require different degrees of electromotive force to
produce them, or the current consists of several portions of electricity
of different electromotive force.      The supposition that these different
effects require currents of different electromotive force to produce
them, is in harmony with the generalised idea, that instances of
mechanical union, or mere solution of solids in liquids, merges into
those of definite chemical union by insensible degrees, and the two
classes thus form an unbroken series, ranging from those of liquids
which mix in every degree with each other, to those of the most
powerful chemical combinations, in which the ingredients unite only
in rigidly definite proportions.
     With regard to the purely physical effects, viz., electric osmose and
transfer of mass, we may reasonably refer them to electric convection
attending electric discharge between surfaces in opposite electrical
states, the charged condition of those surfaces being dependent upon
the special local resistance to electric transfer which always exists in
greater or less degree at the surfaces of contact of bodies of different
physical and chemical structure.         In capillary tubes the charged sur
face of the glass becomes also an important circumstance.                  The
unequal transfer of acids and bases must also affect the results. Acids
always travel in greater proportion towards the anode than the metals
 to which they have been united move towards the cathode, provided
 the solutions are not kept quite neutral.
     And with regard to the electro-chemical effects, ions are probably
 liberated at every surface of junction of liquids of sufficiently different
 composition through which the current passes.         A sufficient difference
 of property of the two bodies (in addition to liquidity and a sufficient
  electromotive power of the current) appears to be a necessary condi
  tion of electrolysis ; with lesser differences probably only electric
  osmose    is produced.    (I  have not   examined the effects of electric
  currents passing in oblique directions through a surface of contact of
                                                                   a 2

84                                Dr. G. Gore.
 two solutions of equal conductivity but of different specific gravities.)
The layers of liquid on each side of each meniscus are manifestly
results of electrolysis, and the lines are probably due to them ; but
why a line should originate in the midst of a homogeneous liquid, at a
 distance from a definite meniscus and approach (or be approached by)
the meniscus, and merge into it, I have not ascertained.            Sometimes,
however, the lines separate from the meniscus (see Experiment No. 40).
    Although the chain of conducting particles from one metallic elec
 trode to the other was as perfect with the two liquids as with one,
there existed a difference of conditions at the surfaces of liquid contact
to those existing in the mass, and one effect of this variation is a
sudden difference of resistance to electric transfer at that locality. As
also the amount of electric diffusion is greater when the current passes
in one direction than in the other in experiments of electric osmose, we
may reasonably predict as probable that the conduction resistance to
currents of opposite direction passing through such an arrangement
would be similarly unequal.        It is probable also that the amounts of
this per saltum resistance and difference of resistance, would vary with
every different pair of liquids. These are subjects of further investi
gation.
    As  a perfect meniscus acts to some extent as an electrode, an       imper
fect one must do the same, though        in  a less degree.    The positive one
(or   that below   the cathode)   acts  more    perfectly  in this respect than
one below an anode, because the action of electrolysis tends to main
tain it, and even make it more definite.         It would further appear that
every   inequality  of composition,   or  of  internal  structure of the liquid
in the path of the current must also act to some extent as an electrode ;
and if this be correct, not only the meniscus proper, but also the
surfaces of the layers of acid and basic products of electrolysis next the
masses of the two solutions must also act in like manner ; but this is
only a supposition for future examination.
        I
    As have not been able to obtain any visible lines or movements of
the liquids with an electric current of insufficient power to produce
electrolysis, and electrolysis will reasonably account for several of the
phenomena,     I conclude that electrolysis is not merely a concomitant
 circumstance,   but acts also as a cause.
    The converse phenomena, viz., the influence of electric currents on
the diffusion of liquids, has been made the subject of separate experi
ments ("Electric Currents produced by Liquid Diffusion and Osmose,"
 " Proc. Eoy. Soc," vol. 31,
                                 p. 296).
    I  have not searched for any new action of magnetism upon the phe
nomena of lines, movements of liquids, &c.
                       14. Influence of Chemical Action.
    As purely chemical action appears to        be only a  coincident and not   a.

                 Phenomena   of the Capillary  Electroscope.             85
 fundamental part of the phenomena, the inferences to be drawn from
 it are probably less important. Chemical action is a constant con
comitant in the case ; it always took place, 1st, by electrolysis, 2nd, by
contact of liberated ions ; and, 3rd, occasionally by contact of the
original liquids. It sometimes occurs at the meniscus previous to the
passage of the current. As also, by the influence of the current, acids
and bases are liberated at the contact surfaces, and as in the foregoing
numerous experiments with the double and single meniscus appa
ratuses, the kind of solutions in mutual contact have been found to
 largely influence the phenomena of the lines, &c, so the layers of new
compounds formed by electro-chemical          action probably also have
similar effects.
    From the results of the experiments with the meniscus apparatuses
it also appears that the lines may be produced with almost every
possible chemical    combination of electrolytes ; for instance, where the
current goes from concentrated to dilute solution, whether from acid
salt to acid (as in Experiments Nos. 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14,
15, 19, 21, 23, 25, 28, 29, 35, 36, and 38) ; one acid to another (Expe
riments Nos. 37 and 41) j one alkaline salt to another (Experiment
No. 17) ; an acid salt to a neutral one (Experiments Nos. 4, 13, and
22) ; a neutral salt to an alkaline one (Experiments Nos. 5 and 44) ;
an alkaline salt to a neutral one (Experiments Nos. 16 and 20) ; one
neutral salt to another (Experiments Nos. 40 and 42) ; or from an
alkaline salt to an alkali (Experiment No. 43) ; but not so readily from
a strong solution of an acid to the same diluted (Experiments Nos. 24,
27, 32, 33, 34, and 39) ; nor from a strong one of an alkaline salt to
the same diluted (Experiments Nos. 26, 30, and 31).        A possible rela
tion of the apparent movement of the mass of the liquid to the
chemical composition of the two liquids has been already indicated
(see p. 68).
" Phenomena of the Capillary Electroscope."                 By G. Gore,
      LL.D., F.R.S. Received November 23, 1880.                      Head
      January 6, 1881.
    In a  communication     "On the Capillary Electroscope" ("Proc.
Roy.   Soc.,"  vol. 30, p. 32), I have described various details neces
sary to be attended to in the construction and use of a modified
form of that apparatus, and I now give an account of an investigation
I have made of the phenomena of the movements of the mercury in
such instruments. A research      I                   "
                                    formerly made, On the Movements
of Liquid Metals and Electrolytes in the Voltaic Circuit (" Proc.
                                                                 "
Roy. Soc.," vol. 10, p. 235), throws additional light upon the
subject.   Some of the phenomena arising out of this research have,

86                                 Dr. G. Gore.
for the sake of convenience, been made the subjects of separate com
munications. (See " Effects of Electric Currents on the Surface of
Mutual Contact of Aqueous Solutions," " Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 30,
                                     " Influence of Electric Currents on Dif
p. 322, ibid., vol. 31, p. 250 ;
fusion of Liquids j" " Experiments on Electric Osmose ;"
                                                                          " Electric
Currents caused by Liquid Diffusion and Osmose," ibid., vol. 31,
p. 253, ibid., vol. 31, p. 296.)
   Erman, in the year 1809, appears to have been the first to observe
the movements of mercury in a conducting solution while under the
influence    of an electric current. Since that time a large number of
investigators have examined the phenomenon and the allied ones of
electric osmose, electro-capillary action, electric currents produced by
capillarity, the mechanical         effect of electric currents upon liquids
and upon solid particles suspended in them, &c. Among these are
Armstrong, E. Becquerel, Buff, H. Davy, Draper, Du Bois Reymond,
Faraday, Heidenhain, Hellwig, Herschel, Hittorf, Jiirgensen, Kiihne,
Lippmann, Logeman, Matteucci, Paalzow, Pfaff, Poggendorff, Porrett,
Quincke, Reichert, Reuss, Runge, Sabine, Serullas, Varley, Wheat-
stone, Wiedemann, and Wright. It is difficult, therefore, to entirely
avoid restatement of some of the results arrived at by these investi
gators.*     I have examined the movements in relation to a variety of
conditions, some of which, however, are unessential and may be
eliminated or diminished.           The phenomena have been found to be
purely physical, except      in  those   cases where the electricity was of too
high tension and produced electrolysis, and in those in which the
solution acted chemically upon the mercury.
            1. Influence  of the Kind and Strength of      the Solution.
   The following experiments were made with the above-mentioned
form of apparatus, except in the instances otherwise described. The
electric current employed was usually (unless otherwise stated) derived
from two wires, one of copper and the other of platinum, each about
 1 millim. diameter,      immersed about 4 or 5 millims. deep in spring
 water.
    Experiment No. 1. — 1 oz. of water, 40 grs. of potassic fluoride. Motion
occurred freely, and in the same direction as the current.
    Exp. 2. — Various solutions of potassic chloride from 20 to 60 grs. per
 oz. of water were tried, and in each case the movements of the mer
 cury were in the same directions as those of the current ; the former
 of these solutions was too weak, it offered too much conduction-
 resistance, and the latter too strong, it clogged the tube.                 With a
 solution composed of 1 oz. of water and 40 grs. of potassic chloride in
   *  A brief translation of the researches of Jiirgensen, Quincke, and Wiedemann,
 may be found in W. A. Miller's
                                  " Chemical
                                              Physics," 4th edition, p. 530.

                 Phenomena    of the Capillary     Electroscope.                   87
a tube of fine bore strong movements occurred, and 85 millims. of
extra height of mercury pressure was required to bring the meniscus
back to its original position and counterbalance                the effect of the
current.
    Exp. 3. — 1  oz. of water and 40 grs. of potassic iodide.            The direc
tion of the motion of the mercury agreed with that of the current.
51 millims. height of mercury pressure was required to balance the
influence of the current. •
     Exp. 4. — 1 oz. of water and 40 grs. of potassic bromide.               All tbe
results the same as those described with the chloride.                 The current
required the pressure of 82 millims. height of mercury to balance it.
     Exp. 5. — 1 oz. of water and 40 grs. of potassic carbonate.                 The
direction of the movement of the mercury           was   the  same   as  that of  the
current. The current required 83 millims. height of mercury to
balance    it.
     Solutions of cyanide of potassium were tried of various strengths
from 10 to 100 grs. per oz. of water ; the weak ones yielded feeble
movements in the direction of the current and the stronger ones
clogged the capillary tube.
     Exp. 6. — 1 oz. of water and 33 grs. of cyanide of potassium in a
very fine capillary.      An upward current sent the mercury down a
 long distance and out at the end of the tube.            The reverse directions
 of movement obtained with solutions of potassic cyanide compared
with those obtained with dilute sulphuric acid, in capillary tubes,
 agree with those obtained with the same liquids, and a large globule
of mercury in an open shallow dish (see " Proc. Roy. Soc," vol.                    10,
 p. 235).
     Exp.  7. — With a  solution of 40 grs. of the cyanide in 1 oz. of water,
 the movement was more free than with 50 grs. of that salt.                 By pre
 viously passing    a downward    current,  the  commencement         of  motion   by
 the subsequent up-current appeared to be retarded.               In another appa
 ratus, consisting of a column of mercury about 20 centims. total
 height, with a long capillary surmounted by a pressure-chamber quite
 filled with mercury, and closed by a glass plug, an upward current
 caused the meniscus to move downwards slowly more than 25 millims.,
 and a downward one raised it about 8 or 10 millims.
     Exp. 8. — 1 oz. of water and 50 grs. of potassic cyanide. In the fine
 part of the tube the motion of the mercury was opposite to that of the
 current, but in the coarse part of the tube I noted that it moved in the
  direction of the current.*      When the mercury dropped from the end
  of the capillary  into this solution it formed chains of globules which,
  when about 2 or 3 millims. high, fell over and formed a heap like a
  pile of brambles or sticks ; the chains of globules did not break.
                       • This movement  requires investigation.

88                               Dr. G. Gore.
    Exp.   9. — 1 oz. of hydrocyanic acid    (" Scheele's   strength ") and
40 grs. of potassic cyanide: motion feeble.      The directions of motion
of the mercnry     in  a capillary of wide  bore were   the same as those of
the current    ; but in one of narrow bore an upward current sent the
mercury freely down.        A downward current had but little effect, but
on closing the circuit, or on insulating it immediately after an
upward current had been passed, the mercury rose instantly.
    Exp. 10. — 1 oz. of water, 40 grs. of potassic cyanide, and 10 grs. of
bicyanide of mercury, formed a very good liquid. The mercury moved
in the same directions as the current.
    Exp. 11. — 1 oz. of water and 40 grs. of mercuric cyanide. A current
from copper and platinum wires in dilute sulphuric acid produced
little or no movement, but the charge from an ebonite electrophorus
                                                                         " to
(the opposite platinum wire of the electroscope being connected
earth ") caused the mercury to move either up or down in the same
direction as the discharge.
    Note. — The electrophorus yielded electricity of much too high tension
for use with this instrument, especially if the mercury in the capillary
tube was the negative pole ; gas then quickly collected at the meniscus
and stopped the action.
    Exp. 12. — 1 oz. of water and 40 grs. of mercuric chloride. This
solution was unsuitable.
    Exp. 13. — A mixture of 7 volumes of distilled water and 3 of
strongest aqueous ammonia. The movements were very feeble, but in
the usual direction, both with the water-cell and the electrophorus.
The mercury would only emerge from the end of the capillary in large
drops, not in the usual stream of minute ones, probably in conse
quence of the small adhesion of aqueous ammonia to mercury (see
"Adhesion of Liquids to Mercury," " Phil. Mag.," August, 1863).
    Exp. 14. — 1 oz. of water and 40 grs. of potassic sulphate.           Aw
upward     current  sent the mercury up freely,  and  a  downward one sent
it down. Charging the upper electrode by the electrophorus depressed
the mercury as usual ; but charging the lower electrode also depressed
it, and more strongly. This exceptional effect was obtained several
times.
    E.tp. 15. — 1 oz. of water and 40 grs. of potassic borate. The move
ments of the mercury were feeble, but in the usual direction, both
with the current and electric discharge.
    Exp. 16. — 1 oz. of water and 40 grs. of acid carbonate of sodium.
Free movements of the mercury took place in the usual directions,
both by the current and the discharge.
    Exp. 17. — 1 oz. of water and 40 grs. of sulphate of sodium. Feeble
movements were produced in the usual directions, both by the current
and the discharge.
    Exp.   18. — Dilute  sulphuric  acids of different strengths, varying

                 Phenomena    of the Capillary Electroscope.            89
 from 1 in 40 to 1 in 10. Numerous experiments were made with
 different forms of apparatus, both horizontal and vertical, employing
 both the feeble current from the water-cell and the charge from the
 electrophorns.   In every case the movement of the mercury was in the
 same direction as the current and the electric discharge.
    Exp. 19. — 1 oz. of water and 10 grs. of boracic acid. Feeble move
 ments occurred in the usual directions with the voltaic current; but
charges from the electrophorns, whether applied to the upper platinum
 wire or to the lower one, depressed the meniscus freely. (Compare
 Exp. 14.)
    Exp. 20. — With strong aqueous acetic acid feeble effects only were
obtained, either with the water-cell or electrophorns, but the move
ments were in usual directions.
    Exp. 21. — 1 oz. of water and 75 grs. of racemic acid. Rather feeble
movements, but in the usual directions, were obtained, both with the
current and the discharge.
    Exp. 22. — Alcohol. No visible movement was produced by the cur
rent from the water-cell, and only a very feeble downward one, by
charging the upper electrode with the electrophorns.
    Exp. 23. — 1 oz. of water and 5 grs. of sodic hyposulphite. The
solution was too dilute and was otherwise unsuitable.
   Exp. 24. — 1 oz. of water and 5 grs. of ammonic alum.         Source of
current, the water-cell.    The movements were very feeble, but in the
usual directions ; and the downward movements were much more quick
and were larger than the upward ones. With 10 grs. of the salt per
ounce the movements were more free, but the solution was still too
dilute.
   Exp. 25. — 1 oz. of water and 5 grs. of potassic sulphite. The effects
were exactly the same as with the weakest solution of ammonic alum.
   Exp. 26. — loz. of water and 40 grs. of sulphate of zinc. Free move
ments occurred in the usual directions.
   In the following experiments a drop of dilute sulphuric acid had
been previously added to the exciting solution of the voltaic cell.
   Exp. 27. — 1 oz. of water and 40 grs. of cupric sulphate.       Similar
results occurred to those with the zinc salt. No signs of deposited
copper or of viscosity of the meniscus were produced by the upward
current.
   The following solutions were also tried : — 1 oz. of water as the
solvent, and 40 grs. of the solid were employed in each case ; ammonia
alum ; potassic sulphite ; potassic sulphocyanide ; potassic ferro-
cyanide ; glacial phosphoric acid ; sodic nitrate ; potassic nitrate ;
ammonic nitrate ; and sodic chlorate.       Movements in the usual direc
tions occurred    in  every  instance, and   no special phenomena were
observable.     A solution of 40 grs. of potassic ferrid-cyanide produced
a film upon the mercury.

                                    Dr. G. Gore.
  All these experiments show that the movements are greatly affected
both by the kind and strength of the solution.
      2. Influence   of   the Relative Dimensions   of   the   Mercurial Surfaces.
  In order  to ascertain whether the movements were dependent upon
the circumstance   that the mercurial surfaces were of very unequal
dimensions,    I
               immersed the extremities of the capillary ends of two
vertical electroscopes (of the form I have usually employed) in a
solution of 40 grs. of glacial phosphoric acid in 1 oz. of water, with
about 10 millims. in length of the capillaries filled with that liquid.              I
then passed a current (from a large cell of copper and platinum plates
in town water) down one capillary tube and up the other ; the meniscus
descended in the former and ascended in the latter, and in each instru
ment the motion was just as free as if one of the electrodes had a large
surface.
  I  also passed a current through a short column of mercury in a
vertical capillary glass tube between two portions of conducting solu
tion in contact with platinum wires. With a solution of 40 grs. of
potassic chloride in 1 oz. of water, both below and above the mercury
in a tube of fine bore, and a current derived from the copper and
platinum wires immersed in a mixture of 1 volume of sulphuric acid
and 19 of water, the mercury moved by a jerk in the direction of the
current.   To ascertain whether electro-dynamic induction affected, the
motion in this experiment, I included in the circuit one wire of a double
coil of about 1,300 turns of insulated copper wire (" No. 29 "), wound
upon an iron axis, and closed the secondary circuit. The motion of the
mercury was diminished.
   The various experiments in which a short colnmn of mercury was
between liquids, such as dilute sulphuric acid, solution of potassic
chloride or cyanide, in a horizontal capillary, a stronger current was
required to move it than when it was in the form of a long column in
the usual vertical instrument ; it also moved by jerks and only a small
distance.   A reason why a column of mercury between portions of
aqueous solution in a capillary tube of the usual diameter, required a
current of greater electromotive force to move             it,
                                                    was probably because
the longer total length of the slender column of solution offered much
greater conduction resistance.
   With a solution of      oz. of water, and 33 grs. of cyanide of
                               1
potassium at each end of a column of mercury about 25 millims. long
in a coarse and horizontal capillary tube, with platinum electrodes,
and a much stronger current from the copper and platinum wires
immersed in a solution composed of 60 grs. of cyanide of potassium
and   oz. of water, the mercury moved to and fro, each way about 25
      1
millims., and in reverse directions to those of the current. The mer
cury would not move by the influence                of a current from the same

                  Phenomena     of the Capillary   Electroscope.             91
wires excited by a mixture of 1 volume of sulphuric acid and 19 of
water.      I ascertained by experiment that the former current had the
greatest electromotive force.
    1 oz. of water and 40 grs. of potassic cyanide, and a current from
copper and platinum wires in the solution of cyanide (60 grs. per oz.)
above mentioned. With a short length of mercury in a horizontal
tube less coarse than the last, the mercury moved in each direction
opposite to the current a distance of about 13 millims.
    Also by employing a platinum electrode without any mercury upon
it, below the vertical capillary, all the movements occurred as usual.
These latter experiments prove that the lower electrode need not be
composed of a fluid metal, and therefore that I might have omitted to
make the previous one respecting the influence of relative dimensions
of the two mercurial electrodes.
3. Influence    of Molecular   Structure,  Cohesion,  Liquidity, Viscosity, and
                         Pressure upon the Movements.
    That the molecular structures of the mercury and solution affect
the phenomena        is quite certain, because we know that the physical
properties in general of substances depend essentially upon their
internal architecture ; the intimate structure of bodies, however, is so
inscrutable, that investigation has not yet disclosed it clearly to us.
As a solid metal in place of the mercury will not admit of either of
the movements, the molecular motion in each liquid is a relative one ;
the motion of the one liquid depends upon the liquid state of the
other.     The movement is also dependent upon the kind of molecular
structure of the solution : 1st, because it varies in direction with a
variation in the kind of solution : and 2nd, because it varies also with
a variation of strength of the solution ; and in each case without any
evidence of chemical or electro-chemical action.
    Cohesion of the mercury influences the movements, and tends to
cause that substance to move more readily from a narrower to a wider
part of the tube than in the reverse direction.
   As the liquid state of the lower electrode was not a necessary con
dition of the motions, the movement of one electrode is not at all
dependent upon a similar movement of the other. A single liquid
electrode is sufficient to exhibit all the phenomona.             Fused salts
might probably be used with success, instead of aqueous solutions.
       " Movements of Liquid Metals and Electrolytes in the Voltaic
(See
Circuit," " Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 10, par. 10.)
   The movement was constantly found to diminish as the viscosity of
the solution was increased         beyond a certain point, by addition of
saline or other solid    or viscous  substance.    Pressure probably has but
little influence, because liquids are so slightly compressible.

                                  Dr. G. Gore.
                  4. Relation  to Immiscibility of the Liquids.
    Is it a necessary condition of the movements that the two liquids
 must be incapable of mixing with each other ? In the year 1859
 (see
        " Proc.
                Roy. Soc," vol. 10, p. 235, par. 9)        I  made some ex
 periments bearing upon this question :        " 1st, a definite layer of oil
 of vitriol was placed beneath a layer of distilled water weakly acidu
 lated with sulphuric acid, and the terminal wires (from a voltaic
 battery) immersed in the upper liquid; no visible movements
 occurred at the boundary line of the two liquids ; 2nd, a dense solution
 of cyanide of potassium was placed in a small glass beaker, a few
 particles of charcoal were sifted upon its surface, and a layer of
 aqueous ammonia half an inch deep carefully poured upon it.              A
 vertical diaphragm of thin sheet gutta-percha was then fixed so as
 completely to divide the upper liquid into two equal parts ; the vessel
 was placed in a strong light, and two horizontal platinum wire
-electrodes from sixty-six pairs of freshly charged Smie's cells im
 mersed one-eighth of an inch deep in the liquid ammonia on each
 side of the diaphragm.       A copious current of electricity circulated,
 but no movements of the liquids at their mutual boundary line could
 be detected.    A small globule of mercury placed in the lower liquid
.at once produced evident signs of motion."
                                     Fio. 1.

                   Phenomena   of the Capillary Electroscope.              9ft
    In onier    to test in a more searching manner whether during the-
passage      of  an electric current movements occur at the boundary
surfaces of two liquids which are miscible with each other, similar to
those which take place at the mutual surfaces of a liquid metal and
electrolyte ; and also to ascertain whether any translation of the mass
of an aqueous solution occurred similar to the bodily movement of
the mercury,       I  employed the following apparatus (see fig. 1).
     A is a thick glass cup about 4 centims. wide and 10 centims. high,
having an accurately and tightly-fitting horizontal division, of gutta
percha B ; also a similarly well-fitting vertical one C.        D and E are
electrodes of sheet platinum.         F   and  G are thin glass tubes about
10 millims. high, and 3 millims. diameter, open at both ends, and fixed
liquid-tight in holes in B. H is a plug of beeswax.
     In preparing to use this apparatus, the division B was first fixed in
water-tight, the space below it filled with a nearly saturated aqneous
solution of cupric nitrate, and the ping H inserted ; the height of liquid
 being adjusted so as to be about half way up the glass tubes.          Corks
 fixed upon the ends of platinum wire were now placed in the tubes.
 The glass vessel was then nearly filled with a mixture (at 60° F.) of one-
 measure of snlphuric acid and 10 of water ; the electrodes immersed ;
 the division C inserted and made as water-tight as possible ; and the
 corks removed very carefully.
     An electric current from a single series of five or six Grove's
 elements of one pint capacity each being now passed through the
 liquids, the cupric solntion appeared to descend slowly in one tube,
 and ascend in the other, moving in the same direction as the positive
 electricity, and occupying a period varying from five to twenty
 minutes for the movement.             As the phenomena observed in this
 kind of experiment were considerably different from those observed
 with mercury in capillary tubes,       I  have made a separate examination
                                " The Influence of Voltaic Currents on the
 of them under the title of
 Diffusion of Liquids" ("Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 31, p. 250). As also
 I could not readily obtain definite lines of separation of two miscible
  liquids in tubes of as small a diameter as those employed with
  mercury,    I have been unable to solve as satisfactorily as I could have
  wished the question whether perfect immiscibility of the liquids is
  a necessary condition of the movements of the mercury in such ex
  periments ; Herschel stated ("Phil. Trans.," 1824, p. 189) that it is.
  5.  Belation  of   the Movements to the Volume and   Specif c Gravity of the
                                     Mercury.
      In order to ascertain whether the whole of the mercurial column
   moved   in the direction of the motion of the meniscus, or expanded and
   contracted coincident with the advance and retreat of that surface,       I

                              Dr. G. Gore.
made experiments with a series of different capillary electroscopes in a
horizontal position, taking care to remove an additional part of the
apparatus in each successive experiment : —
   The first electroscope (No- 1) consisted of two similar capillary
tubes, inserted in two pressure-chambers,       connected together in a
direct line by a long straight g-lass tube of narrow bore, each Chamber
being provided with a platinnm wire terminal. The chambers, con
necting tube, and capillaries were filled with mercury; air was ex
cluded, and the ends of the capillaries were immersed as usual in
dilute sulphuric acid containing electrodes of mercury. In the second
apparatus    (No. 2) the intermediate glass tube was removed, and a
single pressure-chamber, 60  centims. in length (with a platinum wire
at each end), was used in its stead. In a third (No. 3), the chamber
was reduced to a length of about 8 centims., and had a platinum wire
at each end. In a fourth (No. 4 ), the chamber was removed altogether,
and the central tube and capillaries were formed of a Bingle piece of
glass, the middle part being about 4 centims. long, of the usual
diameter and bore, and having a fine wire of platinum sealed into it as
an electrode.
    I also
         made experiments with a series of electroscopes in a vertical
position, each successive apparatus being increasingly simple, and
each closed at the upper end and perfectly filled with mercury, except
the lower end containing the electrolyte.
   The first (No. la) consisted of the capillary (dipping as usual into
dilute sulphuric acid with a mercury electrode), short pressure-cham
ber, and a long glass tube above  it,closed at the top by a thick india-
rubber tube and a strong pressure-clip.     In the second (No. 2a), the
long glass tube was dispensed with, and the upper end of the pressure-
chamber was closed by a glass plug.        In the third (No. 3a), the
chamber was excluded, the platinum wire electrode being melted into
the side of the large part of the glass tube, and the upper end of that
tube drawn out to a fine point, and closed by melting sealing-wax
whilst mercury was exuding from it.          The fourth (No. 4«) was
similar to the third, except that the upper end was closed by fusing a
part of the fine tube itself whilstit was filled with mercury.  And in
a fifth (No. 5a), the bulky portion of the glass tube was dispensed
with by fixing an extremely fine platinum wire in the somewhat
larger and upper part of the capillary by fusion.
   In all the experiments made with these different instruments,
whether horizontal or vertical, the electrolyte used was a mixture of
1  volume of pure sulphuric acid and 14 of water, and the voltaic
current employed was that already mentioned (see p. 86). In each of
the experiments with them the mercury moved in the same direction
as the current, whether that was towards the point of the capillary
tube or the reverse.    In many of the experiments a charge from an

                  Phenomena     of the Capillary Electroscope.             95
ebonite electrophorus was used as the source of electricity, and in these
cases also the mercury moved in the direction of electric discharge.
With the horizontal electroscopes (all of which were open at both
ends), the mercury only moved at that end at which the current or
discharge passed ; but if the current or discharge passed at both ends
simultaneously, then the mercury moved at both ends simultaneously,
whether the electric flow was from end to end, from both ends to
middle, or from middle to both ends (provided it was free to move),
and the directions of the motion in the two ends agreed with the
above general statements.
      In these various experiments the amount of capillary movement
with a given current did not appear to vary greatly with the total
bulk of mercury in the entire apparatus.
    The displacement of volume of the mercury being so extremely
small, it may be accounted for on the supposition that minute traces
of air (not visible by means of an eye-glass) adhere to the sides even
of the smallest and most perfectly prepared tubes ; and when by the
action of the current or discharge, the meniscus is caused to approach
the capillary orifice, these minute portions of air become rarefied.
This view is supported by the facts, that traces of air are con
tinually observed in the capillaries, and also that when the appa
ratus was reduced to its simplest form and smallest size, as in No. 5a,
the motion of the meniscus appeared to be somewhat less free.
    From these resnlts,    I  consider it improbable that the movements
are to any large extent attended by a change of volume of the
mercury.
         6. Influence of Adhesion, Capillarity, and Surface Tension.
    In a paper " On      the Adhesion of Liquids to Mercury
                                                                 "
                                                                     (" Phil.
Mag.," vol. 26, 1863),     I  have stated that "if a drop of Nordhausen
sulphuric acid, about one-tenth of an inch in diameter, is carefully
placed by means of a glass rod upon the centre of a clean globule of
pure mercury, about 80 grs. in weight, it instantly diffuses itself in
a thin film over the surface of the metal, and the mercury becomes
flattened, and exhibits vertical movements all over its surface ; but if
the experiment is made with a strong aqueous solution of ammonia or
of caustic potash, no such results occur, the alkaline solution contracts
itself into a spherical    form, and persistently floats to the side of the
mercury    without   spreading itself over the surface."
    This circumstance, viz., the small adhesion of aqueous ammonia to
mercury, is probably connected with another already mentioned (see
p. 88), viz., that when the mercury was caused to flow out of the end
of the capillary tube into a solution of ammonia, it would only emerge
 in large drops instead of the usual stream of minute ones.      Difference

96                             Dr. G. Gore.
of degree of adhesion of different solutions to mercury, however, will
not by itself account for the movements.
   Further, it is well known that if a drop of water is placed upon a
horizontal surface of mercury, and an electric current passed from the
mercury into the water, the two liquids spread out, whilst if the cur
rent is reversed the water contracts, as if in the former case the
adhesion between the two substances was increased, and in the latter
decreased; and various interpretations have been given of these
                              " Phil. Mag." vol. 2, 1876,                " On
phenomena (see Sabine,                                          Supp.,
Electricity disengaged between Mercurial Surfaces
                                                          " ; section  2). I
have repeated this experiment : 1st, with dilute sulphuric acid, the
effects were the same as with water ; 2nd, with a solution of potassic
cyanide and a downward current the solution spread out, and with an
upward current no such effect was manifested ; and 3rd, with one of
potassic carbonate the solution spread out, both with an upward cur
rent and with a downward one, most with the former. These changes
of adhesion of liquids to each other by electric influence cannot alone
produce the to-and-fro movement in the electroscope, because no
action between two bodies could cause both of them to simultaneously
advance or retreat together in the same direction.
   These apparent changes of adhesion of liquids to each other by the
influence of electric currents are, however, essentially similar to the
phenomena under consideration, and agree with the chief and wider
truths of electrolysis, viz., that when a metal is made positive to a
liquid by the passage of an electric current from the former into the
latter, there is usually excited a tendency to union of the two bodies ;
and that, when made negative by a current, an opposite tendency is
excited.     They also agree with the fact that      if, whilst mercury   is
slowly issuing from the end of the electroscope into a solution, the
mercury   is  rendered positive to the liquid by the passage of an electric
current, the rapidity of flow of the metal   is usually increased, while, if
it    rendered negative, the flow
     is                            is  usually decreased. The degrees of
rapidity of flow of mercury from the end of a capillary glass tube into
different electrolytes, with and without the simultaneous passage of
an electric current, might form a subject of investigation.
    That the phenomena of the electroscope are largely affected by the
 adhesion of the liquids to the tubes, especially when the movements of
 the liquids take place in capillary tubes of extremely small diameter,
 does not admit of doubt, because the magnitude of the surfaces of
adhesion then bear   a   larger proportion to the mass of the liquid in the
 capillary.   It
               is  well  known that some of the most fundamental pro
 perties of liquids are changed whilst under the influence of adhesion
 in capillary spaces. For instance, Melsens found that, notwithstanding
 the great volatility of bisulphide of carbon when alone,       it   required
 more   than  an hour to   expel
                              2    or3   cub. centims.  of  that  liquid from

                  Phenomena      of the Capillary       Electroscope.              97
a    mixture of 30 grms. of charcoal and 23 cnb. cenUins. of the
 sulphide contained in a glass tube immersed in boiling water (see
 " Phil. Mag.," July, 1877, p.
                                      43).
    It is evident also that the movements must be greatly affected by
the relative degrees with which each of the liquids adhere to the
containing tube, and it is not improbable that as the aqueous solutions
adhere to the glass tube and the mercury does not, the latter yields to
the moving influence to a very much greater extent than the former,
and that the motion is chiefly (if not wholly) produced through the
agency of the adhesion of the solution to the tube, and not so much
through that of the mercury.
    Although the motion is frequently prevented by adhesion of the
mercury to the tube, it is not caused simply by diminution of that
adhesion whilst under the influence of the current, because if that did
occur, it could only operate by allowing some dynamic cause to produce
the motion.
    The evidence with regard to adhesion supports the hypothesis that
the motion is primarily due to a direct mechanical action at the
immediate surfaces of contact of the mercury and solution, producing
movements of solution and mercury in directions agreeing with those
in the annexed figures ;* and the to-and-fro movement of the mass is
                                         Fio.  2.
                                    In KCy solution.
                      Direction,   of    Efeetrxe     ciwrcnt
                                In dilute sulphuric   acid.
                     Direction,    of    Electric   : current
              nz rairu             ¦<— ¦*— — *¦ —*¦
                     Direction,
                                   of motion, of Mnss
                                                               ¦
a secondary     circumstance, arising from the former in consequence of
 the greater adhesion of the solution than of the mercury to the tube.
    * The repulsive action being usually at the negative pole in liquids, is a similar
 fact to the molecular repulsion of highly rarefied gases at the negative electrode in
 Mr. Crookes's experiments.
     VOL. XXXII.                                                         H

98                               Dr. G. Gore.
The mechanical law of action and reaction of equal and opposite forces
also requires the primary movements of the mercury and solution to
be in opposite directions.     If this hypothesis is correct, the unequal
adhesion of the mercury and solution to the glass is a necessary con
dition of the simultaneous advance of the two liquids in the same
direction. If the tube was as free to move as the liquids, it would of
course move in an opposite direction to them.     The number of physical
actions, however, involved in the case is probably much greater than
is represented by the above explanation.
    Herschel observed that " the peculiar action is only exerted at the
common surface of the fluids;" and nearly all the evidence supports
the conclusion that it is primarily an action of films and not of the
mass of mercury or of solution within the capillary tube.
    Even when during the passage of a current, the column of liquid is
prevented by adhesion from rising or falling in the capillary tube,
there is probably a motion occurring in the contiguous portions of the
mercury and solution, though not usually visible even by the aid of a
microscope.
    Armstrong's experiments (" Phil. Mag." vol. 23, 1843, pp. 194-
202) also indicate that the movement of the mercury is affected by an
action of adhesion between the surface of the liquid and glass within
the tube, because in his experiments, when the silk thread, acting
as a fulcrum, was removed, the amount of liquid flowing in one
direction was equal to that flowing in the other, and there was no
manifest transfer of the mass.
    In all cases with a globule of mercury in a pool of liquid, the outer
film of mercury and the film of liquid in contact with it appears to
move in the same direction ; the mass of the liquid, and also that of
the interior of the mercury, must, therefore, of necessity, move in a
direction opposite to that of the films (compare Herschel, " Phil.
Trans." 1824, p. 165).
    The opposite movements obtained with dilute sulphuric acid and
with solution of potassic cyanide might also be explained on another
supposition, viz., that one of these liquids adheres more strongly, and
the other less strongly, than mercury to glass ; but this does not appear
to be a fact.
    Although     the phenomenon of to-and-fro motion appears to be
essentially   due  to a combination of surface actions, it is not confined
 entirely to capillary spaces, the motion (as is well known) takes place
as   readily with a large globule of mercury in a pool of liquid as in a
capillary tube. (See also " Movements of Liquid Metals and Electro
 lytes in the Voltaic Circuit,"
                                   " Proc. Roy. Soc," vol.
                                                              10, par. 35.)
 The to-and-fro movement, in the case of a globule of mercury in a
 pool of liquid, is dependent upon the circumstance that the solid
 surface of the containing vessel, upon which the mercury and film of

                Phenomena     of the Capillary   Electroscope.             99
solution beneath it lie, constitutes a fulcrum upon which the moving
layers of liquid mechanically act. If it were possible to suspend the
mercury in the midst of a large mass of a liquid electrolyte of its own
specific gravity, the effects would probably be greatly modified, and
there would be very little translation of the mass of mercury (com
pare Herschel's paper, section 10, p. 167).
   In the experiments by Armstrong, also those of Quincke and Jiir-
gensen, of the mechanical transfer of liquids by the passage of electric
currents through slender columns of them in tubes, the axial portion
of the liquid was observed to move in an opposite direction to the
outer layer.      This inner moving portion, or that farthest away
from the surfaces of adhesion, may be regarded as the return current.
   It is generally considered that the surface layer of particles of
every solid and liquid is in a state of mechanical tension, and con
sequently that every mass of such substance, even that which is only
of microscopic magnitude, may be crudely viewed as being bounded
by a more or less tightly-fitting envelope.          This circumstance also
appears to be related to the phenomenon of motion of the mercury.
The surface tension of that metal appears to be lessened at the
positive mercurial electrode, and increased at the negative one in
nearly all electrolytes.    As there is also a surface tension of the liquid
as well as that    of the mercury, the primary motion is probably a
resultant of the two. According to this view there exists two modes
by which an electric current may vary the surface tension of a con
ductor in contact with an electrolyte, the one being attended by
electrolysis, and the other not. If it were simply a result of diminu
tion of surface tension of the mercury by the passage of an outgoing
current, then it ought not to vary in direction by variation of liquid,
strength of liquid, or diameter of tube.
   As adhesion influences so greatly the action of the instrument,
perfect freedom from dust is a most important condition of success,
and the most effectual way of securing this is to insert the capillary
tube in the pressure-chamber as soon as it is made, and fill it at once
with clean mercury. Multitudes of points of adhesion are met with in
tubes which have long been open to the atmosphere.              The pressure
tube should also be completely freed from dust by previously agitating
successive portions of mercury in it. Dust, not moisture, is the great
source of failure. Adhesions of the mercury do not usually interfere
unless they happen to be within the range of movement of the
meniscus.
   The influence    of friction  I have not examined     ; it plays, however,
an important part in the practical     use  of the instrument.
         7. Relations of the Movements     to Heat and Temperature.
   As heat, applied     to the junction     of mercury and an electrolyte,
                                                                 h2

100                              Dr. G. Gore.
produces an electric current, it is reasonable to infer that an electric
current passed through such a junction in the same direction as the
one produced,      would tend to lower the temperature.        And as it is
well known that both the cohesion of liquids and their elevation are
diminished by rise of temperature, it is probable that the electric
current, by producing a minute change of temperature at the junction,
affects to a slight extent the capillary elevation.     By comparing, how
ever, the directions of the electric currents obtained by heating
mercury in contact with various solutions which exercise no chemical
action upon it (see " Thermo-Electric Behaviour of Aqueous Solutions
with Mercurial Electrodes," " Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 29, p. 472), with
the directions of movements produced by given directions of electric
currents in the same solntions in tbese experiments, it may be perceived
that they do not to any large extent coincide.
   That the mercury should also conversely suffer slight changes of
temperature by electro-capillary      action, is in accordance with the
discovery made by Pouillet (" Ann. de Chemie et de Phys.," vol. xx,
1822, pp. 141-162), that heat is evolved by the capillary absorption of
liquids by solids; and with the experiments of Jungk ("Phil. Mag.,"
vol. 2, 1876, p. 454; and "Pogg. Ann.," vol. cxxv, p. 292), and
further, with those of Melsens, who states that by mixing 4"45 grms.
of charcoal and 33 of bromine, the rise of temperature was 35°
("Phil. Mag.," vol. 2, 1876, p. 454; also "Mem. de TAcad. Royal de
Belgique," vol. xxiii).
   The movement is evidently not caused by heat of conduction
resistance, because that would produce expansion and advancing
motion only.      If also the motion is simply due to thermic expansion,
then heat of chemical combination at the anode in cases of electrolysis
in the capillary ought to cause the mercury to move downwards, but
with solutions of potassic cyanide it moves the reverse. The relations
of electro-capillary movements to heat require, however, much more
investigation.
            8. Relations  of the Movements  to Electric Conditions.
   The phenomena        of the capillary electroscope are not results of
electrolysis, nor of disruptive discharge, but of conduction proper,
and may occur either with or without electro-chemical change.             In
nearly  all  previous investigations  of  the  electric movements   of mer
cury, very much stronger electric currents were employed, and the
results were complicated by electrolytic phenomena.            That electro
lysis, when it does occur, is only a coincident circumstance, is proved
by the non-liberation of hydrogen at the meniscus when that surface
is made negative in dilute sulphuric acid and in various other
solutions ; also, by the mercury at the meniscus not becoming viscid
when made the negative pole in a solution of cupric sulphate (see

                Phenomena   of the Capillary  Electroscope.          101
Exp. No. 27); and further, by the surfaces of the meniscus not
becoming oxidised when made the positive pole in either of the
 various solutions usually employed ; provided in all these cases that
ordinary chemical action is absent and that the current is sufficiently
weak.
   The reverse directions of movement produced by the same direction
of current in dilute sulphuric acid and in solution of potassic cyanide,
probably cannot both be explained by the theory that the movements
are due to electro-chemical exidation and deoxidation.       The upward
movement caused by a downward current can hardly be due to electro
lysis, because that action, by continually destroying the outer film of
mercury, tends to diminish its surface tension.
   Being largely dependent upon electric conduction, the amount of
movement of the mercury is affected by every circumstance which
alters the conductivity.     The part of the circuit which offers the
greatest amount of conduction resistance is the slender column of
solution between the meniscus and the end of the capillary tube ;
there the resistance is considerable.        The nearer, therefore, the
meniscus is to the end of the tube, and the shorter the column of
solution (as well as that of the mercury), the more rapid is the move
ment, especially if the tube is slightly larger in diameter towards that
end ; this circumstance also tends to make the downward movement
an accelerated one, even in a tube of uniform diameter, and the
upward movement the reverse ; and also accounts for the fact that the
instrument is more sensitive to a downward current than to an up
ward one, unless the tube becomes narrower downwards at too rapid a
rate.
   The secondary current of an induction coil was not suitable for
working the instrument, because it produced electrolysis.       On many
occasions an electrophorus was used as the source of electricity, and
this also produced a similar effect.      On charging the electroscope
with it, either by induction or by contact, the movements were freely
produced, provided the electroscope was not insulated.         If it was
perfectly   insulated the  movements did not occur, and if it was
 imperfectly insulated and then charged by momentary contact, the
 mercury continued to run out at the end of the capillary tube after
 removal of the electrophorus, and ceased to flow by discharging the
instrument.
   I made a capillary tube in accordance with the annexed sketch,
with a pressure tube A, and a platinum wire electrode Pt ; and filled
                                  Fig. 3.

 102                           Dr. G. Gore.
 it with mercury whilst in a horizontal position ; then melted it off at
the point B by means of a minute flame ; broke it off at C, and fixed
it vertically with its end C in dilute sulphuric acid above an electrode.
Not a trace of air was visible in any part by the aid of a strong
magnifying glass. By charging the upper electrode by induction with
an electrophorus, the mercury descended freely ; and by charging the
lower one it ascended, provided the free end was not insulated. The
motion of the mercury, therefore, is evidently not produced by mere
electric charge but requires electric flow.
    Even a residual electric charge of the ebonite base of the reverser
       " Proc. Boy. Soc." vol. 30, p.
 (see                                  32) at the surfaces of contact of
that substance with the brass fittings which had been connected
with the poles of the nearly exhausted little water-cell was suf
ficient to work the instrument. Also a voltaic current which raised
the meniscus 19-5 millims. would not produce a visible movement of
the needle of a torsion galvanometer having a coil of 100 ohms
resistance.    These facts illustrate the extreme sensitiveness of the
instrument to electric flow of the feeblest tension ; and the apparatus
might be used for examining the conductivity proper of electrolytes.
    From the results achieved by Quincke ("Pogg. Ann.," vol. cxiii,
18G1), and by Jiirgensen (Reichert and Du Bois Reymond's
                                                                    " Ar-
chiv," 1860, p. 573; also "Chemical Physics," by W. A. Miller,
4th Edition, pp. 530-533), and the various results obtained by myself,
I  conclude that the primary mechanical movement in the instrument
is due to a more or less charged electric state of the surfaces of the
liquids and tube. The electric tension accompanying that state alters
the degrees of adhesion of the substances to each other, and produces
electric convection, which, in consequence of the unequal adhesion of
the solution and mercury to the tube, produces a to-and-fro movement
of the mass.       The less fundamental results, such as reversal of
direction of movement with solutions of potassic cyanide, or with
tubes of different diameter, would probably be found to be necessary
results of the above causes under the altered conditions.         A brief
translation of Quincke's explanation of somewhat similar phenomena
may be found in W. A. Miller's
                                      " Chemical
                                                  Physics," 4th Edition,
p. 532.
    The primary action appears to consist nearly wholly of a direct
 conversion of electricity into mechanical power ; and this accords
with the great sensitiveness of the instrument and the comparatively
considerable force of the movements.        This force has been already
 applied by Lippmann in the construction of an electro-capillary engine.
 The converse action, viz., the production of electric currents
                                                                        by
 mechanically raising and lowering mercury and an acid solution in
capillary tubes, has also been obtained by                                "
                                             * Lippmann    ("Phil ^S'1
                                                                   Mae
 vol. 47, 1874, p. 281).
                                                                j

                Phenomena    of the Capillary  Electroscope.          103
                     9. Influence   of Chemical Action.
   The movements do not appear to depend upon the chemical nature
of the solution, because they take place equally well with acid,
alkaline, and neutral liquids. Being also purely physical, they are not
dependent upon chemical action ; such action, when it does occur,
appears in every case to interfere with them.
   Note. — Since the publication of a previous communication " On the
Capillary Electroscope" (" Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 30, p. 32),             I
have been favoured by M. Lippmann with the following remarks
respecting that instrument.
                                  " 1st. The liquid is to be diluted sul
phuric acid, containing something like one-third its weight of sul
phuric acid. Weak acid does not film glass properly ; most liquids
do not; and then stoppages, or a jumping motion of the mercury,
occur, such as you have described.       2nd. The capillary tube is to be
cut very short (to about 10 millims.) the motions are in that case
ten times more rapid than in a tube of 10 centims., because the
friction is reduced in that proportion ; besides, possibilities       for
obstruction are reduced also in the same proportion.            3rd. The
instrument is only fit for measuring electromotive forces smaller than
one Daniell; by using over-great electromotive forces the capillary
constant goes over its maximum value, and then the movement of the
mercury is reversed, as you noticed it to be the case at the end of your
communication (see, about this maximum, 'Ann. Chimie et Physique,'
1875, and also 1877).       If yon will do me the pleasure of visiting
M. Jamin's    laboratory in the Sorbonne, you will find there several
electrometers   in good working order ; three of these are being used
by  different observers for separate researches, with a precision of
Mibns   Daniell."



                              CONTENTS            (continued).
                                       April   7, 1881.
                                                                                          PAGE
   I. On the Minute Structure of the Lung of the Newt with especial reference
        to its Nervous Apparatus.          By William Stirlino, M.D., Sc.D.,
                                                                 .....
        Regius   Professor   of the  Institutes    of Medicine (Physiology) in the
        University of Aberdeen.                                                             37
 II.  On an Electrodynainic      Balance. By H. Helmholtz, For. Mem. R.8.,
        Professor of Physics in the University of Berlin                                    39
III.  On the Internal Forces of Magnetized and Dielectric-ally Polarized Bodies.
        By Professor H. Helmholtz, For. Mem. R.S                                            40
                                      April   28, 1881.
   I. The Influence of Stress and Strain     on the Action of Physical Forces.       By
        Herbert Tomlinson, B.A.                                                              41
 II.  Lucifer:   a   Study in Morphology.         By W. K. Brooks, Associate in
        Biology   and  Director  of the   Chesapeake    Zoological Laboratory of the
        Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md., U.S.A                                      46
List of Presents                                                                             48
Influence   of Voltaic    Currents on the Diffusion       of Liquids.    By   G-. Gore,
        LL.D., F.R.S                                                                         56
Phenomena of the Capillary Electroscone.          By G. Gore, LL.D., F.R.S.            .    85
  CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC PAPERS, COMPILED BY THE ROYAL
                                         SOCIETY.
                      Published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office.
        8 vols., 4to.   1800—1873.     Per vol.   : 20s., cloth ; 28*., half-morocco.
      On Sale by Murray, Albemarle Street, and Triibner and Co., Ludgate            Hill.
       HARRISON AND SONS,              45 & 46,     ST. MARTIN'S LANE, W.C.,
                                 AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.

                                                                            Gray Herbarium
                                                                                         University
                                                                          Harvard
                             PROCEEDINGS OF
                  THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
  vol. xxxn.                                                                       No. 213.
                                        CONTENTS.
                                        May   5, 1881.
                                                                                          PAGE
 List of Candidates                                                                         104
     L   On   the Determination of the Ohm in Absolute Measure.             By Lord
           Raylbigh, F.R.S.,    and Arthur Schuster, Ph.D., F.R.S.        .      .      .   104
   II. On    the Structure and Development of the Skull in Sturgeons (Acipenter
     '
       t_
           nthenvg a*ul A. tturio).    By W. K. Paekkb, F.R.S                               142
 III.   On the Estimation of the Ainylolytic and Proteolytic Activity of Pan
           creatic Extracts.   By William Roberts, M.D., F.R.S. , Physician to
           the Manchester Boyal Infirmary, and Professor of Clinical Medicine in
           Owens College                                                                .145
                                        May   12, 1881.
    f. On the Physiological Action of $ Lutidine.        By C. Oukville Williams,
           F.R.S., and \V. H. Waters, B.A., Demonstrator in the Physiological
           Laboratory,   Cambridge                                                          192
  II. Discussion of the Results of some Experiments with Whirled Anemo
          meters.    By Professor Or. Ot. Stokes, Sec. R.S                                 170
III.   Investigations on the Spectrum of Magnesium. By G-. D. Liveing, M.A.,
          F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, and J. Dewar, M.A., F.R.S., Jack-
          sonian Professor, University of Cambridge (Plate 1)      .    .      .      .    189
 IV. Note on the Reduction of the Observations of the Spectra of 100 Suu-
          spota observed at Eensington.         By J. Norman Lockyee, F.R.S.
          (Plate 2)                                                                        203
                   For  continuation of Contents  see 4M page of Wrapper.
                                  Price Eight Shillings.

          PHILOSOPHICAL                            TRANSACTIONS.
                              Contents or Pakt I IT,       1880.
   XXI. A   Memoir     on the Single and Double Theta-Functions.           By A. Catlev.
             F.R.S., Sadlenan Professor of Pure Mathematics in the University of
             Cambridge.
  XX I T. Revision of the Atonuc Weight of Aluminum.            By J. W.  Mallkt, F.R.8.,
             Professor of Chemistry in the University of Virginia.
XXIir.    Description of some Remains of the Gigantic Land-Lizard (Megalania
            prisca, Owen), from Australia. — Part II. Bv Professor Owem, C.B.,
             F.R.S.,  .tc.
XXrV.     On the Ova of the Echidna Hystrix.            By Professor Owny, C.B., F.R.S.,
             &c.
  XXV.    On the Determination of the Constants of the Cup Anemometer by Experi
             ments with a Whirling Machine.— Part II.            Bv T. R. Robinson, D.D..
             F.R.S., Ac.
XXVI.     On the Dynamo-electric Current, and on Certain Means to Improve               its
             Steadiness.    By C. William Siemens. D.C.L., F.R.S.
Index to Part    III.
                                CONTBNTS     OF PaET I,   1881.
On   the Structure      and   Development of the Skull in the Batrachia — Part 111.
                                  By W. K. Pakkeb, F.R.S.
                         PHILOSOPHICAL            TRANSACTIONS.
                               Port   III,  1880,   price £1  It.
                                 Part I,  1881, price £2 10».
 Extra volume (vol. 168) containing the Reports of the Naturalists         attached to the
                         Transit of Venus Expeditions.      Price £3.
                                 Sold by Harrison and Sons.
Separate  copies  of Papers in the Philosophical Transactions, commencing with       1870.
                    may be had of Triibner and Co., 57, Ludguto Hill.

                Plienomena    of the Capillary  Electroscope.         103
                      9. Influence  of Chemical Action.
   The movements- do not appear to depend upon the chemical nature
of the solution, because they take place equally well with acid,
alkaline, and neutral liquids. Being also purely physical, they are not
dependent    upon chemical action ; such action, when it does occur,
appears in every case to interfere with them.
    Note. — Since the publication of a previous communication
                                                                  " On the
 Capillary Electroscope" ("Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 30, p. 32), I
have    been  favoured by M. Lippmann with the following remarks
                                   " 1st. The
respecting    that instrument.                liquid is to be diluted sul
 phuric acid, containing something like one-third its weight of sul
phuric acid. Weak acid does not film glass properly ; most liquids
do not; and then stoppages, or a jumping motion of the mercury,
occur, such as you have described. 2nd. The capillary tube is to be
cut very short (to about 10 millims.), the motions are in that case
ten times more rapid than in a tube of 10 centims., because the
friction is reduced in that proportion; besides, possibilities for
obstruction are reduced also in the same proportion.             3rd. The
instrument is only fit for measuring electromotive forces smaller than
one Daniell ; by using over-great electromotive forces the capillary
constant goes over its maximum value, and then the movement of the
mercury is reversed as you noticed it to be the case at the end of your
communication (see, about this maximum, 'Ann. Chimieet Physique,'
1875, and also 1877).        If you will do me the pleasure of visiting
M. Jamin's laboratory in the Sorbonne, you will find there several
electrometers in good working order ; three of these are being nsed
by different observers for separate researches, with a precision of
rrko Daniell."
   TOL. XXXII.                                                  I

104                Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                  [May 5,
                                   May   5, 1881.
   THE PRESIDENT             (followed    by   THE TREASURER)           in the
                                       Chair.
    The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered
for them.
    In pursuance of the Statutes, the names of Candidates recommended
                                   were read from the Chair, as follows :
                                                                            —
for election into the Society
                                             McLeod,      Prof. Herbert, F.I.C.,
Ayrton, Prof. William Edward.
Bates, Henry Walter.                            F.C.S.
Bristowe,      John     Syer,      M.D.,     Phillips, John Arthur.
   F.R.C.P.                                  Preece, William Henry, C.E.
Christie, William Henry Mahoney,             Samuelson, Bernhard, M.I. C.E.
   M.A., Sec. R.A.S.                         Stoney,      Bindon Blood, M.A.,
Dickie, Prof. George, A.M., M.D.,               M.I.C.E.
    F.L.S.                                   Traqnair, Ramsay H., M.D.
Kempe, Alfred Bray, B.A.                     Watson, Rev. Henry William,
Macalister, Prof. Alexander, M.D.,            M.A.
    Sec.  R.I.A.                             Wright, Charles R. Alder, D.Sc.
    The following Papers were read : —
 I. " On the Determination           of the Ohm in Absolute Measure."
        By Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., and Arthur Schuster, Ph.D.,
        F.R.S.     Received    April   12, 1881.
                        Part I.— By Lord Rayleigh.
     It is generally felt that considerable uncertainty still attaches to the
  real value of the ohm, or British Association unit of resistance.          The
  ohm was constructed to represent 109 C.G.S. absolute units, but
  according to Kohlrausch* it is nearly 2 per cent, too great, and
  according to Rowlandf nearly 1 per cent, too small.              On the other
  hand,   H. Weber J has obtained by more than one method results very
  nearly in harmony with those of the British Association Committee.
  Influenced partly by the fact that the original apparatus (though a
  good deal out of repair) and the standard coils themselves were in
                    • " Phil. Mag.," xlvii, p. 294, 1874.
                      " American Journal of Science and Arts," 1878.
                    +
                    J " Phil. Mag.," v, p. 30, 1878.

1881.J      Determination      of the  Ohm in Absolute Measure.            105
the  Cavendish Laboratory,         I  determined last June to repeat the
measurement       by  the   method of the Committee, which has been
employed by no subsequent experimenter, and sought permission from
the Council of the British Association        to make the necessary altera
tions in the apparatus.                     I
                              In this way hoped not merely to obtain an
independent result, but also to form an opinion upon the importance
of certain criticisms     which have been passed upon the work of the
Committee.
   The method, it will be remembered, consists in causing a coil of
insulated wire, forming a closed circuit, to revolve about a vertical
axis, and in observing the deflection from the magnetic meridian of
a  magnet suspended at its centre, the deflection being due to the
currents developed in the coil under the influence of the earth's
magnetism.       The amount of the deflection is independent of the
intensity of the earth's magnetic force, and it varies inversely as the
resistance   of the circuit.    The theory of the experiment is explained
very fully in the reports of the Committee,*                and in Maxwell's
 "Electricity and Magnetism," section 763. For the sake of distinct
ness, and as affording an opportunity for one or two minor criticisms,
a short statement in the original notation will be convenient : —
    H=horizontal      component of earth's magnetism.
     7=strength of current in coil at time t.
    G=total area inclosed by all the windings of the wire.
    n>=angular velocity of rotation.
     0=<D<=angle     between plane of coil and magnetic meridian.
    M= magnetic      moment of suspended magnet.
     0=angle      between     the   axis  of the magnet      and the magnetic
        meridian.
    K= magnetic      force at the centre of the coil due to unit current
        in the wire.
    L= coefficient   of self-induction of coil.
    R= resistance    of coil in absolute measure.
MHT=force of torsion of fibre per unit of angular rotation.
   The equation determining the current is —
                     + R7=HGa>cosa<        + MKiucos(si<-0)       .    . .  (1),
whence
    or     Lru*
                             + KM(Rcos(0-0) + Lasin(£>-0))}              .  (2).
                   • Collected in one volume.  London, 1873.
                                                                   i 2

106                Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                  [May 5,
    If L   were zero, or  if the rotation were extremely slow, the current
                                                           is passing through
would (apart from KM) be greatest when the coil
                     In consequence of     self-induction,   the phase of the
the meridian.
                                                                          At the
current is retarded, and its maximum value is diminished.
                                                                       of phase
higher speeds used by the Committee, the retardation
amounted to 20°.
                                                          needle, we have to
    To find the effect of (2) upon the suspended
                                                             and then to take
introduce MK and the resolving factor cos (0—0),
                                                                              the
the average.       This, on the supposition that the needle remains on
                                                                restitution  due
whole balanced at 0, must be equal to the force of
                                                                to torsion, i.e.,
to the direct action of the earth's magnetism and
MH sin0+MHT 0.             Thus—
    -JM^L. {GH(R         cos 0 + Lu sin 0) + KMR} -MH(sin 0 + t 0) =0.
                                                                          and the
    In the actual experiment t is a very small quantity, say            ;
 distinction between t 0 and t sin 0 may be neglected.
         _R £GK» cot 0 ^ + MK sec ^ + w
                                                   _jGKW         =Q           (3)
      R2
     If we  omit the small terms depending upon t and upon          MK/GH,     we
                                                   —
 get on solution and expansion of the radical
                                                                 ....         (4).
     The term in tan40 is not given in the report of the Committee,
 but, as I learn from Mr. Hockin through Dr. Schuster, it was included
 in the actual reductions.      But the next term in tan6 0, and one arising
 from a combination of the correction for self-induction with that
                                                                               the
 depending on M, are not altogether insensible, so that probably
 direct use of the quadratic is more convenient          than     the  expansion.
  At the high speeds used by the Committee the correction for self-
 induction amounted to some 8 per cent., and therefore cannot be treated
  as very small.
      If the axis of rotation be not truly vertical, a correction for level is
  necessary.     In the case of coincidence with the line of dip, no currents,
  due to the earth's magnetism, would be developed.         If the upper end of
  the axis deviate from the vertical by a small angle /3 towards the north,
  the electromotive forces are increased in the ratio cos(I+/3) : cos I,
  i.e., in the ratio 1 + tan I./3,    I being the angle of dip.           A devia
  tion in the east and west plane will have an effect of the second order
  only.     The magnetic forces due to the currents will not act upon the
  needle precisely as if the plane of the coil were always vertical, but
  the difference is of the seoond order, so that the whole effect of a

1881.]         Determination   of the    Ohm in Absolute Measure.                  107
small error of level may be represented by writing G (1 + tan               I . ft) for
G in (3) or (4).
    The next step is to express GK in terms of the measurements of the
coil.    In order that there may be a passage for the suspending fibre
and its enveloping tube, it is necessary that the coil be double, or if
we prefer so to express it, that there be a gap in the middle.                If
    a = mean    radius of each coil,
    n= whole     number of windings,
    J=axial dimension of section of each coil,
    c= radial dimension of section of each coil,
   b'= distance of mean plane of each coil from the axis of motion,
    a=angle subtended at centre by radius of each coil, so that cot«=
          b'la,
                                    b  £
                                QL
                                                        /
                                                            L
                                                      /
                                                    /
                                  a
                                                  /
                                                /
                                  .>
                                    (c
                                     <       I            *
                                                          >
                                            3b'
                                                            r
 then —
                                                                                    (6),
                               Q=w(l+,V^)
  K= —       sin8 « ( 1+ A 4   (2-15      sin3 a cos2 «)
        o           L       aa
                                +  h—      (15 sin2 a cos2    *-3 sin2 *) }
                                                                               .    (6),
                                       a2                                 J
 so  that
  GK=2^%2asin3a{l+^     I      a2
                                  + |^Z£!sin2acos2a-|— sin2«]
                                           a2                      a2       J
                                                                                 .  (7).
 The correction due to the finiteness of b and c is in practice extremely
 small, but the factor sin3 « must be determined with full accuracy.
     In order to arrive at the value of MK/GH, which occurs in (3), we
 observe that the approximate           value of K/G is 2 sin3a / a3 ; so that

108                  Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                   [May 5,
MK/GH     is equal to tan /t. where fi is the angle through which the
needle of a magnetometer is deflected when the suspended magnet (M)
is placed at a distance from it a/sin a to the east or west, with the
magnetic  axis pointing east or west.     In practice the difference of
readings when  M  is reversed  is taken  in order to double the effect,
and any convenient distance is used in lieu of a/sin a, allowance being
easily made by the law of cubes.
  The correction for torsion is determined   by giving the suspended
magnet   one (or more) complete turns, and observing   the displacement.
If this be reckoned in divisions of the scale, i.e., in millimetres, and
               8|,
D     be the distance     from the mirror to the scale reckoned in millimetres,
                                        T=4                                        w-
The correction        for    scale    reading, necessary in order to pass from
¦J   tan 20 to tan   0,   will   be explained under the head of reductions.
   Corrections depending upon irregularity in the magnetic field, and in
the adjustment of the magnet to the centre of the coil are given in
the report.   They are exceedingly small. The same may be said of
errors due to imperfect adjustment of the coil with respect to the axis
of rotation.
   In remounting the apparatus the first point for consideration was
the driving gear. The Committee nsed      Huyghens' gearing, driven
                                                  a
by hand, in conjunction with  a governor.   This,   appeared to me,
                                                               it
might advantageously be replaced by a water-motor; and Bailey's
" Thirlmere " engine, which acts by the impulse of      jet of water upon
                                                               a
revolving cnps, was chosen as suitable for the purpose. As the pres
sure in the public water pipes    not sufficiently uniform, was at first
                                        is                          it
intended to introduce     reducing valve but on reflection
                                 a               ;                  seemed
                                                                         it
simpler  to obtain a constant  head  of water   by connecting   the  engine
with a small cistern at the top of the building. This cistern          just   is
big enongh   to hold the ball-tap by  which          it   is
                                                   supplied,  and  gives at
the engine a head of about 50 feet.
     The        of this arrangement depends upon attention to princi
           success
ples, as to which     may be well to say a few words.
                      it                                  The work done
by many prime movers         within practical limits proportional to the
                                  is
speed.    If the work necessary to be done in order to overcome resist
ances, as n overcoming solid friction, or in pulling up weights, be also
proportional to the speed, there     nothing to determine the rate of the
                                          is
engine, and in the absence of an effective governor the motion will be
extremely unsteady.     In general the resistance function will be of the
form  —
                         Bv + Cv2 + T)vs +
in which the above-mentioned resistances are included under B.                     The

1881.]        Determination    of the  Ohm in Absolute Measure.        109
term in C will represent resistances of the nature of viscosity, and that
in D a resistance such as is incurred in setting fluids in motion by a
fan or otherwise.         By these resistances, if present, the speed of
working will     be determined.
    In  the water impulse engine, however, the work is not proportional
to the speed.      At zero speed no work is done ; neither is any work
 done at a speed such that the cups retreat with the full velocity of
 the jet.    The speed of maximum efficiency is the half of the last, and
 the curve representing work as a function of speed is a parabola with
 vertex directed upwards.        If we draw upon the same diagram the
 curve of work and the curve of resistances, the actual speed will
 correspond to the point of intersection, and will be well or ill defined
 according as the angle of intersection is great or small. At the higher
 speeds of the coil (four to six revolutions per second) so much air is set
 in motion that the resistance curve is highly convex downwards, and
 no difficulty is experienced in obtaining a nearly uniform motion.
 But when the speed of rotation is as slow as once a second, the
 principal resistance is due to solid friction, and the requisite cur
 vature in the diagrams must be obtained in the curve of work.             It
 was necessary in order to obtain a satisfactory performance at low
 speeds to introduce an additional reducing pulley, so that the engine
 might run fast, although the coil was running slow.
    The revolving coil with its frame, and the apparatus for suspending
 the magnet, were at first arranged as described by the Committee.
 This description, with drawings, is to be found in the report, and it
                     "
 is reproduced in Gordon's Electricity and Magnetism," vol. i. The
 water engine was ready about the middle of June, and towards the end
 of the month the apparatus was mounted by Mr. Horace Darwin.
 During July and August preliminary trials were made by Mr. Darwin,
Mrs. Sidgwick, and myself, and various troubles were encountered.
    The only point in which the arrangement adopted by the Com
mittee was intentionally departed from was in the connexion of the
 magnet and mirror. The magnet is necessarily placed at the centre of
 the revolving coil, but in their arrangement the mirror is on the top
 of the frame and is connected to the magnet by a brass wire.             In
 order   to save  weight,  I preferred  to have the magnet and mirror  close
 together, not anticipating any difficulty from the periodic and very
 brief interruption caused by the passage of the coil across the line
 of sight. A box was, therefore, prepared with a glass front, through
 which the mirror could be observed, and was attached to the end of a
 brass tube coming through the hollow axle of the coil.           This tube
 itself was supported on screws resting on the top of the frame. The
 upper end of the suspension fibre was carried by a tall tripod resting
 independently on the floor.
     The first matter for examination was the behaviour      of the magnet

110               Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                  [May 5,
and mirror when the coil was spinning with circuit open. At low
speeds the   result was fairly satisfactory, hut at six or more revolutions
per second a violent disturbance set in. This could not be attributed
to the direct action of wind, as the case surrounding the suspended
parts was nearly air-tight, except at the top.               It was noticed by
Mr. Darwin that even at low speeds a disturbance was caused at every
stroke of the bell.     This observation pointed to mechanical tremor,
communicated through the frame, as the cause of the difficulty, and
the next step was to support the case surrounding the suspended parts
independently.     A rough trial indicated some improvement, but at this
point  the  experiments had to be laid aside for a time.
    From the fact that the disturbance in question was produced by
the slightest touch (as by a tap of the finger nail), upon the box,
while the upper parts of the tube could be shaken with impunity, it
appeared that it must depend upon a reaction between the air in
cluded in the box and the mirror.          It is known that a flat body tends
to set itself across the direction of any steady current of the fluid in
which it is immersed, and we may fairly suppose that an effect of the
same character will follow from an alternating current.                 At the
moment of the tap upon the box the air inside is made to move past the
mirror, and probably executes several vibrations. While these vibra
tions last, the mirror is subject to a twisting force tending to set it at
right angles to the direction of vibration. The whole action being
over in a time very small compared with that of the free vibrations of
the magnet and mirror, the obserred effect is as if an impulse had
been   given to the suspended parts.
    In order to illustrate this effect     I  contrived the following experi
ment.*     A small disk of paper, about the size of a sixpence, was hung
by a fine silk fibre across the mouth of a resonator of pitch 128.
When a sound of this pitch is excited in the neighbourhood, there is
a powerful rush of air in and out of the resonator, and the disk sets
itself promptly across the passage.          A fork of pitch 128 may be held
 near the resonator, but it is better to use a second resonator at a little
 distance in order to avoid any possible disturbance due to the neigh
 bourhood of the vibrating prongs.           The experiment, though rather
 less  striking, was also successful with forks and resonators of
 pitch 256.
    It will be convenient here to describe the method adopted for regu
 lating and determining the speed of rotation, which has proved
 thoroughly satisfactory.       In the experiments of the Committee a
 governor   was  employed,     and  the speed was determined by means of
 the bell already referred to. This bell received a stroke every 10O
 revolutions, and the times were taken with a chronometer.               In this
                    *  " Proc.  Camb. Phil. Soc," Nov. 8, 1880.

1881.]      Determination of    the Ohm    in Absolute Measure.           Ill
method rather long spinnings (ten or twenty minutes) are necessary
in order to get the speed with sufficient accuracy, much longer than
are required to take the readings at the telescope.      Desirous, if
possible, of making the observations more quickly,          I
                                                      determined to
try the stroboscopic method. On the axis of the instrument a stout
card of 14 inches diameter was mounted, divided into concentric
circles of black and white teeth. The black and white spaces were
equal,  and the black only were counted as teeth. There were five
circles, containing 60, 32, 24, 20, 16 teeth respectively, the outside
circle having the largest number of teeth.
    This disk was observed from a distance through a telescope, and an
arrangement for affording an intermittent view.            An electric tuning
fork of frequency about 63^        was   maintained  in  regular vibration in
the usual way by means of a Grove cell.          To the ends of the prongs
are attached thin plates of metal, perforated with somewhat narrow
slits parallel to the prongs.     In the position of equilibrium these slits
overlap   so as to allow  an  unobstructed   view, but in other positions of
the fork the disk cannot be seen.        When the fork vibrates, the disk is
seen intermittently 127 times a second ; and if the speed be such that
on any one of the circles 127 teeth a second pass a fixed pointer, that
circle is seen as if it were at rest.
    By means of the various circles it is possible to observe correspond
ingly varied speeds without any change in the frequency of the fork's
vibration.     A further step in this direction may be taken by modify
ing the arrangement for intermittent view. If the eye be placed at the
top or bottom of one of the vibrating plates, a view is obtained once
only, instead of twice, during each vibration of the fork. This plan
was adopted for the slowest rotation, and allowed 60 teeth to take
the place of 120, which would otherwise have been necessary.
    The performance of the fork was very satisfactory.             It would go
 for hours   without  the  smallest  attention, except   an occasional renewal
of the alcohol in the mercury cup. Pure (not methylated) alcohol was
used for this purpose, and a platinum point made and broke the
 contacts.    Although, as it turned out, this fork vibrated with great
 regularity, dependence was not placed upon       it,  but repeated compari
 sons by means of beats were made between         it   and a standard fork of
 Koenig's construction, of pitch (about) 128.           These beats, at pitch
 128, were about 48 per minute, and scarcely varied perceptibly during
 the course of the experiments.       They could have been counted for an
even longer     time,   but  this  was  not necessary. It was intended at
 first to make the comparisons of the fork simultaneous with the
 other observations, but this was given up as a needless refinement.
     Some care was necessary in the optical arrangements to obviate
 undue fatigue of the eyes in a long series of observations.        In daylight
 the illumination of the card was sufficient without special provision,

112            Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.               [May   5,
but at night, when the actual observations were made, the image of an
Argand gas flame was thrown upon the pointer and the part of the
card near it. On account of the necessity of removing the electric
fork and its appliances to a distance, the card, if looked at directly,
would appear too much fore-shortened, and a looking-glass was there
fore introduced.  The eyepiece of the telescope, close in front of the
slits, was adjusted to the exact height, and the eye was placed imme
diately behind the slits.   By cutting off stray light as completely as
possible, the  observation may be made without fatigue and with slits
narrow enough to give good definition when the speed is correct.
    As governor I    had originally intended to employ an electro-mag
netic contrivance, invented a few years ago by La Cour and myself,*
in which a revolving wheel is made to take its time from a vibrating
fork, and it was partly for this reason that the water engine was
placed at a considerable distance from the revolving coil. I was,
however, not without hopes that a governor would be found unneces
sary, and a few trials with the stroboscopic apparatus were very en
couraging.     It appeared that by having the water power a little in
excess, the observer looking through the vibrating slits could easily
control the speed by applying a slight friction to the cord connecting the
engine and coil. For this purpose the cord was allowed to run lightly
through the fingers, and after a little practice there was no difficulty
in so regulating the speed that a tooth was never allowed finally to
pass the pointer, however long the observation was continued.           If,
from a momentary inadvertence or from some slight disturbance, a
tooth passed it could readily be brought back again.         The power of
 control thus obtained will be appreciated when it is remembered that
 the passage of a tooth per second would correspond to less than one
 per cent, on the speed.       In many of the observations the pointer
 covered the same tooth all the^while, so that the introduction of a
 governor could only have done harm.
    Another, and perhaps still more important, improvement on the
 original method related to the manner of making correction for the
 changes of declination which usually occur during the progress of
 the experiments.     The Committee relied for this purpose upon com
 parisons with the photographic records made at Kew, and they recog
 nise that considerable disturbances arose from the passage of steamers,
  Ac. All difficulty of this kind is removed by the plan which we
 adopted of taking simultaneous readings of a second magnetometer,
  called the auxiliary magnetometer, placed at a sufficient distance from
  the revolving coil to be sensibly unaffected by         it,
                                                       but near enough to
  be similarly influenced by changes in the earth's magnetism, and by
  other disturbances having their origin at a moderate distance.        The
                         *   " Nature,"
                                        May   23, 1878.

  1881.]      Determination of   the Ohm    in Absolute Measure.      113
 auxiliary magnetometer was of very simple construction, and was
 read with a telescope and a millimetre scale, the distance between
 mirror and scale (about 2£ metres) being adjusted to approximate
equality with that used for the principal magnet, so that disturbances
were eliminated by simple comparisons of the scale readings. During
a magnetic storm it was very interesting to watch the simultaneous
movements of the magnets.
    In the month of September the apparatus was remounted under the
 direction of Professor Stuart, to whose advice we have often        been
 indebted.    In order to examine whether any errors were caused by the
circulation of currents in the frame, as has been suggested by more
than one critic, insulating pieces were inserted, mercury cups at the
same time being provided, so that the contacts could be restored at
pleasure. But the principal changes related to the manner of suspend
ing the fibre and supporting the box and tube. In order to eliminate
tremor, as far as possible, these parts were supported by a massive
wooden stand, resting on the floor and overhanging, but without
contact, the top of the metal frame of the coil.     The upper end of the
fibre was fastened to a rod sliding in a metal cap, which formed the
upper extremity of a 2-inch glass tube. Near the other end this tube
was attached to a triangular piece of brass, resting on three screws,
by which the whole could be raised or lowered bodily and levelled.
Rigidly attached to this tube, and forming a continuation of it, a
second glass tube, narrow enough to pass freely through the hollow
axle of the coil, protected the fibre as far as the box in which the
mirror and magnet were hung. This box was cylindrical and about
3 inches in diameter.      The top fitted stiffly to the lower end of the
narrow glass tube, and the body of the box could be unscrewed, so as
to give access to the interior.     The window necessary for observation
of the mirror was made of a piece of worked glass, and was fitted air
tight.
   On my return to Cambridge in October the apparatus was tested,
but without the full success that had been hoped for.      At high speeds
there was still unsteadiness enough to preclude the use of these speeds
for measurement.      Since it is impossible to suppose that the tremor is
propagated with sufficient intensity through the floor and massive
brickwork on which the coil is supported, the cause must be looked for
in the fanning action of the revolving coil, aggravated no doubt by the
somewhat pendulous character of the box, and perhaps by the nearness
of the approach between the coil and its frame at three points of the
revolution.
   At this  time the experiment was in danger of languishing, as other
occupations prevented Mr. Darwin from taking any further part ; but
on Dr. Schuster's return to Cambridge he offered his valuable assist
ance.  Encouraged by Sir W. Thomson, we determined to proceed with

114              Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.               [May   5,
the measurements, inasmuch as no disturbance, due to the rotation of
the coil with circuit open, could be detected until higher speeds were
approached than it was at all necessary to use.
    One of the first points submitted to examination was the influence
of currents induced in the frame.        Without altering the speed or
making any other change, readings were taken alternately with the
contact-pieces in and out.    Observations   made on several days agreed
in showing a small effect, due to the currents in the frame, in the
direction of a diminished deflection.    The whole deflection being 516
divisions of the scale, the mean diminution on making the top contacts
was -86 division. When the coil was at rest no difference in the zero
could be detected on moving the contact-pieces.
    In these preliminary experiments very consistent results were ob
tained at constant speeds, whether the rotation was in one direction or
the other ; but when deflections at various speeds were compared, we
were startled to find the larger deflections falling very considerably
short of proportionality to the speeds.    There are only two corrections
which tend to disturb this proportionality — (1) the correction for
scale-reading, (2) the correction for self-induction.     The effect of the
first is to make the readings too high, and of the second to make the
readings too low at the greater speeds. According to the figures given
by the Committee (Report, p. 106), the aggregate effect is to increase
the readings, on account of the preponderance of (1) over (2), whereas
our results were consistently of the opposite character.       Everything
that could be thought of as a possible explanation was examined theo
retically and experimentally, but without success.       The coil was dis
mounted and the wire unwound, in order to see whether there was any
false contact which might be supposed to vary with the speed and so
account for the discrepancy.     After much vexation and delay, it was
discovered that the error was in the statement in the Report, the effect
of self-induction being given at nearly ten times less than its real
value.     The correction for scale-reading, instead of preponderating
over the correction for self-induction, is in reality quite a small part of
the whole.
    At this stage, as time was running short, we determined to proceed
at once to a complete series of readings at sufficiently varied speeds,
postponing the measurement of the coil to the end.           The wire had
 l>een rewound without extreme care to secure the utmost attainable
evenness, and the condition of the groove was such that a thoroughly
satisfactory coil could not have been obtained, even with extreme care.
It appeared, however, on examination that irregularities of this sort
were not likely to affect the final result more than one or two parts in
a thousand, if so much ; and many points of interest could be decided
 altogether independently of this measurement.
    The details of the experiments and reductions are given below by

1881.]      Determination     of the  Ohm in Absolute Measure.           115
Dr. Schuster, who took all the readings of the principal magneto
meter.    Mrs. Sidgwick observed the auxiliary magnetometer ; while
the regulation of the speed by stroboscopic observation fell to myself.
Dr. Schuster also undertook the labour of the reductions and the
final comparisons of our arbitrary German silver coil with the standard
ohms.
   The observations were very satisfactory, and at constant speeds agreed
better than we had expected.           The only irregularity that we met
with was a slight disturbance of the zero, due to convection currents
in the air surrounding the mirror, the effect of which, however, almost
entirely disappears in the means. This disturbance could be magnified
by bringing a paraffin lamp into the neighbourhood of the mirror. After
about half a minute, apparently the time occupied in conduction through
the box and in starting the current, the readings began to move off.
Complete recovery would occupy twenty or thirty minutes.          In f nture
experiments this kind of disturbance will be very much reduced by
increasing the moment of the magnet five or six times, and by dimi
nishing the size of the mirror, both of which may be done without
objection.
   The comparison of the results at various speeds requires a knowledge
of the coefficient of self-induction L. Nothing is said in the Report as
to the value of L for the second year's experiments, but the missing
information is supplied in Maxwell's paper on the " Electro-magnetic
Field,"* together with an indication of the process followed in cal
 culating it. The first approximation to the value of L, in which the
dimensions of the section are neglected in comparison with the radius
of the coil, is 437,440 metres, but this is reduced by corrections to
430,165.    The value which best satisfies the observations is consider
ably greater, viz., 456,748.       A rough experiment with the electric
balance gave    410,000 ; but   Professor    Maxwell remarks that the value
calculated from the dimensions of the coil is probably much the more
 accurate, and was used in the actual reductions.        I had supposed at
 one time that the discrepancy between the results at various speeds
and the calculated value of L was due to the omission of the term in
tan* 0, given above, which would have the same general effect as an
under-estimate of L ; but, as has been already mentioned, this term
was in fact included in the reductions made by Mr. Hockin, in con
junction, moreover, with the value L= 437,440.
   A rough preliminary reduction of our observations showed at once
that they could not be satisfied by any such value of L as 437,000,
but pointed rather to 454,000, and we began to suspect that the
influence of self-induction had been seriously under-estimated by the
Committee. Preliminary trials by Maxwell's method with the electric
                             * " Phil. Trans.," 1865.

116             Lord Eayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                    [May 5,
balance giving promise of results trustworthy within one per cent.,
we proceeded to apply it with care to the determination of L, but the
galvanometer at our command — a single needle Thomson of 2,000 ohms
resistance — was not specially suitable for ballistic work.  As this
method is not explained in any of the usual text-books, it may be
convenient here to give a statement of it.
   The arrangement is identical with that adopted to measure the
resistance of the coil in the usual way by the bridge.      If P be the
resistance of the copper coil, Q, R, S, nearly inductionless resistances
from resistance-boxes,    balance is obtained at the galvanometer when
PS=QR.       This  is a resistance balance, and to observe it the influence
of induction must be eliminated by making the battery contact a
second or two before making the galvanometer contact.           Let us now
suppose that P is altered to P + 3P.     The effect of this change would
be annulled by the operation of an electromotive force in branch P of
magnitude <SP . x, where x denotes the magnitude of the current in this
branch before the change.        Since electromotive forces act indepen
dently,  the  effect upon the galvanometer of the change from P to
P + £P is the same as would be caused by BP .x acting in branch P,
if there be no E.M.F. in the battery branch at all.
    Returning now to resistance P, let us make the galvanometer con
tact before making the battery contact.          There is no permanent
current through the galvanometer (G), but, at the moment of make,
self-induction opposes an obstacle to the development of the current
in P, which causes a transient current through G, showing itself by a
throw of the needle. The integral magnitude of this opposing E.M.F.
is simply L x, and it produces the same effect upon G as if it acted by
itself.  We have now to compare the effects of a transient and of a
permanent E.M.F. upon G. This is merely a question of galvano-
metry.    If T be the time of half a complete vibration of the needle,
 0 the permanent deflection due to the steady E.M.F. , a the throw due
to the transient E.M.F., then the ratio of the electromotive forces, or
of the currents, ia
                               v     tan0
  If, instead of the permanent deflection 0, we observe the first throw
(P) of the galvanometer needle, this becomes
                               T    2 sin   \ol
                               •t   tan ^8
  In the present case, the ratio in                     is,
                                     question                 by what has been
shown, above SP . x hx, or SP
                    :           :   so that
                                    L ;
                            L^eP     T      2sini«
                                      r                                    (9),
                           P    P           tan   |/3

1881.]         Determination        of the  Ohm in Absolute Measure.           117
a  formula which exhibits the time-constant of the coil P in terms of
the period of the galvanometer needle.                Further to deduce the value
of L in absolute measure from the formula requires a knowledge of
resistances in absolute measure.
    In carrying out the experiment the principal difficulty arose from
want of permanence of the resistance balance, due to changes of
temperature in the copper coil.                 The error from this source was,
however, diminished by protecting the coil with flannel, and was in
great measure eliminated in the reductions. The result was L= 455,000
metres.       This is on the supposition that the ohm is correct. If, as we
consider more probable, the ohm is one per cent, too small, the result
would be L= 450,000.
    Without attributing too great importance to this determination,
there were now three independent arguments pointing to the higher
value of L : first, from the experiments of the Committee ; secondly, and
more distinctly, from our experiments ; and thirdly, from the special
determination ; and I entertained little doubt that a direct calculation
from the dimensions of the coil would lead to a similar conclusion.
     This direct calculation proved no very easy matter. Mr. W. D.
                    I
Niven (whom was fortunately able to interest in the question) and
myself had no difficulty in verifying independently the formulae given
in " Maxwell's Electricity and Magnetism," § § 692, 705, from which
the self-induction of a simple coil of rectangular section can be found,
on the supposition that the dimensions of the sections are very small
in comparison with the radius.              In the notation of the paper on the
electro-magnetic       field,  if  r be   the  diagonal of the section, and 0 the
angle between       it and the plane of the coil,
L=4Wa                — + is-UO-i*) cot 20— i*- cosec             20
              £log,
                      —
                        £ cot2   0 log, cos 0-1 tan2 flog,    sin     .   . . (10).
                                                                  ©J
     In the paper itself, probably by a misprint, cos 20 appears, instead
of cosec 20, in (10). The expression is, as it evidently ought to be,
unchanged when ^tt— 0 is written for 0. By an ingenious process,
explained in the paper, the formulae is applied to calculate the self-
 induction of a double coil.*
     The whole self-induction of the double coil is found by adding
together twice the self-induction of each part and twice the mutual
induction of the two parts. The self-induction of each part is found (to
    * The  following misprints may be noticed : —
                        Page 509, line 11, for B read C.
                              „      „ 13, for L(AC) read M(AC).
                                             for L(B) read L(C).
    Attention   must be directed to the peculiar meaning attached to depth.

118                Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                       [May 5,
this approximation) by a simple application of (10). For twice this
quantity Mr. Niven found 301,802, and I found 301,920 metres. For
twice the mutual induction of the two parts                I  found, by Maxwell's
method, 145,820 metres. Adding 301,920 and 145,820, we get 447,740
metres as tho value of the whole self-induction, on the supposition
that the curvature may be neglected.              This corresponds to the value
437,440 given in the paper.
   As to the origin of the discrepancy         I am    not able to offer any satis
factory explanation.        It should be noticed,      however,  that owing to his
                                 "        "       "           " as applied to coils,
peculiar use of the words          depth    and     breadth
Maxwell has interchanged what, to avoid any possible ambiguity,                      I
have called the axial and radial dimensions of the section.                 Thus the
depth,   i.e., in  his  use   of the  word,   the   axial  dimension,   is  given as
•01608, but this is really the radial dimension, as appears clearly
enough from the Report of the Committee, as well as from our recent
measurements.         The real value of the axial dimension is -01841 metre.
     I
But do not think that this interchange will explain the difference in
the results of the calculation.
   When we proceed to apply corrections for the finite size of the
section, further discrepancies develope themselves.               The second term
in the expression for      L  given in the paper (p. 508) does not appear to
be correct, and the final numerical correction for curvature ( — 7,345
metres) differs in sign from that which we obtain.                  Mr. Niven has
attacked the problem of determining the correction for curvature in
the general case of a single coil of rectangular section, and (subject
to a certain difficulty of interpretation) has obtained a solution.                The
application     of  the  result    to the  actual   case  of a  double   coil   would,
however, be a very troublesome matter.               For the two particular cases
in which only one of the two dimensions of the section of a simple
coil is considered to be finite, Mr. Niven and myself have indepen
dently obtained tolerably simple results.             Thus, if the axial dimension
be zero (6=0),
                  L=4m3a                                                         (11);
 and if the radial dimension be zero,
                                                                                  (12).
    Again, for   a circular section of radius      p,
                   L=W«[log^-i+^(log^+i)]                             .   .   .   (13).
   In all   these cases we see that the correction increases the value of
 L, and there can    be no doubt that the same is true for the double coil.

1881.]          Determination     of the   Ohm in Absolute Measure.            119
    I have applied (13) to estimate the correction for curvature in the
self-induction of each part of the double coil.    For reasons which it
would take too long to explain,            I
                                    arrived at the conclusion that the
value of the small term must be very nearly the same for a circular
section as for a square section of the same area, and the actual
section is nearly enough square to allow of the use of this principle.
The necessary addition to the originally calculated self-induction of
each part, in order to take account of curvature,       comes out 119'5
metres ; so that the final value of L for the double coil will on this
account be increased 239 metres.     This is a small quantity, but a
much larger correction for curvature must be expected in the mutual
induction of the two parts.    By a sufficiently approximate method                I
find as the correction   to twice the mutual induction 3,469 metres,
giving altogether  for  twice  the mutual induction 149,289 metres.
This added to 302,159 (=301,920 + 239) metres gives as the final
calculated value of L for the double coil,
                                 L= 451,448    metres.
   This result is confirmed by calculation of the mutual induction by
means of a table, founded on elliptic functions. In this way, and with
a suitable formula for quadrature, we find,
                                 2M=149,394 metres,
agreeing nearly enough with the value found by Maxwell's method, viz.,
149,289 metres.*    When all the evidence is taken into consideration,
there can remain,       I
                       suppose, little doubt that the value 451,000 is
substantially correct, and that the reductions of the Committee are
affected by a serious under-estimate.
   Professor Rowland, in ignorance apparently of Maxwell's previous
calculation, has shown that if in the original experiments we assume an
unknown cause of error proportional to the square of the speed, and
eliminate      it,
              we shall arrive at a value of the ohm differing very
appreciably from that adopted by the Committee.          In this way he
finds that —
                        1   ohm=-9926earth qpadrant,
                                                   second
Rowland      himself disposed to attribute the error to currents induced
               is
in the frame.     Our experiments prove these currents had not much
effect, though they may explain the difference between the value of
L   which best satisfies our experiments (where the currents could
not exist), i.e., 451,000, and the higher value 457,000 calculated by
  • The arithmetical
                      calculations were made from the data given by the Committee
                                              = -01841
(Reprint, p. 115), a=158194, 24'= 03851,       6       (not -1841), c= 01608, all in
metres.    = 313.
           n        The whole number of turns (313) was supposed to be equally
divided between the two parts.
    VOL.   XXXII.                                                      K

120                 Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                      [May 5,
Maxwell     as most     in harmony with the original experiments.               The
process adopted by Rowland is evidently equivalent to determining the
coefficient of self-induction from the deflections themselves, and his
result, rather than that given by the Committee, must be regarded as
the one supported by the evidence of the original experiments.
   Rowland's own determination, by a wholly distinct method, gives —
                         lohm=-9911cartht*aadrant;
                                                second
and according to our experiments the ohm is even smaller                —
                         1   ohm=-9893earth 1padrant.
                                                second
The question, therefore, arises whether           any further explanation       can
be given    of the different     result    obtained by the Committee.          The
value of    GK      employed   in calculating the experiments according to
        —
(4) was
                               GK=299,775 metres.
     For the principal term in GK,         by (7), we require the values
                                          as given
of   n, a, and a.    From
                       p. 115 of the Reprint we find <i="158194 metre,
7t=313.    The angle a must be recalculated, as the value of logsin'o
(1"9624955) is evidently incorrect.    From 26'= "03851 metre by means
of sina=a/v/(a2+6'2)    we find log sin3 *= I "99043.  From these data
the final value is —
                               GK=299,290 metres,
differing appreciably from that used by the Committee.        The further
discussion of the question is a matter of difficulty at this distance of
time. There may have been some reason for the value adopted, which it
is now impossible to trace, so that         I
                                       desire to be understood as merely
throwing   out a  suggestion with  all reserve.                I
                                                  But think it right to
point out a possible explanation, depending upon the interchange of
the axial and radial dimensions in the paper on the electro-magnetic
field.  The data there given are the mean radius, the two dimensions
of the sections, and the distance between the coils ("02010).      This
distance is correct, being equal to 26' — 6, that        is,
                                                    to "03851 — "01841.
The distance between the mean planes of the coils        not given, but
                                                                   is
could, of course, be calculated by addition of "02010 and "01841. If,
however, the radial dimension "01608 were substituted for the axial
dimension "01841, an erroneous value would be obtained for 26', that
is, "03618 instead of "03851.  Using "03618 to calculate a, find—       I
                               GK=   299,860 metres,
agreeing much more nearly with the value used in the reductions.
  If be thought probable that the value of GK was really 299,290,
       it

 1881.]        Determination of    the Ohm  in Absolute Measure.           121
a  still further reduction of nearly two parts in        a thousand   must be
made    in the number which expresses the ohm in absolute measure, and
we should get —                     •
                         1 ohm=-9910earth(>Tladrant,
                                            second
coinciding practically with the value obtained by Rowland from his
own experiments.
    In the course of our experiments various doubts suggested them
selves, and were subjected to examination.          It may be well to say a
few words about some of these, though the results are for the most
part negative.
    The energy of the currents circulating in the coil is expended in
heating    the copper, and a rise of temperature affects the resistance.
 Calculation shows that the disturbance         from this cause is utterly
insensible.     If at the highest speeds of rotation all the heat were
retained, the rise of temperature would be only at the rate of 3'2 x
10_8°   C. per second.
    Much more heating may be looked for during the operation of taking
the resistance.     Under the actual circumstances a rise of resistance of
about one part in 30,000 might be expected as the effect of the battery
current in one minnte.        The aggregate duration of the battery contact
in each of the resistance measurements was probably less than a
minute.
    Another question related to the possible effect of a want of rigidity
in the magnetism of the needle. It is known that galvanometers will
sometimes, when it is certain that there is no average current passing
through the coils, show a powerful effect as a consequence of fluctuat
ing magnetism corresponding to the fluctuating magnetic field. In
the present      experiment the magnetic field is fluctuating, and the
magnet is expected to integrate the effect as if its own magnetism
were constant.       It is unlikely that any appreciable error arises in this
way, as    I find by calculation that a theoretically soft iron needle would
point in the same direction as a theoretically hard needle when placed
at the centre of the revolving coil.
   From the details given the reader will be in a position to judge for
himself as to the accuracy of our experiments.          If, as we believe, the
principal error to be feared is in the measurement of the coil, there is
little to be gained by further experimenting with the present apparatus.
Accordingly a new apparatus has been ordered, from which superior
results may be expected.         In designing this several questions pre
sented themselves for solution.
   All  corrections   being omitted, the effect —
                                  tan 0 oc _-
                                           R
                                                                 k2

122                       Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                            [May   5,
and,       if    a denote the section         of the wire, and S(=»ff), the aggregate
section of the coil —
                                                  na       rfia
                                        it
                                        •o
                                             oc   —    oc _— — ;
                                                  <r         S
so that if S be given.'tan 0 is independent both of the number of terms
toand of the mean radius a.       If 0 be given, the correction for self-
induction depends upon L/GK, while both L and GK vary approxi
mately as n2a. So far, therefore, there is nothing to help us in deter
mining n and   a.   The following considerations,                       however, tell   in favonr
of a rather large radius : —
   (1.) Easier measurement of coil.
     (2.) Smaller correction for moment of suspended magnet.
     (3.) Smaller errors from maladjustment to centre, and from size of
magnet.
   The question of insulation is important.     During the rotations the
electromotive force acts independently in every turn, and there is no
strain upon the insulation ; but in taking the resistance, when a battery
is employed, the circumstances are materially different.     Any leakage
from one turn to another would, therefore, be a direct source of error.
It is proposed to use triply covered wire.
   In order to obtain room for the tube encasing the fibre, it is neces
sary to use a double coil.   In the new apparatus there will be oppor
tunity for a much larger diameter, by which it is hoped to obtain an
advantage in respect of stiffness ; but the further question presents
itself, whether the interval between the coils should be increased so as
to obtain a very uniform field, as in Helmholtz's arrangement of
galvanometer.     The advantages of this plan would be considerable in
several respects, but on the whole                     I
                                        decided against it mainly on the
ground   that it would magnify  the errors due to imperfect measurement.
If we call the effect (so far as it depends upon the quantities now
under consideration) u, we have, in previous notation,
                                 «=« sin8 «=a*(a' + V*)-t,
                                                 h'db'
                                   du_4da_^ada +
                                              du        da
     If    b'=0,
but       if,   as   in Helmholtz' arrangement, b'=^a,
                                        du_Sda_6                  db'
                                         u        5    a     5    a
     The increase of         V   from   0    to        not only introduces a new source        of

1881.]         Determination of          the Ohm              in Absolute Measure.                            123
error in the measurement of              6',
                              but also magnifies the effect of an error
in the measurement of a. If 6'=Tl5a, we have nearly
                                     du        da        3     db'
                                     u         a         10    a
showing that an absolute error in                   V    has about                of the importance of
an equal absolute error in a.
     As will be evident from what has                been said already, the treatment of
the correction for self-induction                   is   a    very important matter.    It                     is
probable      that   L   may be best determined                   from the deflections them
selves with the use of sufficiently varied speeds. If   be arrived at by               L
calculation, or by independent experiments,           important to keep  it       is
down the amount of the correction.        We have seen, however, that
L/GK      almost independent of n, a, and
         is                                 so that  we regard tan
                                                                S,                 if                          0
as given, the magnitude of the correction cannot be controlled so long
as a single pair of coils used. An improvement in this respect would
                                is
result from the employment of two pairs of coils in perpendicular
planes, giving two distinct and independent circuits.   In virtue of the
conjugate character, the currents in each double coil would be the same
as   if the
          other did not exist, and the effects of both would conspire in
deflecting the suspended magnet.      This doubled deflection would be
obtained without increase of the correction for self-induction, such as
would arise     the same deflection were arrived at by increasing the
                if
speed   of rotation with
                       a single pair of coils. A second advantage of
this arrangement    to be found in the production of
                          is                            field of force                     a
uniform with respect to time.
  However the correction for self-induction be treated,     important                      it   is
to obtain trustworthy observations at low speeds.      In order to get a
zero sufficiently independent of air currents,    will be advantageous  it
largely to increase the moment of the suspended magnet. Preliminary
experiments have, however, shown that there       some difficulty in getis
ting  the  necessary  moment  in  a very small space, in consequence of
the interference   with each other of neighbouring magnets, and thus
the question presents itself as to the most advantageous arrangement
for a compound magnet.
  A sphere of steel, as used by the Committee, has the advantage that
if uniformly magnetised     exercises the same action as an infinitely
                                it
small magnet at its centre.    But the weight of such sphere        con                 a                is
siderable in proportion to its moment, and      probable that combiit   is                           a
nation of detached magnets      preferable.
                                     is      It    possible so to choose     is
the proportions as to imitate pretty closely the action of an infinitely
small magnet.    Thus,    the magnet consist of a piece of sheet steel
                               if
bent into a  cylinder and uniformly magnetised parallel to the axis, the
length of the cylinder should be to the diameter as ^3 to v/2.        In
this case the action   the same as of an infinitely small magnet as far
                          is

124                     Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                     [May   5,
as the fourth term inclusive of the harmonic expansion. Without loss
of this property the cylinder may be replaced by four equal line
magnets, coinciding with four symmetrically situated generating lines.
Thus, if we make a compound magnet by placing four equal thin
magnets along the parallel edges of a cube, the length of the magnets
should be \/3 times the side of the cube. This is on the supposition
that the thin magnets are uniformly magnetised, as is never the case
in practice. To allow for the distance between the poles and the ends
of the bars, we may take the length of the bars 2-3 times the side of
the cube.
   With the new apparatus, and with the precautions pointed out by
experience, we hope to arrive at very accurate results, competing on at
least equal terms with those obtained by other methods.    Most of the
determinations hitherto made depend upon the use of a ballistic gal
vanometer, and the element of time is introduced as the time of swing
of the galvanometer needle. There is no reason to doubt that very
good results may be thus obtained, but it   to say the least, satisfac
                                                        is,
tory to have them confirmed by a method in which the element of time
enters in a wholly different manner.
                           Part    II. — By Arthur Schuster.
              Adjustment   of   the Instruments and Determination   of   Constants.
  The only adjustments to be made consist in —
     The levelling of the coil.
   3. 2. 1.
     The suspension of the magnet in the centre of the coil.
     The proper disposition of the scale and telescope by means of
which the angles of deflection are read off.
  Level. — The first of these presents no difficulty, and any small error
can be easily taken account of in the calculations.         It was found
that the upper end of the axis of rotation was inclined towards the
north by an angle of '0003 circular measure. Hence, as has already
been explained (page 107) we must in the reductions write through
out G       -0003 tan
                (1
                +         or 1-0008
                                  I)   for G. This correction
                                                G                  small,       is
but a little uncertain, as the coil was not very steadily fixed in its
bearings, and small variations in the inclination of the axis could be
produced by slightly pressing on one side or the other of the coil.
When left to itself the coil seemed, however, very nearly to return to
the same position.
   The Magnet. — The magnet, which was suspended in the centre of the
coil, consisted of four separate magnetised needles, each about
0
5    centim. long.  These were mounted on four parallel edges of a
small cube of cork.  A needle attached to the back of the mirror went
 through         a   small hole in the cork, and was kept in its place by means

1881.]       Determination of      the Ohm     in Absolute Measure.           125
of   shellac, to prevent any slipping between the magnets and the
mirror. The proper suspension of the magnet is a point of some
delicacy and importance.          As regards the vertical adjustment, the
distance of the cube of magnets from the highest and lowest point of
the circular frame was measured, and the magnet raised or lowered
until the distances     became     equal. A pointer was next fixed to the
frame, reaching very nearly to the centre of the coil.                 As the coil
was rotated, the pointer described a small circle round the axis of
revolution, and the position of the magnet could be easily altered until
it occupied the centre of the small circle. It is supposed that this
adjustment was made to within less than 1 millim., and could,
therefore, for all practical purposes, be considered as perfect.
The magnetic moment of the magnet was measured in the usual
way.      Two closely agreeing sets of measurement showed that at
a distance of 1 foot it deflected a suspended needle through an
angle, the tangent of which was •000298.                Hence at the mean dis
tance of the coil (15"85 centims.) the deflection would have been
•0021.     This number is equal     to
                                         MK ,   and  will  be referred to as tan fi
                                         GH
in the discussion      of the calculations.         The magnetic moment was
determined a few days after the last spinnings had been taken ; but
on each day on which experiments were made, the time of vibration
of the magnet was determined, and we thus assured ourselves that no
appreciable change in the magnetic moment had taken place while
the experiments were going on. The time of one complete vibration
was 14'6 seconds.
    Adjustment of Scale and Telescope. — The telescope which served to
read the angle of deflection rested on a small table to which it could
be clamped.     In front of the table and below the telescope, the scale
could   be raised or lowered       and fixed when the proper position had
been found.      It  was levelled    by deflecting the magnet successively
towards both sides, and observing the point of the scale at which the
cross wires of the telescope seemed to cut the scale. If in both
positions of the mirror the scale was intersected at the same height, it
was considered      to be sufficiently levelled.       It remained to place the
scale at right angles    to the  line  joining   its centre to the mirror. This
was done by measuring the distance of both ends to the mirror by
means of a deal rod, with metallic adjustable pointers (presently to be
described), and altering the position until these distances were equal.
It is supposed that considerable accuracy was thus obtained. A small
remaining error would be eliminated by observing deflections on both
 sides of the zero.    To adjust the telescope we had now only to point
it to the centre of the mirror, and at the same time to place it in such a
 position that its optic axis passed vertically over the centre of the
 scale.   By suspending a plumb line from the telescope so as to divide

  126               Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                 [May 5,
 its objective into two equal parts, and focussing alternately on the
 mirror and on the image of the scale, both points could be simulta
 neously attended to.
    To measure the distance of the scale from the mirror the deal rod
 used for the adjustment of the scale was cut down so as to have
 nearly the required length.         The two brass pointers attached to the
 two   ends made an angle of about 45° with the rod.               One of the
 pointers was    fixed  but  the  other  could   be moved   round a fixed point
 in the rod by means of a screw. As it moved the distance of the two
 points changed, and by properly supporting the rod and leaning one
 point against the centre of the scale at a known height from the
 ground, while the moveable point was made to touch the centre of the
 mirror, the distance could be accurately found.         It was compared with
 the scale itself, in order that the calculation of the angles of deflection
 should be independent of the absolute length of a scale division. The
 length required is the shortest line between the centre of the mirror and
 the plane of the scale, and this can be calculated if the difference in
 height of the centre of the mirror and the point to which the distance
 was measured, is known. These heights were determined by means of
 a cathetometer.       The height of the centre of the objective was
 measured at the same time ; so that all data required to find the incli
 nation of the normal of the mirror to the horizontal are known.
 The following numbers were obtained; each division of the scale
is for simplicity supposed to be equal to 1 millim., which is very
nearly correct, but as has been said, its absolute value is of no im
portance.
      Distance of mirror from scale in centims                     252 28
      As the position of the magnet was always read off
         through a glass plate, a small correction equal to
         the thickness of the glass (3"2 millims.) multiplied
         into 1—-, where     p. is the refractive index, has to
         be  applied.    This    correction  is subtractive   and
         equal to                                                      Oil
      Hence,   D=                                                  252 17
   It was also found that the mirror pointed downwards, and made an
angle of "004 with the horizontal. A small correction due to this
cause will be discussed in another place.
    Torsion. — The torsion was as much as possible taken out of the silk
fibre, which was about 4 feet long, before the magnet was attached
to the mirror.      The coefficient of torsion was determined by turning
the magnet through five whole revolutions and observing the displace
ment of the magnet.       It was calculated   from the numbers obtained that

 1881.]       Determination   of the  Ohm in Absolute Measure.             127
one revolution shifted the position of rest through 5'6 scale divisions,
 corresponding to an angle of "001107.
   Another experiment in which the magnet was turned in the opposite
direction gave •001117.
   Hence                     t=   'P^111 =-00018.
   The correction due to torsion is best applied to the value of G at
the same time as the correction for level by writing everywhere —
                             Gl+/3tanIforG
                                    1+T
   Constants of the Coil. — The accurate determination of the constants
of the coil forms the most difficult part of the measurements.             Un
winding the coil, the outer circumference of the successive layers was
measured by means of a steel tape.         Each measurement was repeated
several times, and    the  agreement   was   satisfactory.   The thickness of
the wire was found to be 1'87 millims., which, on the circumference of
the successive layers, should produce a constant difference of 2'74 a- or
8'62 millims. Owing, however, to defective winding, each layer enters
a little into the grooves of the subjacent layer, and the differences in
circumference of successive layers were therefore always smaller than
they   ought to have been.     The differences varied between 7' 7 millims.
and 8 6 millims., but generally were about 8'1 millims.           The wire was
a little too thick, and as it had been taken off the coil and rewound,
small irregularities were formed which prevented a satisfactory wind
ing. Each coil had 156-5 windings. Of these 156 were in one coil
regularly distributed over twelve layers of thirteen windings each ;
while half a turn was outside.        In the second coil the twelve layers
only contained     155  windings,    and   one turn and a half was lying
outside.    In the calculation for mean radius it was assumed that each
complete layer contained the same number of turns. Let S be the
sum of all measurement for one coil, also C the circumference of the
layer containing the loose extra turns ; then we find the mean circum
ference of the first coil, 13^+°'5—                               =    99 680
                               15o'5
and for the second, (13-1/12)8
                                      + 1-5 0                     _    9g
                                15o-5
Or   as the circumference   of the outside of the mean turn     . =    99 '666
From this is to   be subtracted   a correction   equal  w  x thick
   ness of tape                                                   —       "031
                                                                       99 635

128              Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                           [May 5,
To obtain the circumference of the axis of the mean wind
   ing we have to subtract ir x thickness of wire                        =          "431
Hence the final value of the mean circumference                       y3=       99 204
Or for the mean radius                                                a—        15 '789
The grooves      of   the   coils    and   their    distance   was    also
   measured, and    it was found that —
        6= axial dimension of coil                                       =        1 -833
        6'= distance of mean plane from axis of motion.             . .  =        1 "918
All  measurements are given in centimetres.
   We calculate — ¦
a = angle subtended at axis        by mean radius =cot-1 —           . .  =    83° 04'
And log sin3  «                                                           =  1   990458
The principal term in the expansion of GK is mfif}              sin3   «= 29,869,300
To this is to be added a small correction given on p.            107      —          100
The final value of    GK    being                                           29,869,200
   Applying the corrections for level and torsion to GK                  as explained,
and writing CSlt for the value so corrected, we find,
                                <&ia=29,887,600.
                                 The Observations.
   The observations consisted of two parts : the comparison of the
resistance of the rotating copper coil with that of a standard German
silver coil, and the observation of the deflections during the spinnings.
The comparison of resistance was made by a resistance balance devised
by Mr. Fleming,* to whom we are indebted for advice and assistance
in all questions concerning the comparison of resistance.                       In this
balance, which only differs by a more convenient arrangement from an
ordinary Wheatstone's bridge, Professor Carey Foster's method of
comparing resistance is used.           The method consists in interchanging
the resistance in the two arms of the balance which contain the
graduated wire, and thus finding the difference between these two
resistances in terms of that of a certain length of the bridge wire.
The balance was placed on a table near the rotating coil, and could be
electrically connected with it by means of two stout copper rods.
The German silver coil which served as the standard of comparison
was prepared so as to have a resistance nearly equal to that of the
copper coil, that is about 4'6 ohms.            Any error due to thermo-electric
currents, which have sometimes been found to be generated at the
                          •  " Phil.
                                     Mag.," ix, p. 109,".1880.

1881.]       Determination of   the Ohm   in Absolute Measure.          129
moveable contact of the galvanometer circuit with the bridge wire, is
eliminated in Foster's method, but to ensure greater accuracy and
safety all measurements were repeated with reversed battery current.
The whole comparison seldom occupied more than five minutes           ; and
the readings obtained with the battery current in different directions
closely agreed with each other.
    The spinnings were always taken in sets of four at the same speed,
and the comparison of resistance was made at the beginning and
end of each set. During the time of spinning the resistance was
found to have altered owing to a rise of temperature which always
took place during the time of experimentation.         The corrections for
the change   of  resistance and  the possible  errors introduced owing to
the uncertainty of this correction will be described further on.
   After the resistance of the coil had been measured, it was discon
nected from the balance and set into rotation with open circuit, so that
no current conld pass. While the water supply was adjusted so as to
give approximately the required speed, the magnet in the centre of
the coil, which had been strongly disturbed during the measurement
of resistance, was brought to rest either by means of an outside
magnet or more often by means of a small coil and Le Clanche cell,
which was always placed in the neighbourhood of the rotating coil.
A key within reach of the observer served to make and break contact
at the proper time. When the speed had been approximately regulated
and the magnet was vibrating through a small arc only, its position of
rest was determined, while at the same time the auxiliary magneto
meter placed in the adjoining room was observed. The two ends of the
rotating coil were now connected together, by means of a stout piece
of copper, the well amalgamated ends of which were pressed into cups
containing a little mercury, into which they tightly fitted.
    As the coil was set into rotation the magnet slowly moved towards
one side, and a proper use of the damping coil brought it quickly to
approximate rest near its new position of equilibrium.          When the
 swings extended through     no more  than  ten or twenty divisions of the
 scale, the coil was kept, as nearly as possible, at the proper speed, by
 the observer at the tuning fork (Lord Rayleigh, see p. 112).         Read
 ings of the successive elongations were taken for about two minutes,
 and a signal given at the beginning and end of each set of readings
 enabled the observer at the auxiliary magnetometer (Mrs. Sidgwick) to
 note its position as well as any changes in the direction of the earth's
 magnetic force during the time of observation.           The direction of
 rotation was now reversed, and the deflection observed in the same
 manner ; the whole process being twice repeated, so that four sets of
 readings were obtained. When all the observations for the given speed
 had been completed, the position of rest of the magnet, when no
  current passed through the coil, was again determined and compared

  130             Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                 [May 5,
  with the auxiliary magnetometer.        A recomparison of resistance with
  the standard completed the set.       The magnet in the centre of the coil
  should, when no current is passing through the coil, always go through
  the same changes as the magnet of the auxiliary magnetometer.            If
 this could be insured, the two might be compared once for all, or the
 comparison might even be omitted altogether, for the difference between
 the deflections of positive and negative rotations, when corrected for
 changes in the earth's magnetism, would give the double deflection
 independently of the actual zero position.          Unfortunately, however,
 and this was our greatest trouble, the comparison between the magnet
 and the auxiliary magnetometer showed that we had to deal with a
 disturbing cause, which rendered a frequent comparison between the
 two instruments necessary.         This disturbing cause, which we traced
 to air currents circulating in the box containing the magnet, will be
 discussed presently.
    The observations were taken on three different evenings and one
afternoon.    The evenings (8 h. p.m. to 11 h. p.m.) were chosen on
 account of the absence of disturbances, which, during the usual
 working hours, are almost unavoidable in a laboratory.             We may
give, as an example for the regularity with which the magnet vibrated
round its position of rest, a set of readings which were taken while
the coil revolved about four times in one second, the circuit being
closed.
                          T=9h    36"1.    <=13° 0 C.
                     Rotation.                      Negative.
                      374 4                          362 "1
                      373 3                          362-8
                      372 -2                         362-0
                      373-9                          361  4
                      372-8                          362-0
                      372 8                          362-0
                      372 4                          363 8
                      371-8                          364-0
                      371-1                         364 0
                      370   5
         Mean.  ...   372   52                      362 68
                           Position of rest,  367 "60.
                        T=9"    38m-5.       f=13°-0 C.
    The number    of   readings taken were not always the same, but
varied generally between sixteen and twenty.
    We used, in the course of our experiments, four different speeds.
The method of obtaining and regulating these has been           explained by

1881.]        Determination     of the   Ohm      in Absolute Measure.                131
Lord Rayleigh. For simplicity we generally denoted the speed by
means of the number of teeth on the circle which seemed stationary
when looked at through the tuning fork ; thus we spoke of a speed
24 teeth, 32 teeth, and 60 teeth.                To obtain the lowest speed the
circle containing 60 teeth        was    looked      at over the top of the tuning
fork,   so that only one view for each complete vibration was obtained ;
this was equivalent to a circle of 120 teeth in the ordinary arrange
ment, which allowed a view for each half vibration, and, consequently,
the lowest speed was called 120 teeth.                   The velocity of rotation
depends, of course, on the frequency of the fork, which varied only
within narrow limits, and was always very near 63-69. If denote                  /
this frequency and N the number of teeth on the stationary card, the
velocity of rotation u is given by the equation w=4irf/N.                          In the
" British Association Report " the speed is always indicated by means
of the time occupied by 100 revolutions. If T is this time, we find
T=50N//.        The following table gives the comparison of u, T, and N,
on the supposition that the frequency of the fork was always the
same and equal to 63"69.
                                                                  Number of turns
              TS.                                    T.               per second.
             120   ..        6 670     . . . .     94-206    . .. . .   1-06
               60  .. ..    13  339' ..    . .     47-103    . .. . .   212
               32  .. . .   25-011     . . . .     25-122    . .. . .   3-98
               24  .. . .   33 348     . . . .     18-841    . .. . .   5-31
    The last column gives the number of turns per second.
    Three speeds were taken on each of the three nights, and one set
of observations with the lowest speed was secured in the course of
one afternoon.     We obtained in this way three sets for each of the
two intermediate      speeds and two sets for the lowest and highest
speed.     A  comparison     with the Report of the British Association
 Committee shows that we do not go up quite to their highest speeds,
 but that on the other hand our lowest speed was considerably below
 the one used by them.         In the Report for the year 1863, it is men
 tioned that the forced vibration of the magnet, depending on the
 rotation of the coil, could not be noticed, and it is calculated that the
 amplitude of this vibration was less than                 of a millimetre on the
 scale.   No  mention   is made   of this      forced   vibration     in the Report for
 1864, although much lower speeds were used during that year.                          In
 our lowest speed a slight shake of the needle, due to the varying
 action of the currents in the coil, was distinctly seen ; but as calcula
  tion showed that the amplitude was only the eighth part of a milli
  metre on the scale, no appreciable error is supposed to have been
  introduced by it. The moment of inertia of the suspended parts was
  higher in the experiments made by the British Association, and this,

132                  Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                    [May 5,
no doubt, is partly the reason why this forced vibration escaped their
notice.
                                   Air  Currents.
   It  has already been noticed that air currents in the box containing
the magnet affected its position to some extent, and we had to
investigate in how far our final results might be affected by this dis
turbance.     During the first night (December 2) our attention had
not been drawn so much as it was afterwards to the effect of these
air currents.       We had previously ascertained, by a series of careful
measurements, that the rotation of the coil with open circuit did not
sensibly affect the zero position of the magnet, and we considered it
sufficient to note the zero as short a time as possible before each set of
four spinnings.        The comparison of these zeros with the auxiliary
magnetometer showed that during the two hours of experimenting,
the needle had kept its zero within two divisions of the scale, so that
the changes during two successive spinnings (generally about five
minutes)      must have been very small.                 On the second night
(December 6) however, the zeros were taken at the beginning and
end of each set of four spinnings, and the disturbance due to air
currents was found to be of more importance.                  The following table
reveals the fact that during a set of spinnings the magnet seems to
have moved in one direction, but that during the time the coil was at
rest and the comparison of resistance was made, it went in the opposite
direction.      The numbers given are corrected for changes in the
direction of the earth's magnetic force as shown by the auxiliary
magnetometer.
                                   December 6.
Number of teeth on         Time.                  Position             Approximate
  stationary circle.      h.  m.                  of rest.               deflection.
       60                  8 53                   763-60                   218
                            9 12                  76635
       32                  9 31                   764-88                   397
                            9 56                  765-78
       24                 10    9                 762-67                   514
                          10 38                   766-48
   Here, then, we have a gradual rise in the zero from one to over
three divisions during a set of four spinnings.                 The approximate
deflection is given in order to give an idea what amount of error the
uncertainty of the zero might introduce.
   Special   experiments     were now made, and            it was found that by
placing   a lamp about    a foot and    a-half from the magnet box, changes
amounting     to eighteen     divisions   of  the scale would       be   observed    ;

  1881.]      Determination of   the Ohm  in Absolute Measure.         133
 greater precautions were taken, in consequence of the experience thus
 gained, to secure the box from the radiation of the lamp and gas jets,
 which could not be dispensed with in the course of the experiments.
 The magnet box was covered with gold-leaf so as to reflect the heat as
 much as possible. On the last night of work frequent determinations
 of the position of rest were made, but in spite of all precautions an
 unknown cause produced a sudden displacement of five scale divisions.
 The exact time at which this change took place could not be deter
mined, and two spinnings were therefore rejected.             During the
 remainder of the evening the magnet gradually came back to its
original position.     With the exception of the two spinnings just
mentioned     we have not rejected any observations.
    When we come to inquire into the amount of uncertainty to which
our results are liable, owing to the effects of these air currents,
we find that it cannot be greater than the more dangerous, because
less evident, errors to which the determination of our constants (mean
radius and distance of mirror from scale) are subject.     As long as the
changes of the position of rest take place irregularly, the error would
tend to disappear in the mean, and the probable error deduced from
our experiments would give a fair idea of the uncertainty due to this
cause.    This probable error, as we shall see, is very small. A regular
displacement of zero in one direction would, however, produce a con
stant error which would not disappear in the final mean.         We have
some evidence that such a regular displacement has to some extent
taken place.      The comparison of zeros on December 6, as quoted
above,   for instance, shows the position of rest in the course of the
spinnings shifted towards increasing numbers.         Such a shift, if not
taken into account, would tend to make the deflections towards
increasing numbers (positive rotation) appear larger than those
towards decreasing numbers. This, indeed, was observed. Supposing
the shift takes place regularly during the time of spinnings we might
have taken it into account.     But the correction which we should have
had to apply is so small and uncertain that it is doubtful whether we
should have improved our final result, and it would certainly not have
altered it within the limits within which we consider it accurate ; for
 we find that reducing the deflections on the supposition, 1st, that
 the zero has kept constant ; and 2nd, that it has changed uniformly
 during each set of spinnings ; the two results agree to within about
 one and a-half tenths of a division, which, even at the lowest speeds,
 would only make a difference of about 1 in 750, and on the highest
 speeds four times less.     The fact that a regular shift in the zero
 position of the magnet affects the mean of four spinnings is due to
 the arrangement of experiments, adopted during the first two nights,
 in which four rotations succeeded each other in alternate directions.
 If, after a rotation in the positive direction, two negative rotations,

134               Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                  [May   5,
followed again by a positive one, had been taken, a regular displace
ment such as that we are discussing would not have affected the mean.
This latter plan was adopted on the last night. In the measurements
undertaken by the British Association Committee, the deflections in
one direction were generally greater than in the other, and the
difference was ascribed to a considerable torsion in the fibre of sus
pension, which, in order to explain the discrepancy, must, as pointed
out by Rowland, have displaced the magnetic axis considerably
out of the meridian.        The differences in the readings taken when
the coil was spinning in opposite directions were, on the average,
about 3 per cent., and amounted in one case to 8 per cent. They
show no regularity dependent on the speed of rotation.                "We also
observed some slight differences of the same nature ; but they are
very small, and always remain within such limits that they may easily
have been produced by a displacement due to air currents.               On the
last night, when more frequent zero readings                were taken, the
differences were, it is true, not much reduced in amount, but their
 sign was reversed. It is, perhaps, worth remarking that, owing to
the absence of any controlling instrument equivalent to our auxiliary
magnetometer, the Committee of the British Association had no
opportunity of discovering the presence of these air currents, as any
changes in the zero position would naturally have been ascribed by
them to a casnal change in the direction of the earth's magnetic force.
 Owing to the different shape and material of the box containing the
mirror, it seems possible that the effect of air currents may have been
considerably larger than it has been in our experiments.
                           Reduction of Observations.
    Scale Corrections. — The first step in reducing the observations con
 sists in calculating the value of 2tan0 from the observed deflection.
 The correction to be applied to the reading in order to obtain numbers
 proportional to the tangents of deflection, if the position oE rest of the
 magnet is at the centre of the scale, would be — tP/4D3 ; d being the
 observed reading, and D the distance of the mirror from the scale.          If
 the zero, however, is at a point S of the scale, the correction becomes
 — (d—
         S)(d + S)s/4iD1, where S is to be reckoned positive when in the
 same direction as d.        For the higher speeds a second correction,
 to 4-(Z5/8D*, was applied, which comes just within the limits of
 accuracy aimed at in the actual readings.        The corrected deflections
 so obtained are equal to 2D tan 0.         Small errors, due to a faulty
 division  of the scale,  ought also to be applied.   It is difficult to obtain
 a proper scale in one piece of sufficient length to be used in these
 experiments;     and the one in actual use consisted of three parts,
 cemented with caoutchouc cement to a thick piece of deal. No appre

  1881.]      Determination  of the Ohm in Absolute Measure.          135
 ciable error was introduced by a very slight warping of the wood, and
 the scales were found to be very accurately divided, but the small
 errors existing were corrected ; small corrections had also to be
 introduced, which are due to the imperfect joining of the different
 pieces.   The combined correction never amounted to more than "15 of
 a division.    Each division, as has already been stated, being very
 nearly equal to 1 millim.
    It has already been noticed that the normal to the mirror pointed
 slightly downwards.     The correction due to this want of adjustment
 seems to have been generally neglected, yet it is not altogether un
 important. If p is the vertical distance between the centre of the
 objective and that point of the scale where it is cut by the normal
to the mirror; also if a is the inclination between the normal to the
mirror and the horizontal, the correction to be applied to a deflection d
is rfpa/D, where D is the distance of the mirror from the scale.        In
our experiments the correction amounted to     d X 0-00014, although the
 angle between the normal and the horizontal was only about 14 minutes
of arc. The correction is positive only if the normal lies between the
horizontal through the mirror and the line joining the mirror to the
cross wires of the telescope.
    Correction for Temperat ure. — We have now to discuss a series of cor
 rections which have to be applied in order to make a comparison of the
 results obtained in different spinnings possible. It has already been
noticed that four spinnings at the same speed were always taken into
 one set. The comparison of resistance at the beginning and end of each
 set showed that during the time of spinning the temperature had
 altered ; before combining the mean within each set we had, there
 fore, to correct for the change of temperature.     We endeavoured to
keep the room as much as possible at a constant temperature during
the experiments ; the lamps used were always lighted nearly two
hours before beginning, but, in spite of all precautions, the tempera-
tore always rose after we had entered the room and begun to work.
The thermometer rose at first pretty rapidly through about 1 degree,
and then rose slowly until at the end of the evening it stood generally
nearly 2 degrees higher than at first. When the first set of spinnings
commenced, the rapid rise, as shown by the thermometer in the room,
had already subsided ; but, as was to be expected, the temperature of
the coil was lagging somewhat behind that of the room, and its re
sistance still rose appreciably. Thus, during the first night, the resist
ance of the copper coil rose almost '4 per cent, during the course of the
first set of four spinnings. If the curve of temperature of the coil is
known, there is of course no difficulty in applying the proper cor
rection. This curve can be obtained approximately by plotting down
the measured resistances as ordinates with the time as absciss®.     This
was done for all observations made on December 2 ; but during the
    VOL. XXXIT.                                                L

136"             Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                        [May 5,
succeeding nights it was found that the curve could not be sufficiently
well determined by the observations, and that the assumption of a
uniform rise in resistance during the time elapsing between two suc
cessive measurements would give as good results as the experiments
themselves would allow us to obtain.            The proper determination of
this correction is a subject to which we shall have to give some atten
tion in the more accurate measurements which we have in view. At
present it will suffice to point out that, as far as we can judge, the
error due to uncertainty of temperature is not more than '05 per cent,
during the first set of spinnings on each night. It is much smaller
in the succeeding sets. It may increase the clearness of this account
if at this point we give a specimen, worked out in detail, of one set of
deflections.   Let the resistance of our standard German silver coil,
which we always have assumed to be at the temperature of the air,
be called S, and the resistance of the rotating coil C.            A comparison
by means of the balance shows that
                                  C=S + a,
where a is the resistance of a certain length of the bridge wire,                dif
fering slightly at the beginning and end of the experiment.
                                December       6.
                 Number of teeth on stationary circle, 32.
       Comparison of resistance, C = S + '0225.          Time=9h       17™.
       Position of rest                   766 43.        Time=9h 32".
       Auxiliary magnetometer     ....       26"9.
Time=                          9h  37"  . .    9b 42°'  . .   9" 47n  . .    9" 53m
/=                               13°-0  ..      13'-0   ..     13°0   ..       13°0
Rotation                       negative.    .  positive  . . negative.   .  positive
Deflected reading               367 60   . .   1166 40   . .  366 23   . .   1166-09
 Auxiliary magnetometer    . .   27"55  . .       28 24  . .    28 50  . .      2830
       Auxiliary magnetometer      ....       27'2.       Time=     9h   57™.
        Position of rest                   767'08.
        Comparison of resistance,   C=S+        0272.     Time=10b        0ra.
    From the comparison of zeros with the auxiliary magnetometer at
 the beginning and end of the experiments, we find for the correspond
 ing readings during the experiments, 766-78 and 27'05.                          Con
 sidering that increased readings, if the magnet in the coil corre
 spond to decreased readings in the auxiliary magnetometer, we find

                                                                                        ¦
1881.]       Determination of       the Ohm     in Absolute Measure.                137
the   following numbers for the positions of rest during the experi
ments   : —
Position of rest                    76628         765-59         765-33         765-53
Deflected reading                   367-60       1166-40         366-23       116609
                                                                -399
                                                 -
                                   -398-61
                                                                               -
Deflections                                      +400     81            10     +400-56
Scale correction                   +     2-08           2-93    +     208          2-94
Reduction of temperature
   to Time =9" 37m                 +     005     +      0-05    -     0-21    +    035
     Corrected deflection.   .     -396-55       +397-93        -397-23        +397-97
                     Mean deflection                    397'42.
                                   C=S +0     0248.
   When all the spinnings had been reduced in this way, the final cal
culations for the actual resistance were made.                The determination of
all quantities involved has been explained, with the exception of the
measurement of the absolute pitch of the tuning-fork.
    Bate of Vibration of Tuning-fork. — As has already been explained,
the tuning-fork which was used to regulate the speed was on every
night compared with a standard fork, and our determinations, there
fore, all depend on the absolute pitch of this standard fork.                       The
method used to determine that pitch has been described by Lord
Rayleigh.*
   'A fork, vibrating about 32 times a second, maintained by means of
an electric current, and driving a second fork of fourfold frequency,
was compared directly with the clock.               The vibrations of the driven
fork were simultaneously compared with the standard by counting the
number of beats in a given time. A few experiments have to be
 made in order to see whether the fork gains on the clock, or vice versd,
 and also whether     the standard        vibrates quicker       or slower than the
 driven fork. This can be done by gradually shifting weights on the
 driver. The difference in the time of vibration of the clock and
 driving fork was generally such as to give one cycle in between 20 or
 30 seconds.    The driven fork gave at the same time from 5 to 11 beats
 per minute.
    The experiments agreed well with each other, and both the rate of
 vibration and the temperature variation are in close agreement with
 the determinations    made by Professor McLeod and Mr. G. S. Clarkef
 of other tuning-forks which, like ours, were made by Kouig.
    The following series of determinations was made at a temperature
 of about 13° C. :—
                            •   " Nature," ivii,     12, 1877.
                                                 p.
                               " Phil. Trans." vol.
                           t                         171, p. 1, 1880.
                                                                           L '2

138                Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.                      [May 5,
                                       128179
                                            •180
                                            ¦181
                                            •179
                                            •174
                                            •180
                                            •189
                                            •185
    The small discrepancies would very likely            be  still farther reduced
if greater care was taken to ascertain the exact temperature of the
fork. As a mean of different sets we find
         Number of vibrations in      1  second=128180 for <=13°-0 C.
                                                   128161          <=14°-6  C.
   From these data and the number of beats counted during each
course of experiments we can, with the necessary accuracy, determine
the number of vibrations of the fork, which served to regulate the
velocity of the revolving coil.
    Calculation   of Results.
                               —   For accurate calculation, the expansion
given     in the Report of       the   British Association is not sufficient.
Instead of taking into account a greater number of terms, we may
with equal facility have recourse to the original quadratic equation for
the resistance.     We find
  t,
  R= 2/©&
              ^
                cot (6
                        ( 1+ tan     sec
                                                 ,
                                          0) + V \ ( 1 + tan p. sec 0)
                                                                       2 -U tan* 0] .
In this equation,/,    as before, is written for the frequency of the elec
trically   maintained  fork, and N for the number of the teeth on the
apparently    stationary   circle.
   U   is written for           Jp±Y_?^L—        1\
    The equation is correct if the torsion and deviation from level are
taken into account in the value of GK as has been explained.                    The
only approximation used in the equation is that of writing tan fi for
KM
GH'
                                       Results.
    The results of the calculation are collected in the following table.
 The first column contains the date on which the experiments were
made ; the second, the speed in terms of the number of teeth on the
stationaiy card; the third column gives the deflection corrected for
all scale errors and variations of temperature during each set; the
fourth column shows the value of resistance in absolute measure as

1881.]         Determination of       tfie Ohm    in Absolute Measure.            139
obtained by calculation on the assumption that the coefficient of self-
induction of the coil is 4-51 X 107 centims.               This absolute resistance
refers to the German silver coil, and a small length of the bridge wire
at a given temperature.            As both the temperature and this length
of bridge wire varied in different experiments, the different results
cannot be directly compared, but we can easily apply a correction
which shall reduce the numbers to the absolute resistance of the
German      silver coil at    a fixed temperature.         The temperature chosen
was   ll°-5 C, which       was approximately the lowest temperature observed
in the course of the experiments.                  The fifth column contains the
corrected values, which now can be compared together, and give the
absolute resistance of the standard coil as observed on different
occasions, and with different speeds.               In the last column the mean
value for the different speeds is given.             In taking these, as well as the
final mean, it must be observed that the set of observations made on
December 10 with speed 60 teeth contained only two spins, or half the
usual number.
                    Speed.
                  No. of teeth                                   RxlO-5
                 on stationary
                                  Deflection.     Rxl0-».       corrected.
                                                                             Mean.
                     card.
   Dec.   7 ...      120            110 42         4-5486        4 -5419
                                                                             4-5364
         10...                      110 22         4-55B8        4 '5309
   Dec.   2...        60            218-61         4-5580        4 -5487
          6...                     218-30          4 -6620       4-5471      4 -5467
         10...                     218 72          4-5531        4 -5422
   Dec.   2...        32           397 75          4-5639        4-5417
          6..  .                   397 -39         4-5672        4-5415      4-5427
         10...                     397 26          4 -5687       4-5448
   Dec.   2  ..       24           513-73          4-5719        4-5446
                                                                             4-5442
          6  ..                    513 -58         4 -5734       4-5438
                                               |
   The mean of all the observations is—
                                            ear*in quadrant
                             jj_4.54.27
                                                 second
   The value of the self-induction which was adopted in these calcula
tions is slightly smaller than the values calculated by Lord Rayleigh
and Mr. Niven.         A comparison of the results obtained with different
 speeds shows that the value must be very nearly correct, for there is
 no decided difference between the results.               Nevertheless, it seemed of
 interest to calculate the value of the self-induction which best agreed
 with the experiments, and to see whether that value gave an appreciably
 different result for B.

 140               Lord Rayleigh and Dr. A. Schuster.              [May   5.
    We may, in fact, treat both R and L as unknown quantities, and
 employ the methods of least squares to find out the most probable
 values. We use for this purpose the approximate values already found,
 and find the most probable corrections to them. Neglecting the small
 corrections for torsion, magnetic moment, and level, and writirg
 P=2R/GKa>, we-find for the quadratic which determines R —
                             P3— Pcot0 + U=O,
         U               written for             — 1\
                                      GK (\GK
 where      as before is                    -H^i
                                                    /
   We find approximately          by  differentiation, remembering     that
<ZP/P=ciR/R,
   We may consider (ZR/R and rfU to be the unknown quantities to be
determined. The coefficients with which they are multiplied are known
with sufficient accuracy.     <Ztan0 is found for each observation by put
ting dXJ=0 and <ZR equal to the difference between the value of R cal
 culated by means of that observation, and the value of R provisionally
adopted.      The usual methods to form the normal equations were
employed.      We find in this way —
                         R=109 x (4-5433 ±0-0019)
                         L=107x(4-5130±-0110)
   It is satisfactory to note that the final value of R derived with the
aid of the theory of probability is practically identical with the mean
value directly calculated from our experiments with 4'51 x 107 as
coefficient of self-induction.       A remarkable agreement is shown
between the value of this coefficient of self-induction best fitting onr
experiments                                               4 5130 x 107
      and the value calculated from the dimensions of
      the coil                                            4 5145 xlO7
   The large probable     error, however,   shows that the agreement     is
partly accidental.
   To give an idea of the accuracy with which R has been determined
by means of our experiments independently of constant errors, it may
be mentioned that the probability of our value being wrong by one in
a thousand is only one in ten, while the experiments made by the
British Association give an even chance for the same deviation.
   It only remains to determine the resistance of the German silver
standard in ohms at a temperature of 11° 5 C.
   We had at our disposal the original standards prepared by the
Committee of the British Association.         These are very nearly equal

1881.]        Determination    of the  Ohm in Absolute Measure.             141
at the temperature at which they are supposed to be correct, and the
ohm as determined by the Committee is, of course, uncertain within
the limits within which the standards differ, but for our present pur
pose these may be considered identical.             The coils were carefully
compared by Mr. Fleming, who also determined their temperature
coefficient. One coil in a flat case (hence called the "flat coil "), which
had the smallest temperature coefficient, and supposed to be right at
14°'8 C, was taken at that temperature as the true ohm.              Six of the
standards were so arranged and joined together by means of mercury
cups, that four were in a row, and the remaining two in double circuit,
the whole system of coils being thus equivalent to about 4-5 ohms.
Our standard German silver was nearly 4-6 ohms.                    As the dif
ference was too great to allow a direct comparison by means of Mr.
Fleming's bridge, a piece of German silver wire was prepared so as to
have a resistance of *1 ohm ; this could easily be done within the required
limits of accuracy by means of a set of resistance coils belonging to
the Laboratory. Having thus a set of resistances very nearly equal
to the one to be measured, a series of experiments was made on two
successive days.      Knowing all the temperature coefficients, we could
easily reduce the measurements to ohms.             Four different experiments
gave    for the German   silver standard   at  8°-5  G.= —
                                      4-5902
                                      4-5896
                                      45869
                                      4-5879
                                      4-5890
                             Mean=4-5887
    Assuming the German silver to vary 4-4 per- cent, for T900 C, we
find for our standard at ll°-5 C. 4-595 ohms.               We have hitherto
neglected to take account of the resistance of the two stout copper
rods which connected the rotating coil with the resistance bridge.
This resistance was determined by Mr. Fleming to be -003 ohm. To
make matters equal, we ought to have added that resistance to the
British Association standards in comparing them with the standard
used   by us, and we should then have found that the absolute resistance
                                         ear^
found by us to be equal to 4 543                qnadrant^        equal to 4-592
                                              second
ohms.
    From this we calculate that the ohm        as fixed by the Committee     of
 the British Association is —
                                    ear^n (madrant
                             '9893                    '
                                        second
  this being the final result of our experiments.

 142                       Mr. W. K. Parker.                        [May 5,
II.   " On the Structure and Development of the Skull in Stur
       geons (Acipetuer ruthenm and A. sturio)."                 By W. K.
       Parker, F.R.S. Received April 14, 1881.
                                 (Abstract.)
    Since  the publication of my paper on the skull of the salmon, a
Teleostean fish, I have made many efforts to obtain early stages of the
Ganoid types.     Until the last two years, however,     I have failed.   At
last, I have been taken almost by surprise by the kindness of Professor
W. Salensky, of Kasan, and of Professor Alexander Agassiz, of
Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass. The former has supplied Mr.
F. M. Balfour and myself with a number of bottles of early stages of
the sterlet (Acipenser ruthenus), whilst from Professor Agassiz
                                                                          we
have received fifty-four bottles of fecundated eggs and embryos of
various stages of the Lepidosteus.
    Mr. Balfour's researches on the early stages of the sterlet, supplement
ing those of Professor Salensky, will appear immediately in the second
                          " Comparative Embryology," and the result of
volume of his work on
 his researches on the development of the Lepidosteus, in which he was
 assisted by one of my sons, will be sent to the Royal Society towards
 the fall of the present year.      That paper, now far advanced, will
 be accompanied by one, already written and ready for publication, by
 me, on the development of the skull in the same species of Ganoid
 fish.
    I  had long ago received from the late Mr. Wm. Lloyd a number of
 young sturgeons of the common kind, but the smallest of them was
 7 inches long ; the largest of the larvaa of the small Russian species
 was only seven-twelfths of an inch in length.
     Yet, notwithstanding the small size of these larvae, their develop
 ment had advanced very greatly and the cartilaginous framework was
 in a state of incipient completeness. Any little difficulty felt on step
  ping from the structure of specimens seven lines long to those seven
 inches long was done away with by the means at hand of comparison
  of the two types of Ganoids, namely Acipenser and Lepidosteus ; for of
  the latter my specimens were very numerous and in every desirable
  stage.
     Of the fry which Professor A. Agassiz and his talented assistant,
  Mr. S. Garman, had succeeded in rearing, many had reached to the
  length of an inch, and were pretty exact miniatures of their parents.
  But, besides these, I have received from Professor Burt Wilder, of
  Cornell University, Ithaca, Mass., U.S., some specimens of Lepidosteus
  ranging from 1 to 4^ inches in length.

  1881.]    Structure and Development of    the Skull in Sturgeons.   143
    We have thus been breaking ground, rather actively, among this
        important and almost extinct " order of fishes ; a very im
 most
                                                  "
 portant addition to the work will soon come to hand, namely, a
 memoir by Professor Traquair, on the adult skull of Lepidosteus.
    I mention these details to show that biologists are working with a
 will, and working as yoke-fellows ; and no doubt remains with me as
 to the result of such co-operation.
    I must refer the reader to Professor Salensky's invaluable work on
 the development of the sterlet (Kasan, 1878), unfortunately published
 in Russian, and to the second volume of Mr. Balfour's work, for an
 account of the earliest stages of the Aeipenserine embryo.
    Even in larvae one-third of an inch in length, the cartilage was
 becoming consolidated, and I was able to work out, by sections and
dissections, the structure of the cranium and visceral arches ; the
one specimen which was seven-twelfths of an inch in length, and which
was made into a large number of extremely thin sections, left nothing
to be desired.
    As I hope for an early publication of the present paper, I shall not
enter very largely into details ; they can only be followed, profitably,
by help of the numerous illustrations.
    The development of the skull of the sturgeon is very similar to
what we find in the sharks and skates (" Selachians "), but the sus
pension of both the mandibular and the hyoid arches by one pier,
derived from the hyoid (the hyostylic skull), which is seen in the
Selachians on one hand and on the Holostean Ganoid and Teleosteans
on the other, attains its fullest development in the " Acipenseridae,"
or Chondrosteous      Ganoids, for in them the " symplectic " is a
separate cartilage, and not a mere osseous centre as in Lepidosteus and
the Teleostei.
   Here I find a very noticeable fact, namely, that whilst in the
salmon the metamorphosis of the simple primary arches of the face
can be followed step by step, in the sturgeon the peculiar modification
of the arches shows itself during chondrification ; the hyoid arch, from
the first, is inordinately large.
   Notwithstanding the huge size of the subdivided hyoid pier, its
head only articulates in the larva with the auditory capsule ; later on
the basal cartilage reaches it, as in the Selachians.
   But the arches that retain their normal size lend no colour to the
theory that the visceral arches are related by their dorsal ends to the
paired cartilages that invest the notochord, a state of things like that
seen in the ribs and in the superficial cartilaginous hoops that sur
round the huge pharynx of the lamprey.
   Mr. Balfour has demonstratively shown that in the branchial region,
when the pleuro-peritoneal cavity has been subdivided by the hypo-
blastic outgrowths of the pharynx, the aortic arches lie inside tho

144      Structure and Development       of the Skull in    Sturgeons.   [May   5,
small temporary " head cavities," or remnants of the once continnons
subdivision of the body wall into an inner layer, the " splanchno-
plenre," and an outer layer, the " somato-pleure."
   But the aortic arches mount up, on each side, oukide the proper
branchial arches, which become grooved to receive them ; these
arches must, therefore, be considered as developments of the tem
porarily separate " splanchno-pleure
                                     "
                                       ; they cannot be classed with
the costal arches, which are developed in the permanently distinct
" somato-pleure."
   My dissections and sections, both of this type and of the Selachians,
show, without leaving room for doubt, that all the visceral, or, properly
speaking, branchial arches, mandibular, hyoid, and post-hyoid (bran
chial proper) are developed in the outer walls of the large respiratory
pharynx, quite independently          of the   base   of the skull and the fore
part of the spinal column.
     I
     have, at last, ceased to contend for true branchial or visceral
arches in front of the mouth, and also to look upon the mouth and the
openings around or in front of it as more than mere involutions of the
epiblast ; the first cleft is that between the mandible and the hyoid
arch, the first arch is the mandibular.
  With regard to the skull, it is now very evident that the " trabecules
cranii," even in their furthest growth forwards from the end of the
cephalic notochord, are merely foregrowths from the moieties of the
investing mass (the parachordals), the true axis of the cranial skeleton
                                              "               "
ending under the fold of the mid-brain. The comua       of the trabecules,
         "                  "
and the intertrabecular part or tract, are fresh shoots, so to speak, of
cartilage that are specially developed to finish the cranial box and the
internasal framework.            I
                         fear that my long-cherished pre-oral visceral
arches will now have to go down and take their place among these
secondary or adaptive growths.
     I
     may remark, in concluding this very imperfect abstract, that the
sturgeon       is a very important type for the morphologist to get clear
light upon.
   In the Selachians the huge pterygoid foregrowth of the mandibular
arch aborts the apex of its pier, the function of which is supplied by
the hyo-mandibular ; fragments only are developed in its upper part.
     In the sharks from     one to three mere   " rays " are developed in front
of the small upper remnant of the first cleft ("spiracle ") ; in skates
there    is,
          as a rule, a small separate piece, the true apex of the arch,
its " pedicle."  In one kind, however, the torpedo, fonr such fragments
appear on each side, as shown by Gegenbaur.  In the sturgeon there
is a most remarkable plate in the common metapterygoid region, its
form    rhomboidal
         is             ;  composed of a number of well-compacted
                            it   is
pieces of cartilage, a middle series of azygous plates, and a some
what irregular arrangement of plates right and left of these.  This

1881.]           Dr. W. Roberts.       On Pancreatic Extracts.               145
remarkable      structure only exists in the Acipenseroids    ;   it is not found
in Polyodon.
  In the Selachians the " placoid
                                           "
                                       plates or spines are not brought
under the influence of the chondrocranium, which has neither parosteal
plates applied as splints to    nor ectosteal plates grafted upon it.
                                it,
   In Acipenser there are both parostoses applied to the oral apparatus,
and ectosteal centres in the post-mandibnlar arclies moreover, along
                                                          ;
the side of the skull, in old individuals, plates of bone appear as these
splints or parostoses, that are manifestly the forerunners of the deeper
plates that, in the higher Ganoids and the Teleostei, form the proper
ectosteal bony centres of the more or less ossified cranial box.
   The Ganoid scutes of the sturgeon are so far dominated by the
huge chondrocranium, that, by courtesy, they may be called frontal,
parietal, opercular, and the like of course, such scutes are not the
                                      ;
accurate bomologues of the bones so named in the Teleostei, which,
at the most, can only correspond to the inner layer of the scute of
such a fish as the sturgeon.
   The sturgeons, as a group, cannot be said to lie directly between
any one family of the Selachians and any one family of the Bony
Ganoids, yet, on the whole, that is their position the Bony Ganoids,
                                                      ;
on the whole, approach the Teleostei, especially such forms as Lepi-
dosteus and Amia, which have lost their "spiracle," and in other
things are less than typical, as Ganoids.
   Larval sturgeons are, in appearance, miniature sharks for a few  ;
weeks they have      similar mouth, and their lips and throat are beset
                     a
with true teeth, that are moulted before calcification has fairly set in.
Their first gills are very long and exposed, but not nearly so long, or
for such a time uncovered, as in the embryos of sharks and skates.
III.   " On the Estimation of the Amylolytic and Proteolytic Ac
       tivity of Pancreatic Extracts."   By William Roberts,
       M.D., F.R.S., Physician to the Manchester Royal Infirmary
       and Professor of Clinical Medicine in Owens College.  Re
       ceived    April   23, 1881.
  The degree of activity possessed by preparations of the soluble
ferments cannot be ascertained by direct weighing and measuring.
The agents to which they owe their power have in no case been
obtained in a state of isolation and purity. These agents are known to
be indissolubly united with some form of albuminoid matter, and we are
constrained to speak of them as      they really were albuminoid bodies.
                                      if
But their mode of action suggests an affinity with the imponderable
forces, and points to the conclusion that the relation which these

  1 46       Dr. W. Roberts.       Estimation   of the Amylolytic   [May 5,
 agents bear to their organic substratum is analogous, or at least com
 parable, to the relation subsisting between a mass of protoplasm and
 the vital endowments with which it stands possessed.
     The activity of preparations of the soluble ferments can only be
 gauged by their capacity for work. But inasmuch as there is in them
 no power of growth and multiplication, the amount of energy with
 which they are endowed is strictly limited, so that when the capacity
 for work existing in a given liquid or solid preparation of one of these
 ferments has been ascertained, and has been put into due expression,
 the amount of energy in a certain quantity of the preparation can be
 counted in grams or cubic centimetres like that of any other chemical
 agent.
     The term ferment has, up to this time, been applied in common to
two groups of agents, which, although nearly allied both in their
origin and in their mode of action, belong to essentially distinct
categories.     The organised or formed ferments, of which yeast is
the type, are independent organisms with powers of growth and
reproduction ; and the transformations which constitute their special
characteristics as ferments are inseparably associated with the nutri
tive operations of these organisms.          The ferment-power cannot be
separated from the ferment-organism         by any method of filtration, nor
by any solvent.     The soluble ferments, on the other hand, pass freely
into solution in water — their action is dissociated from the life of the
gland-cells which produced them — and they are wholly devoid of the
power of growth and reproduction.
    Kiihne has proposed to distinguish the group of soluble ferments by
the name of " enzyms."       I would suggest the desirability of adopting
this term into English, with a slight change of orthography, as
"enzymes," and also of coining from this root the cognate words
which are requisite for clear and concise description. The action of
an enzyme may be designated enzymosis, and the nature of the action
may be spoken of as enzymic. In the present paper         I shall venture to
employ these terms in the sense here indicated.
    The pancreas is known to be the source of two ferments or enzymes,
of capital importance in the digestion of food, namely, an amylolytic
enzyme, pancreatic diastase, and a proteolytic enzyme, trypsin.         It is
also known that the pancreas takes an important share in the diges
tion of fats, but it is doubtful whether its power in this respect is due
to an enzyme or to an agency of a different character.          The present
paper concerns itself solely with the amylolytic and the proteolytic
functions of the pancreas.
       Estimation of the Amylolytic  Activity of Pancreatic Extracts —
                                Diastasimetry.
    Probably the most accurate mode of estimating the activity          of  a

  1881.]       and Proteolytic Activity       of Pancreatic Extracts.              147
 diastaeic solution is to ascertain the amount of sugar produced when a
 given quantity of the solution is made to act on a given volume of a
 standard starch mucilage, for a fixed time and at a fixed temperature.
 This method has already been recognised by Mr. H. T. Brown and
 Mr. J. Heron in their paper on the transformation of starch by malt
 infusions.*      Kjeldahl has developed this method to a further point,
 and has used it to measure the comparative activity of malt infusions
 and of saliva.f
     In the method about to be described,            a simpler and speedier pro
 ceeding was employed, and the results were so brought out as to indi
 cate absolute as well as comparative values.              In principle the method
 consists in ascertaining the quantity of starch mucilage of known
 strength which can be transformed, by a unit measure of a diastasic
 solution, to the point at which it ceases to give a colour reaction with
iodine, in a unit of time, and at a fixed temperature.
     When starch mucilage is treated with extract of pancreas, or with
 any other diastasic solution, the mixture progressively loses its pro
perty of giving a colour reaction with iodine.               First the blue reaction
of unaltered starch passes away, then the brown and yellow reactions
of dextrine successively disappear.             It is not difficult to fix, with a
fair amount of accuracy, the vanishing point of this reaction. This
point may, for our present purpose, be called the achromic point.
    The extract of pancreas employed in these observations was prepared
by digesting fresh pancreas, freed from fat and chopped up, in four
times it weight of dilute alcohol, containing 25 per cent, of rectified
spirit (sp. gr. 0'838). The digestion was continued for four or five
days, with occasional agitation. The mixture was then filtered through
paper.     Filtration is much facilitated by the addition to the solvent of
0'02 per cent, of acetic acid (containing 28 per cent, dry acetic acid).
    The standard starch mucilage was made from potato starch.                  Owing
to the large size of its grannies, potato starch is easily obtained in a
state of great purity, by repeated levigation with water, and after
wards drying the product at 40° C.J The mucilage was made of the
strength of 1 per cent., and in the following manner : 5 grms. of
starch were well stirred up into a thin mud with 30 cub. centims. of
water, and then pouied in a slender stream into 470 cub. centims. of
briskly boiling water. The mixture was stirred and allowed to boil
for a few seconds. Thus prepared the mucilage is perfectly smooth
and uniform, and is so diffluent that it can be measured out like an
ordinary liquid.       This is known in the present paper as the standard
   * " Journal of the Chemical Society," September,    1879.
   t " Compte Rendu des Travaux du Laboratoire        de Carlsberg," 1879, p. 129.
   I  The so-called pure starch of the shops is worthless for the purposes of diastasi-
raetry.   A supply of pure potato starch may be obtained from Mottershead &, Co.,
Chemists, Manchester.

148          Dr. W. Roberts.       Estimation   of the Amylolytic    [May 5,
glarch mucilage.       It should be used fresh, for it is apt to change in a
few days, and to lose its opalescent appearance, and slight muculagi-
nous consistency.        When thus changed it is found to contain sugar.
So long as it maintains its slight opalescence and slight mucilagi
nous character it is fit for use.
    The iodine solution used in the testing was composed of 1 part of
the Liquor     lodi of the British Pharmacopoeia, diluted with 200 parts of
water.
    In determining the data on which is based the method of diastasi-
metry here proposed, it was necessary to ascertain the mutual relations
in regard to the amylolytic process of three factors, namely, the
 quantity of pancreatic extract set in action, the time required to reach
the achromic point, and the temperature at which the enzymosis was
 carried on.
     Quantity   and Time. — The amount       of amylolytic work done by a
 given sample       of  pancreatic   extract is strictly proportional to the
                                    —
 quantity of it set in action in other words, the amount of the
 standard starch mucilage which can be changed to the achromic
 point in a given time and at a given temperature, varies directly
 as the quantity of the extract employed.        This law of proportionality
 may probably      be  regarded as fundamentally applicable to the action
 of all enzymes, which, having no power of growth or multiplica
 tion, conform in this respect to the common law which governs the
 action of ordinary chemical agents.          The rule is, however, liable to
 interference if the products of the enzymosis accumulate in the solu
 tion to such a degree as to hamper the action.             In the conditions
 observed in the following experiments this interference did not arise.
 The starch mucilage operated on was exceedingly dilute, and con
 sequently the sugar and dextrines produced in the transformation
 never accumulated       to such a degree as to check the enzymofeis.
     In the action of all enzymes the element of time is an essentially
 important factor.        An enzyme liberates its energy gradually, in suc
 cessive portions, and it takes a comparatively long time to exhaust
  itself completely.     I found that pancreatic diastase, in the presence of
  excess of starch mucilage, took not less than forty-eight hours to
  completely exhaust itself at the temperature of 40° C. — (" Lumleian
  Lectures" for 1880, " On the Digestive Ferments," p. 38).
     The fundamental rule which governs the mutual relations of quan
  tity and time in the action of an enzyme is that of inverse proportion.
  That is to say, that double the quantity of an enzyme will do a given
  amount of work in half the time, and that half the quantity will
  require double the time.       This rule, however, is apparently controlled
  by  another   rule,  namely,  that an enzyme liberates its energy at a pro
  gressively  retarded rate. If we conceive an enzyme as a body in a
  state of tension, charged with a certain amount of dormant energy,

1881.]         and Proteolytic Activity      of Pancreatic Extracts.              149
we can further conceive that in action it will discharge this energy
gradually, and also at a rate which is continually diminishing. Such
a conception will, I think, enable us to understand some features in the
action of diastase and trypsin which are otherwise difficult to explain.
   In   regard to the action of pancreatic extract on starch mucilage, the
rule of inverse proportion between quantity and time was found to hold
good within considerable limits, as the following experiments show : —
                                        Table  I.
   Experiments showing           the inverse proportion between quantity and
time    in the action of pancreatic         extract or starch mucilage.           The
quantity of the standard mucilage acted on in each experiment was
10 cub. centims. diluted with water up to 100 cub. centims.                      Tem
perature 15° C. The            " calculated
                                             "  time in the third column was
obtained by taking the middle observation to each set as a standard of
comparison.
                                              Time in which the achromic point
                                                         was reached.
                  Quantity of pancreatic
                    extract employed.
                                                  Found.             Calculated.
               r     0 "02 cub. centim.        34 minutes           36 minutes
                     0  04                     18    „              18    „
     I,   .. .       0  08                      9    „                9   „
                     0  10                      7    „                n    „
               I     0  20                      3    „                H   „
               r     0 4                        41   „                5    „
     n....-          0 2                       10    „              10     „
               L     0 05                      40    „              40     „
   In   both sets of observations the inverse time-rate is seen to come
 out   true  with almost mathematical accuracy.
    When, however, a relatively small quantity of pancreatic extract
 was employed, and the time required to reach the achromic point
 was, in consequence, considerably lengthened, it was found that the
advent of the achromic point was postponed beyond the term indi
 cated by the rule.        If the period occupied in reaching the achromic
 point fell within the compass of an hour, and the temperature was
 low, as in the observation just recorded, the inverse time-rate came
out true, but when the period of action extended to several hours and
the temperature stood higher, the departure from the rule was un
 doubted.        The annexed table gives the results of an experiment made
 with a view of testing this point.

150         Dr. W. Roberts.       Estimation     of  the  Amyhlytic       [May 5,
                                    Table   II.
   Experiments showing the postponement of the achromic point when
the action is protracted.      The quantity of standard mucilage acted on
in each experiment was 10 cub. centims. diluted with water up to
100 cub. centims. Temperature 40° C. The
                                                      " calculated " time in the
third column was obtained by taking the first observation, which was
several times repeated, as a standard of comparison.
                                     Time in which the achromic point
                                                was reached.
         Quantity of pancreatic
            extract employed.
                                        Found.                Calculated.
            0-05 cub. centiui.         10 minutes.
            0 005                     115                    100 minutes.
            0-004                     MO      „              125
            0 002                     300                    250
            0 0005                 1,380                   1,000
   It need scarcely be said that when the enzymosis is very slow it is
not possible to fix the vanishing point of the colour reaction with the
 same precision as when the action is more rapid and the change more
abrupt.     Notwithstanding this source of error,         I  think the conclusion
indicated by the experiments may be relied          on.     The   postponement of
the achromic point shown in the table may be explained, as has been
suggested, on the assumption that the enzyme liberates its energy at
a continually retarded rate.        In the case of trypsin, we shall see
evidence of a precisely parallel phenomenon.
   Temperature. — The action of pancreatic diastase on starch mucilage
was found to increase in energy (or speed) from zero up to 30° C.
From this point to 45° the rate of action continued steady, showing a
range or platform of indifferent temperature extending from 30° to 45°.
            =
Above 45 the action became less and less energetic, and finally ceased
between 65° and 70°. The following table exhibits the results obtained
at various temperatures between 5° and 70°.
                                   Table   III.
   Showing the effects of temperature           on the action of pancreatic
diastase  ; the amount of the standard mucilage acted on in each experi
ment was 10 cub. centims. diluted with water up to 100 cub. centims.
The quantity of pancreatic extract employed in each experiment was
O'l cub. centiin.

1881.]          and Proteolytic Activity             of Pancreatic Extracts.                 151
                      Temperature.                        Achromie point reacbed in
                       3 — 5° C                                 36 minutes.
                           10                                   18
                           15                                    12
                           20                                     8
                           25                                     6
                           30                                     5
                           40                                     5
                           45                                     5
                           50                                     7
                           55                                    10
                           60                                   40
                           65                                    Very slow action.
                           70                                    No action.
  These results, thrown into the form of a curve, are shown in the
subjoined diagram.   The ordinates indicate the diastasic value, or D,
as calculated by a method to be presently explained ; the abscissa?
represent the temperatures.
     Curre illustrating     the effect   of temperature   on the action of pancreatic diastase.
  Mode of proceeding. — In testing the activity of a sample of pan
creatic extract, it was found on the whole more convenient to operate
on a fixed quantity of the standard mucilage, and to vary the quantity
of    extract added to            it,
                          than to proceed contrariwise.   The bulk of
liquid operated on was  thus  kept constant.  The  ordinary proceeding
was as follows   10 cub. centims. of the standard mucilage were mixed
                       :
in  a beaker with 90 cub. centims. of water.     The mixture was then
wanned to 40°   C,   or at least to some point well within the range
of indifferent temperature extending from 30° to 45°. This was done
in order to eliminate the disturbing influence of temperature.     The
next step was to add the determined quantity of the extract to be
tested to the diluted mucilage, and to note the exact time.    Then, at
short intervals, a drop of the enzymosing liquid was placed on a white
slab, or plate, with a drop of the iodine solution. The time and result
      TOL.   XXXII.                                                                  m

152         Dr. W. Roberts.        Estimation of     the Amylolytic      [May 5,
of each testing was noted.       When the achromic point was reached the
time was     marked,   and  the   interval from the commencement of the
experiment     was computed.        If at the end of three minutes the
mixture still gave the hlue reaction of unaltered starch, a new experi
ment was made, using two, three, or four times the quantity of extract.
If, on the other hand, the achromic point was reached in less than two
minutes, a new experiment was made, using a smaller quantity of
the extract. Two or three experiments generally sufficed to determine
the quantity of extract required to bring the achromic point within a
period ranging from two to ten minutes.             A final control experiment
enabled the operator to fix the achromic point somewhere between
 four and six minutes.     The accuracy of the method depends chiefly on
the sharpness and precision with which the occurrence of the achromic
 point can be determined.       If it occur earlier than two minutes, the
 transition is too rapid for exact observation and record. On the other
hand, if it occur later than fifteen or twenty minutes the transition is
 too gradual for precise limitation.        The most satisfactory results are
 obtained when the achromic point falls between four and six minutes.
    The following example will serve as an illustration of the way in
 which the experiments were carried out, noted, and expressed : —
                                     Table  IV.
    10 cub. centims. standard starch mucilage + 90 cub. centims. water
              + 0'1 cub. centim. pancreatic extract— at 40° C.
              Time.                          Reaction with iodine.
            10.30 a.m                Commencement        of experiment.
            10.31                    Blue.
            10.32                     Violet.
            10.33    „               Brown.
            10.34    ,                Yellowish-brown.
            10.35    ,                Pale yellow.
            10.36    „                No reaction — achromic point.
              0 minutes.
                    Achromic point reached in        6 minutes.
     The result of the experiment was expressed in the first instance as
  follows : 0*1 cub. centim. pancreatic extract + 10 cub. centims. standard
  mucilage   =   6 minutes at 40° C.
     From this somewhat incongruous expression it is however easy to
  extract by a simple formula a correct and convenient expression
  for the diastasic value of any amylolytic solution.
           Mode of Calculating and Expressing the Diastasic Value.
     The principle of the method consists,     as already stated,  in ascerta

1881.]       and Proteolytic Activity    of Pancreatic Extracts.        153
the amount of starch mucilage of known strength which can be trans
formed by a unit measure of the diastasic solution to the point at which
it ceases to give a colour reaction with iodine, in a unit of time and
at a given temperature.
   In reducing this principle to a definite formula it was necessary to
choose arbitrarily a unit of measure and a unit of time. The unit of
measure fixed on was 1 cub. centim., and the unit of time 5 minutes.
These selections seemed, on the whole, the best adapted for furnishing
a convenient scale. On these bases the formula took the following
form : the diastasic value of any solution — or D — is expressed by the
number of cubic centimetres of the standard starch mucilage which can
be transformed to the achromic point by 1 cub. centim. of the solution
to be tested in a period of five minutes at a given temperature.
   In the process of testing the quantity of the standard mucilage was
 made constant, namely 10 cub. centims., and the quantity of pancreatic
extract and the time were made variable. In order to get the value
 of D the results must be so transformed as to make the quantity
of extract and the time constant, and the quantity of the standard
 mucilage variable. This is accomplished by increasing or reducing the
quantity of pancreatic extract employed to 1 cub. centim., and in
creasing or diminishing the standard mucilage in the same proportion.
 The product thus obtained is again increased or reduced in the same
 proportion as is requisite to increase or reduce the time found to five
 minutes. Taking the example above given, the value of D is obtained
by the following formula : Let p signify the quantity of pancreatic
extract employed, and to the number of minutes required to reach the
achromic point, then : —
                                 ™xA=D,
                                  p    TO
and in the above example —
                        D= ™-x^=83         at 40° C.
                            01      6
    The value of D, as already explained, signifies the number of cubic
centimetres of the standard starch mucilage which can be changed to
 the achromic point by 1 cub. centim. of the diastasic solution in five
 minutes at a given temperature.        As the standard mucilage contains
 1 per cent, of dry starch, the value of D divided by 100 gives us the
same value in terms of dry starch, and the result of the above experi
ment may be read as follows : —
                      D =83=0-83 grm. of dry starch.
    This method of diastasimetry       is equally applicable  to saliva and
 mult- diastase.   It  may   also   be   applied  to the estimation   of the
                                                               M  2

   154         Dr. W. Roberta.     Estimation  of the Amylolytic    [May 5,
   diastasic agent which is present in urine, and presumably to all dias
  tases solutions.   In the case of solid preparations containing diastase
  like malt or glandular tissue — a solution in known proportions must
  first be prepared ; and from the ascertained activity of such solution
  the proportionate activity of the solid substance can be easily calcu
  lated.    I may here mention some of the results which, this method has
  already yielded.
      Pancreatic Tissue. — The pancreatic tissue of the pig (obtained from
  animals killed for the market in the fasting state) yielded an extract
  which, when made on the large scale, possessed a mean diastasic value
 of   100.    This extract is sent out by Mr. Benger, of the firm of
  Mottershead     and Co., Chemists, Manchester,       under the name of
 " Liquor Pancreaticus," and is made in the proportion of one part of
  pancreatic tissue to four of solvent (water containing 25 per cent,
 rectified spirit).   This value indicates that 1 grm. of the moist pan
  creas of the pig is capable of transforming 4 grms. of dry starch to-
 the point at which it no longer gives a colour reaction with iodine, in
 tive minutes, at a temperature of 40° C.
     The pancreatic tissue of the ox and sheep yielded an extract (made
 in the same proportions) which was of far inferior activity. The ox
 extract had a diatasic value of about 11 and that of the sheep of about
 12.    These numbers indicate that in point of diastasic activity the
 pancreas of the pig has ten times the value of the pancreas of the ox
 and sheep. This extraordinary difference is probably linked with the
 diversity of their food. The pig is fed largely upon potatoes and
 meal, which are rich in starch ; the ox and sheep, on the other hand,
feed on grass, which is poor in starch.       We shall presently find that
 there is no such difference in regard to tryptic activity in the pancreas
of these animals.
     'Human Saliva. — Filtered saliva was found to have a diastasic value
 varying from 10 to 17 at 40° C. Its action was influenced by tempera
 ture exactly in the same manner as that of pancreatic extract.          It
increased in energy up to about 30° C, continued steady from this
 point to about 45°, and then declined, being finally extinguished
between 65° and 70°.
    Malt Diastase. — Infusions of malt made in the proportion of one part
of crushed malt to four parts of water, exhibited a diastasic value of
4 to 5 at 40° C. But malt diastase did not attain its maximum activity
at this temperature.      It continued to increase in energy up to about
G0° C, when it showed a diastasic value of 10. Above 60° the action
diminished in energy, but did not come to a full stop until the tempera
ture approached 80° C.
    Human Urine. — Several specimens of healthy urine were tested by
this method. They showed a diastasic value varying from 0-03 to 013
at 40° C. The effect of temperature thereon was not examined.

  1881.]      and Proteolytic Activity    of Pancreatic Extracts.         155
  Estimation of the Proteolytic Activity of Pancreatic Extracts — Trypsimetry.
     The writer had found in previous inquiries that when milk is sub
  jected to digestion with pancreatic extract, a striking change takes
  place in it at an early stage of the process.     The milk acquires the pro
  perty of curdling when boiled. The onset of this reaction occurs at an
  earlier or at a later period according to the activity of the extract and
  the quantity of it employed ; and it is possible to fix the time of its
  advent with considerable accuracy — sufficient accuracy to serve as the
  basis of a method of measuring the proteolytic activity of pancreatic
 •extracts.
     The reaction in question depends on the production, as a first step in
  the pancreatic digestion of casein, of a modified form of that body
          I
 which have named metacasein.           This substance resembles casein in
 being curdled by acetic acid in the cold ; but it differs from casein in
 being also curdled by simple boiling. These two reactions together
 distinguish metacasein from other proteid bodies.
     The property of curdling when boiled, which may be called the
 metacasein reaction, continues observable in milk undergoing tryptic
 digestion until near the termination of the process ; it then disappears
 somewhat abruptly, and the milk, when boiled, remains fluid just as it
 did at first.
     We may, therefore, speak of the onset point of the metacasein reaction,
 and of the vanishing point of the metacasein reaction.            These two
 points mark respectively the initial and the terminal limits of the
 principal phase in the digestion of milk by pancreatic extract.
    Before the onset point of the reaction — that is, distinct and un
 doubted curdling — is actually reached, its approach is indicated by an
 appearance of soiling of the sides of the test-tube in which the milk
 has been boiled.      This appearance is due to incipient coagulation,
 which presently developes into pronounced curdling, and is a useful
 sign in testing to indicate the coming on of the metacasein reaction.
    The following typical experiment may serve to give the reader a
clear notion of the succession of events — so far as they concern us
 here — which occur when milk is submitted to digestion with pan-
-creatic extract.
                                    Table V.
    4 cub. centims. pancreatic   extract added to 50 cub. centims.    milk
          diluted with water to 100 cub. centims.        Temp. 18° C.
            Time.                           Reaction on boiling.
         2 minutes    . .  No change.
         3     „      . .  Slight soiling of the sides of the test-tube.
         4     „      . .  More soiling.
         5     „      . .  Distinct curdling— onset point of the meta
                              casein reaction.

156        Dr. W. Roberts.         Estimation of   the  AmyloLytic   [May 5r
            Time.                           Reaction on boiling.
         6 minutes    . .   More pronounced curdling.
10 to 80      „       . .   Pronounced curdling.
       90     ,,      . .   Diminished curdling.
       95      „      ..    Slight curdling.
      100     „       . .   No change; vanishing point of the metacasein
                               reaction.
   The length of time during which the successive steps of the transfor
mation may continue ohservable depends on the energy of the action ;
nnd this, in its turn, depends on the activity of the preparation and
the quantity of it added to the milk ; it is also greatly influenced by
temperature.      By using an excess of an active pancreatic extract, and
with a favourable temperature, all the steps of the process may be
erowded almost into an instant of time ; with converse conditions the
action may linger on for many hours.
   Although milk     is a secretion of somewhat variable composition, the
oscillations which   it exhibits, when it is the product of a dairy, and is
not intentionally      adulterated,    do not materially vitiate it for the
purposes of a test   fluid such as is here required.      The milk delivered
at my house presented very little variation. It had a density of 1030
— seldom varying more than a degree from this point — and the results
obtained with the milk of different days showed a remarkable uni
formity. Milk from different dairies, and at different seasons of the
year, would no doubt present greater irregularities.             Milk should,
however, be used fresh, for if it have become slightly acid, as it is apt
to do in keeping, the results obtained are untrustworthy.
   If milk be diluted with water the occurrence of the metacasein
 reaction is postponed ; and the degree of postponement varies with the
degree of dilution. For example, if 50 cub. centims of pure milk are
changed to the onset point of the metacasein reaction in three minutes,
 the same quantity of milk diluted with an equal volume of water will
take six minutes to reach the same point — other conditions being equal.
 There are, however, several advantages in using diluted milk instead of
 pure milk as the experimental fluid.       The inequalities of the milk are
 thereby minimised.       The    " strike " of the reaction is more sharply
 defined, and the required quantity of pancreatic extract can be
included in the water of dilution. This last is an important advantage,
 because if the extract to be tested is feeble, a considerable quantity of it
requires to be added, and this, if pure milk were employed, would
seriously alter its degree of dilution, and thereby vitiate the results.
In the following experiments, milk diluted with an equal bulk of water
was invariably employed ; and if the quantity of pancreatic extract to
be added exceeded 3 cub. centims. for every 50 cub. centims. of milkr
this was always included in the water of dilution.
   In principle the method of trypsimetry here proposed consists in»

1881.]       and Proteolytic Activity        of Pancreatic Extracts.              157
ascertaining how many cubic centimetres of milk can be changed to the
onset point of the metacasein reaction, in 5 minutes, by 1 cub. centim.
of the extract to be tested, at a given temperature.
   In settling the data on which the method is based, it was necessary,
as in the case of diastase, to determine the relations to tryptic action
of quantity, time, and temperature.
   Quantity and Time. — The rule of inverse relations between quantity
and time which was found to be valid within a wide range in the case
of diastase and starch, is only reliable in the case of trypsin and milk
within narrow limits.          When the time of action exceeds 8 or 10
minutes the advent of the metacasein reaction is postponed beyond the
term indicated by the rale of inverse proportion, and this postpone
ment increases as the time of action is lengthened.                  The following
two sets of observations may be taken as samples of the results
obtained by experiment.
                                      Table   VI.
   Showing the postponement of the metacasein reaction.
   The quantity of milk acted on in each experiment was 50 cub.
centims. diluted with water up to 100 cub. centims. The
                                                                      " calculated "
time in the third column was obtained by taking the first observation
in each set as the standard of comparison.
                                     Onset point of the metacasein reaction.
          Quantity of pancreatic
              extract added.
                                           Found.             Calculated.
                             Set  I — Temperature  40° C
            1 -0 cub. centim.            3 minutes.
            0  8                         4     „            3| minutes.
            0  6                         5     „            5
            0  4                         9     „            7*      „
            0  2                        30     „           15
                             Set II.— Temperature   16° C.
            4 "0 cub. centims.           6 minutes.
            2 0                         16     „             12 minutes.
            1-0                         39                  24
            0 5                        105     „            48      „
            0-25                       280                  96
   When the vanishing point of the metacasein reaction was taken as
 the point of comparison, the results approximated more nearly to the
 requirements of the rule of inverse proportion, especially at low tem
 peratures ; but still the evidence pointed in the same direction, and
 indicated that trypsin, like diastase, exhausts itself in action at a pro-

158          Dr. W. Roberts.         Estimation    of tlie Amylolytie        [May   5,
gressively retarded rate.       From the numerous experiments which were
performed with a view of elucidating this point,             I  arrived at the con
clusion    that  when    the   onset point    of  the metacasein reaction fell
between 3 and 6 minutes the inverse time-rate gave a reliable basis of
calculation, but not beyond these limits.
   Temperature. — Tryptic enzymosis is exceedingly sensitive to tempera
ture.    The action of trypsin on milk increases in energy from zero to
60° C. Above this point there is a rapid fall, and the action is finally
arrested between 75° and 80° C. There is not, as with diastase, any
range or platform of indifferent temperature.                 The following table
exhibits the degrees of activity from 10° to 80°. In order to obtain
the utmost uniformity of results, the quantities of pancreatic extract
employed were so adjusted as to bring the incidence of the metacasein
reaction within a period ranging from 4 to 6 minutes.
                                     Table VII.
   Showing the effects of temperature on tryptic enzymosis.
   The quantity of milk employed in each experiment was 50 cub.
centime, diluted with water up to 100 cub. centims.                   In the fourth
column    the  degree  of   tryptic activity,  or  T,  is calculated    by a method
to be presently explained.
                    Quantity of pancreatic    Onset point of the     Tryptic value —
   Temperature.       extract employed.       metacasein  reaction.        orT.
        10° C.         6 -0 cub. centims.          5 minutes.                 8
        16             4 0                         6      ii                12
        20             3 0                         4      »i                21
        30             1"0                         51     ii                45
        40             0  6                        5i     ii                76
        60             0  4                        6i     ii               119
        60             0  3                        54     w                150
        65             0  4        „               5      II               125
        70             0  8        „               4      II                78
        76             2  0                        6      II                21
        80             4 0                        No action.                  0
    In the subjoined diagram these results are thrown into the form of
a curve. The ordinates indicate the degrees of tryptic activity (or T),
and the abscissas indicate the temperatures.
   In another series of experiments the effect of temperature was
gauged     by the length of time required to reach the onset or the
vanishing point of the metacasein reaction when constant quantities
of pancreatic extract were used. The results obtained in this series
are tabulated in Table VIII. In the first set the onset point of the re
action was taken as the index of tryptic activity ; in the second set

 1881.J       and Proteolytic Activity        of Pancreatic Extracts.                159
    dure   illustrating the effect of temperature on the tryptic digestion of milk.
the  vanishing point of the reaction was employed for the same purpose.
The    results brought out by these experiments correspond pretty
closely with those given in Table VII.
                                       Table  VIII.
   Showing the effect of temperature by the length of time required to
reach the metacasein reaction, when constant              quantities of pancreatic
extract are used.
                                            1
                    I Set.                                    II Set.
    0"4 cub. centim. pancreatic extract        4 cub. centims. of pancreatic extract
    with 100 cub. centims. diluted milk.       with 100 cub. centims. diluted milk.
                        Onset point of the                      Vanishing point of the
  Temperature.                                 Temperature.
                      metacasein reaction.                       metacasein  reaction.
    2  to5° C.             312 minutes.
        10                 168                      10° C.            180 minutes.
        15                 120
        20                  70                      20                 75     „
        30                  25                      30                 26     „
        40                  12                      40                 12     „
        50                   6                      50                  6     „
        60                    4     „               60                  4     »
        65                    6
        70        j   action suspended, but
                       resumed on cooling.
   An examination of the table shows how very nearly the results
correspond, whether the onset point or the vanishing point of the
metacasein reaction be taken as a measure of tryptic activity.                      This
correspondence substantiates the conclusion that the onset point of
the reaction furnishes a trustworthy index of the activity of tryptic
digestion. The proportionate quantity of pancreatic extract added to
the milk in the experiments recorded in Set             II  of Table VIII was ten

160        Dr. W. Roberts.      Estimation  of the Amylolytic    [May 5,
times as great as in those recorded in Set I ; and it is seen that, by
using these proportions, the vanishing points and the onset points fell
out in nearly the same times in both sets of experiments.
   Mode of Proceeding. — In testing the tryptic activity of a sample of
pancreatic extract, the following procedure was adopted : — 50 cub.
centims. of fresh milk were diluted with 50 cub. centims. of water,
less the quantity of extract intended to be added.      The diluted milk
was then warmed to 40° C, and maintained exactly at that tempera
ture until the close of the experiment.    The intended quantity of the
pancreatic extract, say 1 cub. centim., was then added, and the time
exactly noted.    At the end of each minute a portion of the digesting
milk was withdrawn, and boiled for a few seconds in a test-tube,
inclining the test-tube to one side after the boiling in order to observe
the effect. The result was at once noted down. As soon as distinct
curdling occurred on boiling, the experiment was considered finished ;
the time was recorded, and the number of minutes which had elapsed
from the commencement of the experiment were reckoned. The result
came out in the following form : —
       1 cub. centim. pane, extract + 50 milk=4 minutes at 40° C.
   If no signs of incipient curdling (soiling of the sides of the test-
tube) occurred within 3 minutes, a new experiment was made,
using, two, three, or four times as much pancreatic extract. If, on
the other hand, distinct curdling occurred in 2 minutes, or less, a
fresh   experiment was made, using half or quarter the quantity of
extract.    Three or four such experiments usually sufficed to enable
the operator to fix the onset point of the reaction somewhere between
4 and 6 minutes.
   Mode of Calculating and Expressing the Tryptic Value. — The object
of the experiment was to ascertain how many cubic centimetres of milk
can be changed to the onset point of the metacasein reaction by 1 cub.
centim. of extract in a period of 5 minutes, at the temperature of
40° C. The tryptic value, or T, was calculated from the first expres
sion of the results of an experiment in exactly the same way as for
diastase.    If p be made to signify the quantity of pancreatic extract
added to the milk, and m the number of minutes which were required
to reach the onset point of the metacasein reaction, then the value of
T was obtained by the following formula: —
                                ^xA=T,
                                p    m
and taking the experiment      above given the value of    T came out as
follows : —
                        T=^x*=62-5at40° C.
   In judging the practical value of this method of trypsimetry, one
must have regard to the inherent difficulty of estimating the activity

1881.]       . and Proteolytic Activity        of Pancreatic Extracts.        l(il
of  preparations of the proteolytic enzymes. I venture to think that we
have    in this method a means of estimating the activity of trypsin
preparations which is superior in ease and precision to any we possess
for the evaluation of pepsin preparations.            What may be the limits of
error arising from inequalities in the composition of milk           I  am unable
to say, bnt with the same specimen of milk the limits of error do not
certainly exceed 6 to 8 per cent.
   The tryptic value of pancreatic extract from the pig, made on the
large scale, was found to range from 40 to 70 at 40° C.                  The pan
creatic tissue of the ox and sheep yielded an extract which possessed
about the same tryptic activity as that of the pig.            Extracts prepared
from single glands presented very considerable variations both in
regard to their diastasic and their tryptic activity.              The following
table shows      the  enzymic values     of  twelve samples of pancreatic extract
prepared with single glands from four pigs, four oxen, and four sheepr
killed   for the market.
                                        Table   IX.
                    (All  the observations     were made at 40° C.)
           (D   stands for diastasic value, and T for tryptic value.)
                 Pig-                       Ox.                  Sheep.
         _No-  .   JD -64
                      = 166
                                      No. 5                  No-
               1
                   \T                         {t=64               9lT=125
          No.  2
                  {TI^°                                      no. io{?;™
          No.  3
                  |T=72
                                                             no-
                                                                 n{?:£
          No- 4
                   \T=64
                                      No. 8
                                              {ilgg          No. 12
    It  may be observed that the oscillations in the two enzymic values
 bear no mutual relations to one another.
    The most appropriate standard of temperature for the valuation of
 tryptic activity, is 40° C, because this corresponds very nearly with
 the temperature at which trypsin operates in the normal digestion of
 warm-blooded animals.              But it is more convenient to perform the
 testing   at,  or  near,   the  ordinary temperature of the room (say, at 20°)
 inasmuch as in the latter case, it is much less troublesome to main
 tain a continuously uniform temperature than at 40°.
    I  have, therefore, taken some pains to ascertain the exact relation
 between the value of T at 40° and at 20° respectively, and have found
 that at 40° the value of T is very nearly three and a half times as
 great as at 20°.          If, therefore, the testing be performed at 20°, the
  resulting value       of   T multiplied by 3'5, will give with sufficient
 accuracy the value of         T at 40°.

 162                 C. G. Williams and        W. H. Waters.        [May   12,
                                   May 12, 1881.
       GENERAL STRACHET, R.E., C.S.I., V.P., in                 the Chair.
    The Presents     received   were laid on the table, and thanks ordered
 <for them.
    Pursuant to notice Gabriel Augnste Daubree, Jean Charles Marignac,
 Carl Nageli, and Carl Weierstrass were balloted              for and elected
 Foreign    Members     of the Society.
    The following Papers were read : —
 I. " On the Physiological Action of /3 Lutidine." By C. Grevtlle
        Williams, F.R.S., and W. H. Waters. B.A., Demonstrator
        in the Physiological         Laboratory,    Cambridge.      Received
        April   23, 1881.
     In studying the physiological action of         /3 lutidine  the greater
 number of our experiments were made upon the frog, and more par
 ticularly related to the action of this substance upon the heart and
¦central   nervous system ; our other experiments         upon the different
 organs being for the better interpretation of the action upon these
 two.
                                        Heart.
    In all  cases we   first destroyed the brain and spinal cord of the frog
 by pithing, and with the smallest possible loss of blood.        Hence none
 of the results obtained could be due to the central nervous system.
    The experiments were made upon the heart to study the effect of
 the     lutidine with regard to its —
     (1.) Tonicity;
     (2.) Time of beat;
     (3.) Nerve supply.
    It may be stated at once, that the pure alkaloid applied to the sur
 face of the heart causes that organ at once to shrink up, turn pale,
 and cease to beat. At times it was found possible to restore these
 beats by washing with normal saline solution (0-75 per cent, sodium
 chloride), but in no case did they ever reach their former activity.
                                   — We made use of several methods during
    (1.) Tonicity of the Heart.
¦our experiments      to ascertain the effect of this poison upon the heart's
 tonicity.

 1881.]           On the Physiological   Action  of £ Lutidine.              163
    The three chief ones were —
    (a.) Moist chamber and lever ;
    (y3.)   Roy's apparatus ;
    (7.) Gaskell's method of the excised heart.
    (a.) Moist Chamber and Lever. — In this method the frog had just
 sufficient of its skin and sternal cartilage removed to expose the apex
of the heart ; a carefully balanced lever (of the first kind) had attached
to one end of it, by a horizontal pivot, a light needle, which, by means
of a small piece of cork, just rested upon the apex of the heart.            The
other end of the lever carried a fine piece of aluminium to mark the
 beats upon the smoked surface of a revolving cylinder.                Another
 piece    of aluminium   recorded   the abscissa line    from  which  variations
 in the height of the curve of ventricular beats could be recorded.            A
glass   shade,   having a  slit to allow the  end  of   the  lever to  protrude
and work upon the drum, was then placed over the animal, and the
 air inside kept moist with damp blotting-paper.
    From the arrangement of the apparatus it is evident that at each
 ventricular systole the marker would fall, and at each diastole rise;
any increase in the tonicity of the heart being indicated by the tracing
approaching the abscissa line.
   A tracing of the heart's normal beat was in all cases first taken,
and then various quantities of various strengths of 0 lutidine were
injected into different parts of the body, from a drop or two of 2 per
cent, solution in the lymph spaces near the heart, to 0"2 cub. centim.
of 2 per cent, in the lower part of the abdominal cavity.           In all cases
there was a very evident lowering of the lever's marking point and a
decrease in the size of the beats, clearly showing that the heart had
experienced a distinct increase in its tonicity.       In all cases it became
much paler.
          I
   No. is a characteristic series of tracings showing the alterations in
the ventricular beats. Of these (1) is that made by the normal heart,
while 2, 3, and 4, were taken at intervals of one, three, and six minutes
after the injection of 0'2 cub. centim. of 2 per cent. /3 lutidine into
the abdominal cavity. The increase in tonicity and slowing of the
beat are most evident.       These tracings should be read from right to
left, a a being the abscissa line.
                             — In this apparatus the heart is tied upon a
   (/3.) Roy's Apparatus.
double canula, one limb of which is in connexion with a supply of fresh
diluted sheep's blood (one part of defibrinated blood to three parts of
0"75 per cent, saline solution), kept at a constant height in a reser
voir ; the other allowing the blood as it is pumped off by the heart to
flow away.       The surface of the fluid in the reservoir being always
at the same height, variations in the heart's beat could in no way be
due to variations in pressure of the fluid.           The heart tied to the
canula is inserted into a closed chamber filled with oil.            By a par

164               C. G. Williams and W. H. Waters.              [May 12,
ticular arrangement, a piston, working in a cylindrical prolongation
of this chamber, will rise or fall on each systole or diastole of the
ventricle. A lever being attached to this piston indicates the con
dition of the ventricle upon a moving surface.
    From the construction it is evident that each systole of the ventricle
is indicated by a rise in the lever, making evident its character.
    After the character of the beats of a particular heart had been
observed while the normal blood was passing, the blood was then sent
through, containing from O'l per cent, to 0"4 per cent, of /3 lutidine,
and the character of the tracings studied.          These were distinctly
modified ; the heart still beat, but never relaxed during diastole to its
full extent, in fact, showing a most decided increase in its tonicity. The
 highest portions of the curve, indicating the condition of the ventricle
during systole, showed that that condition was much prolonged, that
portion of the curve being much rounder and longer.            The normal
beat could be at once fully restored by repassing the saline blood
solution ; and a series of experiments, lasting some time, could thus
be taken.
    II is a specimen of these tracings, and should be read from right to
left. The beats on the extreme right are those of the ventricle before
the application of the alkaloid.      When weaker solutions are used,
similar alterations occur, though naturally not so pronounced.
    In one experiment, where no beats occurred, the lever rose distinctly
on passage of the saline blood containing the /3 lutidine, indicating
 an increase in the tonicity of the ventricle.
    (7.) GaskelVs Method.
                             — In these experiments a method due to
 Dr. Gaskell was used. A piece of fine silk was tied to the apex
of the ventricle, the heart cut out, and a slit made to open the ven
 tricular cavity.   The heart was held just above the auricular ventri
 cular groove by a screw-clamp, and the free end of the piece of fine
 silk attached to the ventricle tied to a lever, which had as its fulcrum
 the rod of the stand holding the screw-clamp.       This lever marked by
 means of a fine piece of aluminium upon the smoked surface of a
 revolving cylinder.
    Each contraction of the ventricle was thus indicated upon the
 cylinder by a rise in the curve, any increase in the tone being
 similarly indicated.
     The ventricle was first washed with normal solution to see its effect,
 as it was in this that the /3 lutidine was always dissolved, it being
 necessary to determine that the effects produced were not due to the
 solvent.    This saline solution caused a slight fall of the lever, but
 immediately that containing the /3 lutidine (about O'l per cent.) was
 applied, a small drop being sufficient, there followed a distinct increase
 in the tonicity of the ventricle, the curve of beats being raised from
 the abscissa line, as would naturally occur with this method of work-


166               C. G. Williams and W.        H. Waters.             [May    12,
iug.     The original beats were restored by washing with normal saline
solution.
    InIII    are two continuous parts of a tracing taken by this method,
and should be read from right to left. From 1 the curve is due to
the beats of the ventricle after washing with a very small quantity of
normal saline solution.          At 2 a very small drop of 0"2 per cent.
/3 lutidine    was   allowed  to  fall on the ventricle, and the changes in the
beats, as above described, at once appear, the normal beats being
again restored by washing with normal saline solution as at 3. In
the particular experiment from which this tracing was taken the
drum was slightly irregular, hence the apparent quickening of the
lieats after the second washing with the saline solution.
    Measurement. — The ventricle was just exposed, and during the in
tervals between the observations the opening was covered with damp
blotting paper. Even with this rough method it was found that the
injection of 2'0 per cent. /3 lutidine into various lymph spaces or into
the cutaneous vein, caused a distinct decrease in the length of the ven
tricle, and this was always attended with a slight paleness.
    From all these cases it cannot but be evident that the introduction
of /3 lutidine into the system, enabling it to reach the heart, causes a
distinct increase in the tonicity of its ventricle.
    The auricles 6eem to be affected but very little, and even continne
to beat after the ventricle has stopped.
    On Voluntary Muscle. — By a method somewhat similar to that of
Dr. Gaskell, the effect of the alkaloid was tried upon ordinary striped
muscular tissue. A frog was pithed and placed on its belly in a
moist chamber.          The tendo-achilles laid bare and tied by fine silk to a
lever, the knee-joint being fixed.           On washing the muscle with 0*75
 per   cent,  saline  solution, as  was  done  to the ventricle, a similar fall of
the lever occurred ; but on allowing a drop of 0-5 per cent. /3 lutidine
 (in normal saline) to fall on   it,    a distinct rise followed.
    Tracing IV illustrates the above, aa, being the abscissa line any     ;
increase in the tonicity of the muscle will be indicated by an increase
in the distance of the lever's marker from this line.                The tracing
 should be read from right to left. At (1) 0-75 percent, saline solution
 was added, and after a short interval the drum allowed to move, a
 fall of the lever became evident. At (2) and (3) a small drop of
 0*5 per cent, of the alkaloid was added, and a distinct rise followed          ;
 the washing again with normal saline solution at (4) resulting in a
 fall.
     (2.) Time  of     Heart's Beats. — At times we found the results of an
 experiment undecided, but by far the greater number of them indi
 cated a slight slowing after the addition of the alkaloid. It appeared
 distinctly in the experiments made with strong solutions.
     (3.) Nerves of     the Heart. — In all experiments relating to the action

  1881.]        On the Physiological  Action of fi Lutidine.
 of poisons on the heart one naturally turns to trying their effect upon
 the vagus.    Under ordinary conditions this nerve has the effect when
 slightly stimulated of slowing, when strongly stimulated of stopping
 the heart's beat.
    The apparatus used was the moist chamber before described, with
 the addition of a pair of platinum electrodes connected with the
 secondary coil of a Du Bois Raymond's induction apparatus.            The
 key for short-circuiting the secondary current carried a marker to
 make a tracing on the revolving cylinder, indicating the point of time
 at which the vagus was stimulated and the duration of the stimulus
by a rise in the line traced on the drum.        To ensure the constant
strength of the stimulus, we always allowed the Daniells' cell to work
 for about half an hour before using the coil.
    The frog was pithed, the heart and vagus laid bare with as little
exposure of the surrounding parts as possible, the lever and moist
 chamber arranged, and a tracing taken of the normal ventricular
beats.    The vagus was next stimulated with the secondary coil at
various distances from the primary, till one was found at which the
heart was slowed and another at which it was stopped.
    Experiments were then made with different quantities of solutions
of /3 lutidine of various strengths, from (V2 cub. centim. of 2 per cent,
to 0'2 cub. centim. of 5 per cent., which were injected into various
parts of the body, the best results being obtained by injecting into the
lower part of the abdominal cavity.
   In all cases the alkaloid deprived the vagus of its power, when
stimulated, to arrest the beat of the heart.
   As an example, a frog was prepared and the vagus found to cause
slowing of the heart's beat when stimulated with the secondary at
14"5, and stoppage at 14 and 13-5 — a long stoppage at the latter.
0-2 cub. centim. of 2 per cent, solution of /3 lutidine were injected
into the abdominal cavity near the right leg ; after three minutes the
vagus on stimulation had but very slight effect, and after six minutes
no action. From time to time the secondary was moved nearer and
nearer the primary, but stimulation had little or no effect, and after
twenty-five minutes the action was imperceptible even when the
secondary coil was right over the primary.
                              Reflex Action.
   Our next series of experiments were made to ascertain what effect
this alkaloid would have upon reflex action.
   The frogs used had their brains destroyed, with as small a loss of
blood as possible, by dividing the spinal cord at the junction of the first
vertebra and passing a wire into the skull. The animals were then left
for some time to recover from the effects of the operation.           The
stimulus used was a very weak solution of hydric sulphate, and the
   VOL. XXXII.                                                 N

  168              C. G. Williams and W. H. Waters.                [May 12,
 time elapsing between the placing of the foot in this stimulant and its
 withdrawal by the animal was measured by a metronome beating 120
 to the minute and taken as the indication of the time required for
 reflex action.   The frog was worked upon either resting on its belly
 ¦with its legs hanging down or suspended by its head.        In order that
 the results might not be thought due to fatigue, owing to the suspen
 sion of the animal, in the earlier experiments, another frog similarly
 pithed, was suspended, and its reflex time measured simultaneously
 with the one treated with the alkaloid.          These frogs suffered no
 change, therefore after the first experiments their use was discontinued.
    After suspension of the animal its reflex action was tested for half
 an hour at intervals of five minutes, in order to get the length of its
normal reflex time.     The alkaloid was then injected, sometimes pure,
 into the stomach, and at other times dilute into the dorsal lymphatic
sac ; here the effect could be produced by 0"2 cub. centim. of 1 per
cent, solution in ten minutes to a qnarter of an hour.
    The action of the /3 lutidine was most distinct, the reflex time, after
an interval, growing longer and longer at each stimulation, then the
leg would be only just removed, and that feebly from the acid ; and,
finally, after a time varying from a quarter to half hour the foot was
incapable of being withdrawn though immersed in the acid for a
minute or a minute and a half.
    Decidedly, then, /3 lutidine destroys reflex action in the frog.
    The disappearance of the reflex action might be attributed to the
following causes : —
    (1.) To the poison acting upon the heart, perhaps stopping its beat,
and thus cutting off the blood supply to the spinal cord. In all cases, how
ever, the frog was dissected and the heart was invariably found beating.
    (2.) It might be due to its action on the nerves, thus preventing
the conduction of impulses to the muscles of the legs, necessary to
cause them to contract and withdraw the foot from the acid.
    (3.) It might be said to be due to an effect like that of urari,
preventing the communication of an impulse from the nerve to the
muscle, blocking their physiological communication.        That it was not
due to either of these causes will be seen from the following experi
ment: A frog was very carefully pithed, the sciatic nerve on each
side was exposed and a ligature tied round the whole of the left leg —
except the nerve.     The nerves on each side were each stimulated with
such a feeble current as to cause only a slight twitching of the toes
(secondary coil at about 31).
    Far more/3 lutidine than is necessary to produce the described effect
upon reflex action was then injected into the dorsal lymphatic sac, at
times as much as two or more drops of the pure alkaloid being used.
Although the experiment lasted in some cases over two hours, the feeble
stimulus caused the same amount of movement in both feet as before.

1881.J          On the Physiological    Action of /9 Lutidine.            169
  (4.) The effect of the poison might also     be   thought due to its action
upon the muscles themselves, causing them to lose their irritability
and cease to respond to stimuli reaching them from the nerve.    The
last experiments would go strongly against this, but to be perfectly
sure we performed the following : A frog, whose brain had been de
stroyed, received urari up to a point at which no reflex action occurred,
and no contraction of the leg muscles on stimulation of the sciatic
nerve.    The animal was placed in a moist chamber, and by means of
the pendulum myograph tracings were taken of the contractions of the
gastrocnemius, caused by direct stimulation.            A number of these
tracings   of the  muscular   contraction was taken before application of
the poison, and then from time to time /3 lutidine was injected into the
dorsal lymphatic sac, commencing with O'l cub. centim. of 10 per cent,
solution, and finally using as much as two drops of the pure alkaloid ;
but there was no alteration of a decided character in any of the curves,
either upon the latent period, contraction, or relaxation.
    It may be mentioned that after acting on frogs retaining their spinal
cord with y9 lutidine, destruction of the spinal cord with a wire, causes
little or no movement of the limbs, as is the case under ordinary
conditions.
    From all these results it cannot but be evident that the disappear,
ance of reflex action is due alone to the effect of the poison on the nerve
cells of the spinal cord.
    Strychnine and /3 Lutidine. — Such being the action of 8 lutidine upon
the spinal cord, we were naturally led to ascertain whether it was
antagonistic in its action to strychnine.        If a frog, whose brain has
been destroyed, be treated with a small quantity of strychnine solution,
the slightest stimulus is sufficient to throw the animal into strong
tetanic convulsions.
   Various experiments were tried ; as examples we will give the
following : —
    (1.) A frog whose reflex action was good (the brain having been
destroyed in the usual way) had sufficient /3 lutidine solution given       it,
to cause this reflex action to disappear.          A drop of 0"5 per cent,
strychnine was injected into its dorsal lymphatic sac,            a   quantity
which injected     into  another   frog similarly prepared brought on the
strongest convulsions.      Still no effect was produced, neither did any
change appear     when  another   large drop was injected.
    (2.) As an example of another method, a frog (whose brain had
been destroyed) was thrown into strong convulsions by the use of
strychnine, then 0-5 cub. centim. of 10 per cent.            /3 lutidine were
injected  into the  dorsal lymphatic   sac, also
                                               a   drop of the pure  alkaloid
                                                                            ;
in fifteen minutes the strychnine        tetanus was passing off and in
twenty-five minutes had quite gone. The same effect happened with
smaller quantities of the alkaloid.
                                                                  n   2

 170       Prof. G. G. Stokes.     Discussion of   the Results   [May 12,
    (3.) Another, better, method was used. Two frogs, whose brains
 had been destroyed as before, were taken, and into the dorsal lym
phatic sac of each a small drop of 5 per cent, strychnine was injected.
A minute afterwards only O'l cub. centim. of 10 per cent. (3 lntidine
 was injected into one frog (A), the other (B) remaining as before.
    After fifteen minutes   (A)  gave no signs of strychnine tetanus,
 while  (B) gave distinct signs. After twenty minutes (A) gave only
 very faint reflex action; but (B), on being touched, went into strong
tetanus.     After thirty minutes (A) gave no signs of reflex action,
 while (B) went into strong tetanic convulsions on simply touching the
table.
    These results lasted over an hour ; then into (B) O'l cub. centim.
of 10 per cent. /3 lutidine was injected, and in ten minutes the effect
of the strychnine began to pass off, and in thirty minutes was quite
gone, the frog not even giving signs of reflex action.
    Again, in some experiments strychnine was injected into one frog
 (prepared as before), and strychnine with /3 lntidine into another.
After twenty-four hours the first went into strong tetanic convulsions
on touching, but never the latter ; that of the former disappearing
after the injection of the alkaloid.
   From our experiments we hope we have made it clear that /3 lntidine
causes a distinct increase in the tonicity of both cardiac and voluntary
muscular tissue, also a slowing in the rate of the heart's beat, and that
it arrests the inhibitory power of the vagus. That by its action upon
the nerve cells of the spinal cord, it, in the first place, lengthens the
time of reflex action, and then arrests that function ; finally, that it is
successfully antagonistic to strychnine in its action upon the spinal
cord.
   In conclusion, we feel much pleasure in acknowledging our grate
ful thanks to Dr. Michael Foster, both for his kind help and happy
suggestions, which have been of great assistance to us in our investi
gations.
II. "   Discussion   of the Results      of some Experiments with
       Whirled Anemometers."         By Professor G. G. Stokes, Sec.
       R.S. Received April 26, 1881.
   In the course of the year 1872, Mr. R. H. Scott, F.R.S., suggested
to the Meteorological Committee the
                                          desirability of carrying out a
series of experiments on anemometers of
                                                different patterns.   This
suggestion was approved by the Committee, and in the course of same
year a grant was obtained by Mr. Scott from
                                                   the Government Grant
administered by the Royal Society, for the
                                                purpose of defraying the
expenses of the investigation.     The experiments were not, however,

 1881.]        of some Experiments         with Whirled Anemometers.            171
 carried out by Mr. Scott himself, but were entrusted to Mr. Samuel
  Jeffery, then Superintendent of the Kew Observatory, and Mr. G. M.
 Whipple, then First Assistant, the present Superintendent.
                                                                  I
     The results have never hitherto been published, and was not aware
 of their nature till on making a suggestion that an anemometer of the
 Kew standard pattern should be whirled in the open air, with a view
 of trying that mode of determining its proper factor, Mr. Scott
 informed me of what had already been done, and wrote to Mr.
 Whipple, requesting him to place in my hands the results of the most
 complete of the experiments, namely, those carried on at the Crystal
 Palace, which I accordingly obtained from him. The progress of the
enquiry may be gathered from the following extract from Mr. Scott's
report in returning the unexpended balance of the grant.
    " The comparisons of the instruments tested were first instituted in
the garden of the Kew Observatory.          This locality was found to
afford an insufficient exposure.
    " A piece of ground was then rented and enclosed within the Old
Deer Park.      The experiments here showed that there was a consider
able difference in the indications of anemometers of different sizes,
but it was not possible to obtain a sufficient range of velocities to
furnish a satisfactory comparison of the instruments.      Experiments
were finally made with a rotating apparatus, a steam merry- go-round,
at the Crystal Palace, which led to some results similar to those
obtained by exposure in the Deer Park.
    " The subject has, however, been taken up so much more thoroughly
                                            " Repertorium fur Meteoro-
by Drs. Dohrandt and Thiesen (vide
logie," vols, iv and v) and by Dr. Robinson in Dublin, that it seems
unlikely that the balance would ever be expended by me. I, there
fore, return it with many thanks to the Government Grant Com
mittee.
     " The results obtained by me were hardly of sufficient value to             be
communicated  to the Society."
   On examining the records, it seemed to me that they were well
deserving of publication, more especially as no other experiments of
the same kind have, so far as          I
                                 know, been executed on an anemo
meter of the       Kew standard
                            pattern.   In 1860 Mr. Glaisher made
experiments with an anemometer whirled round in the open air at
the end of a long horizontal pole,* but the anemometer was of the
pattern employed at the Royal Observatory,    with hemispheres of
375 inches diameter and arms of 6'725 inches, measured from the
axis to the centre of a cup, and so was considerably smaller than the
Kew pattern.     The experiments of Dr. Dohrandt and Dr. Robinson
     * " Greenwich Magnotical and Meteorological Observations," 1862, Introduction,
p.   li.

172        Prof. G. G. Stokes.       Discussion of  the Results    [May 12,
were made in a building, which has the advantage of sheltering the
anemometer from wind, which is always more or less fitful, but the
disadvantage of creating an eddying vorticose movement in the whole
mass of air operated on ; whereas in the ordinary employment of the
anemometer the eddies       it forms are carried away by the wind, and the
same   is the case to a very great extent when an anemometer is
whirled in the open air in a gentle breeze.             Thus, though Dr.
Robinson employed among others an anemometer of the Kew pattern,
his experiments and those of Mr. Jeffery are not. duplicates of each
other, even independently of the fact that the axis of the anemometer
was vertical in Mr. Jeffery's and horizontal in Dr. Robinson's experi
ments ; so that the greater completeness of the latter does not cause
them to supersede the former.
   In Mr. Jeffery's experiments the anemometers operated on were
mounted a little beyond and above the outer edge of one of the steam
merry-go-rounds in the grounds of the Crystal Palace, so as to be as
far as practicable out of the way of any vortex which it might create.
The distance of the axis of the anemometer from the axis of the
" merry "
             being known, and the number of revolutions (n) of the latter
during   an  experiment counted, the total space traversed by the anemo
meter was known. The number (N) of apparent revolutions of the
anemometer, that is, the number of revolutions relatively to the merry,
was recorded on a dial attached to the anemometer, which was read at
the beginning and end of each experiment.        As the machine would only
go round one way, the cups had to be taken off and replaced in a reverse
position, in order to reverse the direction of revolution of the anemo
meter.     The true number of revolutions of the anemometer was, of
course, N + w, or N— n, according as the rotations of the anemometer
and the machine were in the same or opposite directions.
   The horizontal motion of the air over the whirling machine during
any experiment was determined from observations of a dial anemo
meter with 3-inch cups on 8-inch arms, which was fixed on a wooden
stand in the same horizontal plane as that in which the cups of the
experimental instrument revolved, at a distance estimated at about
30 feet from the outside of the whirling frame.          The motion of the
centres of the cups was deduced from the readings of the dial of the
fixed anemometer at the beginning and end of each experiment, the
motion of the air being assumed as usual to be three times that of the
cups.
   The experiments were naturally made on fairly calm days, still the
effect of the wind, though small, is not insensible.          In default of
further   information,  we must take its velocity as equal to the mean
velocity during the experiment.
   Let  V   be the velocity   of the anemometer (i.e., of its axis), W that
of the wind,     0  the angle between the direction of motion         of the

1881.]     of some Experiments with W hirled     Anemometers.        173
anemometer     and that of the wind.   Then the velocity of the anemo
meter relatively to the wind   will
                         v/V2-2VWcos0+W2                              O)
The mean effect of the wind in a revolution of the merry will be
different according as we suppose the moment of inertia of the
anemometer very small or very great.
   If we suppose it very small, the anemometer may be supposed to
be moving at any moment at the rate due to the relative velocity at
that moment, and therefore the mean velocity of rotation of the cups
in one revolution of the merry will be that corresponding to the mean
relative velocity of the anemometer and the air. If, as is practically
the case, W be small as compared with V, we may expand (a) in a
rapidly converging series according to ascending powers of W. All
the odd powers will disappear in taking the mean, and if we neglect
the fourth and higher powers we shall have for the mean
                                      4V
so that W2-=-4V is the small correction to be added to the measured
velocity of the anemometer in order to correct for the wind.
   On the other hand, if the moment of inertia of the anemometer be
taken as very great, the rate of rotation of the cups during a revolu
tion of the merry will be sensibly constant.     V
                                               If be the velocity of the
anemometer relatively to the air, v the velocity of the centre of one
of the cups, and if we suppose the rotation of the anemometer
resisted by a force of which the moment is F, then, according to
Dr. Robinson's researches, we have approximately
                         F=AV'»-2B»V'-C»2.
In   the present case friction is not taken into account, and instead of
F  we  must take the moment of the effective moving force.      Further
more, it appears from the experiments of Dr. Robinson, in Dublin,
that the observations were almost as well satisfied by taking the first
two terms only of the above expression for F as by taking all three,
and this simplification may be employed with abundantly sufficient
accuracy in making the small correction for the wind.          We have,
therefore —
                            F=AV'2-2Bl)V,
 where   V  is given by (a). In order that the anemometer may be
 neither accelerated nor retarded from one revolution of the merry
 to another, the mean effective force must be nil ; and taking the
 means of both sides of the above equation, observing that, in conse
 quence of the supposed     largeness  of the  moment   of  inertia, v  is

 174       Prof. G. G. Stokes.      Discussion of  the Results   [May 12,
sensibly constant during one revolution of the merry, we have on
employing the approximate value of the mean of           V  or (a) already
used  —
                      0=A(V2 +
                                 W2)-2B^V+J^.
But if U    be the constant velocity of air relatively to the anemometer
which would make the cups turn round at the same rate, we have
similarly —
                             0=AU2-2Bt>U.
Eliminating B»/A, between these two equations we get —
                                                                        (c)'
                           u(v+ir)=V2+W2
and as the fourth and higher powers        of W have been neglected all
along, we get from the last —
                               °=v+^                                   w.
so  that, on this supposition, the mean correction for the wind is
3W2/4V, or three times the correction of the former supposition.
   The mean value of the radical (a) is given by an elliptic function ;
but even in an extreme case among the experiments, when the ratio of
the velocity of the wind to that of the anemometer is as great as 3 to 5,
the error of the approximate expression V + W2/4V amounts only
to about 0 01 mile an hour, which may be quite disregarded.            The
error in employing (tZ) for the determination of U instead of (c) is
of about similar amount.
   Three anemometers were tried, namely, one of the old Kew standard
pattern, one by Adie, and Kraft's portable anemometer.        Their dimen
sions  will be found at the heads of the respective tables below.    With
each   anemometer    the experiments were made in three groups, with
high, moderate, and low velocities respectively, averaging about 28 miles
an hour for the high, 14 for the moderate, and 7 for the low. Each
group again was divided into two subordinate groups, according as the
cups were direct, in which case the directions of rotation of the merry
and of the anemometer were opposite, or reversed, in which case the
directions of the two rotations were the same.
   The data furnished by each experiment were : the time occupied by
the experiment, the number of revolutions of the merry, the number
of apparent revolutions of the anemometer, given by the difference of
readings of the dial at the beginning and end of the experiment,
and the space S passed over by the wind, deduced from the difference
of readings of the fixed anemometer at the beginning and end of the
experiment.

 1881.J       of some Experiments with \Mvirled           Anemometers.        175
   The object of the experiment was, of course, to compare the mean
velocity of the centres of the cups with the mean velocity of
 the air relatively to the anemometer.              It would have saved some
numerical      calculation  to  have   compared merely the spaces passed
 through during the experiment ; but it seemed better to exhibit
 the velocities in miles per hour, so as to make the experiments
 more readily comparable with one another, and with those of other
experimentalists.                             I
                        In the reductions employed 4-figure logarithms,
so that the last decimal in V in the tables cannot quite be trusted, but
it is retained to match the correction for W, which it seemed desirable
 to exhibit to O'Ul mile.
    On reducing the experiments with the low velocities,              I found the
results extremely irregular.         I   was subsequently informed by Mr.
Whipple, that the machine could not be regulated at these low
velocities, for which it was never intended, and that it sometimes
went round fast, sometimes very slowly.                  He considered that the
experiments      in  this group   were  of  little,  if any, value, and that they
ought to be rejected.       They were besides barely half as numerous as
those of the moderate group.           I  have accordingly thought it best to
omit them altogether.
   In the following tables the first column gives the group, H standing
for high velocities, M for moderate ; the subordinate group, — stand
ing for rotation of the anemometer opposite to that of the machine,
 + for rotations in the same direction, and lastly the reference number
of the experiment in each subordinate group. T gives the duration
of the experiment in minutes ; n the number of revolutions of the
machine ; N the number of apparent revolutions of the anemometer ;
S the space passed over by the natural wind, in miles. These form
the data.        From them are calculated : V, the velocity of the
anemometer, in miles per hour ; W, the velocity of the wind ; W2/2 V
the mean of the two corrections to be added to V on account of the
wind, according as we adopt one or other of the extreme hypotheses
as to the moment of inertia of the anemometer, namely, that it is
very small or very large.          The actual correction will be half the
number     in  this column   on  the  first supposition, and once and a-half
on the second. V1; V2 denote the velocity of the anemometer, or, in
other words, of the artificial wind, corrected for the natural wind on
these two suppositions respectively, so that the last two columns give
100 times the ratio of the registered velocity to the true velocity, or
the registered as a percentage of the true, the registered velocity
meaning that deduced from the velocity of the cups on employing the
usual factor 3.
   The dials of the first two anemometers read only to 10 revolutions,
which is the reason why all the numbers N end with a 0.

176         Prof. G. G. Stokes.    Discussion of the Results    [May   12,
                          The Old Kew Standard.
Diameter      of Arms between Centres of Cups 48 inches ; Diameter of
   Caps    9 inches.   Fixed to Machine at 22'3 feet from the Axis of
   Revolution.
                                                      W*            300o
                                                             V V
   Group                                                    300o
                T.   n.     N.    S.     V.    W.
  and No.
    H-
      1         15   303   1690  0- 7  31  17        0 13  126 -9  126 3
      2         18   301   1690  0 5   26  63 1- 67  0 05  1241    123 "8
      3         16   301   1580  0 6   29 -96 2- 25  0-08  114 -2  113-9
      4         17   300   1710  11    28  11 3- 88  0 27  125 9   124 7
      5         17   300   1720  1- 1  28  11 3-88   0-27  126-8   125-5
      6         22   400   2210  1-3   28  96 3-27   0 18  121- 4  120-6
      7         23   400   2220  1 1   27-70  2-87   0-15  122 1   121 -5
      8         19   300   1670  0-7   25 14  2-21   o-io  122- 6  122-2
      9         19   300   1640  0 8   25 14  2-53   0 13  119-8   119-3
     10         17   301   1670  0 8   28 20  2-71   0 13  122-1   121 -5
     11         19   300   1670  0 8   25-14  2-53   013   122-6  122 0
  Mean  . . .   ••                     26 75  2-78   0 15  122-6   121 -9
    H+
      1         17   302    980  0 0   28 29  0 00   0 00  114 2   114-2
      2         17   300    960  10    28 11  3- 53  0-22  112-6   111 -7
      3         15i  300   1000  1-4   30 -82 5'42   0-48  115-7   113-9
      4         22*  300   1080  1-8   21-23  4- 80  0-54  122 3   119 -2
      5         19   300   1020  0-7   25 14  2-21   0  10 118 1   117 7
      6         16   300   1030  0 9   29 -86 3 37   0  19 119 0   118 -2
      7         18   300   1050  0-8   26-54  2-67   0  13 120- 8  120- 2
      8         18   301   1060  0-6   26-63  2-20   0 09  1214    121 0
      9         18   300   1000  0-7   26-54  2-43   0  11 121- 7  121- 3
  Mean  . . .               ••   ¦•    27 02  2 96   0 21  118 4   117 5
    M-
      1         30   300   1650  0- 8  15-92  1 -60  0-08  120 -8  120 -2
      2         31   300   1670  1- 6  15 41  3 10   0-31  121 -7  119-3
      3         34   300   1570  1-9   14 05  3 01   0 22  112-6   110 1
      4         36   300   1540  1-7   13 26  2-83   0-30  110 0   107 6
      5         36   300   1540  1   3 13-26  2 17   0-18  110 -5  109 0
  Mean  . . .               ••         14-38  2 54   0 24  115-1   113-2
    M+
      1         28   301    880  0 0   17 63  0- oo  0 00  102 -6  102 5
      2         38   300    940  2 0   12- 57 3 15   0-38  109 -5  106 4
      3         38   300    890  1-6   12 57  2-52   0-25  105-7   103 7
      4         36   300    990  0-8   13 26  1 -33  0 07  115-4   114-9
      5         35   300    990  1 0   13- 66 1- 71  007   115 3    114 8
  Mean  . . .   ••          ••   ¦•    13 -94 1-74   0 15  109-7    108-5

  1881.]        of  some Experiments vrith Whirled Anemometers.          177
                                 Adie's Anemometer.
  Diameter      of Arms between Centres of Cups 13'4 inches ; Diameter of
    Cups 2-5 inches.         Fixed to Machine at 20' 7 feet from the Axis of
    Revolution.
                                                          W=   300r   300o
                                                                        V
    Group
                   T.            N.           V.    W.
   and  So.
                          ».           S.
                                                           2V    vr
     H-
       1           17    300    3860   1  0 26 16   3 53  0 24  95- 2  94 -4
       2           15*   300    3650   1-4  28 61   5-45  0-52  89-5   87  9
       3           22 \  300    3940   1-8  19-70   4-80  0-58  96- 7  94  0
       4           19    300    3760   0-7  23 -33  2 -21 0 10  93 1   92 -7
       5           16    300    3780   0 9  27 -71  3 37  0 20  93-5   92  8
       6           18    300    3890   0 9  24-63   2-67  0 14  96 -4  96  0
       7           18    301    3980   0 7  24 -72  2 -33 0 11  98 -6  98  2
       8           18    300    3940   0 8  24'63   2-67  0 14  97 8   97  3
   Mean . . .      ••    ••      ••    ••   24-94   3-38  0 25  95 1   94 -2
     H   +
       1           17    300    3240   11   26-08   3 89  0-29  94 -9  93-9
       2           17    300    3330   11   26 08   3-89  0 29  97 3   96  3
       3           19    300    3760   0-7  23 -33  2-21  o-io 109 2  108  7
       4           16    300    3780   0 9  27 71   3 -37 0 20 109-6  108 -8
       5           19    300    3060   0 8  23-33   2 -53 014   90-3   89  8
       6           17    301    3120   0 8  26 17   2 82  0 15  916    91  1
       7           19    300    3160   0 8  23 33   2-53  0 14  93 0   92-5
J  Mean...               ••      ¦•    ••   25 15   3 03  0 19  98 0   97 3
    M-
!      1           38    300    3620   2 0  11 -67  3 16  0 43  87-7   84-9
       2           38    300    3500   1-6  11 -67  2-53  0-43  84-7   817
       3           36    300    3910   0 8  12-26   1 33  0 07  97 "5  96 9
       4           36    300    3430   10   12 -67  1-71  0 07  84 1   83-7
   Mean    . ..    ••    ••      ••    ¦•   12-07   2 18  0-25  88-5   86 8
    M+
       1           31    300    3250   1-6  14 30   3 10  0-34  94  3  93-7
      2            34    300    2920   17   13 04   3 00  0 35  85 -7  85-5
      3            34    300    2940   1-9  13 04   3 06  0 36  86  1  83 1
      4            36    300    2760   17   12-31   2-83  0 33  81 -4  79-2
      5            36    300    2780   1-3  12 31   2 17  0 19  65-5   64-7
  Mean.      ..    ¦¦    ¦•      ••    ••   13 00   2-83  0 31  82 6   81 0

178        Prof. G. G. Stokee.     Discussion of    the Results      [May 12,
                      Kraft's Portable Anemometer.
Diameter     of Arms between Centres of Cups 8'3 inches ; Diameter of
   Cups 33 inches.     Fixed to Machine at 1910 feet from the Axis of
   Revolution.
   Group                                               w*     300o
                                                                    '
                                                                       300o
                                                                             '
               T.          N.    S.      V.    W.               V,       V,
  and No.
    H-
      1        19   300   5594  0 6   21   53 1 89     0 08    95 -6    95-4
      2        m    303   5681  07     23  60 2-69     0 15    96 2     95-4
      3        15   303   5990  0 7   27  '22 2- 80    0 14  102 -8    102  4
      4        18   801   6086  0 5    22 -79 1- 67    0 06  104-2     104 0
      5        16   301   6116  0 6   25   65 2 25     0 10  104 7     104-3
      6        17   300   6143   11   24   06 3 88     0-31  105 2     103 6
      7        17   300   6240  11     24  06 3 88     0-31  106-9     105 5
      8        22   400   7896  1-3   24  -79 3- 27    0-21  101 -4    100 4
      9        23   400   7900  1   1  23  71 2- 78    0 16  101 -5    100 -9
     10        19   300   5966  0-7   21  -53 2 21     0 11  102-3     101-7
     11        19   300   5751  0 8   21-53   2-53     0-15    98 -3    97 7
     12        17   301   5842  0 8   24 14   2 82     0 16    99-6     99 0
     13        19   300   5892  0 8   21 -53  2-53     0 15   100 -9   100 1
   Mean. . .                          23 55   2-71     0 16   1015     100 8
    H +
      1        17   300   5372  10    24 06   353      0-26   102 2    101 0
      2        151  300   5265  1-4   26-39   5 42     0-56    99-7     97 5
      3        22i  300   5460  1-8    18  18 4-80     0 63   102-5     98 -9
      4        19   300   5093  0 7    21  53 2- 21    0 11    97  4    96 8
      5        16   300   5282  0 9   25   57 3- 37    0-22   100  6    99 8
      6        18   300   5274  0 8   22   72 2-67     0 16   100  6    99-8
      7        18   301   5300  0-6   22   79 2 0i)    0 09   100  9   100 -5
      8        18   300   5363  0 8   22  -72 2-67     0 16   102-2    101 -4
   Mean. . .        ••                 22-99  3 33     0-27   100-8      994
    M-
      1        30   300   5488  0-8   13  -63 1- 60    0 09    93-3      92-5
      2        31   300   5880  1 6   13   19 3  10    0 36    99-2      96-6
      3        34   300   5168  1 6    12  03 2 -53    0-27    86 8      81-8
      4        34   300   5320  1 9    12  08 3 -35    0 47    88 -8     85 4
      5        36   300   5030  1  7   11-36  2- 83    0-35    84-0      814
      6        36   300   4910  IS     11-36  2 17     0 21    82 3      80-9
   Mean. . .   ••          •¦          12-27  2 GO     0-29     89 1     86 9
    M  +
      1        38   300   4508  2 0    10 -76 3 16     0-46     84-8     81-4
      2        38   300   ¦1250 1-6   10 -76  2-53     0-30     80-9     78-7
      3        36   300   5006  0 8    11-36  1 -33    0 08     95 -3    94 7
      4        35   300   4743  10     11-69           0 12     90-3     89-3
   Mean. . .   ••   ¦•                 11  14 2 18     0-24     87 8     86 0
   The mean results for the high and moderate velocities, contained            in

1881.]          of some Experiments with Whirled                          Anemometers.                  179
the preceding tables, are collected in the following table, in which are
also inserted the mean errors.
                                           High Velocities.                   Moderate Velocities.
   u
  Sz>        Directions of         Mom. inert,       Mom. inert,          Mom. inert,         Mom. inert,
               Rotation.             small.            large.               small.              large.
   g
   5
   2
   3
   a
  <                                p. c.     m. e.   p. c.        m. e.   p. 0.   m. e.       p. c.    m. e.
             Opposite   ....   122 6         2 4     121 -9       2-3     1151     4-9        113-2    5-2
  ©
   i         Alike             118 4         2 9     117 6        2 8     109-7    4 6        108 5    5   1
  ¦x
                               120 -5                119 -7               112-4               110 -8
                                   95 1      2-3      94 -2       2-3     88-5     4-5         86 8    5 0
                                   98 0      6-5      97-3        6-6     82 "6    7 3         81 0    7 3
  •3
  ¦<
               Mean                96-5               95 -7               85-5                 83 9
                               101 -5        2-6     100 -8       2-5     89 1     4-8         86-9    5 1
             Alike             100 -8        1-2      99-4        1-3     87 8    5   0       86 0     6   0
  Kraft.
                               101     1             100   1              88-4                 80
                                                                                                i
  The        meanerrors exhibited in the above table show no great
difference  according as we suppose the moment of inertia of the
anemometer small or large in correcting for the wind. There appears
to be a slight indication, beyond what may be merely casual, that the
errors are a little greater on the latter supposition than on the former,
which is what we should rather expect for an anemometer would get
                                                             ;
pretty well under way in a fraction of a revolution of the whirling
instrument. However, the difference         so small that   will suffice to
                                                             is                    it
take the mean of the two as the mean error belonging to the par
ticular anemometer, class of velocity, and character of rotation under
consideration.     From the mean errors we may calculate nearly
enough, by the usual formulas, the probable errors of the various
mean percentages for rotations       opposite and alike.    The probable
errors of these  mean  percentages  come  out  as follows —                       :
           Kew,      1*0   for high velocities; 2'7 for moderate velocities.
           Adie,     r5        „              „            20             „               „
           Kraft,    0-9       „              „            1-8
  These probable errors are so small that   appears that for the high
                                                                   it
and even   for the moderate velocities the experiments are extremely
trustworthy, except in so far as they may be affected by systematic
sources      of error.
  If       we compare       the registered           percentages          of the true velocity of

 180         Prof. G. G. Stokes.     Discussion   of the Results   [May    12,
 the air relatively to the anemometer according as the rotations are in
 opposite directions or in the same direction, we see that in five ont of
 the six cases they are slightly greater when the rotations are opposite.
 The sole exception is in the group " Adie, high velocities," which is
 made up of the groups "Adie H — " and " Adie H + ."             On referring
 to the principal table for the Adie, we see that Experiments 3 and 4
 in group H+ give percentages usually high, depending on the high
 values of N.        These raise the mean for the group, and make the
 mean error far greater than those of the other five groups for high
 velocities.     There appears little doubt, therefore, that the excess of
 percentages obtained for rotations opposite is real, and not merely
 casual.     It is, however, so small as to give ns much confidence in the
 correctness of the mean result, unless there were causes to vitiate it
 which apply to both directions of rotation alike.
    It may be noticed that the difference is greatest for the Kew, in
 which the ratio of r to R is greatest, r denoting the radius of the arm
 of the anemometer, and R the distance of its axis from the axis of
 revolution of the machine, and appears to be least (when allowance is
 made for the two anomalous experiments in the group " Adie H+ ")
 for the Kraft, for which r/R is least.          In the Kraft, indeed, the
 differences are roughly equal to the probable errors of the means.         In
 these whirling experiments r/R is always taken small, and we might
 expect the correction to be made on account of the finiteness of R to
 be expressible in a rapidly converging series according to powers of
r/R, say —
                        Ai+Eft)'+0'(i),+             • • •
We may, in imagination, pass from the          case of rotations  opposite to
that of rotations alike, by supposing R         taken larger and larger in
successive experiments, altering the angular velocity of revolution so as
to preserve the same linear velocity for the anemometer, and suppos
ing the increase continued until R changes sign in passing through
infinity, and is ultimately reduced in magnitude to what it was at
first.   The ideal case of R=oo is what we aim at, in order to repre
sent the motion of a fixed anemometer acted on by perfectly uniform
wind by that of an anemometer uniformly impelled in a rectilinear
direction in perfectly still air.    We may judge of the magnitude of
the leading term in the above correction, provided it be of an odd
order, by that of the difference of the results for the two directions of
rotation.      Unless, therefore, we had reason to believe that A' were 0,
or at least very small compared with B', we should infer that the
whole correction for the finiteness of R is very small, and that it is
practically eliminated by taking the mean of the results for rotations
opposite and rotations alike.

 1881.]      of some Experiments with Whirled       Anemometers.        181
    We may accept, therefore, the mean resnlts      as not only pretty well
 freed from casual irregnlarites 'which would disappear in the mean of
 an infinite number of experiments, but also, most probably, from the
 imperfection of the representation of a rectilinear motion of the
 anemometer by motion in a circle of the magnitude actually employed
 in the experiments.
    Before discussing further the conclusions to be drawn from the
 results obtained, it will be well to consider the possible influence of
 systematic sources of error.
    1. Friction. — No measure was taken of the amount of friction, nor
 were any special appliances used to reduce it ; the anemometers were
 mounted in the merry just as they are used in actual registration.
 Friction arising from the weight is guarded against as far as may be
 in the ordinary mounting, and what remains of it would act alike in
 the ordinary use of the instrument and in the experiments, and as far
 as this goes, therefore, the experiments would faithfully represent the
 instrument as it is in actual use. But the bearings of an anemometer
 have also to sustain the lateral pressure of the wind, which in a high
 wind is very considerable ; and the construction of the bearing has to
 be attended to in order that this may not produce too much friction.
 So far the whirled instrument is in the same condition as the fixed.
 But besides the friction arising from the pressure of the artificial wind,
 a pressure which acts in a direction tangential to the circular path of the
 whirled anemometer, there is the pressure arising from the centrifugal
force. The highest velocity in the experiments was about 30 miles
 an hour, and at this rate the centrifugal force would be about three
times the weight of the anemometer.          This pressure would consider
ably exceed    the   former, at right angles to which it acts, and the two
would compound into one equal to the square root of the sum of their
squares.     The resulting friction would exceed a good deal that arising
from the pressure of the wind in a fixed anemometer with the same
velocity of wind (natural or artificial), and would sensibly reduce the
velocity registered, and accordingly raise the coefficient which
Dr. Robinson denotes by m, the ratio, namely, of the velocity of the
wind to the velocity of the centres of the cups. It may be noticed
that the percentages collected in the table on p. 179, are very distinctly
lower for the moderate velocities than for the high velocities.        Such
an effect would be produced by friction ; but how far the result would
be modified if the extra friction due to the centrifugal force were got
rid of, and the whirled anemometer thus assimilated to a fixed
anemometer,      I have not the means of judging, nor again how far the
percentages would be still further raised if friction were got rid of
altogether.
    Perhaps the best way of diminishing friction in the support of an
anemometer      is that devised and employed by Dr. Robinson, in which

182        Prof. G. G. Stokes.     Discussion of the Results    [May 12,
the anemometer is supported near the top on a set of spheres of gun-
metal contained in a box with a horizontal bottom and vertical side
which supports and confines them. For vertical support, this seems
to leave nothing to be desired, but when a strong lateral pressure has
to be supported as well as the weight of the instrument, it seems to
me that a slight modification of the mode of support of the balls might
be adopted with advantage.      When a ball presses on the bottom and
vertical side of  its box, and is at the same time pressed down by the
horizontal disk attached to the shaft of the anemometer which rests
on the balls, it revolves so that the instantaneous axis is the line
joining the points of contact with the fixed box. But if the lateral
force of the wind presses the shaft against the ball, the ball cannot
simply roll as the anemometer turns round, but there is a slight
amount of rubbing.
   This, however, may be obviated by giving the surfaces where the
ball is in contact other than a vertical or horizontal direction.
   Let AB be a portion of the cylindrical shaft of an anemometer ;
CD, the axis of the shaft ; EFGHI, a section of the fixed box or ctip
containing the balls ; LMN, a section of a conical surface fixed to the
shaft, by which the anemometer rests on its balls ; FIKM. a section of
one of the balls ; F, I, the points of contact of the ball with the box ;
M, the point of contact with the supporting cone ; K, the point of
contact or all but contact of the ball with the shaft.   The ball is sup
posed to be of such size that when the anemometer simply rests on the
balls by its own weight, being turned perhaps by a gentle wind, there
are contacts at the points M, F, I, while at K the ball and shaft are
separated by a space which may be deemed infinitesimal.           Lateral
pressure from a stronger wind will now bring the shaft into contact
with the ball at the point K also, so that the box on the one hand and
the shaft with its appendage on the other, will bear on the ball at four
points.    The surface of the box as well as that on the cone LN being
supposed to be one of revolution round CD, those four points will be

 1881.]      of some Experiments with Whirled     Anemometers.        183
 situated in a plane through CD, which will pass of course through
 the centre of the ball.
     If the ball rolls without rubbing at any one of the four points F, I,
 K, M as the anemometer turns round, its instantaneous axis must be
 the line joining the points of contact, F, I, with the fixed box. But
 as at M and K likewise there is nothing but rolling, the instantaneous
 motion of the ball may be thought of as one in which it moves as if it
 were rigidly connected with the shaft and its appendage, combined
 with a rotation over LNAB supposed fixed.           For the two latter
 motions the instantaneous axes are CD, MK, respectively.        Let MK
 produced cut CD in O. Then since the instantaneous motion is com
 pounded of rotations round two axes passing through O, the instan
 taneous axis must pass through 0. But this axis is FI. Therefore,
 FI must pass through O. Hence the two lines FI, MK, must
 intersect the axis of the shaft in the same point, which is the con
 dition to be satisfied in order that the ball may roll without rubbing,
 even though impelled laterally by a force sufficient to cause the side
 of the shaft to bear on it. The size of the balls and the inclinations
 of the surfaces admit of considerable latitude subject to the above
condition.       The arrangement might suitably be chosen something
 like that in the figure. It seems to me that a ring of balls con
 structed on the above principle would form a very effective upper
 support for an anemometer whirled with its axis vertical.       Possibly
 the balls might get crowded together on the outer side by the effect
of centrifugal force. This objection, should it be practically found
 to be an objection, would not of course apply to the proposed system
of mounting in the case ef a fixed anemometer.          Below, the shaft
would only require to be protected from lateral motion, which could
be done either by friction wheels or by a ring of balls constructed in
the usual manner, as there would be only three points of contact.
    2. Influence on the Anemometer of its own, Walce.— By this I do not
mean the influence which one cup experiences from the wake of its
predecessor, for this occurs in the whirling in almost exactly the same
way as in the normal use of the instrument, but the motion of the
air which remains at any point of the course of the anemometer in
consequence of the disturbance of the air by the anemometer when it
was in that neighbourhood in the next preceding and the still earlier
revolutions of the whirling instrument.
    It seems to me that in the open air where the air impelled by the
cups is freo to move into the expanse of the atmosphere, instead of
being confined by the walls of a building, this must be but small, more
especially as the wake would tend to be carried away by what little
wind there might be at the time. On making some enquiries from
Mr. Whipple as to a possible vorticose movement created in the air
through which the anemometer passed, he wrote as follows: — I feel
                                                                  "
    VOL. S.XXII.                                              0

  184       Prof. G. G. Stokes.       Discussion of the Results    [May    12,
 confident that under the circumstances the tangential motion of the air
 at the level of the cups was so small as not to need consideration in
 the discussion of the results.    As in one or two points of its revolution
 the anemometer passed close by some small trees in full leaf, we
 should have observed any eddies or artificial wind had it existed, but
 I  am sure we did not."
    3. Influence of the Variation of the  Wind ; first, as regards Variations
 which are not Rapid. — During the 20     or 30 minutes that an experiment
 lasted, there would of course be numerous fluctuations in the velocity
 of the wind, the mean result of which is alone recorded.         The period
 of the changes (by which expression it is not intended to assert that
 they were in any sense regularly periodic), might be a good deal
 greater than that of the merry, or might be comparatively short.           In
 the high    velocities, at any rate,  in which one revolution took only
 three or four seconds, the supposition that the period of the changes
 was large compared with one revolution is probably a good deal
 nearer the truth than the supposition that it is small.
    On the former supposition, the correction for the wind during two
 or three revolutions of the merry would be given by the formulae
 already employed, taking for W its value at the time.         Consequently,
 the total correction will be given by the formulae already used, if we
 substitute the mean of W2 for the square of mean W. The former is
 necessarily greater than the latter; but how much, we cannot tell
 without knowing the actual variations. We should probably make an
 outside estimate of the effect of the variations, if we supposed the
 velocity of the wind twice the mean velocity during half the duration
 of the experiment, and nothing at all daring the remainder.         On this
 supposition, the mean of W3 would be twice the square of mean WT
 and the correction for the wind would be doubled.              At the high
 velocities of revolution, the whole correction for the wind is so very
 small, that the uncertainty arising from variation as above explained
 is of little importance, and even for the moderate velocities it is not
 serious.
    4. Influence of Rapid Variations of the Wind. — Variations of which
 the period is a good deal less than that of the revolutions of the
 whirling instrument act in a very different manner. The smallness of
 the corrections for the wind hitherto employed depends on the cir
 cumstance that with uniform wind, or even with variable wind, when
the period of variation is a good deal greater than that of revolution of
 the merry, the terms depending on the first power of W, which letter
 is here used to denote the momentary velocity of the wind, disappear
 in the mean of a revolution.      This is not the case when a particular
 velocity of wind belongs only to a particular part of the oirclc de
scribed by the anemometer in ono revolution. In this case there will
in general be an outstanding effect depending on the first power of W,

1881.]       of some Experiments with Whirled              Anemometers.              185
which will                  larger than that depending on W3.
              be considerably                                      Thus
suppose the velocity   of whirling to be 30 miles     an hour, and   the
average velocity of the wind 3 miles an hour ; the correction for
the wind supposed uniform, or if variable, then with not very rapid
variations, will be comparable with 1 per cent, of the whole ; whereas,
with rapid variations, the effect in any one revolution may be com
parable with 10 per cent. There            is,
                                     however, this important difference
between the two that whereas the correction depending on the square
                    :
leaves a positive                   many experiments be made, the
                         residue, however
correction depending on the first power tends ultimately to disappear,
unless there be some cause tending to make the average velocity of the
wind different for one azimuth of the whirling instrument from what
it  for another.
     is            This leads to the consideration of the following con
ceivable source of error.
     5. Influence   of   Partial Shelter    Whirling Instrument. — On
                                             of   the
visiting the merry-go-round at the Crystal Palace,      found  Imostly     it
surrounded by trees coming pretty near it, but in one direction    was          it
approached by a broad open walk.         The consequence is, that the
anemometer may have been unequally sheltered in different parts of
its circular course, and the circumstances of partial shelter may have
varied according to the direction of the wind. This would be liable
to leave an uncompensated effect depending on the first power of W.
I  do not think     probable that any large error was thus introduced,
                    it
hut   itseemed necessary to point out that an error of the kind may
have existed.
    The effect in question would be eliminated in the long run        the       if
 whirling instrument were capable of reversion, and the experiments
were made alternately with the revolution in one direction, and the
reverse.    For then, at any particular point of the course at which the
anemometer was more exposed to wind than on the average, the wind
would tend to increase the velocity of rotation of the anemometer for
one direction of revolution of the whirling instrument just as much,
ultimately, as to diminish      for the other. Mere reversion of the
                                   it
cups has no tendency to eliminate the error arising from unequal ex
posure in different parts of the course.    And even when the whirling
instrument is capable of reversion,           only very slowly that the
                                                 it   is
error arising from partial shelter     eliminated compared with that of
                                        is
irregularities in the wind of those irregularities, that
                               ;                           to say, which
                                                                  is
depend on the first power of W.     For these irregularities go through
their changes a very great number of times in the course of an ex
periment lasting perhaps half an hour whereas, the effect of partial
                                                  ;
shelter acts the same way all through one experiment.         It    very       is
desirable therefore, that in any whirling experiments carried on in the
open air, the condition of the whirling instrument as to exposure or
shelter should be the same all round.
                                                                       o   2

  186       Prof. G. (x. Stokes.       Discussion  of the Results   [May 12,
      The trees, though taller than the merry when         I visited the place
  last year, were bat young, and must have been a good deal lower at
  the time that the experiments were made. Mr. Whipple does not
  think that any serious error is to be apprehended from exposure of the
 anemometer during one part of its course and shelter during another. '
      From a discussion of the foregoing experiments, it seems to me that
 the following conclusions may be drawn : —
     1. That, at least for high winds, the method of obtaining the factor
 for an anemometer, which consists in whirling the instrument in tbe
 open air is capable, with proper precautions, of yielding very good
 results.
     2.  That the factor varies materially with the pattern of the anemo
 meter.     Among those tried, the anemometers with the larger cups
 registered the most wind, or in other words required the lowest factors
 to give a correct result.
     3. That with the large      Kew pattern, which is the    one adopted   by
 the Meteorological     Office, the register gives about 120 per cent, of the
 truth, requiring a factor of about 2 5, instead of 3. Even 2*5 is pro
 bably a little too high, as friction would be introduced by the centri
 fugal force, beyond what occurs in the normal use of the instrument.
     4. That the factor is probably      higher for moderate than for high
 velocities ; but whether this is solely due to friction, tbe experiments
 do not allow us to decide.
     Qualitatively considered, these results agree well with those of other
 experimentalists.      As the factor depends so much on the pattern of the
 anemometer,     it is not easy to find other results with which to compare
the actual numbers obtained, except in the case of the Kew standard.
 The results obtained by Dr. Robinson, by rotating an anemometer of
this pattern without friction purposely applied, are given at pp. 797
and 799 of the "Phil. Trans." for 1878.           The mean of a few taken
with velocities of about 27 miles an hour in still air gave a factor
2'36, instead of 2\50, as deduced from Mr. Jeffery's experiments.          As
special antifriction appliances were used by Dr. Robinson, the friction
in Mr. Jeffery's experiments was probably a little higher.           If such
were the case, the factor ought to come out a little higher than in Dr.
Robinson's experiments, which is just what it does.          As the circum
stances of the experiments were widely different with respect to the
vorticose motion of the air produced by the action of the anemo
meter in it, we may      I  think conclude that no very serious error is to
be apprehended on this account.
    In a later paper (" Phil. Trans." for 1880, p. 1055), Dr. Robinson
has determined the factor for an anemometer (among others) of the
Kew pattern by a totally different method, and has obtained values
considerably larger than those given by the former method.              Thns
the limiting value of the factor m corresponding               to very high

 1881.]       of some Experiments with Whirled A nemometers.               187
velocities, is given at p. 1063 as 2-826, whereas the limiting value ob
tained     by the former method was only 2'286.           Dr. Robinson has
expressed a preference for the later results.       I confess I  have always
been disposed to place greater      reliance  on the results of the Dublin
experiments, which were carried out by a far more direct method, in
which     I  cannot see any flaw likely to account l'or so great a difference.
It would be interesting to try the second method in a more favour
able locality.
   I take this    opportunity of putting out some considerations respect
ing the general formula of the anemometer, which may perhaps not
be devoid of interest.
   The problem of the anemometer may be stated to be as follows: —
Let a uniform wind with velocity V act on a cup anemometer of given
pattern, causing the caps to revolve with a velocity v, referred to the
centre of the cups, the motion of the cups being retarded by a force of
friction F ; it is required to determine v as a function of V and F,
 F having any value from 0, corresponding to the ideal case of a friction-
less anemometer, to some limit Ej, which is just sufficient to keep the
caps from turning.        I will refer to my appendix to the former of
Dr. Robinson's papers ("Phil. Trans." for 1878, p. 818), for the
reasons for concluding that F is equal to V2 multiplied by a function
otVjv.      Let
                           Y/v=S,           F/V*=7)
then   if   we regard   f and ij as rectangular co-ordinates, we have to
determine the form of the curve, lying within the positive quadrant
fOij, which is defined by those co-ordinates.
   We may regard the problem         as  included in the more general pro-

188              Experiments with Whirled Anemometers.                                [May 12.
blem of determining t ae a function of V and F, where v is positive,
but F may be of any magnitude and sign, and therefore, V also.*
Negative values of F mean, of course, that the cups instead of being
retarded by friction, are acted on by an impelling force making them
go faster than in a frictionless anemometer, and values greater than
F, imply a force sufficient to send them round with the concave sides
foremost.
     Suppose now   F                        or negative, as to make v so
                       to be so large, positive
great that V may be neglected in comparison with            then we may    it,
think of the cups as whirled round in quiescent air in the positive or
usual direction when     F negative, in the negative direction when
                             is                                                               F
is greater than Fj. When        sufficiently large the resistance may be
                                  F   is
taken to vary as i>2. For equal velocities           much greater when
                                                        v   it   is
the concave side goes foremost, than when the rotation          the other        is
way.    For air impinging perpendicularly on a hemispherical cap,
Dr. Robinson found that the resistance was as nearly as possibly four
times as great when the concave side was directed                           to the     wind   as
when the convex side was turned in that direction.        When the air     f
is at rest and the cups are whirled round, some little difference may
be made by the wake of each cup affecting the one that follows.
Still we cannot be very far wrong by supposing the same proportion,
4  to   1, to hold good in this case.   When         large enough and
                                                             F        is
negative,    F may bo taken to vary as «3, say to be equal to — Ltr.
Similarly, when    F   large enough and positive,
                       is                           may be taken equal
                                                                 F
to li'v2, whore in accordance with the experiment referred to, 1/ must
be about equal to 4L.     Hence we must have nearly —
                 7=— Lf2, when        f    is   positive and very large          ;
                 iy=4Lf2          „        negativo      „
Hence   ifwe draw the semi-parabola OAB corresponding to the equa
tion i;=4Lf3 in the quadrant rjO—      and the semi-parabola OCD with
                                             f,
a latus lectum four times as great in the quadrant fO— *), our curve
at a great distance from the origin must nearly follow the parabola
OAB in the quadrant 17O — and the parabola OCD in the quadrant
                                  f,
fO — 7, and between the two it will have some flowing form such as
PNMK. There must be a point of inflexion somewhere between P
and K, not improbably within the positive quadrant j-Oi).            In the
neighbourhood    of this point the  curve NM     would   hardly differ from
a straight line.  Perhaps this may be the reason why Dr. Robinson's
experiments in the paper published in the
                                                 " Phil. Trans." for 1878
 were so nearly represented by    straight line.
                                       a
    *Of course v must bo supposed not to be bo large as to be comparable with the
velocity of sound, since then the resistance to a body impelled through air, or having
air impinging on it, no longer varies as the square of the velocity.
 t   " Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy," vol. xiii, p. 163.

1881.]       Investigations on  the Spectrum  of Magnesium.          18i>
III.   " Investigations on the Spectrum of Magnesium."                By
      G. D. Liveing, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, and
      J. Dewak, M.A., F.R.S., Jacksonian Professor, University
      of Cambridge.      Received April 28, 1881.
                                 [PlATE 1.]
   Since our last communication on this subject (" Proc. Roy. Soc,"
vol. 30, p. 93) several authors — Ciamician, Cornu and Fievez — have
published observations on the spectrum of magnesium, to some of
which allusion is made in the sequel, but these observations by no
means exhaust the subject.     Our own observations, carried on for a
considerable time, have extended to new regions and a variety of cir
cumstances, and the summary of them which we now present to the
Society will, we hope, help to bring out the connexion between some
of the variations in the spectrum of this element and the conditions
under which it is observed, and throw additional light on the ques
tion of the emissive power for radiations of short wave-length of
substances at the relatively low temperature of flame to which we
alluded in our paper on the spectrum of water (" Proc. Roy. Soc,"
vol. 30, p. 580).
   We begin with an account of these observations.
              Spectrum of the Flame of Burning Magnesium.
   When magnesium wire or ribbon is burnt in air, we see the three
lines of the b group, the blue line about wave-length 4570, first noticed
by us in the spark spectrum (" Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 27, p. 350) ;
and photographs show, besides, the well-known triplet in the ultra
violet between the solar lines K and L sharply defined, and the line
for which Cornu has found the wave-length 2850 very much expanded
and strongly reversed. These lines are all common to the flame, arc,
and spark spectra ; and the last of them (2850) seems to be by far the
strongest line both in the flame and arc, and is one of the strongest in
the spark.    But, in addition to these lines, the photographs of the
flame show a very strong, somewhat diffuse, triplet, generally re
sembling the other magnesium triplets in the relative position of its
components, close to the solar line M ; and a group of bands below it
extending beyond the triplet near L. These bands have, for the most
part, each one sharply defined edge, but fade away on the other side ;
but the diffuse edges are not all turned towards the same side of the
spectrum. The positions of the sharp edges of these bands, and of the
strong triplet near M, are shown in the figure, No. 1. It is remarkable
that the triplets near P and S are absent from the flame spectrum,
and that the strong triplet near M is not represented at all either
in the arc or spark.    The hydrogen-magnesium/series    of lines, begin
ning at a wave-length about 5210, are also seen sometimes, as already

190                        Profs. Liveing and Dewar.                                [liar.    12,
 described by us (" Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 30, p. 96), in the spectrum
of the flame ; but we have never observed that the appearance of these
lines, or of the strong line with which they begin, is connected with
the non-appearance of        Indeed, we can almost always see all three
                              64.
lines of the group in the flame, though as
              b                                     the least strong of
                                                                b.t   is
the three,  it  likely
                 is    to be most easily overpowered by the continuous
spectrum of the flame.     The new observations recorded below leave,
we think, no room for doubt that the series of lines beginning at
wave-length 5210 are due to a combination of hydrogen with mag
nesium, and are not dependent solely on the temperature.
   The wave-lengths of the strong triplet ncarM are about 3720, 3724,
3730, and of the defined edges of the bands about 3750, 3756, 3765,
3772, 3777, 3782, 3790, 3799, 3806, 3810, 3815, 3824, 3841, 3845,
3848, 3855, 3858, 3860, 3865.
   Burning magnesium in oxygen instead of atmospheric air does not
bring out any additional lines on the contrary, the continuous spec
                                         ;
trum from the magnesia overpowers the line spectrum, and makes                                 it
more difficult of observation.
   Magnesia heated in the oxyhydrogen jet does not appear to give
the lines seen in the flame.
   We have left out of tho figure and from the enumeration of lines
the well-known bands of the oxide.
                                   Spectrum   of   the   Arc.
  By examining the arc of a battery of        40 Grove's cells, or that of a
Siemens'    machine,       taken    incrucible of lime, under the disper
                                         a
sion of the spectrum of the fourth order given by                Rutherford    a
grating of 17,206 lines to the inch, we are able to separate the iron
and magnesium lines which form the very close pair              of the solar   64
spectrum.    Either of the two lines can be rendered the more prominent
of the pair at will, by introducing iron or magnesium into the crucible.
The less refrangible line of the pair       thus seen to be due to iron, the
                                              is
more refrangible to magnesium.           Comparison of the solar line and
the spark between magnesium points confirms this conclusion, that the
magnesium line       the more refrangible of the two.
                      is
   In the ultra-violet part of the spectrum photographs show several
new lines.    First,   pair of lines above U at wave-lengths about 2942,
                       a
2938'5.*   These lines are       little below
                                    a            pair of lines given by the
                                                         a
spark for which Cornu has found the wave-lengths 2934-9, 2926'7.
The latter pair are not seen at all in photographs of the arc, nor the
former in those of the spark.         The strong line, wave-length about
  * [Many of our photographs show     besides these two lines third line waye-length
                                                                           a
about 2937*6, but we have not been able to determine certainly that             due to
                                                                                    it   is
magnesium.    If so this group probably belongs to the series of triplets. —June 2.]

1881.]        Investigations on  the Spectrum    of Magnesium.          191
2850,   is always seen, very frequently reversed.         Of the quadruple
group in the spark to which Cornu has assigned the wave-lengths
2801-3, 2797-1, 2794-5, and 2789"9, the first and third are strongly
developed in tho arc, the other two not at all.       Next follows a set of
five nearly equidistant lines, well-defined and strong, but much less
strong than the two previously mentioned, wave-lengths about 2782'2,
2780-7, 2779 5, 2778-2, 2776'9.      The middle line is a little stronger
than the others. The same lines come out in the spark.
   Beyond these follow a series of pairs and triplets ; probably they
are triplets in every case, but the third, most refrangible, line of the
triplets is the weakest, and has not in every case been noticed as yet.
These succeed one another at decreasing intervals with diminishing
strength, and are alternately sharp and diffuse, the diffuse triplets
being the strongest.      The positions are shown in fig. 2. The series
resembles in general character the sodium and the potassium series
described by us in a former communication, and we cannot resist the
inference that they must be harmonically related, though they do not
follow a simple harmonic law. The most refrangible line in the
figure at wave-length 2605 represents a faint diffuse band which is
not resolvable into lines ; it belongs, no doubt, to the diffuse members
of the series, and, to complete the series, there should be another
sharp group between it and the line at wave-length 2630.               This
belonging to the weaker members of the series is too weak to be seen.
   The approximate wave-lengths found by us for these lines are as
follows :— 2767 5, 2764-5, 2736, 2732-5, 2731, 2698, 2695, 2693 5,
2672-5, 2670, 2668-5, 2649, 2046, 2633, 2630, 2605.
   It is worthy of remark that the line at wave-length 5710, described
by us in a previous communication            (" Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 30,
p. 98), is very nearly the octave of the strong line at 2850. Moreover
the measures we have taken of the wave-length of this last line, with
a Rutherford grating of 17,296 lines to the inch, indicate a wave
 length 2852 nearly, which is still closer to the half of 5710.
   In Cornu's map of the solar spectrum a line is ascribed to mag
nesium with the wave-length 3278.         Although a line at this place
appears   in many   of  our photographs  of the arc, we have not been able
to identify it as a line due to magnesium.           It does not show any
increased strength when magnesium is introduced into the arc. When
metallic magnesium is dropped into a crucible of magnesia or lime
through which the arc is passing, the electric current seems some
times to be conducted chiefly or entirely by the vaporised metal, so
that the lines of other metals almost or wholly disappear ; but the
line at wave-length 3278 does not in such cases appear, though the
other magnesium lines are very strongly developed.              The line at
wave-length     2850   is often, under  such    circumstances,  enormously
expanded and reversed, those at wave-lengths 2801, 2794, and the

192                     Profs. Liveing and Dewar.                           [May 12,
alternate    diffuse triplets, including those near L and near S, much
expanded and reversed,         and the group of five lines (2776 — 2782)
sometimes reversed.
   When the arc of a Siemens machine is taken in a magnesia crucible,
the strong line of the flame spectrum, wave-length 4570, is well seen
sharply defined ; it comes out strongly and a little expanded on drop
ping in a fragment of magnesium. When a gentle stream of hydrogen
is led in through a hollow pole, this line is frequently reversed as a
sharp black line on a continuous background.       From comparing the
position of this line with those of the titaninm lines in its neighbour
hood, produced by putting some titanic oxide into the crucible, we
have little doubt that it is identical with the solar line 4570"9 of
o
Angstrom.
  When the arc is taken in  a crucible into which the air has access,
it may                  the atmosphere about the arc is a mixture of
           be assumed that
nitrogen and carbonic oxide. When a stream of hydrogen is passed,
either through a perforated pole or by a separate opening, into the
crucible, the general effect is to shorten the length to which the arc
can be drawn out, increase the relative intensity of the continuous
spectrum, and diminish the intensity of the metallic lines. Thus, with
a very gentle stream of hydrogen      in a magnesia crucible, most of
the metallic lines, except the strongest and those of magnesium, dis
appear.  Those lines which remain are sometimes reversed ; those at
wave-length 28-50 and the triplet near L being always so. With a
stronger stream the lines of magnesium also disappear, the b triplet
being the last in that neighbourhood to go, and bl and    remaining   b.2
after  bihas disappeared.
   Chlorine seems to have an opposite effect to hydrogen, generally
intensifying the metallic lines, at least those of the less volatile metals,
but   does not sensibly affect the spectrum of magnesium.
      it                                                            Nitrous
oxide produces no marked effect coal-gas acts much as hydrogen.
                                     ;
                             Spectrum    of   the Spark.
    In the spark of an induction coil taken between magnesium points
 in air we get all the lines seen in the arc except two lines at wave
lengths 4350 and 4166, two lines above U, and the series of triplets
more refrangible than the quintuple group about wave-length 2780.
The blue line wave-length about 4570          seen in the spark without
                                                 is
a  jar when the magnesium electrodes are close together, and the
rhootome made to work slowly, but requires for its detection a spec
troscope in which the loss of light    small.
                                         is
   On the other hand, some additional lines are seen.      Of these, the
strong line at wave-length 4481 and the weak line at 4586 are well
known. Another faint line in the blue at wave-length 4808* has been
    * This line we first noticed in a former communication   ("   Proc.     Roy. Soc,"

1881.]          Investigations on    the Spectrum       of Magnesium.              19;5
observed by us in the spark, and two diffuse pairs between H and the
triplet near L. Two ultra-violet lines at wave-lengths 2934'9, 2926' 7
(Cornu) are near, but not identical with, two lines of the arc above
mentioned ; and two more lines at wave-lengths 2797"1, 2789-9 (Cornu)
make a quadruple group with the very strong pair which are con
spicuous in the arc in this region. The spectrum of the spark ends,
so far as we have observed, with the quintuple group (2782—2776)
already described in the arc. The lines of this spectrum are given in
fig. 3.
    When a Leyden jar is used with the coil, some of the lines are
reversed.      This is notably the case with the triplet near L, the line at
wave-length 2850, and those at 2801 and 2794. Cornu ("Compt.
Rend.," 1871) noticed the reversal of the less refrangible two lines of
the triplet near L under these circumstances.                   This effect is very
much increased by increasing the pressure of the gas in which the
spark is taken. For the purpose of observing the influence of increased
pressures, we have used a Cailletet pump and glass tubes similar
to those employed in the liquefaction of gases by means of such a pump,
but with an expansion of the upper part in which were magnesium
electrodes attached to platinum wires sealed into the glass.                  The tube
 having been filled with gas at the atmospheric pressure, was sealed at
its upper end, while the lower end dipped into mercury contained in
 the iron bottle of the Cailletet pump, and the gas was afterwards com
 pressed by driving more or less mercury into the tube.                      The gases
 used were hydrogen, nitrogen, and carbonic oxide ; and the image of
 the spark was thrown on to the slit of the spectroscope by a lens. In
 hydrogen, when no Leyden jar was used, the brightness of the yellow
 and of the blue lines of magnesium, except at first that at wave-length
 4570, diminished as the pressure increased ; while, on the other hand,
 the b group was decidedly stronger at the higher pressure.                         The
 pressure was carried up to 20 atmospheres, and then the magnesium
 lines in the blue and below almost or entirely disappeared, leaving only
 the b group very bright, and the magnesium-hydrogen                     bands which
 are described below; even the hydrogen lines F and C were not
 visible. When a jar was used, the magnesium lines expanded as the
                                                            i
 pressure was increased ; all three lines of the group were expanded
 and reversed at a pressure of 5 atmospheres ; the yellow line, wave
 length 5528, was also expanded but not reversed ; and the line at 4481
 became a broad, very diffuse band, but the line at wave-length 4570
 was but very little expanded.          The expansion both of the b group and
 of the yellow line seemed to be greater on the less refrangible than on
 the more refrangible side of each line, so that the black line in those
 vol. 27, p. 353), but the wave-length is there given, through an error in taking out the
 ordinate of the curve of interpolation, as 4797 instead of 4807.      Another measure
 has given the wave-length 480S.

 194                  Profs. Liveing and Dewar.                   [May 12,
which were reversed was not in the middle.          When the jar was used
the pressure could not be carried beyond 10 or 12-^ atmospheres, as the
 resistance became then so great that the spark would not pass across
 the small distance of about 1 millim. between the electrodes.           At
a pressure of 2£ atmospheres, with a jar, the ultra-violet magnesium
triplet near L was very well reversed, and the two pairs of lines on its
less refrangible side (shown in fig. 3) were expanded into two diffuse
bands.
   In nitrogen and in carbonic oxide the general effects of increased
pressure on the magnesium lines (not the magnesium-hydrogen         bands)
seemed to be much the same as in hydrogen.          Without a jar the blue
and yellow lines were enfeebled, and at the higher pressures dis
appeared, while the b group was very brilliant but not much ex
panded.     With the jar all the lines were expanded, and all three lines
of the    b group strongly reversed.      The bands of the oxide (wave
              —
length 4930 5000) were not seen at all in hydrogen or nitrogen ;
they were seen at first in carbonic oxide, but not after the sparking
had been continued for some time.
   The disappearance of certain lines at increased pressure is in har
mony with the observations of Cazin ("Phil. Mag.," 1877, vol. iv, 154),
who noticed that the banded spectrum of nitrogen, and also the lines,
grew fainter as the pressure was increased, and finally disappeared.
When a Leyden jar is employed there is a very great increase in the
amount of matter volatilised by the spark from the electrodes, as is
shown by the very rapid blackening of the sides of the tube with the
deposited metal, and this increase in the amount of metallic vapour
may reasonably be supposed to affect the character of the discharge,
and conduce to the widening of the lines and the reversal of some of
them.     Without a jar the amount of matter carried off the electrode
also doubtless increases with the pressure and consequent resistance,
and may be the cause of the weakening, as Cazin suggests, of the lines
of the gas in which the discharge is passed. It is to be noted, moreover,
that the disappearance of the hydrogen lines depends, in some degree,
on the nearness of the electrodes.       The lines C and F which were, as
above stated, sometimes invisible in the spark when the electrodes
were near, became visible, under circumstances          otherwise similar,
when the magnesium points had become worn away
                                                          by the discharge.
   M. Ch. Fievez (" Bull, de l'Academie Royale de
                                                          Belgique," 1880,
p. 91) has investigated the variations in the
                                                  appearance of the spark
spectrum of magnesium under certain different
                                                      conditions.   Using a
Rutherford grating of 17,296 lines to the inch, he has noticed
                                                                     certain
lines about the b group which
                                    increase in number with the order of
the spectrum observed.     He has also noticed dark lines in the solar
spectrum corresponding to these
                                      lines of magnesium when the two
spectra were superposed
                           (fig. 5). We have noticed similar lines in the

 1881.]          Investigations an the Spectrum  of Magnesium.            llJ5
 spectrum of magnesium given by a Rutherford grating, but attribute
 them to a different cause.     The Rutherford gratings have a periodic in
 equality in the ruling, due to an imperfection of the screw of the ruling
 machine, in consequence of which the image of every bright line is
 accompanied by a series of fainter images at nearly equal distances on
 either side of it, diminishing rapidly in brightness as they recede from
 the principal line.     These ghosts are so much fainter than the principal
 lines that they are not noticed in the case of any but bright lines, and
 except in the case of very bright lines only two, one on each side, are
 seen to accompany each principal line.
                                      Fi«.  5.
 Solar spectrum
   by Rutherford
  grating 4th
   order after M.
   Fievez.
 Magnesium.
                                      Fig.
Magnesium h
    group with
    ghosts pro
    duced    by
    Rutherford
    grating.
                                                                     iotrum
                                                                       3rd
                                                                     der.
                                     Fio.  6.
     The positions of these ghosts have been investigated by Mr. Peirco
in the "Mathematical Journal" of the Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, who has found theoretically, and confirmed it by actual

196                        Profs. Liveing and Dewar.               [May 12.
observation,   that the distance between successive images of the same
line is directly proportional to the dispersion and inversely as the
order of the spectrum.        Our own observations of the positions of
the ghosts of the b group of magnesium lines in spectra of different
orders agree closely with Mr. Peirce's theory, and two different
Rutherford gratings both give us the same results.        The annexed dia
gram (figs. 6 and 7) gives the relative positions of the first pair of
ijhosts of each of the lines of the b group in the spectra of the third
and fourth orders, when the angle between collimator and telescope
is 45°. If this is compared with M. Ch. Fievez's map, it will be seen
that he has probably been deceived by these ghosts, both in the solar
spectrum and in that of the spark ; but as he does not state the angle
between his collimator and telescope, no exact comparison can be
made.     These ghosts are sometimes very embarrassing when many
lines are in the field of view, but they may be detected by comparing
the spectra of different orders, as the ghosts have different relative
positions in the spectra of different orders.       In the spectrum of the
third order the first ghost of       on the more refrangible side falls on
                                    b.2
b
„    and that of    on its less refrangible side falls on bv
                    bi
                         The Magnesium-hydrogen   Spectrum.
    In the " Proc. Roy. Soc,"vol. 27, p. 494, and vol. 30,    93, we have
                                                              p.
recorded a series of experiments which led us to attribute to magnesium
together with hydrogen a peculiar spectrum.      This spectrum we have
on no occasion been able to detect in the absence of hydrogen.        Ob
servations   on the spark discharge in nitrogen, in carbonic oxide, and
in hydrogen, at reduced pressures, confirmed the results given in the
first-mentioned paper, when the discharge was taken in the gases at
atmospheric pressure.     It was further shown that this peculiar spec
trum could be reversed during the voltaic discharge in a lime crucible,
provided magnesium and hydrogen were both present, but not in the
absence of hydrogen.     Likewise the flame of burning magnesium was
found to emit this spectrum when the combustion occurred in an
atmosphere containing either free or combined hydrogen. In summing
up our results the following opinion was expressed —
    "
                                                         :
      The experiments above described, with nitrogen and carbonic
oxide at reduced pressures, are almost      not quite conclusive against
                                            if
the supposition that the line at 5210      due merely to the lower tem
                                            is
perature of the spark in hydrogen.       From De La Rue and Muller's
observations   itwould appear that nitrogen at a pressure of 400millims.
 should produce much the same effect on the
                                                   spark as hydrogen at
 700 millims.    Now the pressures of the nitrogen and carbonic oxide
were reduced far below this without any trace of
                                                     the line in question
 being visible.   Moreover, the magnesium line at 4481, which         not
                                                                      is

1881.]         Investigations on the Spectrum    of Magnesium.          197
seen   in the arc, and may be reasonably ascribed to the higher tem
perature of the spark, may be seen in the spark at the same time
as the line at 5210 when hydrogen is present.            Nevertheless, tem
perature does seem to affect the result in some degree, for when a
large Leyden jar is used, and the gas is at the atmospheric pressure,
the line almost disappears from the spark, to reappear when the
pressure is reduced ; but by no variation of temperature have we been
able to see the line when hydrogen was carefully excluded.
    " A line of the same wave-length has been seen by Young in the
chromosphere once. Its absence from the Fraunhofer lines leads to
the inference that the temperature of the sun is too high (unless at
special times and places) for its production. If it be not due to a
compound of magnesium with hydrogen, at any rate it occurs with
special facility in the presence of hydrogen, and ought to occur in the
sun if the temperature were not too high.
    " We have been careful to ascribe this line and its attendant series
to a mixture of magnesium and hydrogen rather than to a chemical
compound, because this expresses the facts, and we have not yet
obtained any independent evidence of the existence of any chemical
compound of those elements."
    Fig. 4 shows more completely than we have given it before the
general    character of this spectrum, which consists of two sets of
flutings   and   a pair of fainter bands, the flutings closely resembling
in character the hydrocarbon         flutings, each fluting consisting of
 a  multitude of fine lines closely set on the less refrangible side
 and becoming wider apart and weaker towards the more refrangible
 side, but extending      under favourable circumstances      much further
 than is shown in the figure.       The set   in the green is the stronger,
 and it was to this that our former observations were confined.           It
 has two flutings, one beginning at about wave-length         5210 and the
 other close to 6T on its more refrangible side.     The other set consists
 of three principal flutings, of which the first begins at aftout wave
 length 5018, the next at about wave-length 5566, and the third begins
 with three strong lines at about the wave-lengths 5513, 5512, 5511.
 Both sets are very well seen when a magnesium wire is burnt in the
 edge of a hydrogen flame, and in the arc in a crucible of magnesia
 when a gentle current of hydrogen is led into it.      The less refrangible
 edges of the bands are at wave-lengths     about 4849 and 4803.
    As Mr. Lockyer, in a paper entitled " A New Method of Spectrum
                "
 Observation       (" Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 30, p. 22) has brought for
 ward this spectrum as illustrative and confirmatory of his views
 regarding the possibility of elemental dissociation at different heat-
  levels, we have been induced to review our former work.          The view
 takan by Mr. Lockyer may be expressed in his own words.
     " The flame
                  spectrum of magnesium perhaps presents ns best with

1H8                    Profs. Liveing and Dowar.                 [May 12,
the beautiful effects produced by the passage from the lower to the
higher heat-level, and shows the important bearing on solar physics
of the results obtained by this new method of work.
    " In the flame the two least refrangible of the components of    b are
seen associated with    a  line less refrangible so as to form a triplet.
A series of flutings and a line in the blue are also seen.
    " On passing the spark all these but the two components of b are
abolished.     We get the wide triplet replaced by a narrow one of the
same form, the two lines of b being common to both
    " May we consider the existence of these molecular states as forming
a true basis for Dalton's law of multiple proportions ?        If so, then
the metals in different chemical combinations will exist in different
molecular groupings, and we shall be able, by spectrum observations,
to determine the particular heat-level to which the molecular complexity
of the solid metal, induced by chemical affinity, corresponds.
    " Examples. — None of the lines of magnesium special to the flame
spectrum are visible in the spectrum of the chloride either when a flame
or a spark is employed."
    In order to ascertain if this spectrum could be produced at a high
temperature in the presence of hydrogen, which element we have
already shown to be essential to its production at the atmospheric and
at reduced pressures, the series of experiments already mentioned in
describing the spark spectrum were made with hydrogen at pressures
increasing up to twenty atmospheres.
    On the supposition that this spectrum originates from the formation
of some chemical compound, probably formed within certain limits of
temperature when vapour of magnesium is in presence of hydrogen,
the stability of the body ought to depend largely on the pressure of
the gaseous medium.       Like Graham's hydrogenium, this body might
 be formed at a temperature at which it would under ordinary circum
stances be decomposed, provided the pressure of the hydrogen were
correspondingly increased.     In fact, it has been shown by Troost that
the hydrides of palladium, sodium, and potassium all follow strictly
the laws of chemical dissociation enunciated by Deville ; and increased
pressure by rendering the compound more stable, provided the secondary
effect of such pressure in causing a higher temperature in the electric
 discharge were not overpowering, ought to conduce to a more continuous
and brilliant spectrum of the compound.        Conversely, if such a more
continuous and brilliant spectrum be found to result, in spite of the
 higher temperature, from increased pressure, it can only be explained
 by the stability of the substance being increased with the pressure.
    Now what are the facts ? When the spark of an induction coil,
without a Leyden jar, is passed between magnesium electrodes in
 hydrogen at atmospheric pressure, the flutings in the green are, as
 before described, always seen, but they are much stronger at the poles

18S 1.]         Investigations on  the Spectrum of Magnesium.             199
and do not always extend quite across the field.           As the pressure is
increased, however, they increase in brilliance and soon extend per
sistently from pole to pole, and go on increasing in intensity, until, at
fifteen and twenty atmospheres, they are fully equal in brilliance to
the    b   group,  notwithstanding the increased brightness these have
acquired by       the  higher temperature, due to the increased pressure.
The second set of flutings, those in the yellowish-green, come out as
the pressure is increased, and, in fact, at twenty atmospheres only
the b group and the flutings are noticeable ; if the yellow magnesium
line be visible at all it is quite lost in the brilliance of the yellow
flutings. The tail of fine lines of these flutings extend at the high
pressure quite up to the green, and those of the green flutings quite
up to the blue.         On again letting down the pressure the like phe
nomena occur in the reverse order, but the brilliance of the flutings
does not diminish so rapidly as it had increased.           If, now, when the
pressure has again reached that of the atmosphere, a large Leyden jar
be interposed in the circuit, on passing the spark the flutings are still
 seen quite bright, and they continue to be seen with gradually
 diminishing intensity until the sparks have        been continued for a con
 siderable     time.    It appears   that  the  compound, which had been
 formed in large quantity by the spark without jar at the higher
 pressures, is only gradually decomposed, and not re-formed, by the
 high temperature of the spark with jar. This experiment, which was
 several times repeated, is conclusive against the supposition that the
 flutings are merely due to      a lower temperature.      When the pressure
 was increased at the same time that the jar was employed, the flutings
 did not immediately disappear, but the expansion of the magnesium
 lines and the increase of the continuous spectrum seemed to over
 power them.
     When nitrogen was substituted for hydrogen, the strongest lines of
 the green flutings were seen when the spark without jar was first
 passed at atmospheric pressure, probably from hydrogen occluded, as
 it usually is, in the magnesium electrodes.            As the pressure was
 increased they speedily disappeared entirely and were not again seen
 either at high or low pressures.
     With carbonic oxide the same thing occurred as with nitrogen ; but
  in this gas the flutings due to the oxide of magnesium (wave-length
 4930 to 5000) were, for a time, very well seen.
     Ciamician (" Sitzungsber. Akad. Wissensch.," Wien, 1880, p. 437)
 has described a spectrum of magnesium of the first order (in
  Pliicker's nomenclature) obtained by taking sparks from an induc
  tion coil, without a jar, between magnesium electrodes in an atmo
  sphere of hydrogen.       He gives a figure to a scale of this spectrum,
  but    it is not to   a scale of   wave-lengths,  so that   exact comparison
  of his observations with ours is difficult.      The least refrangible set of
     vol. xxxii.                                                     p

200                         Profs.      Liveiug and Dewar.                        [May 12'
flutings in his figure corresponds very well with that we have
described in the yellowish-green.   The next set, in the green, in his
figure does not, however, correspond exactly with ours; it begins
nearer to b than we have observed and consists of four flutings,
whereas we observe but two in this set.     It looks as    in his figure,   if,
the magnesium-hydrogen      spectrum were superposed upon the hydro
carbon spectrum in this region.       Further, he gives       third more      a
refrangible set of flutings which we have only observed as two blue
bands, not fluted.   This third set of flutings, as drawn in his figure,
appears to be somewhat more refrangible than the set due to
the oxide, and occupies partly the place of the blue hydrocarbon
series, but a passage in the text, in which he says that the mag
nesium spectrum of the second order might, without measurement,
easily be taken to be identical with that of carbon, almost negatives
the supposition that this set of flutings       the blue hydrocarbon set
                                                                 is
and mistaken for a magnesium spectrum of the first order.       To what
ever  itmay be due, we have not seon anything closely resembling it
under the circumstances described by him, though our observations
on the spark spectrum of magnesium in hydrogen have now been
repeated with all the variations of circumstance which we could
devise.
     Mr. Lockyer states             that none of the lines of magnesium,
                                  (loc. cit.)
special to the flame spectrum, are visible in the spectrum of the
chloride, either when      flame or spark
                            a                employed.
                                                a         But we find that
                                                            is
when the spark      istaken between platinum points from a solution of
the chloride of magnesium, in a tube such as those used by Delachanal
and Mermet, the line at wave-length 5210 can frequently be seen in                      it
when the tube        filled with air, and that
                    is                              the tube be filled with
                                                                      if
hydrogen    the  green flutings of magnesium-hydrogen       are persistent
and strong.
   Repeated observations have confirmed our previous statements as
to the facility with which the magnesium-hydrogen        spectrum can be
produced    in the   arc by  the  help of    current of   the gas.
                                                            a       In a
magnesia   crucible,  by regulating the current of hydrogen, the flutings
can be easily obtained either bright or reversed.
                                  Comparison         of   the Spectra.
   When we compare the spectra of magnesium in the flame, arc, and
spark, we observe that the most persistent line     that at wave-lengthis
2850, which     also the strongest in the flame and arc, and one of the
               is
strongest in the spark.    The intensity of the radiation of magnesium
at this wave-length      witnessed by the fact that' this line is always
                             is
reversed in the flame as well as in the arc when metallic magnesium
   introduced into     and in the spark between magnesium electrodes
                         is it,
is
when a Leydeu jar       used.  It equally remarkable for its power of
                                                is

1881.]          Investigations on   the Spectrum  of Magnesium.           201
expansion.       In the flaine it is a broad band, and equally so in the arc
when magnesium is freshly introduced, but fines down to a narrow
line as the metal evaporates.
    Almost equal in persistence are the series of triplets. Only the
least refrangible pair of these triplets is seen in the flame, another
pair is seen in the spark, but the complete series is only seen in the
arc. We regard the triplets as a series of harmonics, and to acconnt
for the whole series being seen only in the arc we must look to some
other cause than the temperature.          This will probably be found in the
greater mass of the incandescent matter contained in the crucible in
which the arc was observed.
    The blue line of the flame at wave-length 4570 is well seen in the
arc, and is easily reversed, but is always a sharp line, increased in
brightness but not sensibly expanded by putting magnesium into the
crucible.     In the spark, at atmospheric pressure, it is only seen close
to the pole or crossing the field in occasional           flashes ; but seems
to come out more decidedly at rather higher pressures, at least in
hydrogen.
    The series of bands near L, well developed in the flame, but not
seen at all in the arc or spark, look very much like the spectrum of a
 compound, but we have not been able to trace them to any particular
 combination.      Sparks in air, nitrogen, and hydrogen have alike failed
 to produce    them.    The very strong, rather diffuse triplet at M, with
 which they end, so closely resembles in general character the other
 magnesium triplets, that it may well be connected with that constitu
 tion of the magnesian particle which gives rise to the triple sets of
 vibrations in other cases, but, if so, its presence in the flame alone is
 not easily explained.
    The occurrence      of this triplet in the ultra-violet, and of the re
 markable series of bands associated with it, as well as the extra
 ordinary intensity of the still more refrangible line at wave-length 2850,
 which is strongly reversed in the spectrum of the flame, corroborates
 what the discovery of the ultra-violet spectrum of water had revealed,
 that substances at the temperatures of flames while giving in the less
 refrangible part of the spectrum more or less continuous radiation, may
 still give, in the regions of shorter wave-length, highly discontinuous
 spectra, such as have formerly been deemed characteristic of the
 highest temperatures.       This subject we will not discuss further at
 present,   but simply remark what we have stated formerly, that "it
 opens up questions as to the enormous power for radiation of short
 wave-length of gaseons bodies at the comparatively low temperature
 of flame with regard to which we are accumulating facts."
    In the arc and spark, but not in the flame, we have next a very
  striking   group of two very strong lines at wave- lengths about 2801
  and   2794, and a quintuple group of strong but sharp lines above
                                                                    p 2

 202           Investigations   on the Spectrum    of Magnesium.      [May
 them.     The former are usually reversed in the spark with jar,
 are reversed in the arc when much magnesium is present.              Therl
 also several single lines in the visible part of the spectrum comm           j
 the arc and spark.       All of these may be lines developed by the
 temperature of the arc and spark.         An indigo and a violet line i
 arc have not been traced in the spark, but their non-appearanc*
 be due to the same cause as that above suggested for the
 appearance of the higher triplets, the smallness of the incande
 mass in the spark.
                                                                            J
    A pair of lines in the arc near U appear to be represented i
 spark by an equally strong, er stronger, pair near but not identi          —
 position.    The possibility of such a shift, affecting these two
 only in the whole spectrum and affecting them uneqnally, must
 present state of our knowledge be very much a matter of specul
 Perhaps sufficient attention has not hitherto been directed t
probability of vibrations being set up directly by the electric disc
independently       of the secondary action of elevation of temper!
 Some of the observations         above described,    and many others
known,     indicate   a selective   action by which an electric disci
lights up certain kinds of matter in its path to the exclusion of ot
and it is possible that in the case of vibrations which are not
most easily assumed by the particles of magnesium, the charac
the impulse may slightly affect the period of vibration.         The fact
so far as observations        go,   the  shift  in the  case  of  this pi
magnesium lines is definite and constant, militates against the su;
tion suggested.       On the other hand, the ghost-like pairs of
observed in the spark below the triplet near L, suggest the ideal
some of the particles have      their tones flattened by  some such causJ
    The strong pair at wave-length       2801,  2794, are accompanied i$
spark, but not in the arc, by a much feebler, slightly more re:
pair, but these have not the diffuse ghost-like character of those]
alluded to.
    These lines are phenomena of the high potential discbarge in
particles are torn off the electrodes with great violence, and may
be thrown into a state of vibration which they will not assu:
mere elevation of temperature.
    There are two lines in the spark besides the well-known lid
wave-length 4481 which have not been observed in the arc, but f
are feeble and would be insignificant if it were not the fact that thei
well as the line at wave-length 4481, all short lines seen generally I
about the poles, appear to be present in the solar spectrum.        In thi
we seem to have all the lines common to the flame, arc, and spark (
the line given in Angstrom's map at 4570'9 be not identical as we
it to be with the magnesium line), and possibly, judging by Rutherfi
photograph,     the strong triplet of the flame at   M ; but one line  co

                 I.I.I.
                4S
I 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1     1        II
                                       45
                                     1 1 1   II   1 1 1 1    II
                                                                       44
                                                                   1 1 1 1 1 1            1   M
                                                                                                   Prvc.Roy. Soc. Vol.
                                                                                                   43
                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                  1 I l l l 1 1 1 1        II
                                                                                                                                42
                                                                                                                                         32.    PI. J,
                                                                                                                                                ...
                                                                                                                                 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
                                                                                                                                                          4\
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1     1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1                          Mill II            1 1 1 1 1     II    1 1 1 1 1 1 1        M   1
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1     1
                                III,              1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1           III! Mill                   1 1 1 1 1 1 1      M     1 1   II   I ! I 1   M
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1     III        1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1         II II       1   MM                Ml        1   II   1 1   M   II    1 1 1   M      1 1   M   1
3000                       29                          28                            27                          26                         2500
 [   I.I
       1
       1
       1
       1
       1
       1
       1
       1
       1
       1
       1
       1
       1                                    1
                                            1     II   1
                                                       1
                                                       1       II      1    II   1
                                                                                 1    i
                                                                                      i
                                                                                      i
                                                                                      i
                                                                                      1
                                                                                      i
                                                                                      i
                                                                                      i
                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                      i
1
1
1          II   1
                1
                1    Ml         III          1
                                             1
                                             1
                                             1                    nh             I
                                                                                 i    i
                                                                                      i
                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                  1i
                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                   i                       ii   1
                                                                                                                                i
                                                                                                                                i
                                                                                                                                i
                                                                                                                                i
1    1
     1
     1
     1
     1
     1
     1
     1
     1
     1
     1
     1
     1
     1                                       MM         1
                                                        1         II   1
                                                                       1     M   1
                                                                                 1        II   1
                                                                                               1
                                                                                               1
                                                                                               1
                                                                                               1
                                                                                               1
                                                                                               1
                                                                                               1
                                                                                               1                           M   1
                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                               1       il   1


   1881.]                 On the Spectra of  Sun-spots.                   203
                                                                  0
   to the arc and spark at wave-length 4703 does not appear in Angstrom's
   map. It is hard to account for its absence, as it is present in Kirch-
   hoff 's map and in Rutherford's photograph.    We have noticed, however,
  that when the spark is taken in hydrogen, the line at wave-length 4570
  appears stronger than that at wave-length 4703, while the reverse is
  the case when the atmosphere is nitrogen.        It is possible then that
  the atmosphere may, besides the resistance it offers to the discharge,
  in some degree affect the vibrations of the metallic particles.
      When we have made all the simplifications that we can by elimi
 nating, as we hope we have done satisfactorily, the hydrogen-magnesium
 flu tings, and by supposing the whole series of triplets to be harmoni
 cally related, and possibly some of the single lines also to   be  similarly
 related, we have still the fact that the chemical atoms of magnesium
 are either themselves capable of taking up a great variety of vibra
 tions, or are capable by mutual action on each other, or on particles of
 matter of other kind, of giving rise to a great variety of vibrations of
 the lnminiferous ether ; and to trace satisfactorily th 3 precise con
 nexion between the occurrence of the various vibrations and the
 circumstances under which they occur, will require yet an extended
 series of observations.
 I V.    u Note on the Reduction of the Observations of the Spectra
         of 100 Sun-spots observed at Kensington." By J. Normax
         Lockyeb, F.R.S. Received May 12, 1881.
                                  [Plate 2.]
     In anticipation   of a more detailed communication,      I  beg to lay
 before the Royal Society some of the results of the reduction of the
six most widened lines between F and 6 seen in the spectra of 100
sun-spots, observed at Kensington between November 12th, 1879, and
September 29th, 1880, limiting my remarks solely to the spectrum of
iron.
    In    the accompanying    map, the    Fraunhofer    lines agreeing     in
position with the iron lines given by Angstrom and Thalen are
entered in the horizon headed " Sun," in the next are plotted the
lines assigned to iron by Angstrom, who used the electric arc in his
experiments.      In the next horizon are entered the iron lines given by
Thalen, who employed the induction coil in his experiments. In these
three horizons the lengths of the lines represent their intensities.
    The individual observations of the sun-spots having been plotted out
on another     map, the number of times each line was seen was ascer
tained, and is entered in the next horizon under " Frequencies in Sun-
Spots."

204                                Mr.   J.   N. Lockyer.                         [May   12,
   In the next horizon are entered the frequencies with which iron
lines were seen in observations of a hundred flames by Tacchini.     In
both these horizons the lengths of the lines represent frequency.
   This map shows that within the region F to 6, there is no line com
mon to spots and flames, if the lines bs   which are so frequently seen
                                                            64,
affected in both spots and flames, be neglected.   If, therefore, we were
unacquainted   with the spectrum   of iron, we should  be justified in say
ing that the spectrum   of the prominences was due to one substance,
and that of the spots to another.*
  In a paper presented to the Royal Society in December, 1878,                           I
drew attention        to the fact that many of the lines most frequently seen
                                                                            o
in the flames by Young and Tacchini were assigned by Angstrom to
the spectra of two so-called elements. In the map have entered his     I
results in the horizon arc A.
 I   have since that time had prepared a table, showing the lines
having coincident readings in two or more metals, according to Thalen.
                                      " Discussion of Young's List of
and in my paper of March 5th, 1879,
Chromospheric Lines," showed that some of these lines could not be
due to impurity.   The lines given coincident by Thalen in his tables,
are entered in the horizon spark T.
 I  have confirmed in most cases Thalen's and Angstrom's work, and
have proved that these lines could not be due to an impurity of                          the
one in the other, as the longest lines of each were absent from                          the
other.      used the arc, quantity coil, and intensity coil, which
             I                                                                           are
respectively indicated by arc L, spark LQ, and LI, with high                             dis
persion.
   Besides confirming Thalen's and Angstrom's work,       have been able
                                                                       I
to add a  few more basic lines to the list.
 I   have already pointed out that the fact of different rates of motion
being indicated by different iron lines in the same field of view at the
same time, afforded important evidence that we were not dealing with
iron itself, but with primitive forms of matter contained in iron, which
are capable of withstanding the high temperature of the sun, after
the iron, observed as such, has been broken up as suggested by Brodie.t
   An appeal to the principles of continuity and evolution now enables
us to add another argument of equal weight. If on the cooling of                           a
  *   It   will be observod that the line at 5017'5 given among the flame observations in
the map       not recorded as an iron line by either Angstrom or Thalen.
             is                                                                   The waj,
however,   in  which  itsympathised   with the line  at 4923  in the flames  induced   me to
look  for    in
            it  iron with the  intensity coil.   I at  once  found   it, and it   as
                                                                                  is  sympa
thetic with the line at 4923 in the spark as      it in the flames themselves.
                                                       is                            Though
omitted by Thalen (most likely accidentally, thougn          may well be that he did not
                                                                  it
use sufficient tension to bring    out strongly),
                                  it                   itrecorded as an iron line by other
                                                             is
observers.
 t    Or rather, of   course, before
                                       " iron " had   been formed by condensation.

     ARC ANGSTROM
     SPARK THALEN
     ¦'
     20    FREQUENCIES
     30
     40
 -
     [50   SUN SPOTS
--   60
 4   70
     80    KENSINGTON
     u
 \
           FREQUENCIES
           FLAMES
           PALERMO
               Arc
     L
           >   Coil


 1881.]                 On the Spectra  of Sun-spots.                   205
mass of vapour ultimately to form a star, each reduction of tempera
 ture increases the number and complexity of the chemical forms by
 rendering new combinations possible, these new combinations will con
tain the earlier ones in different proportions.       If, for instance, the
 members     of the iron groups are not    elementary, they    will contain
 earlier  forms,  as the salts of calcium   contain calcium,    which once
 existed as calcium in the atmosphere of   the earth before the salts were
 produced as the result of a subsequent    condensation brought about by
 cooling.
    The discussion in the accompanying map shows that this is really
 the case, and that it is the lines which are common to two or more
 substances which in the main produce the spectra of the lower, and
 therefore hotter, region of the solar atmosphere.       This natural result
 at once explains the strange variations from the ordinary spectra
 which have puzzled observers ever since the new method was intro
 duced.     More than this, these are precisely those lines which have
 their intensities strengthened when we pass from the arc to the coil.
    It is very instructive to note the gradual simplification of the iron
 spectrum by increased temperature as we pass from the arc through
 the spots to the flames, and how with this increasing simplicity we find
 the basic character of the lines increasing, only one basic line on the
 map having been yet observed among those lines seen in the arc alone.
   The accompanying figure shows what happens with regard to three
adjacent iron lines under different solar and terrestrial conditions, and
1 give it because it indicates that one of the most important inquiries
to be taken up in the eclipses of next year and 1883, will be the

206                           Mr. W. Crookes.                         [May 19,
determination    of the intensities of the spot and flame lines, and the
heights in the solar atmosphere at which they are visible at the
moment of disappearance and reappearance of the san.              The spectrum
of the lower parts of the corona itself should also be observed, with a
proper amount of dispersion with instruments                 affording a great
quantity of light.
    I  stated some  time ago to the Royal Society that the iron lines
visible in the arc but not in the spark, in all probability owe their
existence among the Fraunhofer lines to an absorption going on in
the cooler levels, above the flame and spot regions. A look at the map
will show how important it will be to adjust a spectroscope on the
lines shown in the figure, and contrast their behaviour with the other
twelve adjacent arc lines which are prominent neither in spark nor
spot, nor flame.     It is to be feared that any observer who attempts
to do more than such a restricted piece of work as this will doubt his
own results.     The time has arrived when minute observations             must
take the place of mere general ones.
                               May    19, 1881.
                    THE PRESIDENT in             the Chair.
    The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered          for
them.
    The Right Hon. William Ewart Gladstone was admitted                into the
Society.
    The following Papers were read      : —
 I. " On Discontinuous Phosphorescent Spectra in High Vacua."
      By William Crookes, F.R.S. Received March 31, 1881.
    In   a paper which I had the honour of presenting to the Royal
Society in March, 1879,* I drew attention to the fact that many sub
stances, when in high vacua and submitted to the molecular discharge
by means of an induction coil, emitted phosphorescent light ; and              I
especially mentioned the phosphorescent           sulphides,   the diamond, the
ruby, and various other forms of alumina,         crystalline and amorphous.
   Pure alumina chemically prepared has very strong phosphorescence.
Sulphate of alumina is dissolved in water, and to it is added an excess
                          * " Phil. Trans.," vol. 170.

   1881.]     Discontinuous Phosphorescent Spectra in High Vacua.        207
   of solution    of ammonia.     The precipitated hydrate of alumina is
   filtered,  washed, ignited, and tested in the molecular stream.         It
   phosphoresces of the same crimson colour, and gives the same spectrum
   as the ruby.
       Alumina in the form of ruby glows with a full rich red colour, and
   when examined in the spectroscope the emitted light is seen to be dis
   continuous. There is a faint continuous spectrum ending in the red
   somewhere near the line B ; then a black space, and next an intensely
   brilliant and sharp red line, to which nearly the whole of the intensity
   of the coloured glow is due. The wave-length of this red line, which
   appears characteristic of this form of alumina, is, as near as I can
   measure, X 689'5 m.m.m.      This line coincides with the one described
   by E. Becqnerel as being the most brilliant of the lines in the spectrum
   of the light of alumina in its various forms, when glowing in the
  phosphoroscope.
       This coincidence is of considerable interest, as it shows a relation
  between the action of molecular impact and of sunlight in producing
  luminosity.      The phosphorescence induced in a crystal of ruby by the
  molecular     discharge is not superficial, but the light comes from the
  interior of the crystal, and is profoundly modified according as its
  direction of vibration corresponds or makes an angle with the axis of
  the crystal, being quenched in certain directions by a Nicol prism.
       Sunlight falling on the ruby crystal produces the same optical phe
  nomena.      The light is internally emitted, and on analysis by a prism,
  is seen to consist essentially of the one brilliant crimson line, \ 689'5.
  This fact may account for the extraordinary brilliancy of the ruby,
  which makes it so highly prized as a gem. The sun not merely
  renders the red-coloured stone visible, as it would a piece of coral, but
  it excites the crystal to phosphorescence, and causes it to glow with a
  luminous internal light, the energy of which is not diffused over a
 broad portion of the spectrum, but is chiefly concentrated into one
 wave-length.
       The crimson glow of alumina remains visible some time after the
 current ceases to pass.      When the residual glow has ceased it can be
 revived by heating slightly with a spirit-lamp.
      After long experimenting with chemically pure alumina precipitated
 from the sulphate as above described, a curious phenemenon takes
 place. When sealed up in the vacuum two years ago it was snow
 ¦white ; but, after being frequently submitted to the molecular discharge
for the purpose of exhibiting its brilliant phosphorescence, it gradually
assumes a pink tinge, and on examination in sunlight a trace of
the alumina line can be detected. The repeated molecular excitation
is slowly causing the amorphous powder to assume a crystalline form.
      Under some circumstances, alumina glows with a green colour.
Ammonia in large excess was added to a dilute solution of alum. The

 208                            Mr. W. Crookes.                       [May 19,
strong ammoniacal solution filtered from the precipitated              alumina
was now boiled.       The alumina which the excess of ammonia had dis
solved was thereby precipitated.         This was filtered off, ignited, and
tested in the molecular discharge.          It gave no red light whatever,
but phosphoresced of a pale green, and on examination with a prism
the light showed no lines, but only a concentration of light in the
green.
   Two earthen crucibles were tightly packed, the one with sul
phate of alumina, the other with acetate of alumina.                They were
then exposed, side by side, to the most intense heat of a wind furnace
— a heat little short of the melting-point of platinum.* The resulting
aluminas were then tested in the molecular stream.
   The alumina from the sulphate gave the crimson glow and the
spectrum line.
   The alumina from the acetate gave no red glow or line, but a pale
green phosphorescence.
   In my examination of rubies, many pounds of which have passed
through my apparatns,       I have been fortunate enongh to meet with one
solitary crystal, not to the eye different from others, which emits a
green light when tested in the molecular stream.            All others act as I
may call normally. The spectrum of this green-glowing crystal shows,
however, a trace of the red line, and on keeping the discharge acting
on it for a few minutes the green phosphorescence grows fainter and a
red tinge is developed, the spectrum         line in the rod becoming      more
distinct.
   •Besides the   ruby, other native forms of crystallised alumina phos
phoresce.     Thus corundum glows with a pink colour.             The sapphire
appears   to be  made  up  of  the red-glow   and green-glow alumina. Some
fine crystals of sapphire shine with alternate bands of red and green,
arranged in layers perpendicular to the axis.         Unfortunately it is im
possible to prepare a tube for exhibition containing this variety of
sapphire, as it is constantly evolving gas from the numerous fissures
and cavities which abound in this mineral.
   The red glow of alumina is chiefly characteristic of this earth in a
free state. Few of its compounds, except spinel (aluminate of mag
nesium), either natural or artificial, show it in any marked degree.
All the artificially crystallised aluminas give a strong red glow and
spectrum line.      An artificially crystallised aluminium and barium
fluoride phosphoresces with a blue colour, but shows the red alumina
line in the spectrum.       Spinel glows red, and gives the red line almost
as strong as the ruby.
   The mineral spodumene (an aluminium and lithium silicate) phos
phoresces very brilliantly with a rich golden-yellow colour, but shows
no spectrum line, only a strong concentration of light in the orange
   * This operation was kindly performed for me by Messrs. Johnson and Mattlicv.

1881.]     Discontinuous Phosphorescent Spectra in High Vacua.          203
and yellow. A phosphorescing crystal of spodnmene has all the
internal light cut off with a Nicol prism, when the long axes of the
Nicol and the crystal are parallel.
   It became of interest to see if the other earths would show phos
phorescent properties similar to those of alumina, and especially if any
of them would give a discontinuous spectrum ; considerable interest
attaching to a solid body whose molecules vibrate in a few directions
only, giving rise to spectrum lines or bands on a dark background.
   Glucina prepared with great care is found to phosphoresce with a
bright blue colour, but no lines can    be detected in the spectrum, only
a concentration of light in the blue.
   The rare mineral phenakite (silicate of glucinum), sometimes used
as a gem, phosphoresces blue like pure glucina. This mineral shows
a residual glow after the current is turned off.
   Thorina    has  very little, if any, phosphorescence.     This earth is,
however, remarkable for its very strong attraction for the residual gas
in the vacuum tube. On putting thorina in a tube furnished with
well-insulated poles, whose ends are about a millimetre apart in the
centre, and heating strongly during exhaustion, the earth, on cooling,
absorbs the residual gas with such avidity that the tube becomes non
conducting, the spark preferring to pass several inches in air rather
than strike across the space of a millimetre separating the two poles.
It is probable that this strong attraction for gas is connected with
the great density of the earth thorina (sp. gr. = 9'4).
   Zirconia gives a very brilliant phosphorescence, approaching in in
tensity that of sulphide of calcium.       The colour is pale bluish-green,
becoming whiter as the intensity of the discharge increases : no lines
are seen in its spectrum.
   Lanthana precipitated as hydrate and ignited shows no phos
phorescence.      After it has been heated for some time before the blow
pipe  it phosphoresces of a rich brown.
   Didymia, from the ignition of the hydrate, has scarcely any phos
phorescence ; what little there is appears to give a continuous spec
trum with a broad black band in the yellow-green.            On examining
the light reflected from this earth when illuminated by day or
artificial light, the same black band is seen, and with a narrow slit
and sunlight the band is resolved into a series of fine lines, occupying
the position of the broadest group of absorption lines in the trans
mission spectrum of didymium salts.
   Yttria shows a dull greenish light, giving a continuous spectrum.
   Erbia phosphoresces with a yellowish colour, aud gives a continuous
spectrum, with the two sharp black bands so characteristic of this
earth cutting through the green at \ 520 and 523.           These lines are
easily  seen  in the light reflected from erbia when   illuminated  by day
light. It is well known that solid erbia heated in a flame glows with

210                            Mr. W. Crookes.                      [May 19,
a green    light, and gives a spectrum which chiefly consists of two
bright green lines in the same place as the dark lines seen by reflected
light.
    A curious phenomenon is presented by erbia when the spark passes
over it at a high exhaustion.       The particles of earth which have acci
dentally covered the poles are shot off with great velocity, forming
brightly luminous lines, and, striking on the sides of the tube, rebound,
remaining red-hot for an appreciable time after they have lost their
velocity.    They form a very good visible illustration of radiant
matter.
    Titanic acid phosphoresces dark brown, with gold spots in places.
    Stannic acid gives no phosphorescence.
                                                                                 '
    Chromic, ferric, and eerie oxides do not appreciably phosphoresce.
    Magnesia phosphoresces with a pink opalescent colour, and shows            no
spectrum lines.
    Baryta    (anhydrons)     scarcely phosphoresces      at all.   Hydrated
baryta, on the contrary,     shines with a bright orange-yellow      light, but
shows no discontinuity of        spectrum    ;  only a concentration     in the
yellow-orange.
    Strontia    (hydrated)   phosphoresces      with a beautiful deep        blue
coloar,   and when      examined in the spectroscope the emitted           light
shows a greatly increased      intensity at the blue and violet end, with
out any lines or bands.
    Lime phosphoresces of a bright orange-yellow colour, changing to
opal-blue in patches where the molecular discharge raises the tem
 perature.    In the focus of a concave pole the lime becomes red and
 white-hot, giving out much light. This earth commences to phos
phoresce more than 5 millims. below the vacuum, and continues to
grow brighter as long as the electricity is able to pass through the
tube.     On stopping the discharge there is a decided residual glow.
No lines are seen in the spectrum of the light.
    Calcium carbonate (calcite) shows a strong phosphorescence, which
begins to appear at a comparatively            low exhaustion (5 millims.).
 The interior of the crystal shines of a bright straw colour, and the
ordinary and extraordinary rays are lnminous with oppositely polarised
light. Calcite shows the residual glow longer than any substance I
have as yet experimented with.          After the current has been turned
off the crystals shine in the dark with a yellow light for more than a
minute.
    Calcium     phosphate generally gives an orange-yellow phospho
rescence and a continuous spectrum.            Sometimes, however, a yellow-
green   band   is seen superposed  on  the  spectrum.
    Potash phosphoresces faintly of a blue colour.       The spectrum shows
a  concentration at the blue end, but the light is too faint to enable
lines, if any, to be detected.

1881.]      Discontinuous Phosphorescent Spectra in High Vacua.           211
   Soda phosphoresces      faintly yellow, and gives the yellow line in the
spectrum.
   Lithium carbonate gives a faint red phosphorescence.         Examined in
the spectroscope, the red, orange, and blue lithium lines are seen.
   I   have already said that the diamond phosphoresces with great
brilliancy.    In this respect perfectly clear and colourless stones " of
                 " are not the most
the first water                        striking, and they generally glow of
a blue colour.      Diamonds,    which in sunlight have      a slight fluores
cence disappearing when yellow glass is interposed, generally phos
phoresce stronger than others, and the emitted light is of a pale
yellowish-green colour.
   Most diamonds which emit a very strong yellowish light in the
molecular discharge give a continuous spectrum, having bright lines
across it in the green and blue. A faint green line is seen at about
\  537 ; at V 513 a bright greenish-blue line is seen, and a bright blue
line at X. 503. A darkish space separating the last two lines.
   Diamonds which phosphoresce red generally show the yellow sodium
line superposed on a continuous spectrum.
   There is great difference in the degree of exhaustion at which
various substances begin to phosphoresce.         Some refuse to glow until
the   exhaustion  is so great  that  the  vacuum   is nearly non-conducting,
whilst others commence to become luminous when the gauge is 5 or
10 millims. below the barometric level.        The majority of bodies, how
ever, do not phosphoresce till they are well within the negative dark
space.
   During the analysis of      some minerals    containing the rarer earths
experimented on, certain anomalies         have been met with, which seem
to indicate the possible presence of other unknown elements awaiting
detection. On several occasions an earthy precipitate has come down
where, chemically speaking, no such body was expected ; or, by frac
tional precipitation and solution, from a supposed simple earth some
thing has separated which, in its chemical characters, was not quite
identical with the larger portion ; or, the chemical characteristics of
an earth have agreed fairly well with those assigned to it in books,
but it deviated in some physical peculiarity. It has been my practice
to submit all these anomalous bodies to molecular bombardment, and
 I have had the satisfaction of discovering a class of earthy bodies
which, whilst they phosphoresce strongly, also give spectra of remark
able beauty.
   The spectrum      seen  most frequently is given by a pale yellowish
coloured earth. It consists of a red, orange, citron, and green band,
nearly equidistant, the citron being broader than the others and very
bright.     Then comes a faint blue, and lastly two very strong blue-
 violet bands.     These bands, when seen at theii best, are on a per
 fectly black background ; but the parent earth gives a continuous

212             Phosphorescent      Spectra in    High Vacua.      [May   19,
spectrum, and it is only occasionally, and as it were by accident, that
I have so entirely separated it from the anomalons earth as to see the
bands in their full purity. Another eaithy body gives a spectrum
similar to that just described, but wanting the red, and having a
double   orange   and   double citron band.          A third gives a similar
spectrum, but -with a yellow line interposed between the double
orange and the double citron, and having two narrow green lines.
   At  present  I   do not wish to say more than that         I  have strong
indications that one, or perhaps several new elements are here giving
signs of their existence.      The quantities      I  have to work npon arc
very small, and when each step in the chemical operation has to be
checked by an appeal to the vacuum tube and to the induction coil
the progress is tediously slow.         In the thallium research it only
occupied a few minutes to take a portion of a precipitate on a
platinum loop, introduce it into a spirit-flame, and look in the spectro
scope for the green line.     In that way the chemical behavionr of the
new element with reagents could be ascertained with rapidity, and a
scheme could be promptly devised for its separation from accompany
ing impurities.     Here, however, the case is different : to perform a
spectrum test, the body under examination must be put in a tube and
exhausted to a very high point before the spectroscope can be brought
to bear on it.     Instead of two minutes, half a day is occupied in
each operation, and the tentative gropings in the dark, unavoidable in
such researches, must be extended over a long period of time.
   The chemist must also be on his guard against certain pitfalls
which catch the unwary.       I allude to the profound modification which
the   presence of fluorine, phosphorus,           boron, &c, causes in the
chemical reactions of many elements, and to the interfering action of
a large quantity of one body on the chemical properties of another
which may be present in small quantities.
   The fact of giving a discontinuous phosphorescent spectrum is in
itself quite insufficient to establish the existence of a new body. At
present it can only be employed as a useful test to supplement
chemical research.      When, however,     I  find that the same spectrum-
forming earthy body can always be obtained by submitting the
mineral to a certain chemical treatment ; when the chemical actions
which have separated this anomalous earth are such that only a
limited number of elements can possibly be present ; when           I find it
impossible to produce a substance giving a similar discontinuous
spectrum by mixing together any or all of the bodies which alone
could survive the aforesaid chemical treatment ; when all these facte
are taken into consideration, and when due weight is given to the
very characteristic   spectrum reaction,    I   cannot help concluding that
the most probable     explanation is that these anomalies are caused by
the presence of an unknown body whose chemical reactions are not

 1881.]         Prof. D. E. Hughes.           Molecular Magnetism.                 213
 sufficiently marked to have enabled chemists to differentiate it from
 associated elements.
      III.   " Molecular Magnetism." By Professor D. E. Hughes,
                      F.R.S. Received May 10, 1881.
                                                                I
     During the course of some late researches, which had the honour
 to communicate to the Royal Society, March 7th,* and experimentally
 illustrate on the reading of my second paper, March 31,t many
 experimental      facts occurred, all pointing to the conclusion                 that
 ordinary molar magnetism is entirely due to the symmetrical arrange
 ment of the polarised molecules, and that these molecules can be rotated
 by torsion, so as to decrease the longitudinal magnetism, or increase it,
if the effect of the elastic torsion is to rotate the molecules into the
 required longitudinal symmetrical arrangement.              And observing that
 molecular magnetism could induce an electric current upon its own molar
 constituents, or that an electric current by its passage through an iron
wire would produce molecular magnetism, I have continued these
researches in the hope of elucidating, as far as possible, the pheno
 menon of the transformation of electricity and magnetism by the
 changes produced in the molecular structure of its conducting wire.
                         I
     For this purpose have employed three separate methods of investi
gation, each requiring a slightly modified form of apparatus.                     The
 first relates to the influence of an elastic torsion upon a magnetic or
 conducting wire; the second, to the influence upon the molecular struc
ture of an iron wire of electricity or magnetism ; the third, to the
evident movement of the molecules themselves as given out in sonorous
vibrations.
     The general details of the apparatus employed having been given
in my paper of March 7th, I will only briefly indicate any modification
of the method employed.
       1. Influence  of an Elastic Torsion upon     a Magnetic or an Electric
                                 Conducting Wire.
     In  my paper of March 7th on " Molecnlar Electro-Magnetic Induc
           I
tion," showed that induced currents of electricity would be induced
in an iron wire placed on the axis of a coil through which intermittent
currents were passing, and that these currents were produced only
when the wire was under the influence of a torsion not passing its
limit of elasticity.      It became evident that if the intermittent mag
netism induced by the coil produced under torsion intermittent currents
    * " Molecular Electro-Magnetic   Induction," " Proc. Boy. Soc.," vol. 31, p. 525.
       "
    t Permanent. Molecular Torsion of Conducting Wires produced by the Passage
of an Electric Current," Ibid., vol, 32, p. 25.

214                          Prof. D. E. Hughes.                [May   19,
of electricity, an intermittent torsion nnder the influence of a con
stant current of electricity or a constant magnetic field would pro
duce similar currents.   This was found to be the case, and as some
new phenomena presented themselves indicating clearly the molecular
nature of the actions,   I
                         will describe a few of them directly relating
to the subject of this paper.
   The apparatus used was similar to that described in my paper of
March 7th. An iron wire of 20 centims. was placed in the centre or
axis of a coil of silk-covered copper wire, the exterior diameter of the
coil being 5£ centims., and that of the interior vacant circular space 3^
centims.   The iron wire is fastened to a support at one end, the other
passing through a gnide, to keep it parallel to the axis but free, so that
any required torsion may be given to the wire by means of a connecting
arm or index.     A sensitive telephone is in direct communication with
the coil, or a galvanometer may be used, as the currents obtained by a
slow elastic torsion are slow and strong enough to be seen on a very
ordinary galvanometer.        I
                            prefer, however, the telephone, because it
has the inestimable advantage in these experiments of giving the exact
time of the commencement or end of an electric current.        It has,
however, the disadvantage of not indicating the force or direction of
the current  ; but by means of the sonometer the true value and direc
tion of any current is at once given. Again, the telephone is useless
for currents of slow inter mittence; but, by joining to it the microphonic
rheostat described in my paper of March 7th, a slowly intermittent or
permanent current is broken up into rapidly intermittent currents, and
then we are able to perceive feeble constant currents. For this reason a
microphonic rheostat is joined to the telephone and coil.      The current
from a battery of two bichromate cells is sent constantly through the
wire if we wish to observe the influence of the torsion of the wire upon
the electric current, or a constant field of magnetic energy is given
to the wire by either a separate coil or a permanent magnet.          The
currents obtained in the coil are induced from the change in the mole
cular magnetism of the wire, but we may equally obtain these currents
in the wire itself without any coil by joining the telephone and
rheotome direct to the wire ; in the latter case, it is preferable to
join the wire to the primary of a small induction coil, and the tele
phone and rheotome to the secondary, as then the rheotome does
not interrupt the constant electric current passing through the wire.
As the results are identical,     I
                              prefer to place the telephone on the coil
first named,   as the tones are louder and entirely free from errors of
experimentation.
   If we place a copper wire in the axis of the coil we produce no
effect by torsion, either when under the influence of a constant mag
netic field or a current passing through     it,nor do we perceive any
      if
effects    we place an iron wire     millims. in diameter), entirely free
                                      (2

1881.]                     Molecular Magnetism.                            215
from magnetism       and through which an electric current has never
passed.    I mention this negative experiment in order to prove that all
the effects  I shall mention are obtained only through the magnetism
                         I
of the wire. If now pass an electric current for an instant through
this  same   wire, its molecules are instantly polarised.        I have never
yet   been able to restore the wire to        its original condition, and the
magnetisation induced by the passage of a current is far more powerful
and more persistent in soft iron than tempered steel. This may be due,
however, to the fact that in tempered or softened steel we find traces
only of a current during to the rotation by torsion of its molecules,
some two to three degrees of sonometer, whilst iron gives constantly
a current of 70 sonometrie degrees.*
   In order to obtain these currents, we must give a slight torsion of 5°
or 10° to and fro through the zero point.             We then have a current
during   the motion   of the index   to the  right,  and a contrary current in
moving the index to the left. If we use a galvanometer, we must time
these movements with the oscillations of the needle ; but with the
telephone it gives out continuous sounds for either movement, the
interruptions being only those caused by the rheotome. The direction
of the current has no influence on the result ; either positive to the
free arm or index or negative gives equal sounds, but at the moment
of reversal of the current a peculiar loud click is heard, due to the
rapid change or rotation of the polarisation of its molecules, and this
peculiarly loud momentary click is heard equally as well in steel as in
iron, proving that it is equally polarised by the current, but that its
molecular rigidity prevents rotation by torsion.           We can imitate in
some degree the rigidity of steel by giving the iron wire several per
manent twists. The current due to elastic torsion is then reduced
from 70° to 40°, in consequence of the mechanical strain of the twists
remaining a constant; and a weakening of the current is also remarked
if with a fresh wire we pass in torsion its limit of elasticity.
   If a new soft iron wire of 2 millims. (giving no traces of a current
by torsion) has passed through it a momentary current of electricity,
and the wire is then observed free from the current itself, it will be
found to be almost as strongly polarised as when the current was con
stantly on, giving by torsion a constant of 50 sonometrie degrees. If,
instead of passing a current through this new wire, I magnetise it
strongly by a permanent magnet or coil, the longitudinal magnetism
gives also 70° of current for the first torsion, but weakens rapidly, so
that in a few contrary torsions only traces of a current remain, and we
find also its longitudinal magnetism almost entirely dissipated.         Thus
there is this remarkable difference, that, whilst it is almost impossible to
free the wire from the influence produced by a current, the longitudinal
magnetism yields at once to a few torsions.           We may, however, trans-
                            * 0 8 of a Daniell battery.
   VOL. XXXII.                                                       Q.

 216                           Prof. D. E. Hughes.                           [May 19,
 form the ring or transversal magnetism into longitndinal magnetism
 by strongly magnetising the -wire after a current has passed throngh
 it. This has the effect of rotating the whole of the molecules, and
 they are all now symmetrical with longitudinal magnetism ; then, by a
 few torsions, the wire is almost as free as a new wire.                        I have
 found    this method    more    efficacious   than  heating    the wire   red  hot, or
 any other method yet tried.             If I desire a constant current from
 longitudinal magnetism,        I place at one of the extremities of the wire
 a large permanent magnet, whose sustaining power is 5 kilogrammes,
 and this keeps the wire constantly charged, resembling in some
 respects the effects of a constant current. The molecular magnetism
 or the current obtained         by torsion is not so powerful from this, my
 strongest magnet, as      that produced by the simple passage of a current,
 being only 50 sonometric degrees in place of 70° for that due to the
 passage of a current.        The mere twisting of a longitudinal magnet,
 without regard to the rotation of its molecules has no effect, as is
 proved by giving torsion to a steel wire strongly magnetised, when
 only traces of a current will be seen, perhaps one or two degrees, and
 by using a constant source of magnetism or electricity, when no mea
 surable effect will be obtained. Evidently we have as much twisted the
 magnetised steel as the soft iron.           In the steel we have a powerful
.magnet,    in the  soft iron  a  very  feeble  one ; still the molecular rotation
 in iron produces powerful currents to the almost absolute zero of
 tempered steel.-
    If we magnetise the wire whilst the current is passing, and keep
 the wire constantly charged with both magnetism and electricity, the
 currents are at once diminished           from 70° to 30°. We have here two
 distinct magnetic polarisations at right angles to each other, and no
 matter what pole of the magnet, or of the current, the effect is greatly
 diminished ; the rotation of the two polarities would now require a far
  greater arc than previously.         The importance of this experiment can
 not as yet be appreciated        until  we learn the great molecular change
  which has really occurred, and which we observe here by simply
 diminished effects.
     If we heat the wire with a spirit flame, we find the sounds increase
  rapidly from 70 to 90, being the maximum slightly below red heat.                   I
  have already remarked in my previous paper this increased molecular
  activity due to heat, and its effects wilt be more clearly demonstrated
  when we deal with the sounds produced by intermittent currents.
     Another method, by means of which I have again received proofs of
  the rotation of the polarised molecules, is to pass an intermittent
  current through a soft 0'5 millim. iron wire, listening to the results
  by the telephone joined direct and alone to the coil, as- described in
    •  I                                  "
         purposely avoid using the tonus magnetic fluid
                                                           " and " coercitive
                                                                              force."

 1881.]                    Molecular Magnetism.                          217
 my paper of March 7.       If the wire is then entirely free from strain,
 we have silence, but a torsion of 20° produces some 50 sonometric
 degrees of electric force.   If, now (the wire being at zero strain), I
 bring one pole of the permanent magnet          I have already described
 near the side of the wire, the sounds increase from zero up to 50°,
 being at their maximum when this magnet is 5 centims. distant ; but
 if we continue to approach the magnet the sounds gradually weaken
 almost to zero.     The explanation of this fact can be found when
 we know that the greatest inductive effect on the wire would be when
 a magnet is at an angle of 45° with the wire.       And, also, considering
 each molecule    as a separate    independent magnet, we find that at a
 given distance for a given magnet the force of rotation is equal
 to that of 45° ; by approaching the magnet we increase the rota
 tion but diminish the angular polarity in relation to the wire, hence
 the decrease of force by the near approach of the magnet.           And to
 prove that the function of the elastic torsion    is simply to rotate the
 polarised molecules similarly to the magnet, we place the wire
 under an elastic torsion of 20°, and approach gradually the magnet
 as before.    One pole now will be found to increase the sounds or its
 angular polarity, the other will diminish them, until at 5 centims. dis
 tance, as before, we have perfect silence ; the torsion exists as before,
 but the molecules are no longer at the       same angle.    On removing
the magnet we find that instead of the usual 50       of current  we obtain
 barely 5 or 10 : have we then destroyed the polarity of the     molecules,
or do they find a certain resistance to their free rotation to their usual
place ? To solve this question we have only to shake the wire, or give
it a slight mechanical vibration, and then instantly the molecules rotate
more freely, and we at once find our original current of 50°.         I  will
forbear mentioning many other experimental proofs of my views by
this method, as there are many to relate by different methods in the
following sections.
   2. Influence upon the Molecular Structure  of an Iron or Steel Wire of
                          Electricity or Magnetism.
    Being desirous to modify the apparatus already described, so that it
should only give indications of a current if it were of a spiral
nature, the wire was kept rigidly at its zero of strain or torsion, and
the coil was made so that it could revolve on an axis perpendicular to
the wire ; by this means, if the wire was free from strain, the centre
or axis of the coil would coincide with that of the wire.             Thus,
with a straight copper wire, we should have a complete zero, but if
this wire formed a right or left-handed helix, the coil would require
moving through a given degree (on an arbitrary scale) corresponding
to the diameter and closeness of the spirals in the helix ; the degrees
through which the coil moved, were calibrated in reference to known
                                                               «2

  218                           Prof. D. E. Hughes.                    [May   19,
  copper helices.      50° equalled a copper wire 1    millim. diameter, formed
 into a helix of     1  centim. diameter, whose spiral turns were separated
  1  centim. apart.
     In order to obtain a perfect zero, and wide readings, with small
 angular movement of the coil, it is necessary that the return wire
 should be of copper, 2 millims. diameter, offering comparatively little
 resistance, and that it should be perfectly parallel with the steel or iron
 wire.     In order that it may react upon the exterior of the coil, it        is
 fastened to the board, so that it is near (1 centim.) the exterior of the
 coil, and parallel to the iron -wire, at a distance of 4 centime.         If we
 consider this return wire alone, we find, as in the sonometer, that if
 the wire is perpendicular to the exterior wires of the coil, we have a
 zero or silence, bat moved through any degree, we have a current
 proportionable to that degree ; by this means, we have an independent
 constant acting on the coil, constantly aiding the coil in finding its
 true zero, and allowing of very wide readings, with a comparatively
 small angular movement of the coil.
     The rheotome is joined to a battery of two bichromate cells, and by
 means of a reversing switch, an intermittent current of either direc
 tion can be sent through the wire.         The telephone is joined direct and
 alone to the coil; thus no currents react upon the coil when perpen
 dicular to the iron, and its return wire, if not of a spiral nature.
     Placing an iron wire 0'5 diameter, and passing a current through it,
 I  found a change had token place similar to those indicated in my
 paper of March 17th; but it was so difficult to keep the wire free
 from magnetism and slight molecular strains, that              I preferred and
 used only in the following experiments tempered steel wire (knitting
 needles    I found most useful). All the effects are greatly augmented
 by   the use   of iron wire, but its molecular elasticity is so great that
we cannot preserve the same zero of reading for a few seconds together,
whilst with steel, 0"5 millim. diameter, the effects remained constant
until we removed the         cause.
    T have not as yet been able to obtain a steel wire entirely free from
magnetism, and as magnetism in steel has a remarkable power over
the direction of the spiral currents,     I  will first consider those in which
I found only traces. On passing the intermittent current through
these, the sounds were excessively feeble for either polarity of current,
but, at each reversal, a single loud click could be heard, showing the
instant reversal of the molecular polarity. The degree of coil indi
cating the twist or spirality of the current was 5° on each side of ite
true zero.      The wire was now carefully magnetised, giving 10° on each
side for different currents. The positive entering at north pole indica
ting   10°  right-handed spiral, the negative entering the -same pole, a left-
handed spiral, we here see in another form, a fact well known and de
monstrated by De la Rive by a different method, that an electric current

  1881.]                     Molecular Magnetism.                      210
  travels in spirals around a longitudinal magnet, and that the direction
 of this spiral is entirely due to which pole of an electric current enters
  the north or south pole.     I propose soon, however, to show that under
 certain conditions these effects are entirely reversed.
     If through this magnetised      wire I pass a constant current of two
 bichromate    cells, and at the same time an intermittent one, the spiral
 is increased to 15°, but the direction of the intermittent current
 entirely depends on that of the constant current. Thus, if the positive
 of the constant current enters the north pole, the intermittent positive
 slightly increases the spiral to 17°, and the negative to 13°, both
 being right-handed ; the two zeros of the constant battery are, how
 ever, as we might expect from the preceding experiment, on opposite
 sides of and at equal distances from the true zero ; but if we
 magnetise the wire whilst a constant current is passing through it, a
 very great molecular disturbance takes place ; loud sounds are heard
 in the telephone, and it requires for each current a movement of the
 coil of 40°, or a total for the two currents of 80°. This, however, is
 not the only change that has taken place, as we now find that both
constant currents have a right-handed spiral ; the positive under
which it was magnetised, a right-handed spiral of 95" ; the negative,
a right-handed spiral of 15°, and the true central or zero point of the
true currents indicates a permanent spiral of 55°.
     This wire was magnetised in the usual way, by drawing the
north pole of my magnet from the centre to one extremity, the south
from the centre to the other, and this was repeated until its maxi
mum effects were obtained.          In this state I found, sliding the coil
at different portions, that the spiral currents were equal, and in the
same direction throughout.
     It now occurred to me to try the effect of using a single pole of
the magnet ; this was done whilst a constant current was passing
through the wire, commencing at the extremity where the positive
joined, drawing the north pole through the length of the wire, from
positive towards the negative ; the effect was most remarkable, as the
steel wire now gave out as loud tones as a piece of iron, and the
degree on the coil showed 200°.            The constant and intermittent
currents now showed for either polarity a remarkably strong right-
handed twist; the positive 200 right, and the negative 150 right-
handed spirals. The molecular strain on the wire from the reaction of
the electric current upon the molecular magnetism was so great, that
no perfect zero would be obtained at any point, a fact already observed
when a wire was under an intense strain, producing tertiary currents
that superposed themselves upon the secondary.         In order to compare
these spiral currents with those obtained from a known helix, I found
that taking a copper wire of similar diameter (0"5 millim.), and
winding it closely upon the steel wire ten turns to each centimetre,

 220                          Prof. D. E. Hughes.                    [May 19,
 having a total of 200 turns, with an exterior diameter of 1*5 millims.,
 withdrawing the steel wire, leaving this closely wound helix free,
 it pave some 190°, instead of the 200 of the steel wire alone ; thus the
spiral currents fully equalled a closely wound copper wire helix of
200 turns in a similar length.
    If it were possible to twist a magnetised wire several turns to the
right, and that its line of magnetism should coincide with that of the
twist, then on passing a positive or negative current, there would
be an apparent augmented or diminished spirality of the current, but
both would have a right-handed twist. The result would be identical
with the phenomenon described, although the         cause is different.
    The explanation of this phenomenon can be probably found in the
fact that the constant spirality now observed is that of the electric
current under which it was magnetised, for whilst magnetising it we
had a powerful source of magnetism constantly reacting upon the
electric current, and the constant spirality now observed is the result
or remains of a violent molecular reaction at the instant of magnetisa
tion, and the remaining evident path or spiral is that of the electric
current.     On testing this wire as to its longitudinal magnetic force, I
found that it was less than that of a wire simply magnetised in the usual
way ; thus the effects are internal, affecting the passage of the electric
current, giving, however, no external indications (except apparent
weakness) of the enormous disturbance which has taken place.
    If, instead of drawing the north pole of the magnet as above, from
positive towards negative, I draw it from negative to positive, all the
effects are repeated, except that we have now, as we should expect, a left-
handed spiral. But if I draw the magnet from the extremities of the
wire to the centre, then at this centre I find an absolute zero of twist,
but on each side a contrary twist, the wire then having a left and
right-handed twist, the positive travelling towards the centre in a
right-handed      twist gradually ceasing in zero; this is as we might
expect,    but if done   under the influence of a constant current, no matter
 what pole of the battery enters afterwards the north pole of the
magnet, it will have during its first half a right-handed, and its second
a left-handed     spiral.   It became important to know if a wire which
had been magnetised under the influence of a current could be re
stored to something like its original condition.        Electric currents had
no effect. Heat, which would not destroy its temper, had no effect.
 Mechanical vibrations and torsions failed to disturb the molecular
arrangement ; but magnetising            it strongly by a magnet, when
no current was passing, at once broaght the wire to its usual
apparently rigid state, and the constant or intermittent currents now
indicated only 18° of spiral currents against a previous 200°, and the
sounds were, as usual from steel, excessively weak.              I have since
used this method with invariable success, when I wished to repeat

1881.]                    Molecular Magnetism.                          221
the experiments    upon   the    same   wire.    If
                                                these experiments are
repeated upon an iron wire, the effects are far greater in the first
instance, so great that they were thrown out of the range of my
measurements ; it was only after a few seconds of successive reversals
that the zero of the wire was brought within range, and although these
rapidly decreased, exactly similar effects were observed as in the steel.
And as with all moderate ranges, I could bring the iron at once to a
complete zero by torsion, and as torsion alone would produce this com
plete zero, I believe we have here effects from causes identical with
those related in the first chapter.
   Having noticed in my previous papers the increased molecular
activity caused by the approach of a powerful permanent magnet,
and believing that the permanent spirality above mentioned was due
to this alone, and not to an increased polarity, I magnetised strongly
an iron wire giving as usual a reversed spiral for different currents of
but 10°.   I now heated the wire by a spirit flame to a dull red heat,
whilst the current was passing through          it,
                                               and on cooling     found
                                                                  I
a similar but stronger permanent torsion of 250°          both currents,
                                                          ;
as in the previous experiments, having a right-handed spiral.
Thus a current of electricity passing through a wire nearly red hot
determines a   molecular arrangement, or path, which on cooling forces
currents of either direction to follow the path which had been deter
mined under the influence of heat.
                          3.    Molecular Sounds.
  The passage of an intermittent current though iron or other wire
gives rise to sounds of a very peculiar and characteristic nature. Page,
in 1837, first noticed these sounds on the magnetisation of wires in      a
coil. De la Rive published      a             "
                                chapter in his Treatise on Electricity
                                                                       "
(1853) on this subject, and he proved that not only were sounds
produced by the magnetisation of an iron wire in an inducing coil,
but that sounds were equally obtained by the passage direct of the
current through the wire. Gassiot, 1844, and Du Moncel, 1878-81,
have both maintained the molecular character of these sounds.        Reis
made use of them in his, the first electric telephone invented, and
these sounds, since the apparition of Bell's telephone, have been often
brought forward as embodying a new form of telephone.              These
sounds, however, for a feeble source of electricity, are far too weak for
any applied purposes, but they are most useful and interesting where
we wish to observe the molecular action which takes place in a
conducting wire.  I   have thus made use of these sounds as an inde
pendent method of research, and by their means verify any point
left doubtful by other methods, some of which           have already de
                                                        I
scribed.
  The apparatus was the    same     as that described   in the last section,

 222                         Prof. D. E. Hughes.                  [May 19,
 except that no telephone was used. By means of a switch key the in
 termittent electric current was either connected with the coil inducing
 longitudinal magnetism in the wire, or could be thrown instantly
 through the wire itself, thus rapid observations could be made of any
 difference of tone or force by these two methods ; a reversing key also
 allowed, when desired, a constant current of either polarity to pass
 through the wire under observation.
    Of all metals that I have yet tried, iron gave by far the loudest
tones, though by means of the microphone          I have been able to hear
them in all metals ; but iron requires no microphone to make its sounds
audible, for  I demonstrated at the reading of my paper, March 31st,
that these sounds with two bichromate cells were clearly audible at a
distance.    A  fine soft iron wire (No. 28) is best for loud sounds to be
obtained by the direct passage of the current, but large wires (1 millim.)
are required for equally loud tones from the inducing coil. By choosing
any suitable wire between these sizes we can obtain equal sounds from
the longitudinal magnetism or direct current. The wire requires to
be well annealed, in fact, as in all preceding experiments, the sonnds
are fully doubled by heating the wire to nearly red heat.         There are
many interesting questions that these molecular sounds can aid in
resolving, but as   I wish to confine the experiments to the subject of
the two preceding chapters,      I will relate only a few which    I believe
bear on the subject.
    On sending an intermittent electric current through a fine soft iron
wire we hear    a  peculiar musical ring, the cadence of which is due to
that of the rheotome, but whose musical note or pitch is independent
both of the diameter of the wire and the note which would be given
by a mechanical vibration of the wire itself.        I have not yet found
what relation the note bears to the diameter of the wire ; in fact, I
believe it has none, as the greatest variation in different sizes and
different conditions has never exceeded one octave, all these tones
being in our ordinary treble clef, or near 870 single vibrations per
second, whilst the mechanical vibrations due to its length, diameter,
and strain vary many octaves.
    I believe the pitch of the tone depends entirely upon molecular
strain, and   I  found a remarkable difference between the molecular
strain caused by longitudinal magnetism and the transversal or ring
magnetism produced by the passage of a current.          For, if we pass the
current through the coil, inducing magnetism in the wire, and then
gradually increase the longitudinal mechanical strain by tightening
the wire, the pitch of the note is raised some three or four tones (the
note of the mechanical transversal vibrations being raised perhaps
several octaves) ; but if we tighten the wire during the passage of an
electric current through it, its pitch falls some two or three notes, and
its highest notes are those obtained when the wire is quite loose.         A

   1881.]                   Molecular Magnetism.                       223
   similar but reverse action takes place as regards torsion ; for if the
  wire is magnetised by the coil we obtain an almost complete zero of
  sound by simply moving the torsion index 45° on either side, and as
  this was the degree which gave silence in the previous experiments
   for the same wire, it was no doubt due to the same rotation of its
  polarised molecules.    If we now pass a constant current through the
  wire whilst the intermittent one is upon the coil, we hear augmented
  sounds, not in pitch but loudness ; and if we give torsion of 45° to one
  side we have silence, or nearly so, whilst, to the other side, it gives
  increased tones which become silence by reversing the battery.        If,
  whilst the wire by torsion has been brought to zero, we decrease or
  increase the mechanical longitudinal strain, then at once the polarised
  molecules are rotated, giving loud sounds ; and we further remark
 that when the wire is loosened, and we again tighten it, we gradually
 approach a zero, and on increasing the strain the sounds return ; thus
  we can rotate the molecules by a compound strain of torsion and
  longitudinal strain.
     If we wish to notice the influence of a constant current passing
 through the wire under the influence of the intermittent current in
 the coil, we find, if the wire is free from torsion, that, on passing
 the current, the tones are diminished or increased according to the
 direction of the current.    The tones then have an entirely distinctive
 character, for whilst preserving the same musical pitch as before,
 the tones are peculiar, metallic, and clear, similar to those given out
 when a glass is struck, whilst the tones due to longitudinal magnetism
 are dull and wanting in metallic timbre. If we now turn the index of
 torsion upon one side, we have a zero of sound with or without the
 current ; but turning in the opposite direction gives increased tones
 whilst current is passing through the wire, but zero when not. Here
 again a peculiarity of timbre can be noticed, as although we have loud
 tones due only to the action of the current through the wire, the timbre
is no longer metallic, but similar to that previously given out by the
 influence of the coil ; evidently then the metallic ring could only be
due to the angular polarisation of the molecules, and when these were
rotated by torsion the tones were equally changed by its action upon
the wire.
     I have already shown that a permanent magnet brought near the
wire can rotate its polarisation, and it equally can produce sound or
silence (while the wire is at its zero of torsion, and a constant current
is sent through the wire as in the last experiment) : we find that
either pole of the natural magnet has equal effect in slightly diminish
ing the sound by an equal but opposite rotation from the line of its
maximum effects ; but if the wire is brought nearly to zero by torsion,
then on approaching one pole of the natural magnet we produce a
complete silence, but the opposite pole at qnce rotates the molecules

224          Prof. D. E. Hughes.      Molecular Magnetism.       [May 19,
in such a manner as to produce the maximum loudness, and on taking
away the magnet we have comparatve silence as before.
   Heating the wire to nearly red heat by a spirit lamp increases the
tones of longitudinal magnetism induced by the coil some 25 per cent.,
but it effects a much more marked increase in the tones produced by the
direct passage of the current, which are increased by more than 100
per cent. ; and if we pass the intermittent current through the coil
and constant through the wire, we find no direct rotation of the
molecules by heat.     Although an apparent rotation takes place if, by
the required torsion, we first place the wire at its zero, for then on the
application of heat faint sounds are heard, which become again
almost silent on cooling, this is simply due to the diminution by heat
of the effect of the elastic torsion.
   Tempered steel gave exceedingly faint tones, requiring the use of
the microphone ; but on magnetising with a constant current, inducing
spiral magnetism, the sounds became audible, some 15° sonometer
against 175° for iron ; thus the molecular rigidity of steel as observed
by previous methods was fully verified.
   I  have mentioned only a few of the numerous experiments         I have
made by the      three methods   described, all of  which,  however,  bear
directly upon the molecular arrangement of electric conducting bodies.
1 have selected a few bearing directly upon the subject      I have chosen
for this paper.
   I have, I believe, demonstrated by actual experiments which are
easy to repeat, that —
   1. An electric current polarises its conductor, and that its molecular
magnetism can be reconverted into an electric current by simple torsion
of its wire.
   2. That it is by the rotation of its molecular polarity alone that an
electric current is generated by torsion.
   3. That the path of an electric current through an iron or steel wire
is that of a spiral.
   4. That the direction of this spiral depends on the polarity of the
current, or that of its magnetism.
   5. That a natural magnet can be produced, having its molecular
arrangement of a spiral form, and consequently           reversed electric
currents would both have a similar spiral in passing through it.
   6. That we can rotate the polarised molecules by torsion or a com
 pound strain of longitudinal and transversal.
   7.  That the rotation or movements of the molecules give out clear
audible sounds.
   8.  That  these sounds can be increased or decreased to zero   by means
that alone have produced rotation.
   9. That by three independent methods the same effects are produced,
and that they are not due to a simple change or weakening of polarity,

 1881.]      Identity of the Spectral Lines of Different    Elements.    225
m when rotation has been incomplete a mere mechanical vibration has
at once restored the maximum effect.
   10. That heat, magnetism, constant electric currents, mechanical
strains and vibrations, have all some effect on the result.
III.  " On the Identity of Spectral Lines of Different
                                                                 Elements."
      By G. D. Liveing, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry,
      and J. Dewar, M.A., F.R.S., Jacksonian Professor, University
       of Cambridge.       Received May 12, 1881.
The question of the identity of spectral lines exhibited by different
elements is one of great interest, because it is very improbable that
any single molecule should be capable of taking up all the immense
variety of vibrations indicated by the complex spectrum of iron or that
of titanium, and it might therefore be expected that such substances
consist of heterogeneous molecules, and that some molecules of the
same kind as occur in these metals should occur in more than one of
the supposed elements.         Further, the supposed identity of certain
lines in the spectra of more than one element has been made by Mr.
Lockyer the ground of an argument in support of a theory as to the
dissociation of chemical elements into still simpler constituents, and
in reference to this he wrote (" Proc. Roy. Soc." vol. 30, p. 31), " the
         '
'
  basic    lines recorded by Thalen will require special study with a
view to determine whether their existence in different spectra can be
explained or not on the supposition that they represent the vibrations
of forms, which, at an early stage of the planet's history, entered into
combination with other forms, differing in proximate origin, to produce
                         "
different ' elements.'
   Young, on examining with a spectroscope of high dispersion the
70 lines given in Angstrom's map as common to two or more sub
stances, has found that 56 are double or treble, 7 more doubtful, and
only 7 appear definitely single (" American Journal of Science," vol. xx,
                                       " The
119, p. 353), and he remarks,                complete investigation of the
matter requires that the bright line spectra of the metals in question
should be confronted with each other and with the solar spectrum
under enormous dispersive power, in order lhat we may determine
which of the components of each double line belongs to one and which
to the other element."      It is this confronting of the bright line spectra
of some of the terrestrial elements which we have attempted, and of
which we now give an account.           For the dispersion we have used a
reflecting grating similar to that used by Young, with 17,296 lines to
the inch, and a ruled surface of about 3£ square inches ; telescope and

 226                   Profs. Liveing and Dewar.                 [May 19,
collimator, each with an aperture of 1£ inch and focal length 18
inches, the lenses being of qnartz, cut perpendicularly to the axis and
nnachromatised,     giving a very good definition with monochromatic
light. The chromatic aberration is in this caie an advantage, for
when the telescope is in focus for lines in the spectrum of any given
order, the overlapping parts of spectra of different orders are out of
focus, and their brightness consequently more or less enfeebled.       We
have sometimes used green or blue glasses to enhance this result.
The telescope and the collimator were generally fixed at about 45°, the
collimator being more nearly normal to the grating than the telescope,
and the grating moved to bring in successive parts of the spectra.
For the parts of the spectra less refrangible than the Fraunhofer line
E the spectrum of the third order was employed, for the more refrangi
ble rays that of the fourth order.   The source of light was the electric
arc taken in a crucible of magnesia or lime ; and for the examination of
any supposed coincidence first one metal was introduced into the
crucible and the line to be observed placed on the pointer of the eye
piece, the second metal was next introduced, and then in most cases,
as detailed below, two lines were seen where only one was visible
before, aDd the pointer indicated which of the two belonged to the
metal first introduced.    In some cases where both metals were already
in the crucible, we had to reinforce the spectrum of one of the metals
by the introduction of more of that metal, which generally brought
out the spectrum of that metal more markedly than the other, and
enabled us to distinguish the lines with a high degree of probability.
Thus the crucibles of magnesia, or the carbons, always contain
sufficient lithium to show the orange line and the calcium line hereto
fore supposed coincident with it (wave-length 610T9), but we observed
these lines quite distinct and separated by a distance, estimated by the
eye in comparison with the distance of neighbouring titanium lines, at
about one division of Angstrom's scale. On dropping a minute piece of
lithium carbonate into the crucible the less refrangible line was seen to
expand, and for a short time to be reversed, the other line remaining
narrow and quite unaltered.      When the lithium had evaporated, and
 both lines were again narrow, a small piece of Iceland spar was dropped
into the crucible, which immediately caused the expansion, and on one
occasion the reversal, of the more refrangible line, while now the less
 refrangible line was unaffected.
    In this way we satisfied ourselves that the calcium line is the more
 refrangible of the two, and is probably represented by the line at wave
 length b'101-9 in Angstrom's normal solar spectrum, while the lithium
 line appears to be unrepresented.
    In the case of iron, which gives such    a  multitude of lines, it was
 a  priori probable that some lines would    be  coincident, or nearly so,
 with lines of other elements  ; and in fact we find that in five-sixths of

 1881.]     Identity  of the Spectral Lines of Different        Elements.        227
the supposed coincidences lines of iron are involved.            We have, there
fore, chiefly directed our attention to iron lines.
    Taking iron and titanium, we find that we can resolve the lines at
the wave-lengths following : —
    6064'7* is a wide double, the iron line less refrangible than the
titanium by something like a division on Angstrom's scale. Young
did not resolve this line, probably because         he was looking for      a much
closer double line.
    5714-09.    A very  close double, the iron the less refrangible,        but not
in Thalen's list.
    56(il"65.  A double titanium line, but there appears to be a single
iron line between the titanium lines.
    5489'05-    A titanium line, but we could not see any iron line in the
arc at this place, and no such iron line is in Thalen's list.
    5486'94.    The iron line is more refrangible than the titanium.
    5446'07.    IJather a close double, the iron line the less refrangible.
   5428" 96.    A wider double, the iron line the less refrangible.
   5403-28.     The iron line in this is the more refrangible.
    5396' 19.   The iron line is the less refrangible.
   50O6-72. We have not resolved this line ; but it is net given as an
iron line in Thalen's list.
   4990"48. We have not resolved this line ; but it is a very strong
titanium line, and the titanium may have overpowered the iron line if
they are not coincident.
    4690-69.    The iron line is given by Thalen as slightly less refrangi
ble than the titanium line, but we did not resolve this line -(see
Appendix to this paper).
    4426-9.    Not given as an iron line in Thalen's list.
   4307"25. The iron line is given by Thalen as slightly more refran
gible that the titanium line. We have not resolved this line, the
titanium line being weak.
   4293"96.     The iron is given by Thalen as slightly less refrangible
than the titanium, but we did not resolve this line, or make out that
there is auy titanium line at this place.
   4287'47.     This is not given as an iron line in Thalen's list.
   417177. We have repeatedly looked for this titanium line but have
not seen it in the arc.
    In the case of calcium it was more difficult to resolve close doubles,
because the introduction of a very small quantity -of a calcium com
pound into the arc for the purpose of identification caused such an
expansion of the calcium lines as to overpower in many cases their
weaker neighbours.
   • The numbers by which the lines ore here designated are the ware-lengths of the
corresponding Fraunhofer lines taken from the catalogue of oscillation frequencies in
the Report of the British Association, 1878, p. 37.

228                        Profs.   Liveiiig and Dewar.                [May 19,
     6461-98.    Not down     as an  iron line in Thalen's list. If it be an iron
line,    we are unable       to distinguish it from the calcium line (see
Appendix)      .
     5601-84. The iron line in this double is less refrangible than the
calcium line.
     5597'31.     A rather    close double in which the iron line is the more
refrangible.
     5348' 75.    Clearly double, the iron line less refrangible than the
calcium line.
     5269' 59.    A very close double, the iron line less refrangible than
the calcium.
     5041*32.     A   close double, but distinctly separable, the iron line
the less refrangible. Kirchhoff gives the iron and calcium lines as
 separate, but the calcium line less refrangible than the iron.
     4877'57.    We could not resolve this line     ; though Young has resolved
 the corresponding       solar line.
     4585'36~|
                 There are no iron lines at these places in Thalen's list, nor
     4578 37 >      conld we detect any in the arc though the positive
     4580'93-'      pole was of iron.
     4407-8 seems to be an iron line, though not in Thalen's list, but the
 calcium line, if there be one at this place in the arc, is so faint that we
 could not certainly make it out.
     4379-16 also seems to be an iron line not in Thalen's list, but we
 could find no calcium line in the arc corresponding to it.
     4375"46 is not given as a calcium line in Thalen's list, and we could
 see no calcium line at       this place.
     4307 25 seems to be a very close double, not distinctly divisible, as
both lines are somewhat diffuse, but the iron a little less refrangible
 if it expands symmetrically, and so given by Kirchhoff and by Thalen.
     4301'95.    The iron line here is faint, and it is more refrangible than
 the calcium line.
     4'298"56.    Close but distinctly divisible double, the iron less
 refrangible than the calcium line.
     4271-33 had the appearance of a very close double, as when calcium
 chloride was introduced into the crucible, the line expanded more on
 it 8 less refrangible side, as if the iron line were rather more refrangi
 ble than the calcium line ; but we could not definitely separate the two.
 The two lines are not given as exactly coincident by Thalen.
     The lines 424981,         424689,   4233, 414314,    4131 52  are   doubtful
 calcium lines ; at least, we could not detect any such lines when
 calcium chloride was introduced into the arc, though the other calcium
 lines in the neighbourhood were well developed.
     4097p55 does not seem to be an iron line, and we could detect no
 such line in the arc when the positive pole was of iron.
     Of supposed common lines of nickel and iron : —

 1881.]     Identity  of the Spectral Lines of Different    Elements.     229
    5168'48 is a close double, but the iron is less refrangible than the
nickel line.
    5145'87 we could not resolve, but it is not down          as an  iron line
in Thalen's list.
    5142-1 is double, and the iron line the less refrangible,          but it
was difficult to separate the two lines by reason of their diffuse
character.
    5136'9 is a very close double, the iron line more refrangible and
weaker than the nickel line.
    4854-85 we have not been able to find any iron line here in the arc.
    Of supposed coincident lines of manganese and iron : —
    5340"38 is a close double of manganese and iron, but still definitely
divisible, the iron line being the more refrangibler of the two.
    5254-21 is rather a wide double, with the iron line the more re
frangible.
    4489-49, also plainly double, has the iron line more refrangible than
the manganese line.
    4414'77 is a close double, but distinctly separable, the iron line the
less  refrangible.
    4054-48. There is a faint iron line here slightly more refrangible
than the manganese line.
    The magnesium and iron lines in bt are separable, the iron line being
less refrangible.
    Of chromium lines supposed coincident with iron lines : —
    5207' 78 is plainly double, the iron line being the less refrangible.
    5203-88 not clearly resolved, but the iron line seems the less
refrangible.
    46-54-07. We failed to detect any chromium line at this place, though
the chromium line at 4646'6 was bright and strong, as well as a line
at 4650-5.
    4646'6 we could not resolve, but Thalen gives no line of iron in his
list at this place.
    4369-27 does not appear to be an iron line ; we could detect no
sirch line in the arc, and it is not given in Thalen's list. There is an
iron line about    one division of Angstrom's scale less refrangible.
     Of supposed coincident lines of iron and cobalt : —
    5265 '94 is decidedly double, and the more refrangible         of the two
 lines due to cobalt.
    53o2'57 we did not resolve with certainty, but cobalt expanded the
 line more on the less refrangible side.
     5681'52. The iron line here is decidedly more refrangible than that
 of sodium.
     We have examined further the supposed coincident lines of cobalt
 and calcium, and of chromium and calcium, and find that 012 1 -34 is
 plainly resolvable, and the cobalt line is the  less refrangible  of the two.

  230                     Profs.   Liveing and Dewar.                  [May 19,
     4289'44 and 4274-63 are both close doubles, with the chromium lines
 the less refrangible. The latter line is difficult to resolve.
     5856 6 is plainly resolvable, the calcium line more refrangible than
  the nickel line.
     5480'29.   This is a double line of titanium, and the strontium line
 is more refrangible than either titanium line.          They form a not very
 close triplet.
     5424'8. The barium line lies between the titanium line and the iron
 line next it (5423 7), and the iron line is a very little more refrangible
 than the barium line.
     The indium line 410T2 we found very difficult to separate from the
 hydrogen line (A), as the latter had to be taken from the spark in a
 tube, and is both faint and diffuse, but several observations all led
 to the conclusion that the indium line is very slightly less refrangible
 than that of hydrogen.
     We have also directly compared the iron line at 5316'07 with the
 Rolar spectrum, and found that the iron line corresponds with the less
 refrangible of the two solar lines at this place, so that the coronal
 line is in all probability the other line of the pair.
    There are still a few cases of supposed coincidences which we have
 not examined.        The results which we have recorded strongly
 confirm Young's observations, and leave, we think, little doubt
 that the few as yet unresolved coincidences either will yield to a
higher dispersion, or are merely accidental.              It would indeed be
strange,   if amongst   all  the variety  of  chemical  elements,  and the still
greater variety of vibrations which some of them are capable                   of
taking up,    there  were   no  two  which   could' take   up vibrations of  the
same period.      We certainly should have supposed that substances like
iron and titanium, with such a large number of lines, must each con
sist of more than one kind of molecule, and that not single lines, bat
several lines of each, would be found repeated in the spectra of some
other chemical elements.          The fact that hardly single coincidences
can be established is a strong argument that the materials of iron and
titanium, even if they be not homogeneous, are still different from
those of other chemical elements.         The supposition that the different
elements may       be resolved   into simpler constituents, or into a single
one, has long been a favourite speculation with chemists ; but how
ever probable this hypothesis may appear, a priori, it must be
acknowledged that the facts derived from the most powerful method
of analytical investigation yet devised give it scant support.
                         Appendix.       May 13, 1881.
    The following supposed coincidences have        been resolved,  in addition
to  those before mentioned : —

1881.]         Identity       of Spectral Lines of Different Elements.                          231
  6449"27.         rather a wide doable, the calcium line being more
                  This   is
refrangible than that of barium.
  6461"98. This is a close double, but the iron is less refrangible than
the   calcium line.
  G438"3o.        A   wide double, the cadmium                    more refrangible than the
calcium line.
  6407'38.         The iron line             is decidedly        more    refrangible than       the
strontium line.
  4690'69.      Not resolved before only from the faintness                          of the iron
line,   which is less refrangible than the titanium line.
    Figure representing the arrangement of crucible by which most of the observa
 tions in the foregoing paper were made,   a, block of dense magnesia ; b, horizontal
 hole for observation ; c, upper perforated carbon through which substances were
 dropped    into the arc ;       rf,   lower carbon,      sometimes drilled and filled with metal
 '.connexion      for positive     electrode   ;   /,   connexion for negative electrode;   and
                                                                                            g       h, ;
  brass pillars   filed on wooden block.
                                                                                      R

 232                               Dr. W. Macewen.                             [May    19.
 IV. "    Observations concerning Transplantation of Bone.                          Illus
        trated by a Case of Inter-human Osseous Transplantation,
        whereby over two-thirds of the Shaft of a Humerus was
        restored." By W. Macewen, M.D. Communicated by Pro
        fessor Huxley, Sec. R.S. Received May 3, 1881.
         Facts previously recorded regarding Transplantation               of Bone.
    Facts relating to attempted            osseous    transplantations      are few, the
details concerning them are meagre, and the deductions drawn there
from have been received with dubiety.
    Re-implanted Portions of Bone. — First there are statements to the
effect that portions of the sknll elevated by the trephine having been
replaced shortly after their removal have become again incorporated
with and formed integral parts of the osseous walls.                   Other observers*
construe these facts differently. They say that the re-implanted
portions of bone have become absorbed, and that they have been re
placed by deposits of fresh osseous matter.                 On the side of the former
Flourens adds the weight of his testimony, believing that he has
demonstratedt the vitality of the re-implanted portions of bone in the
skull of a guinea-pig.
    Periosteal Transplantation in Lower Animals. — Oilier has systemati
cally endeavoured to transplant periosteum, and though in one instance
he has demonstrated the possibility of successfully transplanting peri
osteum, and producing permanent bone-growth therefrom, yet most
of the grafts either failed at once or having produced certain osseous
spicules were then slowly absorbed.            J
    Osseous Transplants in Lower Animals. — Osseous transplants were
also tried by Oilier, who convinced himself of the success of grafts
placed under the skin, and in regions to which ossification                            was
   * C'est la du moins la reflexion que fait Wagner sur les faits de Merrem, Wiess-
mann, Walther, Klencke, Heine, qui lui paraissaient incertains. — " Regeneration des
Os," par Oilier, vol. i, p. 420.
   t Flourens gives the above and other somewhat similar facts in the " Compter
Bendus" de l'lnstitut, Aout 8, 1859.
      " ¦ ¦ ¦ Nous avons
   X                              pu constater au bout de trois ans, sur un lapin, la per-
sistance d'un anneau osseux que nous avions forme' autour des muscles profondes de
la jambe en transplantant un lambeau de pfirioste pris sur la jambe du c&te oppose."
— Oilier, loc. cit., vol. i, p. 413.
   " Nous avons vu souvent chcz lc
                                         lapin, le eluen, le chat et d'autres animaux, des
lambeaux periosticjues ou mfidullaires se durcir d'abord, prendre meme une consis
tence osseuse, et se resorber ensuite peu a peu.          En examinant alors le lieu de la
transplantation au bout de trois ou quatre mois, on ne trouvait plus rien, ou bien
seulement au petit noyau fibreux en voie de disparaitre."— Oilier, toe. <->'/., vol. i,
p. 412.

 1881.]          Observations concerning                  Transplantation           of    Bone.           233
 foreign.* He judged of the vitality of the osseous grafts by their
 vascularity, and more especially by the formation of new osseous
 layers on their periphery.                      In a rabbit eight months old, he ex
 changed pieces            of  the radial diaphysis, transplanting to the left a
 portion taken from the right, and vice versâ. The result was im
 mediate and perfect union in the right radius ; in the left suppura
 tion set in and the bone wasted, leaving the periosteum adherent and
 ossifying,     f    Wolf, of Berlin, repeated Ollier's experiments,]; and be
 lieved that Oilier had arrived at wrong conclusions, as he (Wolf) had
 not been able to establish increase of osseous growth in any of his
 transplants.          Oilier, however, maintained his position, and believed it
 to be strengthened by the fact that rat-tails had been transplan ted, §
 and had grown as well after as before transplantation. ||
     Attempted Transplantation of Bone and Periosteum in Man. — As one
 might expect, when the materials furnished by experiment on the
 lower animals are meagre, they are more so when looked for in man.
 Passing the fabulous account of transplantation of bone"J dating from
     * " Pour nous mettre à l'abri des objections qu'on adressait aux expériences de nos
 prédécesseurs,     nous transplantâmes           dès 1858 des os entiers sous la peau ou dans
 d'autres régions étrangères          à   l'ossification,     et nous pûmes nous convaincre que la
 greffe    est bien   réelle." —  Oilier,   loc.  cit.,  vol.  i, p. 420 ; also in
                                                                                      " Comptes Rendus "
 de l'Institut, 28 février, 1859.
    t Oilier mentions the following experiments : —
    "
       Bagdanowski en 1860 (' Petcrsburger Medicin. Zeitschr.') a transplanté sur huit
chiens des fragment* de diaphyse du radius et du cubitus.                       L'os transplanté ne s'est
 pas greffé, mais autour de la substance               osseuse il s'est formé duns certains cas une
capsule ostéo-fibreuse qui se continuait avec les bords de l'os ancien."
    " iliddeldorpf, ayant introduit des morceaux de radius de pigeon dans la cavité
•abdominale d'un autre pigeon, vit l'os transplanté subir la dégénérescence graisseuse,
 après s'être entouré d'une capsule cellulo-fibreuse isolante." — Gûusburg's
                                                                                                 " Zeitschrift,
fur Klin. Med.," 1852.
    J   "Die    Osteoplastik
" Arehiv fur klinischc
                                 in ihrcn Beziehungen zur Chirurgie                   und Physiologie."      —
                              Chirurgie," Langenbeck, 1863.
               " De la Greffe Animale," 1863, Thèse de Paris ; " Journal de r Anatomic
    § Bert,
et de la Physiologie de Robin," 1864 ;
                                                     "              Rendus de l'Institut," 1865.
                                                        Comptes
    Il  Oilier only   succeeded in the rabbit in transplanting portions of bone ; he never
was able to do so in the dog, as the following                 will  show : —
                                                                              "     .   .   .   nous n'avons
pas, du reste, réussi à greffer des os entiers chez le chien."                   — Oilier,    loc. cit., vol. i,
    ï
n.  421.
         '¦
            Un ecclésiastique   nommé Kraanwinkel,             racontait, du temps de Job-à-Méékreu,
qu'étant en Russie un Seigneur de cette nation reçut d'un Tartare un coup de sabre
a la tète, lequel lui enleva une assez grande étendue du cuir chevelu et lu portion
osseuse correspondante,         qui restèrent perdues           sur le champ de bataille.          Le chirur
gien, pour boucher l'ouverture du crâne, détacha de celui d'un chien,                         tué à cet effet,
une pièce d'os de mêmes
bien que le blessé
furent lancées
                        fut parfaitement guéri
                    contre lui.      11 fallut pour rentrer
                                                           ....
                                  forme et dimension que celle qui manquait, et l'arrangea si
                                                                         Bientôt les foudres dç l'Eglise
                                                                       dans la communion «les fidèles
                                                                                                                 -
•l'i'il se fit retrancher l'immonde dépouille du chien, quoique solidement consolidée,
                                                                                            E 2

234                                 Dr. W. Macewen.                               [May 19,
the seventeenth century, the attempt made by Percy to transplant ox
bone into man is arrived at, and seems to be the first reliable experi
ment in that direction.*              On two successive occasions he placed in a
human lower limb a portion of the tibia of an ox, hoping that it
would fill up a gap left by a compound fracture attended with loss
of bone.         Those attempts were futile.                 Oilier likewise met with
failure in endeavouring to transplant a portion of human peri
 osteum from one part of a man's body to another,                           f    And a like
 result ensued on an attempt made by another surgeon to introduce a
 portion of dog's bone into the human body.                     J    Some months pre
 vious to this last experiment, I transplanted                 a  portion of one of the
 flat bones of the canine skull into a gap in the skull of a man.§                      Two-
 et qu'il se soumît à un traitement plus conforme au caractère         de chrétien."  — " Dic
 tionnaire des Sciences Médicales," livre XII, p. 355. .
     * Nous aTons deux fois fait cet essai avec de bouts d'os d'avant -bras, pris sur un
 bœuf, au moment où il venait d'être abattu.           Ces bouts avaient été sciés avec soin ;
 ils étaient encore recouverts d'une partie de leur périoste, et nous les avions inter
 posés entre les fragments de la fracture, arrangés pour les recevoir.              Mais nôtre-
 entreprise, ainsi que nous devions bien nous y attendre, a échoué, et loin que nos
 pièces d'os de bœuf, après avoir été en place une fois quinze jours et une autre
 vingt, eussent présenté le moindre vestige d'adhérence             et de cicatrization, nous
 pûmes remarquer,      en  les retirant, qu'elles  avaient manifestement     nui au développe
  ment vasculaire des surfaces sur lesquelles elles avaient porté et que leur séjour trop
 prolongé eût fait avorter l'œuvre du cal ou de la consolidation." — "Dictionnaire de*
  Sciences Médicales," livre XII, Art.
                                            " Ente Animale,"
                                                               p. 358.
        " 13 Mai, 1865. — Trantplantalion. — On fait une incision de 9 centimètres sur la
     t
 face interne du tibia droit, immédiatement au-dessous du cartilage de conjugaison
  supérieur, s'éloignant ainsi sufBssamment du genou pour ne pas y déterminer une
  arthrite et so rapprochant le plus possible du cartilage de conjugaison, afin d'avoir
  la portion de périoste la plus active du tibia. On détache ensuite avec la sonde-
  ruginc un morceau de périoste long de 8 centimètres, large de 2 centimètres, et on le
  laisse adhérent par un seul point à sa partie supérieure.             Faisant ensuite deux
  incisions transversales de 1 centimètre et demi à 2 centimètres, l'une à la racine du
  nez, l'autre à 7 centimètres au-dessus sur la partie moyenne du front, on creuse, avec
  une pince dont les deux branches sont tennues rapprochées              l'une de l'autre, une
   gaîgne dans le tissue cellulaire sous-cutané.
  de ses dernières                                                       ....
                                                      On sépare alors le morceau de périoste
                     attaches, et on le transporte dans cette gaîgne
   Le lambeau parait avoir descendu ; son extrémité fait plus de saillie par l'ouver
                                                                                     22 Mai. —
   ture inférieure ; on croit inutile de laisser séjourner un lambeau qui paraît mortifié
   et qui joue le rôle de corps étranger.       On le saisit avec des pinces et on l'arrache
   brusquement ; le malade pousse un cri, et l'on s'aperçoit que le lambeau tenait encore
  par trois points qui avaient contracté des adhérences vasculaires." — OUier, loe. cit.,
   vol. II, pp. 437-8-9.
      X In September.    1874, Dr. Paterson removed a complete cylinder of the radius of
   a dog, measuring three-quarters of an inch, and placed it into a gap existing in the
   radius of a. man. The transplant was not successful, the osseous cylinder coming
                                                        "
   away sometime after in an eroded condition. — Lancet," October 19, 1878.
      § In March, 1874, while acting as surgeon to the Western Infirmary Dispensarv.
   a man presented    himself with a gup in the vault of his cranium, resulting from a
   wound received some weeks previously.          From this wound a detached portion of the

  1881.   j      Observations        concerning    Transplantation     of Bone.           235
  thirds of the graft remained in the tissues, apparently becoming in
  corporated with them and forming a firm hard layer.                      No opportunity
 was afforded of demonstrating by an incision the exact condition of
 the graft. Bearing in mind the repeated statement of Oilier, that
 osseous grafts taken from one species and transplanted into another
 species would not live, I am inclined to reserve expressing a positive
 opinion on the success of the graft in this instance.
     Historical Resume. — The position of transplantation of bone is,
 therefore, as follows : — In the lower animals Oilier has transplanted
 periosteum and osseous tissue, and among many failures he succeeded
 in one instance in forming an osseous ring from grafted periosteum,
 and in another in transplanting a portion of bone from the one radius
 to the other of the same animal.                    Wolf, of Berlin, repeated Ollier's
 experiments, and stated that he never obtained an osseous growth
 from any transplant.               In    man there have been several attempts to
 transplant periosteum* and bone, which, with one exception, have
 been attended with failure.                 The exception — the case mentioned of
grafting        dog's       bone    into    a   human     skull — has not     been    clearly
 demonstrated.
               Points to     be solved    regarding Transplantation     of Bone.
    It  may be concluded, therefore, that the subject of transplantation
of bone and its subsequent growth have not yet been convincingly
 proved, and that Ollier's experiments require further confirmation.
    The questions which are still at issue are — first, will bone grow after
 transplantation          ?   Will it   add any osseous increment to its bulk ?
    Second, are the facts derivable from animals applicable to man                           ?
internal table of      the skull protruded, which, when removed by the fingers, exposed the
pulsating brain destitute of its dura mater, but covered by the ordinary exuberant
granulations.        A somewhat irregular aperture, an inch by half an inch, was left in
the osseous     wall.     In order to fill up this gap a dog six weeks old was taken, and a
portion of     its   parietal containing its ossifying centre was removed along with its
periosteum.        It was shaped into the form of the gap, and inserted into the osseous
aperture    in the    man's  skull. A small hole was left for drainage from the interior of
the bone. Before transplanting, the skin which had been adhering to the edges of
the bone was elevated, and the bones were refreshed.               After transplantation the
skin and tissues were drawn together over the graft, and united by sutures.             Three
weeks after, about a third of the graft was found to have become necrosed, and
shortly after this part separated.          The remaining two-thirds adhered firmly.     Soon
after the removal of the necrosed part the wound completely closed.              On pressing
the finger down on the skull, there seemed to be a little osseous elevation at the part
where the graft remained ; and us far as the finger could detect through the scalp,
the gap was filled by a hard resisting layer, apparently bone.
   • In a letter just received from Professor Oilier, he states that he has endeavoured
to transplant periosteum removed from the limbs of condemned criminals, placing
it in granulating wounds and ulcers. In one instance he found a hard part of
cartilaginous consistence, but the after result he was not able to follow.

                                Dr. W. Macewen.                        [May li«r
It is highly necessary to ask this question, as Oilier admits that thongh
successful in his osseous transplants among rabbits, he did not succeed
in transplanting portions of bones in dogs.
   If the first two questions be answered affirmatively, the third
follows : — though the possibility of bone showing indications of growth
after transplantation be admitted as a physiological fact, can it f nrnisb
any practical result ?
     Facts tending   to show the    probability of Transplanted Bone IAvimj.
    Facts presented by my surgical observations, especially of compound
fractures treated antiseptically, go far to support the belief that trans
planted bone is capable of living and growing.               Stated briefly they
are as follows   : —
    Portions of completely detached bone covered with periosteum, after
being washed with carbolised solutions, have been replaced, and they
have lived, thrown out callus, and increased in thickness, uniting at
the same time firmly to the neighbouring bone.
   A portion of bone, destitute of periosteum and completely detached
from the soft tissues, has been removed and placed at a short distance
from its original site, -where it has adhered, united with the neigh
 bouring bone, and apparently grown thicker in bulk.
    The cylindrical extremity of a fractured humerus for over 2 inches
was completely stripped of periosteum, round its whole circumference -T
the soft tissues which covered it in were reduced to pulp, yet this
portion of bone, entirely destitute of periosteum, lived and united firmly
with the shaft.
   Portions of fingers and toes, containing their bones, have reunited
after having been completely detached, and have grown into useful
members.
   The three phalanges of a finger were entirely stripped of the soft
tissues and vascular supply ; the bones with their ligament and tendons
projected as if in an anatomical specimen.             The soft parts were put
over  it like a glove, and both       lived and grew.
   These were at least sufficient          to cause one to look     hopefully on
transplantation of      bones.
          Consideration of     best  Method of Transplantation   of Bone.
    What elements of Bone are best Suited for Osseous Transplants? —
In considering the suitability of the various osseous elements for
transplantation,    it was evident that periosteum was best suited as far
as its vascularity was concerned ; but if it were alone taken, it was
equally clear that at best only a very thin osseous layer could result, a
layer so thin as to be totally inadequate for the formation of a bone
resembling the human humerus. . It is admitted that the true bone-
forming elements of the periosteum are confined to the layer which is

 1881.]      Observations   concerning Transplantation   of Bone.      237
 in immediate contact with the bone, and which sends prolongations
 into the Haversian canals. Now, if one attempts to elevate periosteum
 from healthy bone, portions of the osteogenic layer are apt to be left
 adhering to the osseous surface, the capabilities for bone formation of
 the periosteal graft being thereby deteriorated or destroyed.
    Tlie whole of the Osseous Elements ought to be included in Transplants
 of Bone. — In taking the calcareous matter along with the periosteum,
 the whole periosteal osteogenic layer is preserved, the calcareous matter
 at the same time forming a support to and mould for the new bone.
 Besides, the prolongations of periosteum contained in the Haversian
 canals  will proliferate if they have a free surface to expand into, and
 therefore the soft parts inclosed in the calcareous matter are important
 elements in the graft. The medulla is also under certain circumstances
 capable of producing bone ; and, through its intermediary, the vascu
 larity of the graft might the more easily be effected. It was, there
 fore, determined that a graft should be composed of the whole of the
 osseous elements, periosteum, calcareous matter, and medulla.
    Failure of Osseous Transplants due to want of Nutrition. — In trans
 planting bone the paucity of its vascular elements made the re-
establishment of its blood supply the first point to be considered.
 Failure has attended attempts at grafting cylindrical portions of the
long bones, owing to the length of time necessary to establish the
blood supply through the periosteum to the more distant and dense
portions of bone.
    How to Maintain Nutrition after Transplantation. — In order to place
transplanted bone in the most favourable conditions for living, it ought
to be divided into small pieces, so that the blood effused from the
intermuscular space into which the bone would be implanted, may
permeate between the individual fragments, and thereby afford a
medium for the establishment of vascular connexions, and the supply
of nutriment to the individual pieces of bone. Though the transplant
consisted of dense osseous tissue, in its divided form it would some
what resemble cancellated tissue. The re-establishment of the blood
supply to the grafts would thus be hastened and facilitated, and any
portion of the graft which was not suitable could be easily thrown off
without involving the whole.
    Other reasons for Dividing Bone into Small Pieces. — On other grounds
the division of the osseous transplant into small portions is advan
tageous.     Whether the leucocytes in the effused blood clot may or
may not be transformed into bony tissue, the blood clot itself when
small in quantity forms an excellent matrix for the proliferation of
the osteogenic elements. Again, the division of the bone into small
pieces not only makes the individual vitality more certain, but it also
supplies a greater number of proliferating osseous centres. In the
case of the calcareous tissue there is this further potent reason,

238                        Dr. W. Maeewen.                      [May  19.
that the osteogenic cells contained in the Haversian canals cannot
proliferate (except at the expense of the hard tissue) as long as they
are bound in — imprisoned by — calcareous walls ; the division of these
hard walls gives the soft tissues contained therein room to proliferate.
Besides, the graft when composed of small portions of bone, is more
easily moulded into any form which the surgeon may desire.
   It was resolved to give practical expression to these views in the
following case. In order to place all the particulars of the case before
those interested, the history is given in detail.
 Case in which Interhuman   Transplantation  was Successfully Performed.
   William Connell, aged three years, was admitted into the Royal
Infirmary, Glasgow, under my care on the 17th July, 1878, in a much
emaciated and exhausted condition arising from suppuration in con
nexion with necrosis of the right humerus.
   He came of healthy, though poor and itinerant parents. He pre
sented the appearance of a much neglected child. Constitutionally
he was weak, his pulse a mere thread, his cheek surmounted by a
hectic flush, and on slight effort beads of perspiration bedewed his
forehead.    The right upper arm was greatly distended, and fluctuant
from shoulder to elbow. About the middle of the upper arm there
were two cicatrices, which were stated to be the marks of recent
openings through which pus had escaped to within a week of his
admission to the hospital.   Toward the middle of the outer aspect of
the arm, the skin, including these cicatrices, was for about a couple of
inches thin and reddened.     A puncture was made at this point, giving
vent to fourteen ounces of thin foetid pus.       When the abscess was
evacuated the shaft of the humerus was found to be totally necrosed,
and already separated from its head at the epiphyseal junction.       At
the condylar epiphyses slight crepitation was elicited.        From the
condition of the bone, as well as from the few items of history which
could be relied on, it was evident that the destruction of the bone had
occurred from four to six weeks previously.       After the pus had been
evacuated, and the distention of the soft parts had thereby been
reduced, the shaft of the humerus was exposed through an aperture
measuring nearly an inch square, situated on the outer aspect of the
arm. The bone at this point was dark-coloured and foetid. The arm
was dressed, the patient was placed on generous diet, and otherwise
attended to in the hope that his strength might improve, and that he
would thereby be placed in a better condition for the removal of the
necrosed shaft.    Notwithstanding treatment, the daily discharge of
fcetid pus was great, and as the amount was not much lessened at the
end of three weeks,   it was considered advisable to remove the source
of irritation.

 1881.]       Observations   concerning     Transplantation      of Bone.        2311
    Necrosed    Bone Removed.     — On August 7th,         1878,  the part of the
necrosed bone exposed at the aperture already mentioned was divided
 by the bone forceps. The upper part of the shaft was then caught by
lion forceps, rotated in order to loosen its periosteal attachments, and
 then pulled out.      The lower portion was similarly dealt with. The
two portions removed comprised the whole humeral diaphysis.                      The
periosteum opposite the opening in the soft parts was nowhere seen or
 felt, its place being occupied by granulation tissue. Granulations like
 wise lined the tunnel from which the bone was removed ; but at the
 upper part toward the head of the bone, the finger detected periosteum
 with rough calcareous matter adhering.               The apertures left by the
 removal of the shaft were stuffed with carbolised lint, and the arm
 was carefully fixed on a splint.         The suppuration continued profuse
for about a fortnight, then gradually diminished.                 The tunnels left
 by the withdrawal of the bone were kept patent as long as possible,
 but they slowly coalesced from the epiphyses toward the superficial
 openings without the formation of new bone, except for a short dis
 tance from the head of the humerus.               After the first fortnight the
 patient's constitutional state improved under good diet, cod liver oil
 and lime water.       Local applications, with a view of stimulating the
 bone growth, were tried, but were found unavailing. The wounds were
•quite healed on 1st November, and he was dismissed from the ward
 on the 23rd November, 1878, with about an inch and three-quarters of
 shaft attached to the head of the bone ; even this was thin and
 tapered.     There was no bone from this down to the condyles.                There
 was, therefore, over two-thirds of the humeral shaft wanting. A
 month after (in December, 1878), he was seen, and the tapered portion
had increased by about a quarter of an inch. The measurement from
the acromion process to the end of this tapered process was 2 inches.
 He was seen monthly for some time, but no further growth of bone
 followed.*
    Appearance of the Arm one year and three months after. — On November
 7, 1879, the patient was re-admitted to the hospital.               The bone had
not grown further, though one year and three months had elapsed since
the subperiosteal resection of the humerus. When the limb was placed
 hanging down by the side, the measurement from the tip of the
acromion process to the distal extremity of the proximal portion of
the humeral shaft was nearly 2 inches. In form, this upper fragment
   *  Cases of subperiosteal resections of the humerus have occurred in which the
bone   has not been reproduced.   Thus, Nedopil performed a subperiosteal    resection
of the humerus in a boy twelve years of age, the shaft not being reproduced. In
order to render this boy's arm of some use an orthopoedic apparatus, devised by
Billroth, was applied. Neudorfer also mentions a case in which the humeral shaft
                                                                        " Die Cliirur-
•was not reproduced after subperiosteal resection.  (Professor D. Vogt,
gist'hen Krankheiten dor Oberen Extremitaten," p. 225, paragraph 212.)

240                        Dr. W. Maceweu.                        [May 19r
was conical,   tapering from the head to a narrow spike-like distal
extremity, which appeared, when he attempted to raise the arm, as if it
would penetrate the skin. From this down to the condyles there was
a complete absence of bone, there being nothing bat soft tissues in the
gap.   The muscular power was good, but when he attempted to raise
his arm a contraction of the muscles took place, the condyles being
drawn towards the proximal extremity, while some fibres of the
deltoid raised the spike-like process of the upper portion, causiDg it to-
project as if about to penetrate the skin.         Here the action ceased,
the soft parts in the gap appearing like a rope during the contraction.
He could not raise his forearm to his breast. If one caught the arm
firmly with the hand so as to keep the condyles fixed and separate
from the upper fragment, then the patient could elevate the forearm
towards his chin. The power was there ; the lever and fulcrum were
wanting. An apparatus supplying these might have been devised, but, if
such an expensive article could have been obtained, it wonld have
been necessary to renew it often as he grew older.       On account of his
social condition it would have been impossible to secure this and the
after attention necessary.     The only other alternative was to supply
the gap by transplantation of bone.
   In my wards there were numerous cases of marked anterior tibial
curves, from which wedges of bone had to be removed, and it was-
determined to utilise these wedges as transplants.
                        Transplantations   of Bones.
   Transplantation   of two Wedges of Bone. — On November ttth, \87&
(one year and three months after the removal of the necrosed shaft)
an incision was made down to the extremity of the upper fragment.
This extremity was found to be cartilaginous for fully a quarter of an
inch.   This cartilaginous spike-like process was removed, leaving then
a portion of bone which measured      \\ inch from the tip of the acromion
process.    From  this point a sulcus  about  2 inches in length was made
in a downward direction between the muscles. The former presence
of bone was nowhere indicated, and the sole guide as to the correct
position into which the transplant was to be placed was an anatomical
one. After the sulcus was formed, the hemorrhage was fully arrested,
and an aseptic sponge was placed in the gap, which was then ready to
receive the bone.
   Two wedges were then removed from the tibia? of a patient six years
of age, affected with anterior tibial curves.     The base of these osseous
wedges consisted of the anterior portion of the tibia, along with its
periosteum, the wedges gradually tapering towards the posterior part
of the tib».
   They were removed, then cut into small fragments with the chisel,
and immediately thereafter they were deposited in the sulcus in the

 1881. J     Observations   concerning  Transplantation  of Bone.      241
 boy's arm.     They were kept under the spray from the time they were
 removed from the tibiae until they were covered by the soft parts of
 the arm and its antiseptic dressing.     The time occupied in removing
 the wedges, cutting them into fragments, and placing them in the
 living tissues of the arm, was about two to three minutes. A drain of
 horsehair was inserted, and the wound was carefully stitched and
 dressed.
    The wound healed without pus production.        The patient's tempera
 ture remained normal throughout.
    A month after the operation the arm was looked at for the third
 time, when the transplant felt firm and united.
    Result of the first Transplant. — Two months after, it was thoroughly
 examined, when a portion of the bone, 1 inch in length and, as far as
 could be measured, nearly three-quarters of an inch in thickness, was
found firmly attached to the upper fragment of the shaft. In running
the finger from the head of the bone towards the graft, the latter could
be distinguished by its greater breadth.       At this time, instead of the
former sharp spike, the upper fragment ended in an obtuse terminal.
    Placing the arm by the side, the measurement from the tip of the
acromion process to the extremity of the bone was now 2f inches.
That was a distinct gain of 1 inch in length. The arm was shown in
 this condition to the Glasgow Pathological Society.
    Second Transplant. — On February 1st, 1880, the upper fragment was
laid bare, the extremity of the first graft was exposed, and found to be
covered by a fibrous vascular membrane, which had to be elevated in
the same way as periosteum.            Under this there was distinct cal
careous tissue, which had all the appearance of living bone. A
sulcus was made between the muscles for the reception of fresh grafts,
 which were obtained from a patient five years of age, affected with
anterior tibial curves. The wedges were divided into larger pieces
than the first graft.
    Some of these measured half an inch by a quarter of an inch, but the
majority were about one-eighth of an inch by one-sixteenth.
    The child kept well up to the third week, when the temperature
suddenly rose, and on examination some pus was found on the dress
ing, and one of the larger pieces of bone was discovered on the surface
of the wound.       Afterwards several portions of bone were shed. The
portions were mostly the larger pieces of the graft.           The smaller
fragments remained.        Thus about one-third of the second graft came
away. The portions of bone which were shed were eroded, small
hollows being formed on their surface, filled with granulation tissue.
After these parts were removed, there was a distinct firm mass of bone
left.
    Result of the second Transplant. — On April 20th (about two and a half
months after the second graft) the measurement from the tip of the

242                          Dr. W. Macewen.                            [May 19,
                             Schematized     Drawing*.
            A.                                  B.                     0.
1. Necrosed diaphysis, which    1. Portion of shaft attached    1. First graft.
     was removed.                     to    head    reproduced  2. Second graft.
                                      from    original   perios 3. Third graft.
                                      teum.
                                2. Cartilaginous       terminal
                                      removed      before first
                                      t ransplant.

1881.]       Observations concerning         Transplantation       of Bone.        243
acromion to the extremity of the shaft was 4 inches, being a gain of
an inch and a quarter.*
    The third Transplant. — On 9th July, 1880, the third transplant was
performed. On this occasion the condyles were exposed, and a cartilagi
nous spike an eighth of an inch in length, situated between the condyles
was seen to be the sole representative of the shaft from that direction.
This cartilaginous spike was removed, and the upper portion of the con
dyles was refreshed. A sulcus between the muscles was then made from
the condyles to the distal extremity of the upper fragment. Two osseous
wedges were removed from a patient aged nine years, affected with
anterior tibial curves. Each of those wedges was half an inch thick
at its base, and measured three-quarters of an inch in length from
apex to base. They were divided into smaller fragments than the last,
and were laid into the groove between the muscles.                        The wound
healed, all but a small part of the lower border, from which four small
portions of dead bone were removed at the second and third dressings.
About the middle of August there remained a firm osseous ridge
running from the condyles towards the upper fragment.                          At this
date the patient was dismissed from the hospital, and returned on 27th
October, 1880.          On his return the last transplant was found to
be still firm, and measuring from            If   to 2 inches in length.        It was
also thicker than that resulting from the others.                  The proximal and
distal grafts were now touching and could be rubbed together.
    Two Ends of transplanted Bones refreshed. — It was thought advisable
to refresh the ends of these grafts, and bring them together by sutures.
 This was done on October 31st, 1880 (over three and a half months
from the last graft, and about one year from the time of the first
graft).      Both extremities were seen to be distinctly osseous, and
appeared to be living bone. They were covered by a fibrous vascular
membrane, resembling periosteum.                   It was somewhat difficult to
secure correct apposition, and some portions had to be removed by
the bone forceps in order to permit of better adaptation.                   Six weeks
after, when the wound was looked at, union was not perfect. The
extremities of the bones were rubbed firmly together, and on January
9, 1881, union was found to be taking place.                   In order to hasten it
    * On July 6th, 1880, a little girl was admitted into the ward suffering from a
crush of the upper arm received by a railway accident.          Amputation at the upper
third of the arm had to be performed. The lower third of the humerus, though
somewhat crushed, was so nearly what was wanted to fill up the gap in the boy's
arm, that it was determined to transplant it. Owing to the manner in which it
fitted into the gap in the boy's arm it was considered advisable, in an experimental
sense, not to divide it into small pieces, but to preserve it entire. It was transferred
on July 6th, but three days after the periosteum was found to be in great measure
stripped, leaving the cylinder bare. The bone was therefore removed ; the granu
lations in the sulcus between the muscles scraped, and what may be regarded as the
third regular transplant proceeded with.

244                         Dr. W. Macewen.                         [May 19,
a couple of pegs were inserted with the aid of a drill. They were kept
in for five weeks, and when removed the bone was found firm. At the
beginning of March, 1881, the bone was found firmly united, from the
head to the condyles, and measured 6 inches ; while the left humerus
measured 6| inches, that is to say, half an inch longer than the trans
planted one. On rotating the condyles the head of the humerus
 responded to the movement.     The patient could    lift his arm to his head
and otherwise use it.
    Resume.  — This was  a  case   of   extensive   suppurative periostitis
followed by complete necrosis of the humeral diaphysis.                   The
necrosed humerus was divided at its exposed part, and each half was
pulled out from what was supposed to be its periosteal sheath ; but on
withdrawal doubts were expressed as to whether the periosteum had
not, for the most part, undergone destruction.          As a result, at the
proximal extremity bone was formed, of a pyriform shape, tapering
from the head toward a point an inch and three-quarters from the tip
of the acromion process. This left over two-thirds of the shaft want
ing.    There was no further attempt at bone formation.          A year and
three months afterwards,    the state of the parts remained        the same.
After this time the first transplant was performed.           In making the
sulcus for the reception of the graft, reliance had to be placed on the
anatomical relations as to the correct position for the graft, as there
was no trace of periosteum or fibrous structure to indicate the former
whereabouts of the bone. Portions of human bone were transplanted
on three different occasions.    The grafts were obtained from patients
affected with anterior tibial curves, from whom wedges of bone had
to be removed for the purpose of straightening their limbs.             These
osseous wedges, with their periosteum, were each divided, after
removal, into many small pieces, which were immediately placed in
the sulcus prepared for them in the boy's arm.        These small portions
united together and adhered to the head of the humerus above and
the condyles below, ultimately forming a solid rod, only half an inch
shorter than the humerus of the opposite side. The transplantation
of bone converted a useless arm into a thoroughly useful one.
                 Deductions from   these  Transplantations.
   Though the foregoing is only a single case, as far as the individual
is concerned, yet from the number of transplants which have been
performed it may be regarded as a series of experiments.            It is now
necessary to ask, what conclusions may be drawn from the data sup
plied by these experiments ? Before answering these, the way may
be cleared by reference to two points.       First, some who have heard
of this case without having seen the operations, have asked, whether
it was not possible that some old periosteum remained in the arm and
produced    the new bone, the operation of transplantation having only

 1881.]      Observations   concerning   Transplantation  of Bone.      245
acted as a stimulus to it ?     In answer, it must be borne in mind, that
 had periosteum existed, between the condyles and the upper part of
 the humerus, it had ample opportunity of revealing itself by osseous
 growth, during the fifteen months which elapsed between the removal
of the dead bone and the transplantation of the new.              Again, in
 opening up the sulcus between the muscles for the reception of the
 transplants, neither periosteum nor any vestige of like fibrous mem
 brane was seen ; so much so, that it was only by recognising the
 relative positions which the muscles ought to occupy toward the
 humerus, that a guide to the correct position of the transplants was
 found. Further, the growth of bone in the arm was at first only
 commensurate with the transplants.           There was no indication of
 osseous growth in the vicinity of the transplant which might have
 arisen from the "supposed stimulated periosteum."             Finally, the
 solid humerus still retains the irregularities of shape which tho trans-
 plants were permitted to assume in the tissues.        So that there is not
 an iota of fact to support the supposition that the new bone grew from
old periosteum.
                       Trawtplanix  not being Absorbed.
    Secondly, it is stated that though transplanted bone may be
 retained in the tissues, yet it may be simply encapsuled and be under
 going slow absorption.      If absorption were taking place the changes
 so brought about ought to be apparent by this time.         The first graft
 was made one year and five months ago, the last nine months since
 (this is written on 12th April, 1881), and the bone formed after the
 healing of the wound made for the reception of the graft has not only
 maintained its original dimensions but has grown. This sufficiently
sets at rest the question of absorption of the transplanted bone.
    The way being thus clear, the conclusions drawn from the data
supplied by these experiments may be considered.             To commence
 with the questions in the order        in which they are placed at the
beginning of this paper. What evidence do these experiments afford
as to the growth of transplanted      bone  ?
                     Proofs   of Growth of Transplants.
    When from six human lower limbs six wedges of bone (along with
their periosteum and marrow) are removed, divided into small pieces,
placed in the arm of a boy, in an intermuscular space freshly opened
by the scalpel for their reception ; and when it is seen that, with the
exception of a few fragments of bone which were shed, the whole of
the grafted portions united one to another and to the ends of the
original bone ; making in all four and a-half inches of osseous
transplant, whereby a united humerus has been formed, which he
moves and uses as the other arm ; it may be concluded that the trans

24G       Observations  concerning    Transplantation  of Bone.    [May  1 StT
planted bones have lived and grown. Before these transplanted por
tions of bone could have nnited together, there mast have been a
proliferation of the bone-forming elements contained in the grafts.
That the development of fresh bone originated in the transplants is
typically illustrated, where the second transplant united to the first by
one end, while its other extremity was free in the tissues ; so that it
did not come into contact with the original bone at any part. Yet
this transplant consolidated just as well as the first or second trans
plant did. As further illustrations of the vitality of the transplants
and the growth of new bone from them, there is, firstly, the evidence
derivable from the callus thrown out between the second and third
transplants, after their extremities were refreshed, the same phe
nomena being observed here as in an ordinary case of ununited
fracture.     Secondly, the bones became sensibly thicker at the point
where they were drilled for the reception of the pegs. All these are
evidences of actual growth of bone from the transplants.
                          Vascularity  of Transplants.
   When the extremities       of the second and third transplants were
refreshed,    the appearance of both bones was that of living        osseous
tissue  ;  surrounded by a thin fibrous vascnlar membrane            closely
adherent     to the bone, and which bled when it was scraped up,
much in the same way as periosteum would under similar circum
stances. This membrane did not resemble the thick semi-vascular
capsule which is found surrounding dead tissue in process of being
absorbed.
   These facts being derived from the interhuman transplantation arc,
as they stand, a sufficient answer to the second question ; while the
utility of the arm after restoration of two-thirds of the humeral shaft
establishes the practical results of the operation.
   The method of division of the bone into small pieces prior to trans
plantation, and the a priori reasons for doing so, have been borne
out by the success which has attended the practical performance of
the operations.
                                   Conclusion.
    From the foregoing the following may be formulated : —
   1. Transplanted bone is capable of living and growing.
   2. Interhuman transplants of bone live and grow.
   3. Interhuman osseous       transplants are capable of being put        to
practical   uses beneficial to mankind.
   4.  The whole of the osseous elements ought to         be included in the
transplants.
   5. The most successful mode of transplanting bone is to divide it

  1881.]              Velocity of  White and    of Coloured Light.          247
 into small fragments with a sharp instrument before inserting it into
  its new locus.
      6. In order to insure the success of the graft the transplantation
 most be conducted antiseptically .
 V. " Experimental Determination of the Velocity of White and
          of Coloured Light." By Dr. J. YOUNG, F.R.S., and Pro
          fessor G. Forbes.       Received May 17, 1881.
                                     (Abstract.)
      The method employed in this research to measure the velocity of
 light resembled the method of M. Fizeau, subsequently employed by
  M. Cornu. A revolving toothed wheel is employed in the same way
 to alter the intensity of the light reflected from a distance.           In the
  present method, however, there are two distant reflectors instead of
 only one. They are separated by a distance of a quarter of a mile.
 The observing telescope and the two reflectors are almost in the same
 line. The observer sees two stars of light which go through their
 phases with different periods as the toothed wheel is revolved at in
 creasing speeds.        One star is increasing, while the other is diminish
 ing, in intensity, with increase of speed of the toothed wheel. The
 speed required to produce equality of the lights is determined by
 means of a chronograph.          By choosing such a speed as gives a maxi
 mum of one star at the same speed as a minim um of the other, a pair
 of observations eliminates all cause of doubt arising from varying
 brightness in the stars, and ratio of the width of a tooth to the width
¦of a space.      The distances were observed by triangulation with the Ord
nance       Survey 18-inch theodolite, using as a base line a side of one
¦of the Ordnance Survey triangles.           The source of light was an electric-
lump.        The  velocities (uncorrected   for rate of clock, and reduction to
a vacuum) measured are as follows:          —
                                       187,707
                                       188,405
                                       187,676
                                       186,457
                                       185,788
                                       186,495
                                       187,003
                                       186,190
                                       186,830
                                       187,266
                                       188,110
                                       188,079
                       Mean            187,167 miles a second.
    •VOL.  XXXII.                                                    8

248              Velocity    of White and of Coloured Light.              [May  1^
    The correction to vacuum is + 54 miles a second. The correction
for rate of clock to a mean solar time is + 52 miles a second.
    The final results for the velocity of the light from an electric lamp
in vacuo is 187,273 miles a second, or 301,382 kilometres a second.
    Using Struve's constant of aberration 20"-445, we obtain for the
solar parallax the value 8"-77, and for the mean distance of the sun
93,223,000 miles.
    On February 11th,       1881, the reflected stars were seen to be coloured,
one reddish, the other        bluish.    The particular colour of a particular
star depended upon the speed of rotation of the toothed wheel.                 That
 star which was increasing with increase of speed of the toothed wheel
was reddish, that one which was diminishing with increase of speed
was bluish.       This seems to be caused by the fact that blue rays travel
quicker   than  red  rays.
    A number of tests were made to judge of the accuracy of this con
 clusion,  and    they confirmed it.          In the final arrangements, the
electric light was acted upon by         a bisulphide of carbon prism, and part
of a pure spectrum was used. Differential measurements were then
made to find the difference in velocity of rotation of the toothed wheel,,
required to produce equality of red and of blue lights. The most con
venient method was to use a driving weight slightly in excess of that
 required to produce equality of the light, then to fix to the pulley
carrying the weights       one end    of  a piece  of stout india-rubber tubing,
 the other end being fixed to a point        above.    This gradually diminished
the effective driving weight.            The equality of red lights was first
 noted, the colour of the light was changed, and the interval of time
until the blue lights were equal was measured. The rate at which the
india-rubber diminished the speed was afterwards measured by the aid
of the chronograph, and thus the difference of speed determined. The
mean of 37 determinations in this and other ways gave the result that
the difference in velocity between red and blue lights is about 1'8 per
cent, of the whole velocity, blue travelling most rapidly.
    The general conclusion seems to be supported by a comparison of
the velocity of light measured by M. Cornu and Mr. Michelson, where
the source of light usually employed is taken into consideration.
These are the only accurate measurements of the velocity of light
hitherto published.       They give us the following results : —
                                     Usual source of light.   Velocity in kilo
                                                              metres a second.
       Micholson's research  ....   The sun near horizon.   .     299,940
       Cornu's                                                    300,400
       The present    „      ....                                 301,382

1881.]                                 Presents.                                  249
   Classifying the sources of light used by Cornu, we get the following
approximate relative velocities : —
                                              No. of       Approximate relative
              Source of light.
                                          observations.          velocity.
                                                30            298,776 kilos.
                                                77            300,242    „
                                              449              300,290   „
   All these results seem to support the view that the more refrangible
the source of light, the greater is the velocity.             But the evidence of
the present   observations,     indicating   an   excess  of velocity for blue over
red light, seeming to exceed 1 per cent, of the whole, must rest upon
the merit   of the present observations themselves.
                               Presents,  May    5, 1881.
Transactions.
   Edinburgh: — Royal Society. Transactions. Vol. XXIX. Part 2.
        4to. Edinburgh 1880.            Proceedings.      Vol. X. No. 105. 8vo.
        Edinburgh 1880.                                                 The Society.
   Graz .-— Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fur Steiermark.                   Mittheil-
        ungen. Jahrg. 1880. 8vo. Graz 1881.                        The Association.
   Jena : —Medicinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Jenaische
         Zeitschrift. Bd. XIV.          Supplement- Heft I. 8vo. Jena 1881.
                                                                        The Society.
   London : — Anthropological Institute. Journal. Vol. X. No. 2. 8vo.
        London 1880.                                                   The Institute.
      Entomological Society. Transactions. 1881. Part 1. 8vo. London.
                                                                        The Society.
      Institution of Civil Engineers.            Minutes of Proceedings. Vol.
         LXIII. 8vo. London 1881. Private Press, Nos. 1-12.
                                                                    The Institution.
      Meteorological      Society.     Quarterly     Journal.   Vol.   VII. No. 37.
        List of Fellows. Jan. 1881. President's Address. 8vo. London
        1881.                                                           The Society.
      Royal Astronomical Society. Monthly Notices. Vol. XLI. No. 5.
         8vo. London 1881.                                              The Society.
      Statistical Society."       Journal. Vol. XLIV. Part 1. 8vo. London
         1881.                                                          The Society.
   Lyon: — Societe de Geographic Bulletin. Tome III. No. 19. 8vo.
        Lyon 1880.                                                      The Society.
                                                                        s 2

 250                                Presents.                           [May  5,
Transactions (continued).
   Madison : — Wisconsin Academy.              Transactions.    Vol. IV. 8vo.
        Madison, Wis. 1878.                                      The Academy.
   Munich: — K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften.                 Abhandlungen.
        Hist. Classe. Band XV. Abth. 3. 4to. Munehen 1880.
        Philos.-Philol. Classe. Band XV. Abth. 3. 4to. Munehen 1881.
                                                                 The Academy.
   New York : — Academy of Sciences. Annals. Vol. I. Nos. 11-13.
        8vo. New York 1880.          Index and Contents to Vol. XI, Old
        Series.                                                  The Academy.
      American Geographical Society.             Bulletin. 1880. No. 2. 8vo.
        New York 1881.                                             The Society.
   Naples: — Zoologische Station.         Fanna und Flora des Golfes von
        Neapel. Monographic II. 4to. Leipzig 1880.
                                                           Dr. Siemens, F.R.S.
Observations,     &c.
   Paris : — Bureau Central      Meteorologique.        Annales. Annee 1878.
        II.   Bulletin   des  Observations Francaises. 4to. Paris 1880.
        IV.   Meteorologie   Generate. Oblong. Paris 1880. Annee 1879.
        I.   Etude     des  Orages en France.         4to. Paris 1880.      IV.
        Meteorologie     Generale.  4to.  Paris   1880.            The  Bureau.
      Depdt de la Marine. Bassin Oriental de la Mer Mediterranee.
        Partie    2. 8vo.  Paris  1880.    Pilote de la Manche.     Cdtes Nord
        de France.    Tome II.   8vo.   Paris  1880.                The Depot.
                   —
   Washington : U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey.                  Methods and
        Results. Meteorological Researches for the use of the Coast
        Pilot. Part 2. 4to. Washington 1880.
Berthelot (M.) Essai de Mecanique Chimique.                  Supplement.   8vo.
     Paris 1881.                                                   The Author.
Braithwaite (R.) The British Moss-Flora.              Part 4. 8vo.  London.
                                                                   The Author.
Camoes     (Luis de)     Os Lusiadas.    Oblong. Lisbonne 1880.
                            La Societe Proprietaire du Diario de Noticias.
Carruthers     (Rev. G. T.)      The Attraction of Simple        Gravity. 8vo.
     RoorJcee.
Dumas    (J. B.)      Eloge Historique de Henri-Victor Regnanlt. 4to.
     Paris 1881.                   The Author, per W. De La Rue, F.R.S.
Ellery (R.   L.  J.), F.R.S.   An  Improved Ombrograph, or Self-register
     ing Rain-Gange. 8vo. Melbourne.                               The Author.
Fievez (Ch.)       Recherches sur l'Elargissement des Raii-s Speetrales
     de l'Hydrogene. 8vo. Bruzelles 1881.                          The Anthor.

1881.]                              Presents.                              251
Mascart (E.)     La Meteorologie appliquee         a la Prevision du Temps.
     8vo.  Paris 1881.                   L'Ecole Superieure de Telegraphie.
Ovidio   (E. d')  Nota     sulle Forme    Binarie de 5° Ordine. 8vo. Torino
     1880.                                                         The Author.
Paiva (Adriano de) La Telescopie Electrique basee sur l'emploi du
     Selenium. 8vo. Porto 1880.                                    The Author.
Plantamour (Ph.) Des Mouvements Periodiques du Sol accuses par
     des Niveaux a Bulle d'Air (Denxieme annee). 8vo. Geneve 1881.
                                                                   The Author.
Plateau (J.) Bibliographic Analytique des principaux Phenomenes
     Subjectifs de la Vision. 2e Supplement. 4to. [BruxeUes 1880.]
                                                                   The Author.
Bronze Medal struck by the Academie des Sciences, Paris, in honour
     of Henri Milne-Edwards, Membre de l'lnstifut, on the com
     pletion of his " Lecons sur l'Anatomie et la Physiologic Com-
     parees."                    The Academy, per W. De La Rue, F.R.S.
                            Presents, May 12, 1881.
Transactions.
   Boston : — American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Proceedings.
        New Series. Vol. VIII. Part 1. 8vo. Boston 1881.
                                                                 The Academy.
              —
   Brighton: Natural History Society. Annual Report, 1880. 8vo.
        Brighton 1880.                                             The Society.
                     —
   Buck hurst Hill : Epping Forest Naturalists' Field Club. Trans
       actions. Part 3. 8vo. Buckhurst Hill, Essex 1881.              The Club.
   Bnda-Pest:   — Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia. Almanach, 1881. 8vo.
          Budapest 1881. Ertesito (Akademiai) 1879 : 7,8. 1880: 1-8.
        (Archaeologiai) XIII Kotet. 8vo. Budapest 1879-80.             Evkony-
       vek. XVI. 6. 4to. Budapest 1880. Kozlemenyek (ArchsBologiai)
       XIII. 2. 4to. Budapest 1880. (Nyelvtudomanyi) XV. 3: XVI.
        1. 8vo. Budapest 1879-80.          Ertekezesek a nyelvt. es szepiro-
        dalom Korebol. VIII. 5-10: IX. 1, 2. es cziml. VIII. 8vo.
        Budapest    1879-81.       Ertekezesek     a  tarsadalmi   tudomanyok
       Korebol. V.     9 :  VI. 1-8.   es cziml.   V. 8vo. Budapest 1879-80.
        Ertekezesek   a tortenelmi tudomanyok Korebol. VIII. 10 : IX.
        1-3. es cziml. IX. 8vo. Budapest 1880.           Ertekezesek a mathe-
       matikai tudomanyok           Korebol. VII. 6-22. 8vo. Budapest
       1879-80.     Ertekezesek a termeszet-tudomanyok            Korebol. IX.
       20-25 : X. 1-18. £s cziml. IX. 8vo. Budapest 1879-81. Monu-
       mehta Hungari» Historica.          II  osztaly. Scriptores. Vol. XXX.

252                                Presents.                           [May 12.
Transactions (continued').
       et Suppl.   Ill   osztaly.     Monumenta      Comitialia Regni Tran
       sylvania. 8vo. Budapest 1880-81. Dr. Abel Jeno : Adalekok
       a Humanismus        Tcirtenetehez    Magyarorszagon.      8vo. Budapest
       1880.    Thaly Kalman :        Ocskay Laszld. 8vo. Budapest 1880.
       Wenzel Gusztav : Magyarorszag Banyaszatanak                Kritikai Tor-
       tenete. 8vo. Budapest 1880. Comes Geza Kaon : Codex Cum-
       anicus.   8vo. roy. Budapestini       1880.    Monumeuta Hungarian
       Archasologica.    Vol.   IV. Partes    1, 2.  4to.  Budapest 1879-80.
       Szilady Aron : Temesvari Pelbart Elete es Munkai. 8vo. Bud<i-
      j)est 1880.      Literarische Berichte aus Ungarn.             Band IV.
       Hefte 1-4. 8vo. Budapest 1880.              Ungarische     Revue,   1881.
       Hefte 1, 2. 8vo. Leipzig, &o. 1881.         Pesty Frigyes: Az Eltiint
       Regi Varmegyek.       2  vols. 8vo.  Budapest   1880.    Torma Karoly :
       Repertorinm ad Literaturam Dacise Arcbffiologicam et Epigra-
       phicam. 8vo. Budapest 1880.           Szasz Karoly : Grof Szecbenyi
       Istvan es az Akademia Megalapitasa.              8vo. Budapest 1880.
       Regi Magyar Koltok Tara. Kotet II. 8vo. Budapest 1880.
                                                                 Tbe Academy.
              —
  Calcutta : Asiatic Society of Bengal.            Proceedings, 1881. No. 2.
       8vo. Calcutta 1881.                                         The Society.
                —
  Cambridge: Philosophical Society.               Transactions.     Vol. XIII.
       Parti. 4to. Cambridge 1881. Proceedings.            Vol. III.  Parts 7, 8.
       Vol. IV. Parti. 8vo. Cambridge 1880-81.                     The Society.
  Cambridge (Mass.)      : — Harvard    College.    Museum     of  Comparative
       Zoology. Bulletin. Vol. VIII. No. 3. 8vo. Cambridge 1881.
                                                                   The College.
                           —
  Frankfurt-am-Main : Senckenbergische              Naturforschende      Gesell-
       schaft.   Abhandlungen. Band XII. Hefte 1, 2. 4to. Frank/urt-
       a-Ar. 1880.    Bericht, 1879-80. 8vo. Frankfurt-a-W. 1880.
                                                                   The Society.
  Leipzig  : — Naturforschende      Gesellschaft.    Sitzungsberichte,     1879,
       1880.    Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. Leipzig.                           The Society.
  London : — Linnean Society. Journal. Botany. Vol. XVIII. No.              Ill  .
       8vo. London 1881.                                           The Society.
    Mineralogical Society. Mineralogical Magazine.            Vol.  IV. No. 19.
       8vo. London 1880.        List of Members, 1881.             The Society.
    Royal Agricultural Society.          Journal. 2nd Series. Vol. XVII.
       Part 1. 8vo. London 1881.                                   The Society.
    Royal Institution.        Weekly Evening Meetings, January 21,
       February 4, 11, 1881. 8vo.                             The Institution.
    Royal Microscopical Society.          Journal. Series 2. Vol. I. Part 2.
       8vo. London 1881.                                           The Society.
    Victoria Institute.        Journal of the Transactions. .Vol. XV.
       No. 57. 8vo. London.                                       The Institute.

1881.]                           Presents.
Transactions (continued).
     Zoological Society.    Transactions, Vol.  XI.     Parts  3 and 4.    4to.
        London    1881.  Proceedings,   1880.   Part  4, 8vo.    The Society.
  Manchester: — Geological Society.       Transactions.    Vol. XVI. Parts
        4 and 5.    8vo.                                         The Society.
  Newcastle-upon-Tyne : — Chemical Society.          Transactions.     Vol. V.
        Part 3. 8vo.                                             The  Society.
  New York : — American Geographical           Society.      Bulletin, 1880.
        No. 3,1881.     No. 1. 8vo. New York 1881.               The Society.
               —
  Nijmegen : Nederlandsche Botanische Vereeniging. Nederlandsch
        Kruidkundig Archief.       2de Serie.    Deel 3.       Stuk 3. 8vo.
        Nijmegen 1881.                                      The Association.
  Paris : — École des Hantes Études. Bibliothèque des Sciences Philo-
        sophiques et Historiques. Fase. 41, 43.           8vo.    Paris 1880.
        Fase. 44. Tome I, Livr. 1. 4to.        Paris 1880.        The School.
     Société d'Anthropologie.     Tome   III.  Fase. 4.    8vo.    Paris 1880.
                                                                 The Society.
     Société   de Géographie.      Bulletin.   Jan.    1881.     8vo.    Paris
        1881.                                                    The Society.
              —
  Penzance : Royal Geographical Society of Cornwall. Transactions.
       Vol. X. Part 3. 8vo. Penzance 1881.                       The Society.
                  —
  Philadelphia : American Philosophical Society. Proceedings. Vol.
        XVIII. No. 106. List of the Members. 8vo. The Society.
     Franklin Institute. Journal. 3rd Series. Vol. LXXXI. Nos.
        1-4. 8vo. Philadelphia 1881.                           The Institute.
  Borne : — R. Accademia dei Lincei. Transunti. Serie 3. Vol. V.
        Fasc. 8-10. 4to. Roma 1881.                            The Academy.
     R. Comitate Geologico d'Italia. Bollettino. Serie 2. Vol. I.
       No. 11 e 12. Vol. II. No. 1 e 2. 8vo. Roma 1880-81.
                                                                 The Society.
              —
  St. Louis : Academy of Science. Archaeological Section.              Contri
       butions to the Archaeology of Missouri.           Part 1. Pottery.
       4to.    Salem, Mass. 1880.                              The Academy.
  Trieste : — Societa Adriatica di Scienze Naturali.        Bolletino. Vol.
       VI. No. 1. 8vo. Trieste 1881.                             The Society.
  Turin: — R. Accademia delle Scienze.          Atti. Vol. XVI.          Disp.
       1—3. 8vo. Torino 1880-81.                               The Academy.
  Utrecht: — K. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Instituut.             Meteorolo
       gisch  Jaarboek.    1870, Deel 2; 1871, Deel      2;   1872, Deel 2;
       1873, Deel 2; 1874; 1875, Deell; 1876, Deel 1; 1877, Deel
       1.   Oblong. Utrecht 1871-78.                           The Institute.
     Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap. Verslag van het Verhandelde
       in de Algemeene Vergadering 1879, 1880.                8vo.     Utrecht
        1879-80.    Aanteekeningen van het Verhandelde in de Sectie-
        Verganderingen 1879.     Registers op de Aanteekeningen, Ac.,

254                                 Presents.                         [May 12,
Transactions     (continued) .
         1845-1878.     Naamlijst der Leden 1880. 8vo. Utrecht 1879-80.
         Het Klooster te Windesheim. Deel III. 8vo. Utrecht 1880.
         De Polybii Fontibus et Auctoritate. 8vo.         Utrecht 1879.    Het
         Leven en de Verdiensten van Petros Camper.              4to.   Utrecht
         1880.                                                    The Society.
Journals.
   American Journal of Otology.          Vol.  III.   No. 1.  8vo.   New   York
      1881.                                                       The Editors.
   Annates des Ponts et Chaussees.         January 1881.     8vo.   Paris.
                                                             The Department.
    Dentists' Register, 1881. 8vo. London.                      The Registrar.
   Jornal de Sciencias Mathematicas e Astronomicas.               Vols. I, II.
      8vo. Coimbra 1878, 1880.                                     The Editor.
   Medical Register, 1881. 8vo. London.                         The Registrar.
   Scientific Roll. Part 1. No. 2. 8vo. London 1881.
                                                               The Conductor.
   Scottish Naturalist.       Nos. 41-42.    8vo. Edinburgh.       The Editor.
   Zoological Record. Vol. XVI (1879).             8vo.  London 1881.
                                                              The Association.
    Zoologischer Garten. Jahrg. XXI. Nos. 7-12. 8vo. Franl-fnrt-
      a-M. 1880.                          Die Neue Zoologische Gesellschaft.
Anonymous.         The Medical Embassy to England ; being a Report of
      the trial Bailliere v. Beaney in the Supreme Court, Melbourne.
      8vo.     Melbourne 1880.
Balsamo (Salvadore)          Dei Vini. Metodi Popolari per svelarne le
      falsificazioni 8vo.    Napoli 1880.                          The Author.
 Battaglia-Rizzo (Francesco) Pochi Cenni intorno adun nuovo Fossile
       rinvenuto nell' ex Castello Termini-Imerese. 4to.           The Author.
 Lee (John Edward)             Note-book of an Amateur Geologist.          8vo.
       London 1881.                                                The Author.
 McCosh (John), M.D. Grand Tours in Many Lands. 12mo. London
       1881.                                                       The Author.
 Engraved Portrait of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., F.R.S.
                                               Messrs. Beynon and Company.
 Three Lamps for Microscopic Demonstration.                Prof. Klein, F.R.S.

1881.]                                Present*.                             2o.>
                             Presents, May 19, 1881.
Transactions.
   Berlin: — K. P. Akademie der Wissenschaften.                 Monatsbericht,
        September     — December, 1880. 8vo. Berlin 1881.
                                                                The Academy.
   Brussels : — Academie Royale de Medecine.              Bulletin.    3e Serie.
        Tome XIV. Nos. 7-11.             Tome XV. Nos. 1-3. 8vo. Bruxelles
        1880-81.       Memoires Couronnes.         Tome VI. Fasc. 1, 2. 8vo.
        Bruxelles 1880.                                          The Academy.
     Academie Royale des Sciences.            Bulletin.  49e annee. 2e Serie.
        Tome XLIX. Nos. 4-11. 50e annee. 3e Serie. Tome I. Nos.
        1, 2. 8vo. Bruxelles 1880-81. Annuaire, 1881. 12mo. Bruxelle*
        1881.                                                    The Academy.
   Huddersfield: — Yorkshire Naturalists' Union.              The Naturalist.
        Vol. VI. Nos. 68-70. 8vo. Huddersfield 1881.                 The Union.
               —
   Kharkoff: Imperial University.               Mathematical Society.     Com
        munications and Sessional Proceedings, 1879; 1880, Part 1.
        8vo. Kharkov 1880.                                         The Society.
   Kolozsvar : — Erdelyi Muzeum-egylet [Society of the Transylvanian
        Museum].         Erdelyi Muzeum.         Evfolyam I — V, VI sz. 1-7.
        VII, sz. 1, 3, 7, 9, 10. VIII, sz. 1-4. 8vo. 1874-81. Evkonyvei
        Annals] Kotet I, II. 8vo. Kolozsvar 1874-78.               The Society.
     Orvos-termeszettudomanyi            tarsulat [Society of Medical and
        Natural Science].        Ertesito [Intelligencer].    Evfolyam IV, V,
        VI.   1  (fiizet 1), 2  (fiizet 1). 8vo. Kolozsvdrt 1879-81.
                                                                    The Society.
              —
   London : National Association for the Promotion of Social Science.
        Sessional Proceedings. Vol. XIV. No. 3. 8vo. London 1881.
                                                               The Association.
   Paris : — Ecole Normale Superieure.           Annales. 2e Serie. Tome X.
        No. 5. 4to. Paris 1881.                                     The School.
           —
   Pesth : Magyar Tudomanyos                Akademia.    Evkonyvei [Annals]
         Kotet XI. Darab. 2. 4to. Pesten 1864.                   The Academy.
                       —
   St. Petersburg : Academie Imperiale des Sciences. Bulletin. Tome
        XXVII. No. 2. 4to. St. Petersbourg 1881.                 The Academy.
                                —
      Imperial University : Russian Physico-Chemical Society. Jour
        nal. Tome XIII. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. St. Petersburg 1881.
                                                                    The Society.
   Sydney:    — Royal Society of New South Wales. Journal and Pro
         ceedings.     Vol. XIII. 8vo. Sydney 1880.                 The Society.
            —
   Venice: Ateneo Veneto.              Atti. Serie 3. Vol. I. Puntata 4;
         Vol.  II ; Vol. III. Puntata 1, 2.       8vo. Venezia 1878-80.
                                                                    The Society.

256                                 Present*.                         [May 19,
Transactions (continued).
  Vienna: — Anthropologische Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen. Band X.
       Nr. 8-9. 8vo. Wien 1880.                                    The Society.
     K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Anzeiger. Math. -Nat. Classe.
       1880, Nos. 11-28; 1881, Nos. 1-10.                        The Academy.
     K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt. Jahrbach. Band XIII. No. 4.
       Verhandlungen, 1880. Nos. 12-18. 8vo. Wien 1880. Abhand-
       lungen. Band XII. Heft 2. 4to. Wien 1880.
                                                               The Institution.
  K. K. Zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen. Band
       XXX. 8vo. Wien 1881.                                        The Society.
     Osterreichische Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie.         Zeitschrift. Jnli
       1880 bis Mai 1881. 8vo. Wien 1881.                          The Society.
                    —
  Washington : Smithsonian Institution. Miscellaneous Collections.
       " James Smithson and his Bequest." By W. J. Rhees. 8vo.
       Washington 1880.                                        The Institution.
     United States Geological Survey. Bulletin.                Vol. VI. No. 1.
       8vo. Washington 1881.                                       The Survey.
  Wellington:      — Colonial Museum.         Meteorological    Report, 1880.
       8vo. Wellington 1881.          Studies in Biology for New Zealand
       Students. No. 1. 8vo. Wellington 1881.                     The Museum.
  Yokohama: — Asiatic Society of Japan. Transactions.                Vol. VIII.
       Parts 2-4. Vol. IX. Part 1. 8vo. Yokohama 1880-81.
                                                                   The Society.
Observations      and Reports.
  Brussels   : — Commission     de la Carte Geologique.      Leve Geologique.
       Feuille     XXXII. Lubbeek.         Single Sheet.     Texte   Explicatif.
       8vo.    Brnxelles 1881.                                     The Survey.
  Burma (British) : — Public Works Department.               Maps relating to
       the Irrawaddy River.          Sixteen Sheets.          The Department.
  Calcutta : — Meteorological Office. Report on the Meteorology of
       India in 1878. 4to. Calcutta 1880.            Report on the Adminis
       tration of the Meteorological          Department in 1879-80.        4to.
       Meteorological Observations recorded at six Stations in India,
       1879, 1880      (January to March). 4to. Calcutta 1881.
                                                              The India Office-
  Canada   : — Geological Survey.        Geological Map of a portion of the
       Sonthern Interior of British Columbia.             Single sheet. Mon
       treal. Note on the same by G. M. Dawson.              8vo. [1880.]
                                                                   The Survey.
  Cronstadt — Compass Observatory.
                :                              Morskoi Sbornik, 1881. Nos.
       1 and 2.      8vo.   St. Petersburg 1881.             The Observatory.

1881.]                             Presents.                               257
Observations, &c. {continued).
   Kiel : — Kommission zur wissenschaftlichen              Untersuchung der
         deutschen Meere.      Ergebnisse der Beobachtungsstationen         an
         den deutschen    Kiisten.    Jahrg, 1880.    Oblong.    Berlin  1881.
         Gemeinfassliche    Mittheilungen ana den Untersuchungen der
         Kommission. 8vo. Kiel 1880.                        The Commission.
Benson (L. S.) Geometry as a Science. 8vo.                       The Author.
Fievez (Ch.)       Recherches snr le Spectre         du Magnesium.        8vo.
     Bnuelles    1880:                                           The Author.
Gray (Peter)      Tables for the Formation of Logarithms and Anti-
     logarithms to twelve places. 8vo. London 1865.              The Author.
            —
Jolivalt ( ) L'Ontologie ou la Science Nouvelle. Cours Elemen-
     taire. 12mo. Bruxelles 1880.                                The Author.
llatton (L. P.) Appendice a la Quadrature du Cercle. Division du
      Cercle en moyenne et extreme raison.         Spirales Escargotiques et
      Ovalaires. 4to. Lyon 1881.                                 The Author.
Righi (A.)       Sulla Polarita permanente in versa dell' Acciaio.         8vo.
      [1880.] Altre Esperienze fatte coi Tubi di Crookes. 8vo. [1880.]
                                                                 The Author.
Schmidt (Carl) Uhemische Untersuchung der               Ackerkrume    nnd des
      Untergrundes aus 8 Orten der Schwarzerderegion               und ihres
      Grenzgebietes.     4to.   JDorpat  1880.     Chemische    Untersuchung
     der Schwarzerden der Gouvernements Ufa und Ssamara. 4to.
      Dorpat 1881.                                               The Author.
Schubart (Th.) Description et Notices sur 1' installation et l'entretien
      des Meteorographes Graveurs de Van Rysselberghe et Schubart.
     8vo.     Gand 1880.                                         The Author.
Sommerbrodt (Julius)          Die reflectorischen Beziehungen zwischen
      Lunge, Herz, und Gefassen. 8vo. Berlin 1881.               The Author.
Stone (Ormond)         On the Extra-Meridian Determination of Time by
      means of a portable Transit instrument.         8vo.   Cincinnati.
                                                                 The Author.
Tommasi (Donato) Reponse a une Note de M. A. Riche sur la Reduc
      tion du Chlorure d' Argent par la Lumiere. 8vo. [1880.]             Ossi-
      cloruri Alluminici.      Osservazioni sull' Attuale Peso Atomico
      dell' Alluminio.     8vo. Firenze 1880.        Richerche intorno alia
      formazione dell' Idrato Ferrico.      8vo.    Torino 1880.    Sopra una
      nuova Modificazione Isomera del Triidrato Alluminico.                8vo.
       Torino 1880.                                               The Author.
Trafford (F. W. C.) Souvenir de l'Amphiorama ou la Vue du Monde
      pendant son passage dans une Comete.          8vo. Zurich 1880.
                                                                  The Author.

258                        Dr. W.   J. Russell.
Trouyet (Charles) Pronostic Sericole du 15 Mars, 1880, pour la
      Syrie. 8vo. Beyrouth (Syrie) 1880.                      The Author.
Wolf (H.) Geologische      Gruben-Revier-Karte    des   Kohlenbeckens von
     Teplitz-Dux-Brux    im Nordwestlichen Bohmen.           Folio.  Wien
      1880. Begleitworte. 8vo.       Wien 1880.               The Author.
" On the Absorption Spectra of Cobalt Salts.''            By William    J.
      RUSSELL, Ph.D., F.R.S., Treaa. C.S., Lecturer on Chemistry
      at the Medical School, St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Re
      ceived August 4. Read November 18, 1880.
   The following investigation was commenced at the suggestion, and
indeed in conjunction with, Mr. Lockyer.       Other work, however, pre
                                                      I
vented his continuing with me this research, but am much indebted
to him not only for instruction in methods of spectroscopic observa
tion, but also for important suggestions and much aid in the course     of
the work.
   The more immediate object of the investigation was to examine
carefully and systematically the absorption spectra produced by certain
coloured liquids and solids, in order to identify the spectra with the
substances producing them.       If this be fully done, a powerful means
lias been obtained for investigating the changes, be they either
chemical or physical, which occur more especially in cases of solution.
Of all coloured substances the cobalt salts seemed most suitable for
commencing the investigation with, as they give well marked band
spectra, and are salts well known and easily obtained.
   The following observations were made with a Dasaga's spectroscope
having a single heavy glass prism, and, as a rule, it did not seem
advisable to use higher dispersive power.     The positions of the bands
are given in wave-lengths of millionths of a metre, obtained from the
observations by graphical interpolation.
   Cobalt chloride was the salt first examined ; the absorption spectra
produced by it when pure and dry were carefully ascertained, and then
t he changes occurring in the spectrum when it was acted on by water
and by other substances.     First, with regard to the pure cobalt chlo
ride (CoCLj).    A specimen of the pure salt was fused out of contact
 with the air in a glass tube. Another specimen of this salt was
obtained by dissolving pure cobalt in hydrochloric acid, fusing it in
an atmosphere of that gas, and sealing it up in a glass tube to exclude
moisture.    Fig. 1 represents the absorption spectrum which was
obtained in both cases.    When in place of pure the commercial salt
was used, when the salt was formed by the action of chlorine on the
metal, when the ordinary hydrated cobalt chloride was dried and fused

                On the Absorption Spectra           of Cobalt Salts.             259
in hydrochloric acid gas, when in place of hydrochloric acid, an atmo
sphere of carbon dioxide was nsed ; in all these cases the absorption
spectrum remained precisely the same : these experiments then show
that the above is the visible spectrnm belonging to the true cobalt
chloride when in a fused state. The chloride fuses at so high a tem
perature that the glass becomes red hot, and it has consequently not
been found possible to observe the absorption spectrum of the chloride
when in a liqnid state.
   One point further: this spectrum is not in any way due to the
action of the fused chloride on the glass tube, for water entirely dis
solves the salt, leaving the glass colourless.
   Whether in fig. 1 both bands are due to the same substance, and
whether the small absorption at the red end of the spectrum is acci
dental or not, cannot be discussed at present.
      If
      bromide of cobalt be treated in a like manner to the chloride, it
yields a very interesting spectrum (shown in fig. 2), for on comparing
it with the chloride spectrum a strong similarity between them is at
once seen ; but the bands of the bromide corresponding to those of the
chloride have approached the red end of the spectrum, the most re
frangible band more than the other one. Owing to the opacity and
the ease with which the iodide of cobalt decomposes, its absorption
spectrum cannot be obtained in the same way.
   The strong power which the cobalt chloride has of combining with
water, and the change of colour and of spectrum which it undergoes,
is well known. The alteration thus brought about in the absorption
spectrum will be discussed further on ; but it should here be stated
that simply on drying the moist chloride without fusing   a spectrum it,
isobtainable similar to that from the fused salt. The dehydration of
the ordinary crystallised       chloride can   be effected even at
                                                             compara   a
tively low temperature  ;if the heat be continued for     considerable
                                                                 a
length of time, a temperature of 150°         continued for 4j hours
                                                    if
renders the salt dry.  It not easy to see the absorption spectrum of
                                is
the  powder thus formed the plan found to answer best
                            ;                                   to have the
                                                                  is
salt in a fine state of division, suspend     in melted paraffin, and then
                                               it
when cold cut slices of the paraffin of proper thickness.
  Assuming, then, that the above          the true spectrum of the solid
                                         is
cobalt chloride, the next point was to study spectroscopically          the
changes    itunderwent when acted on by different substances, or even
when merely its physical state was altered.
  The action of water on the chloride          is
                                              complicated, and       better
                                                                       it   is
to consider first the simpler case of the chloride fused with potassic
chloride.    When these two substances are mixed, especially         mixed if
inatomic proportions, the whole mass fuses at a considerably lower
temperature than either salt alone    forms
                                         ;    it
                                               greenish-blue
                                                         a   mass,
and even when fused for some length of time in air    undergoes no
                                                                it


                On the Absorption Spectra      of Cobalt Salts.          261
decomposition. On examining this fused mixture it is found to give
an absorption spectrum (shown at fig. 3) quite different from that
given by the chloride alone. On varying the proportions of the two
salts, even taking as much as twenty molecules of the potassium salt
to one of the cobalt salt, still the spectrum remains the same ; in fact,
if only a trace of the fused or hydrated cobalt chloride be added to
potassium chloride, the fused mass gives this same spectrum.              On
increasing the thickness of     the layer of salt examined or the amount
of cobalt present in a layer of constant thickness, the absorption
extends between the bands, and quickly reaches 600. Now, when the
absorption has reached thus far, a faint band from 540 to 535 becomes
visible, a band agreeing in position and character with the one pro
duced by the pure chloride ; increase the absorption still more, both
sides close in, leaving only a band of light from 580 to 550. On
making a similar experiment with the bromide of cobalt, fusing it with
potassium bromide, an absorption spectrum is obtained (given at
fig. 4), and if the iodide of cobalt and potassium iodide be fused to
gether, a spectrum (shown at fig. 5) is obtained ; the first two spectra
are strikingly alike.     In the above order the absorption bands are
nearer and nearer to the red end of the spectrum, and only one band
of the iodide is clearly visible, still one cannot but suspect the existence
of the others, although not visible. With a considerable thickness of
 the bromide a band from 573 to 558 is very visible, the analogy of the
 532 band in the chloride.     Fluoride of cobalt (for a specimen of which
 I have to thank Dr. Gore), neither alone nor with potassium fluoride,
 gave any visible absorption bands.
     In place of potassium chloride, sodium chloride, ammonium chlo
 ride, zinc chloride were used ; they all, when cold, gave the same
absorption spectrum, but with this peculiarity, that the exact position
 of the two bands between about 600 and 625 varied with each salt to
 a small extent.   With the potassium chloride the bands were nearest
 to the red,  and with  the zinc chloride nearest to the blue.
     The distance between these two bands appears to remain nearly if
 not quite constant.     With regard to the absorption which extends
 from 650 to 700, if only a thin layer of the salt be used, it will be
 clearly seen that it is resolvable into a dark band from 696 to 675, and
 a fainter band at 656 (figs. 3 and 6).       The action of heat on these
 bodies is curious and interesting, the absorption at the red end of the
 spectrum is intensified, the bands disappear in a mass of dark absorp
 tion, and with regard to the two bands in the orange they gradually
 merge into a single band ; and on still further increasing the heat
  (but at a temperature still considerably below the fusing point of the
 mixture) the band at 625 disappears, and there is a broad band beginning
 sharply about 620, and extending nearly up to 600. On cooling, pre
  cisely the same changes are gone through in reverse order.          On re

  262                           Dr. W.  J. Russell.
 peating the experiments over and over again, and continning the
 heating for a long time, there is always the same result, the return on
 cooling to the original spectrnm.
    From the change in the fusing point of the mixture, from the per
 manence of the cobalt chloride when the mixture is fused in the air,
•and from the change of colour, it seems natural to conclude that
 chemical combination       takes place between the chlorides, and that the
 new spectrum pertains to the double chloride then formed.            Experi
 ments, to be described further on, will show, however, that this sup
 position is not correct ; for this spectrum (fig. 3) is easily obtainable
 without the presence of any alkaline chloride, and that it is produced,
 in fact, in all cases when the cobalt chloride dissolves in any menstruum,
 without chemically combining with it, to form a new and definitv
 compound.       At ordinary temperatures then, at all events, the two
 chlorides in the above mixture are not chemically combined, bnt the
cobalt salt is simply dissolved in the potassium or other chloride.
    If these mixtures be dissolved in water, on evaporation the two
salts separate out perfectly distinct, the potassium chloride often even
 without colour.       Zinc chloride gives a different reaction from the
alkaline chlorides, for when mixed in certain proportions this spectrum
 is no longer visible.       On evaporating an aqueous solution of these
two salts, a new compound, a double salt having the composition
 CoCl2ZnCl2 + 6H30, crystallises out.         This double salt produces no
visible banded spectrum, consequently as long as sufficient zinc chlo
ride is present to combine with the cobalt chloride, no spectrum is
 visible ; but when even a trace of cobalt beyond this amount is
present the banded spectrum (fig. 3) is visible.
    Some interesting applications of these changes have been made and
will form    a separate communication.
    The visible spectroscopic changes which occur when these mixed
chlorides are heated, are as above described, viz., a new spectrum is
produced, as if chemical combination occurred, and on cooling the
return of original spectrum.        This seems to indicate that the action of
heat is to produce change of a physical rather than of a chemical
nature ; that a dissociation of a cobalt salt into a simpler molecular
form occurred rather than the formation of a new chemical compound,
which always decomposed as the temperature fell. With zinc chloride,
however, the action of heat is different and easily explainable, for a
mixture of cobalt and zinc chlorides, which at ordinary temperature
gives no bands, on being heated shows very clearly this same band
spectrnm of cobalt chloride.        In this case heat breaks up the double
salts existing at ordinary temperatures, and gives the spectrum of the
free chloride.       If calcium chloride be used in place of potassium
chloride, then a much higher temperature is required to fuse the
mixture, and it is far more opaque and difficult to examine.           There

                On the Absorption Spectra             of      Cobalt Salts.                 263
is, however, this point of interest about that        it,
                                                 gives the spectrum   it
of the simple fused chloride this may arise either from some dry
                                   ;
chloride having escaped the action of the calcium chloride, or what
seems more probable, that        it   arises from the action of the high tem
perature on the cobalt.
   There are a few liquids which appear to dissolve the anhydrous
cobalt chloride without combining with it, and           was of much       it
interest to see what spectra they would give.         The liquids ex
perimented     with were hydrochloric acid, methylic, ethylic, and
amylic   alcohols, the saline ethers, amylene, glycerine, and glacial
acetic acid.
   First, with regard to the action of the ordinary strong hydro
chloric acid. As      iswell known, cobalt chloride dissolves readily in
this acid, yielding an intensely blue solution. The spectrum which
this liquid gives  isshown at fig.    and 6, will at once be seen to be
                                                      it
similar to the spectrum obtained from the fused chloride (fig. 3),
the two bands in the orange now being a little nearer the blue. The
similarity of these two spectra          remarkably complete, for on
                                               is
increasing   gradually the thickness of the solution the bands in the
red are gradually hidden, and when the absorption has crept up to
600, then a band at 540          to 525    becomes visible. The spectrum                      is
remarkable for its permanence,           if the solution be either weak or
strong, hot or cold, the spectrum     remains unchanged.   This agrees
with what one would naturally expect, that, under these circum
stances, the cobalt remains as chloride.  Moreover, from the similarity
of this spectrum with that obtained with the fused chlorides, the
inevitable conclusion      is   that the cobalt          is   in the       same state   in both
cases.
   This spectrum of cobalt chloride       very characteristic
                                                    is         in its
appearance and very easily produced   without special care and with
                                               ;                                              a
common spectroscope '0005 grm. of cobalt chloride can easily be
detected, and even the presence of other coloured chlorides does not
interfere with   it-f for instance, even the presence of iron, nickel,
chromium, manganese, does not hide the characteristic appearance
produced even by the above small amount of cobalt chloride.
   Supposing the 532 band be produced by a specific compound,                                it
seemed likely that at least a rough estimate of the amount of that
body, present under different circumstances, might be judged, by
bringing always the absorption in the red up to the same point and
comparing then the intensity of this 532 band practically, however,
                                                                  ;
this did not lead to results of any value.
   It is, however, important to note that the spectrum of the fused
chloride is  never seen without the 532 band and that in the other
                                                              ;
two cases already described, this band       only visible when
                                                      is         con                    a
siderable amount      of the cobalt salt       is   present.          It   seemed, therefore,
  VOL. XXXII.                                                                     T

 264                         Dr. W.   J. Russell.
possible that since the amount of the 532 producing body appeared,
judging very roughly by the eye to diminish on dissolving the solid
chloride in hydrochloric acid, that in an excessively dilute hydro
chloric acid solution this substance might be destroyed and the band
have disappeared.       Experiments, however, did not confirm this, for
when a solution so dilute that it required 6 feet of the liquid to bring
the absorption np to 600, the 532 band was just as visible as in a
strong    solution.    To sum up, with regard       to this spectrum it is
remarkably persistent ; strengthen the solution or increase the length
of the column looked through, or raise the temperature of a dilute
solution, and the effect is the same ; first, the shaded part up nearly to
650 becomes      uniformly dark, then the absorption    closes in as far as
the 610 band, and the absorption creeps on up to 600 ; immediately
after reaching this point the 532 band becomes visible.
   Still further increase the absorption and a shadow is seen extending
from the     532 band towards the red to 560.         And lastly, with the
strongest   solution  that can be looked  through, there  is still discernible
a broad black band from 550 to 520, and the absorption from the red
end reaches now to 565, and it is remarkable that in the ultra-red,
where at first there was complete absorption, now light is transmitted.
At the blue end considerable absorption occurs, no light being visible
beyond 480.
   Ethylic,   methylic, and amylic alcohols, the saline ethers, and
glycerine all dissolve cobalt chloride freely, and on being saturated
with anhydrous chloride of cobalt give this same spectrum (fig. 3).
These liquids must, of course, be free from water, or the true spectra
are complicated by the spectra of the hydrates.
   When ordinary alcohol is the solvent, a very large amount of the
chloride is taken up and a mere film of the liquid on a microscopic
slide is quite sufficient to give clearly the characteristic spectrum
(fig. 3).
   With amylic or methylic alcohol no appreciable alteration in the
position of the bands takes place ; but, with glycerine, both the bands
have moved slightly towards the red.
   That solvents so different as the above should all give the same
spectrum with the cobalt chloride seems only to be explainable on the
view that the spectrum so formed is that of the chloride itself, and
not that of any new combination, in fact, that the solvent has so far
altered the molecular structure of this salt that in place of its giving
the spectrum (fig. 1) which it does when alone and solid, it gives this
second spectrum (fig. 3) ; and further, it seems, whether the chloride be
in the liquid or solid state, whether dissolved in alcohol or in a solid
alkaline chloride, the spectrum is practically the same.
    Although not probable, at the same time it seemed possible, that the
identity of these different spectra might be due to a trace of water in

                On the Absorption Spectra    of  Cobalt Salts.         265
 each of the solvents, and that this banded spectrum was really that
 of a hydrate, and not of the chloride. To settle this point the follow
 ing experiments were carefully carried out : Some of the mixed
 chloride of cobalt and potassium was dried and fused in a glass tube
 in  a slow current of very thoroughly-dried carbon dioxide, in the first
 instance for twenty minutes ; it was then allowed to cool and was
 spectroscopically examined, and found to be quite unchanged ; again
 the heating and the slow passage of dry gas was continued for forty
 minutes, and afterwards for two hours, but in no case was the least
 change apparent, the spectrum-giving substance was evidently as
 abundant after all the heating as before, and no trace of any other
 spectrum was visible.       The experiment was also made of fusing
 separately in different parts of same tube, filled with dry carbon
 dioxide, the cobalt chloride, and potassium chloride, and, after they had
 been in a state of fusion for some time, allowing them partially to
 mix, and sealing up the tube ; where the two had come into contact
 this spectrum was visible and nowhere else.       The hydrochloric acid
 solution of the cobalt chloride in one respect, however, is different
 from any of the other solutions, for, as before mentioned, only one
 spectrum is obtainable from it, whereas with the other solvents, the
 spectrum varies with the amount of chloride in the solution. Thus
 a very dilute alcoholic solution gives a spectrum (fig. 7) evidently
 different from the former one given by the saturated solution.         To
obtain clearly this second spectrum dry alcohol must be used, and
 should contain about 0"008 grm. of cobalt chloride in 100 cub. centims.
of the alcohol ; this amount of the cobalt salt gives only a faint purple
colour to the alcohol, and requires a solution of about 2^ inches in depth
to show the spectrum.        If the strength of the solution be gradually
increased so that it becomes of a strong blue colour, and contains
about 20 grms. of the chloride in 100 cub. centims. of alcohol, and
requiring for observation only about one-eighth of an inch thickness
of the solution, a third spectrum (fig. 8) is obtained.     This, however,
appears in part to be a compound spectrum, formed by the presence
in the solution of the bodies which produce the former spectra. In
dications of two bands, 610 and 625, for instance, are visible, but
what is characteristic of this spectrum, and does not occur when the
solution is very strong or very weak, is the band at 585. In order to
determine whether any other changes would occur when the solution
was still more dilute, some of it requiring a depth of 2 inches to show
the spectrum was diluted to such an extent that 6 feet of the liquid
was required.     This great dilution produced no change whatever in
the spectrum.     Other liquids, such as dry amylic alcohol or amylic
acetate, which readily dissolve cobalt chloride, give spectra cor
responding to those given by ethylic alcohol. With methylic alcohol,
however, the first or most dilute stage was not obtained, but this
                                                              T 2

 2(56                           Dr. W.   J. Russell.
evidently arose from a trace of water adhering most persistently to
the alcohol.      If liquids be used in which the cobalt chloride is not so
soluble, dry acetic acid for instance, it will be found that only two
spectra are produceable, corresponding         to those in the more dilute
alcoholic solutions ; and with a liquid in which the cobalt chloride is
 still less soluble, such as dry ether, there is only one spectrum
 obtainable.     And lastly, with such a liquid as tetrachloride of carbon
 or   benzol,  in which the cobalt chloride is absolutely insoluble, the
spectrum, which is faintly visible when the liquid and the salt, in a
 fine state of division, are shaken up together, is that of the pure fused
 chloride.    The action of heat on these solutions is two-fold : first, it
increases the amount of colour ; this arises, no doubt, to a considerable
extent, if not altogether, from an absolute increase of the amount of
anhydrous cobalt chloride present, for if a mere trace of water be
present, on adding the blue cobalt salt the first action is for it to com
bine with the water, and to produce a pink and comparatively colour
less solution ; this hydrate, as will be shown further on, is decomposed
on rise of temperature, giving the blue chloride.           The second action
of    heat is to transform the saturated        solution spectrum or third
stage, into the intermediate or second stage, and the intermediate
one into the first — the one given by most dilute solutions.              Again,
in the spectrum of the third stage, the 532 band is visible, but with
the alcoholic solution the absorption has to extend nearer to the blue
to about 575 instead of only 600, as with the hydrochloric acid solu
tion, before this band becomes visible. This seems to indicate that
less of the body producing it is present in the alcoholic than in the
hydrochloric acid solution.
    When water is the solvent for the cobalt chloride, the phenomenon
is somewhat more complicated, as direct combination                  occurs and
hydrates     are  formed.     The colour of   the   dilute solution,  as is well
 known,    is pink.      If this be examined with the spectroscope no
 sharp   bands   are  visible ; there is, however, very considerable     absorp
 tion at the blue end of the spectrum, but with certain concentra
 tion and depth of solution, it is easy to distinguish a wide absorp
 tion band extending from 550 to 485 (fig. 16), and beyond this
 blue rays are comparatively freely transmitted.             This band, how
 ever, is never sharply defined, but shades off on both sides ; it un
 doubtedly belongs to certain hydrates of the cobalt chloride.                 To
 study the formation of these hydrates, solutions containing different
 amounts of cobalt chloride were prepared and tested as follows : first,
 a   solution containing only 0-l grm. of cobalt chloride in 100 cub.
 centims. of water was made, and the spectrum it gave was compared
  with that of a solution containing 100 times as much cobalt chloride.
  These solutions        were found to give identical spectra.             Again,
  15 inches of a 2£per cent, solution gave the same spectra as
                                                                        4£ inches

                 On the Absorption Spectra  of  Cobalt Salts.         267
of the   10 per cent, solution, and 10 inches of 1 per cent, solution was
compared to 1£ inch of 10 per cent, solution.        So that in all these
dilute solutions, as far as the spectroscope can tell us, there are the
same compounds present. With stronger solutions this is not the case ;
for if the solution contains,    say, from 20 to 30 grms. in 100 cub.
centims. of water, and a thin layer of it be compared with a thick
layer of a more dilute solution, the spectra will be seen to be essen
tially different. This new spectrum, which proves to be a very in
teresting one, is best seen when a saturated or nearly saturated
solution of cobalt chloride is used (100 cub. centims. at 16° dissolve
32 grms. of cobalt chloride), then there are two bands — one at 625
and the other at 610 — and an absorption stopping sharply at 652.
Evidently we have again the spectrum of the dissolved cobalt chloride,
a spectrum which has already been shown to be perfectly indepen
dent of water, consequently it appears that the anhydrous cobalt
 chloride is capable of existing in an aqueous solution.
    If a solution saturated at ordinary temperatures with the chloride of
 cobalt  be diluted with half its volume of water, the bands at 625 and
 610 disappear ; but if to this solution, or even to one more dilute, any
 substance be added capable of combining with water, such as sul
 phuric acid, calcium chloride, or even ammonium or sodium chloride,
 the bands at 625 and 610 again appear.
    Heat acts on these dilute solutions in the same kind of way. If, for
 instance, this saturated solution, diluted with half its bulk of water,
 be heated up gradually at 49°, the 625 band first becomes visible, and
 then the 610 band. As the temperature increases the absorption in
 the green diminishes, and at the boiling point you have a spectrum
 very similar to that obtained by fusing together chloride of cobalt
 and -chloride of potassium.
    The reverse action also occurs.      A solution giving strongly the
 bands at ordinary temperature ceases to show them when cooled. In
 both cases as the solution returns to its original temperature so does
 the original spectroscopic appearance return.        In many cases the
 spectroscopic variations by temperature are very delicate and very
 striking in appearance. Any change tending to break up the hydrates
 seems always to diminish the amount of absorption taking place
 towards the blue end of the spectrum.        The well known change of
 colour of strong cobalt solution on heating bears this out. Pass
 hydrochloric acid gas, for instance, into a dilute cobalt solution, and
 the gradual formation, and the chloride spectrum and disappearance of
 the absorption in the green and blue, is well shown.
    In proportion as one compound, the hydrate, ceases to exist, so the
 other, the anhydrous compound, is apparently produced. The ordinary
 crystals of chloride of cobalt contain six molecules of water, and they
  give a spectrum shown at fig. 9. There are certain cases in which the

 268                         Dr. W.  J.  Russell.
hydrated crystals and their aqueous solutions give similar spectra ; but
 with cobalt chloride this is not the case, the hydrate is not the one
existing in the solution.     The readiness with which the pink crystals
of the hydrated chloride     become  blue arises from the ease with which
it parts with water, the blue compound in all cases giving the
spectrum of the anhydrous chloride.
   There is another band which is generally visible in moderately strong
aqueous solutions at 653 to 638, and is often well seen with a depth of
about 3 inches of a 10 per cent solution.       This band, which, from its
origin and its constant occurrence appeared to belong to all the cobalt
salts, is really due to the presence of nickel. Cobalt salts which have
been carefully purified do not give this band, even when very strong
solutions are used.
   The oxide of cobalt is spectroscopically an interesting body. It
gives, as is well known, a very characteristic         spectrum (tig. 10).
This is readily obtained by examining the precipitate formed on adding
an excess of caustic potash or soda to a solution of any cobalt salt. This
blue precipitate (which is said to be a basic oxide) rapidly loses its
colour, and the spectrum disappears.        The spectrum consists of two
very strongly marked bands, one about 665 to 638, and the other from
600   to 585.      These  are very characteristic    of the oxide, for on
increasing the thickness of absorbing layer, these bands always join
together, forming thus a single band, before they increase in other
directions. Besides these two bands, when the oxide is precipitated by
potash or soda, there is always an absorption at the blue end, begin
ning at about    550, and   having very much the appearance of a band,
but rendered somewhat indistinct by the general absorption taking
place in the blue. At the red end of the spectrum the absorption ends
at about 675. If ammonia be used as the precipitant in place of potash
or soda, then there is clearly no band in this part of the spectrum
and no absorption at 540 (fig. 11).      This difference between the two
spectra seems clear and definite, and is of much interest, and the
obvious deduction is that the two bands at 640 and 585 are produced
by tho oxide, and that the absorption       at 540 is produced   by a com
pound of oxide and potash or soda.
   Vogel has pointed out the similarity existing between the spectrum
of the precipitated oxide and that given by ordinary cobalt glass. The
spectrum of the glass is seen at tig. 10a, and it will at once be seen
how nearly this spectrum agrees with that of the oxide precipitated by
potash or soda   ;  the two bands are of the same character as before and
very nearly in the    same position, but apparently a little nearer to the
red, and now clearly a third band from 550 to 525 is visible.          The
conclusion seems inevitable that the oxide and potash compound which
exist in the precipitated oxide exist also in the blue glass.        Again,
these same spectra can be obtained by another process, and it is easy

                  On the Absorption Spectra     of Cobalt Salts.          269
  to prepare a blue liquid which gives an absorption      spectrum  identical
  with that prodnced by a piece of blue glass.
     Winkler showed some years ago that when finely divided metallic
  cobalt,  oxide of cobalt, or a salt of cobalt was boiled with caustic
  potash, a blue solution was formed, which he attempted to show con
  tained cobaltate of potash. To the acid forming oxide he at first gave
  the formula Co05, and afterwards that of Co03. Schultze, however,
immediately repeated Winkler's experiments and came to the conclu
  sion that instead of its being a solution of cobaltate of potash, it was
  merely an alkaline solution of cobaltic hydrate.           The absorption
  spectrum seems clearly to show that the blue liquid is not a new
  cobaltic salt, but that it contains essentially oxide of cobalt in solution
 and the same potash or soda compound as exists both in the glass and
  in the precipitated oxide. Again, it may further be deduced from the
  similarity of these spectra that the blue precipitate is not a hydrate,
 for it gives the same spectrum as exists in the glass, or at all events
  the water can only be so feebly combined with the oxide as not to alter
  the individuality of the compound.       Again, if oxide, or, in fact, any
 ordinary snlt of cobalt, be dissolved by fusion in borax, a glass which
 gives the same spectrum as ordinary blue glass is obtained. The posi
 tions of the bands, however, are apparently intermediate in position
 between those in the glass and those in the precipitated oxide ; these
 differences are, however, very small.
     The blue oxide of cobalt can be made to undergo another change
 which is of much interest.      If a solution of cobalt chloride be pre
 cipitated by caustic alkali, taking care to keep the cobalt chloride in
 excess, thus on well agitating the precipitate and solution together, or
 even on slightly boiling them, the precipitate will be found to be of a
 green colour, and to contain, as an integral part, cobalt chloride.
 Evidently an oxychloride has been formed.               Fig. 12 gives the
 spectrum produced in this way ; it is a mixed spectrum of oxychloride
 and of oxide. The same body may also be obtained if the blue oxide
 be first prepared, drained rapidly and washed and then shaken up in
 a solution of the chloride.     The stronger the solution used the more
 chloride attaches itself to the oxide, and apparently one or more
 oxychlorides are formed.       If any other salt than the chloride or
 bromide and probably the iodide of cobalt, be used and precipitated
 by a small amount of caustic alkali, no salt corresponding to this oxy
 chloride is formed, but the oxide is at once thrown down.        This green
 substance is but very slightly decomposed by cold water and not at all
by alcohol.     A sample of washed blue oxide was divided into three
portions    : one  was shaken up with a very dilute solution of cobalt
chloride, another with a solution made by adding 3 cub. centims. of a
saturated solution of chloride to 50 cub. centims. of water, and the
 third portion with a saturated solution of the chloride ; the green com

270                          Dr. W.   J.   Russell.
pound formed in each case was dried out of contact with air, and the
chlorine it contained determined ; the first one contained chlorine
corresponding to 4"85 per cent, of cobalt chloride, the second with
10-94 per cent., and the last with 28"02 per cent, of the cobalt chloride.
The compound having the formula 4CoOCoCl2, would contain 30"40
of cobalt chloride. Such are chemically the changes which occur.
Spectroscopically, the changes which the oxide undergoes are shown at
figs. 13, 14, and 15.   Fig.   10 being the spectrum   of the original blue
precipitat*.
  These changes are, first, the fading of the band at 590, and then
the disappearance of all absorption on the less refrangible side of 590,
and ultimately the formation of a dark and well-defined band from
674 to 665, the 'faint band from 600 to 596 remaining. This change
has much the appearance of a division of this oxide band into two
bands of which the most refrangible part from 590 to 580 remains,
and the less refrangible part from 590 to 600 disappears.  It seemed
possible that  with  a  spectroscope of greater dispersive power to
separate the 690 band in the oxide into these two bands, but on trial
this did not take place.
    This spectrum, fig. 14, of the oxychloride, is in many respects similar
to the spectrum of second stage of the chloride in alcohol, although
certainly not identical with    it,but in both cases the chloride appears
to be modified somewhat in the same way.            That it   isnot an oxy
chloride which  is   formed in the alcohol solution, seems proved by the
fact that as previously pointed out, this spectrum       is formed by dis
solving the chloride in acetic acid.
    Warm water decomposes this green compound, washing out the
cobalt chloride.     This decomposition      very clearly shown in the ab
                                            is
sorption spectrum, if, for instance, some of the green compound be
prepared by precipitation as before described, and        a  little of
                                                                     it  be
placed on a microscope slide under a covering glass,     it  gives very dis
tinctly the spectrum shown at fig. 13. Now wash the precipitate on
a  filter with warm water, and then, on taking another sample of it,
the two bands at 647 and 592 will be distinctly visible, that is, there
is evidently now oxide present.      This oxychloride of cobalt may also
be formed in small quantities by digesting the precipitated oxide in a
solution either of nickel or potassium, or other chlorides, for on
examining the oxide thus treated, the change of the absorption spec
trum  is  distinctly visible.
    The bromide of cobalt appears to react with the oxide in the same
way as the chloride.
  Generally the soluble cobalt salts of the oxygen acids do not give
band spectra, but only   broad absorption shading off on both side
                         a                                                s
and extending from about 550 to 480 (fig. 16), and a considerable
amount of general absorption at the blue end of the spectrum     for ;

                 On the Absorption Spectra         of Cobalt Salts.           271
instance, the sulphate, nitrate, and acetate all act in this manner.           An
interesting reaction is visible with the cobalt carbonate.            It is stated
in works on chemistry that on adding sodic or potassic carbonate to iv
eobaltons solution it is not the normal carbonate, but a mixture of the
carbonate and hydrated cobaltous oxide, that is formed.* If now this
precipitation be made in front of the spectroscope, the changes which
go on are perfectly visible.       On the addition of the alkaline carbonate
a precipitate forms which gives no bands, but after a very short time,
perhaps half a minute or less, the bands of the oxide become distinctly
visible ; apparently then it is a pure carbonate which is thrown down,
but that it rapidly, by the action of the water, undergoes decomposi
tion, and oxide is formed.
    Under special conditions,       however, some of the oxygen salts may
be made to give band spectra,         for instance, on fusing chloride, oxide,
or phosphate of cobalt      with   microcosmic salt and allowing it to cool, a
pink-coloured glass is obtained, which gives a spectrum consisting of
bands with much general absorption.             Since all three of these cobalt
compounds give under these circumstances the same spectrum, it
apparently leaves little doubt that it is the spectrum of a phosphate of
cobalt.    If this pink bead be heated, it undergoes an interesting change,
the absorption     in the blue entirely disappears, and you get a spectrum
identical with that of the oxide ; for instance, that of an ordinary
borax or glass bead (fig. 10).         As this phosphate glass cools it again
 becomes pink, and the banded spectrum returns ; evidently the phos
 phate is dissociated, recombination taking place as the temperature
 falls.   When sodic phosphate is added to a cobaltous solution, a
precipitate is formed which is soluble in excess of the cobalt salt ; on
 continuing the addition of the phosphate, first a permanent pink
precipitate is obtained, and afterwards when the phosphate is in excess
 the precipitate is of a blue colour.       If the cobalt salt be added to the
 disodic phosphate, the blue precipitate forms at once.                 Now, on
 examining    this  blue precipitate spectroscopically,     it is at once  evident
 that oxide of cobalt must be present, for there is exactly the same
 spectrum as is given by the precipitate formed on adding caustic
alkali to a solution of cobalt.       The pink precipitate gives a faint band
 about 590, but the bands seen in the 'fnsed phosphate were not visible
in the precipitate.
    The foregoing account of these different spectra is but very imper
 fect ; many most interesting questions with regard to the nature and
 meaning of the spectra have to be left for the present unsolved for
 want of sufficient data.     Further experiments with other compounds
 are required,    and   above  all it would be of the highest interest to
 investigate fully the parts of the spectrum not visible to the eye ;
                           * Miller's " Chemistry," p. 536.

272                              Dr. M. Watson.
evidently with the cobalt salts many, and it may be the most important,
bands lie in the ultra-red. All the above spectra and many more have
l«en drawn from direct and repeated observations, but obviously it is
not intended to claim          any originality       for them       ;   many    have    been
described before.
  My best thanks are due to my assistant, Air. W. Lapraik, for the help
he has given me in carrying out these investigations,      which have
extended over a considerable length of time.
" On
     the     Female Organs and Placentation of the Racoon (Pro-
        cyon lolor)." By M. AVATSON, M.D., Professor of Anatomy,
        Owens College, Manchester.   Communicated by Professor
        Huxley, Sec. R.S. Received December 30, 1880. Read
        January    20, 1881.
                                   [Plates   3—6.]
   Of late years our knowledge concerning the form and structure of
the placenta, as well as of the arrangement of the foetal membranes
in various species of mammals lias been much extended through the
researches of Milne-Edwards, Ercolani, Turner, and others.      The
observations    of   these     anatomists    have not been              confined     to the
placentation of any one group, but extend to that of species belonging
to every Mammalian order. Among these orders that of the Carnivora
lias received a not inconsiderable share of attention, not only from
the observers just named, but also from those among whom may be
mentioned the names of Daubenton, Von Baer, Bischoff, and others
who            earlier in the field.
        appeared                       Among the members of the
lissiped group of Carnivora, the   placenta or foetal membranes, or
both, have been described    in the marten (Maries domestica) ,* stone
marten  (Mustela    foina),f pine marten     (Mustela martes),%    weasel
(Mustela vulgaris),^ ferret (Mustela furo),\\ bitch (Canis familiaris),9^
fox (Canis vulpes),** cat (Felis domestica),            ff
                                               lioness (Felts leo),*%
hyaena (sp. .'),§§ and otter (Lutra vulgaris),     whilst among the
                                                             \\\\
   * Buffon's " Histoire Naturelle," vol. vii, p. 81, PI. XX.
t    Bischoff, " Sitzungsber. Akad. Wissensch.," Miinchen, May 13, 1865.
  X  Idem, p. 343.
 §   Idem, p. 343.
     Buffon's " Histoire Naturelle," vol. vii, p. 105, PI. XXVII.
 % || Bischoff, " Entwickelungs-geschichto des Hunde-Eies."    Von Baer, " Entwick-
eluugs-geschiehte der Tliiere," 2ter Tiled, p. 238.
   •* Turner, " Trans. Roy. Soe. Edin.," vol. xxvii, p. 297.
   ft Turner, " Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy of the Placenta," p. 72.
              " Anatomy of Vertebrates," vol. iii, p. 744.
   XX Owen,
  §§ Ibid., p. 744.
 ||
 ||  Bischoff, " Sitzungsber. Akad. Wissensch.,"     Miinchen, March       4,   1865, o. 213.

         On the Female Organs and Placentation             of  the Racoon.        273
pinnipeds we find that the placentation has been examined in Phoca
xntulina,* Phoca btcolor,f Halichoirus gryphus,% as well as in two seals,
the species of which were not determined. §
   It will  be observed that in this list, which, so far as        I  can ascertain,
contains    the names of all the carnivorous mammals the placentation
of which has been investigated, that of the racoon {Procyon lotor)
does not occur.       This is the more remarkable, inasmuch as the racoon
is one  of the mammals which most frequently finds a place in our
collections, and one which apparently thrives well under artificial
conditions of existence. At the same time, as occurs so frequently in
the case of wild animals kept in a state of captivity, the gene
rative functions of the racoon appear almost constantly to remain
in abeyance.          Mr. Bartlett, the skilful superintendent                 of the
menagerie of the Zoological Society of London, however, in answer
to enquiries, informs me that the racoon has occasionally bred in con-
tinement, but only after the mother had been in the gardens for
several years.       He adds, moreover, that neither the length of the
period of gestation nor the condition of the young at birth are known
to him.     In view of the total lack of definite knowledge concerning
the anatomy of the female organs of Procyon in the pregnant state,
I consider myself extremely fortunate in being able, owing to the
kindness     of the Messrs. Jennison, proprietors                of the Bellevue
Zoological Gardens of this city, to give some account of these organs
as they occurred in an individual which, in their gardens, had reached
an advanced stage of pregnancy.
   I shall, in the first place, describe the female organs, and thereafter
proceed to the consideration of the anatomy of the placenta.
   On opening the abdominal cavity, the distended condition of the
right cornu uteri showed at once that the animal was pregnant.
   Ovary. — The ovary, rounded in form and somewhat flattened from
above downwards, measures one-fourth of an inch in diameter.                       Its
surface presents a somewhat         lobulated   appearance, which, however, is
not due to the presence of corpora lutea, not a trace of these being dis
tinguishable in the organ of either side. The ovary is situated in close
proximity to the free extremity of the uterine horn, and is retained in
position by means of two ligaments.             Of these, one, to be more par
ticularly described presently, attaches it to the posterior surface of
the diaphragm, whilst the other passes from the inner end of the
ovary to the free extremity of the corresponding uterine horn.                    The
Fallopian tube,     moreover,    almost  encircles  it and   serves   to  retain it in
close relation to the uterus.       The ovary is altogether destitute of any
   * Barkow, " Zootomische Bemerkungen," Breslau, 1851.
   t Alessandrini, :1 Meckel's Deutsch. Archiv fur Physiologic,"  vol. v, p. 604.
              "
   t Turner, Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin." vol. xxvii, p. 275.
   § Rosenthal, " Nova Acta Acad. Cm. Leo. Car.," vol. xv, 1825.

274                           Dr. M. Watson.
peritoneal pouch or pavilion, such as in many animals, e.g., hyaena,
forms an almost complete sac for the accommodation of this organ.
    Fallopian Tube. — This tube describes     a very peculiar course.    Its
abdominal opening, or morsus diaboli, lies       in relation  to the dorsal
surface of the ovary, and is placed between the inner end of the
latter and the free extremity of the uterine horn. The opening itself
is directed upwards toward the spine of the animal, and appears, at
first sight, to be altogether destitute of fimbriae. Upon closer ex
amination, however, with the aid of a magnifying glass, a number of
very minute fimbriae are seen to surround the aperture.               These
fimbriae do not project beyond the margins of the opening,              bat
are concealed within the orifice, and consequently can be of no
service at the time of ovulation in grasping the ovary and bringing
the latter into direct relation with the Fallopian tube.          From the
morsus diaboli the tube winds forward so as to reach the anterior
margin of the ovary along which it passes as far as the outer ex
tremity of the latter.       Here it changes its course, and becoming
applied to the posterior border of the ovary, extends along it and ter
minates abruptly in the much wider extremity of the uterine horn.
The Fallopian tube thus almost encircles the ovary.               The tube
measures three-fourths of an inch in length and one-eighth of an inch
in diameter.     It is of uniform diameter throughout and presents no
trace of a dilated extremity or so-called infundibulum.
    Exterior of Uterus, Vagina, and Urogenital Canal. — The uterus con
sists of a central body and two horns.         The left or unimpregnated
horn was flattened from above downwards, and was strongly curved,
the convexity of the curve being directed forwards.          Measured from
the middle line of the uterus, its anterior or convex border amounted
 to  If inches in length, whilst its breadth, which was almost uniform,
amounted to half an inch.        Its free extremity was rounded and into
it the Fallopian tube opened abruptly. The right or impregnated
horn measured 5^ inches along its convex margin, whilst its posterior,
or attached margin, equalled that of the horn of the opposite side.
It will be observed, therefore, that after impregnation the alteration
in size of the uterus takes place in respect of the anterior or free
 margin of the impregnated horn, the posterior or attached border of
 the latter remaining of the same dimensions as that of the opposite
 side.
    The impregnated      horn measured 2 inches in greatest breadth and
 presented a somewhat globular form. Subsequent to injection of
 the uterine artery with carmine, numerous extremely tortuous vessels
 could be readily distinguished through its peritoneal investment.
 These vessels, which, upon opening the uterus, were seen for the most
 part to correspond to the place of attachment of the placenta, were
 mostly directed transversely to the long axis of the horn, and extended

        On   the Female Organs and Placentation       of the Racoon.       275
from the attached to the free border of the latter.       They anastomosed
freely  with   one another and formed   a wide  arterial  meshwork on both
the upper and lower surfaces of the horn.        It was, however, observed
that none of the vessels of the one surface extended over the anterior
border of the uterus so as to come into relation with those of the
other   surface,   and that, consequently, no anastomosis could be dis
tinguished between them. It is probable, however, that the failure to
trace any distinct anastomosis between the vessels of the two surfaces
of the impregnated horn ought to be attributed to the incomplete
nature of the injection, as it appears unlikely, in view of the con
tinuity of the placental substance between these surfaces, that any
break in the continuity of the vessels of opposite sides really existed.
The vessels in question were visible over the entire surface of the
impregnated horn, but were much more thickly distributed in its
middle third, which corresponds to the placental zone.
   The corpus uteri is not differentiated externally from the vagina,
the two organs forming a continuous tube.            The position of the os
uteri, however, is clearly defined in the interior of the organ by a
well-marked valvular fold, to be afterwards described. Taking into
consideration the position of this fold, the body of the uterus mea
sures 2| inches in length and half an inch in breadth.         It is flattened
from above downwards, and is attached to the walls of the pelvis by
means of the broad ligament.        This ligameut is formed in the usual
manner of a double fold of peritoneal membrane, which, after
covering the whole of the upper surface of the uterus, and even the
anterior portion of the corresponding surface of the vagina, is
reflected upon the rectum.       The lower surface of the uterus is not
invested to the same extent by peritoneum, that membrane being
reflected upon the bladder before reaching the os uteri.          The uterus,
moreover, is retained in position by two additional ligaments, the
 diaphragmatic and the round.        The former consists of a stout bundle
 of involuntary muscular fibres, which, passing backwards from the
 diaphragm to free extremity of the corresponding uterine horn,
 extends inwards parallel to the posterior border of the latter and is
 inserted into the body of the uterus.      The ovary is fixed to the lower
 surface of this ligament, close to the free extremity of the uterine
 horn.   The round ligament is also well developed.         It is attached by
 one extremity close to the free end of the cornu uteri, and passes
 backwards to the inguinal region, where it terminates in the U3ual
 manner.
    The vagina,     from the  os  uteri to its junction with the urethra,
 measures 1£ inches in length.      Externally it is not differentiated from
 either the corpus uteri or the urogenital canal. The latter measures
 2 inches in length.    Its external orifice is bounded by two laterally
 placed folds, or labia, which     together constitute   a conical   eminence

276                           Dr. M. Watson.
measuring half an inch in height,        upon      the summit of which      the
external genital orifice is situated.
   Bladder and Urethra. — The parts having been immersed for some
time in spirit, the bladder was to a certain extent contracted.              It
measured when distended 1^ inches in length and was of a regularly
oval form.     The muscular coat was extremely thick, the separate
bundles of muscular fibres being clearly defined beneath the peritoneal
investment.     The latter covered the whole of the upper surface of the
viscus as far back as the entrance of the ureters, as well as the upper
portion of its lateral surface.    The lower surface of the apex of the
bladder was also covered by peritoneum, whence that membrane was
reflected to the anterior abdominal wall.            The ureters entered the
bladder half an inch from the neck, whilst the urethra passed off
from the posterior extremity of the organ.              The urethra measured
1^ inches in length.    It passed backwards, lying in the substance of
the lower vaginal wall, and opened into the commencement of the
urogenital canal in the usual manner.
   Interior of Uterus, Vagina, and Urogenital Canal. — On slitting open
the left or unimpregnated      horn of the uterus, a well-defined septum
uteri was seen to separate the right and left horns. It measured
three-quarters of an inch in length, and extended backwards from the
anterior or free margin of the corpus uteri.            It was attached to the
nterine walls in front, above, and below, whilst posteriorly it pre
sented a free, concave, sickle-shaped margin which projected into the
cavity of the uterus.
   The muscular walls of the unimpregnated horn were of great thick
ness, and its mucous membrane, which was of a dense leathery con
sistence, was thrown into numerous             thick fleshy folds arranged
parallel to one another and at right angles with the long axis of
the horn.    These folds were present throughout the horn, with the
exception of a space of half an inch in length next the septum uteri,
at which place the mucous membrane was perfectly smooth and devoid
of rugse.   On the left side of the septum uteri there was a single
longitudinal fold of mucous membrane which extended from the
attached to the free margin of the latter.       There was no trace of fluid
in this horn. The transverse arrangement of the mucous folds in the
nterine horn of the racoon seems to be somewhat uncommon,                these
folds in the majority of mammals being longitudinal and not trans
verse in direction.   According to Cuvier, however, a similar transverse
arrangement of the mucous ruga? is met with in the uterus of the
civet cat.*
   On opening the right or impregnated horn its walls were observed
to be much thinner than those of the opposite side.           This diminution
                           * " Le90n8," vol. t, p. 149.

         On the Female Organs and Placentation          of  the Racoon.      277
in thickness involved both the muscular              and   mucous     coats,  and
is doubtless to be attributed to mechanical distention of the horn by
the contained ovum. The mucous membrane presented no trace of
the well-defined transverse mgm met with in the horn of the other
side, and was of a softer and more succulent texture.                On careful
examination, however, this membrane was seen to be thrown into
numerous very minute tortuous and anastomosing folds, which closely
resembled those described and figured by Professor Turner in the
impregnated uterus of Orca gladiator.*           These folds were more dis
tinctly marked at the placental site than in other parts of the horn,
where the mucous membrane was almost smooth. The more minute
description of the microscopic structure of the uterine mucous mem
brane, together with the modifications which it undergoes in the
impregnated horn, will be deferred till after the consideration of the
ovum and placenta.
    Although the corpus uteri is not distinguishable externally from
the vagina, yet upon examining the interior of the cavity the position
of the os uteri is seen to be clearly defined by a well-marked valve
like projection of the mucous membrane. This valve consists of two
segments, an anterior and a posterior, which, however, are continuous
with one another, so that the entire structure presents an annular
character.     The central portion of each segment of the valve measures
half an inch in breadth, whilst laterally, where it becomes continuous
with its fellow, each segment diminishes to quarter of an inch in breadth.
The two segments together form a circular valve attached to the entire
circumference of the uterus, and prolonged superiorly and inferiorly
into two points which project backwards into the lumen of the vagina.
The mucous membrane of the body of the uterus is thrown into
slight longitudinal rugre, which commence opposite the free margin
of the septum uteri, and extend along the whole length of the organ.
    The diameter of the vagina, as already mentioned, is the same as
that of the corpus uteri ; and although, therefore, there is no distinct
line of demarcation between these two portions of the genital appa
ratus visible externally, an examination of the interior of the organ
shows that the limits of both are clearly enough defined.                In fact,
the separation of the corpus uteri from the vagina is indicated by
the annular valve above described as corresponding in position to the
os uteri ; whilst, posteriorly, the vagina is distinguished from the uro
genital canal by the position of the urethral orifice, as well as by a
slight fringe-like fold of mucous membrane, which is attached to the
entire circumference of the vaginal canal.         The mucous membrane of
 the latter is thrown into slightly marked longitudinal rugae which,
however, are of larger size than those met with in the body of the
 uterus.
          * " Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy of the Placenta," p. 45.

278                               Dr. M. Watson.
   The calibre of the urogenital canal equals that of the vagina, the
separation of the two organs being marked by the orifice of the
urethra and by the fringe-like fold of mucous membrane just de
scribed.      The mucous membrane of the urogenital canal does not
differ in character from that of the vagina.
                                                       I
   Having now described the female organs, pass to the consideration
of the
                                        Ovum.
    On opening the gravid uterine horn by means of an incision carried
along its anterior or convex margin, a single foetus was observed to
occupy the greater part of the cavity.            The foetus itself, covered only
by an epitrichial membrane, was at once in part exposed, from which
it was evident that before coming into my hands the foetal membranes
had been ruptured.          These membranes, although ruptured, where they
lay  in  contact   with  the   posterior extremity of the foetus so that the
latter was in contact with the wall of the uterus, retained their relation
with the anterior moiety of the embryo ; and                 I  was thus enabled to
make out the arrangement of both the chorion and allantois.                     With
regard to that of the amnion there still remains some doubt, but to that
I  shall refer presently.        The foetus, curled upon itself, lay with its
head directed towards the free extremity of the uterine horn, and close
to the opening of the Fallopian tube, being separated from the latter
merely by the intervention of the foetal membranes which covered it.
The left anterior extremity was closely applied to the side of the
chest, whilst that of the right side was strongly flexed at the elbow-
joint,   so  that the palmar surface of the hand rested against the side of
the head. The posterior extremity of the foetus touched the septum
uteri, and the hind legs, fully extended, stretched backwards towards
the body of the organ.         The tail, strongly flexed, occupied the interval
between the hind legs. The dorsal surface of the foetus was accu
rately adapted to the anterior or convex surface of the uterine horn,
whilst the ventral surface was directed backwards towards the posterior
or concave margin of the latter.
    The position of the foetus of Procyon in utero appears to be some
what unusual.         In the majority of mammals, according to Milne-
Edwards,* the head of the foetus usually presents at the os uteri ;t
whilst in Procyon the posterior extremity of the embryo occupied that
position.
    The    foetus  was encircled by an annular or zonary placenta which
corresponded to the middle third of the uterine horn, and measured
   * " Lecons sur la Physiologie," vol. ix, p. 591.
   t Turner describes the foetus as occupying this position in utero in the seal,
" Trans. Koy. Soc. Edin.," vol. nvii, p. 278 ; sloth, ibid., p. 75 j and lemur, " Phil.
 Trans.," vol. 166, p. 574.

         On   the   Female Organs and Placentation            of the Racoon.      279
 one and a quarter inches in greatest breadth where it lay in contact
 with the dorsal surface of the foetus, while opposite the belly of
 the latter the placenta did not exceed half an inch in breadth.
 The placenta had        been    detached from the uterus, a circumstance
 which   I  cannot sufficiently regret, as I was thereby prevented from
 observing by means of injection the exact relation which existed be
 tween the maternal and foetal portions of the placenta.                    Although
 detached from the uterine wall, it was evident that no change had
 taken place in the position of the placenta with reference to either the
uterus or foetus, and consequently the somewhat exceptional position
of the latter in utero can in no way be attributed to this circumstance.
The placenta formed a complete ring, but at the centre of its widest
part, i.e., opposite the back of the foetus, there was a spot similar to
that figured by Daubenton* in the placenta of Maries domestica, and
described by Bischoff in that of Lutra vulgaris,^ Mustela foina and
Mustela martes,+ where the substance of the placenta was deficient.
This deficiency involved the entire thickness of the placenta, so that
a probe could be passed from the uterine to the chorionic surface of
the organ without injury to its substance. The absence of placental
substance at this spot is of much interest in view of the observations
of Bischoff upon the corresponding arrangement in Lutra, to which I
shall afterwards refer. To the foetal surface of this portion of the
 placenta the amnion was closely adherent.               The entire uterine surface
of the placenta, with the exception of a band along either margin,
which measured one-eighth of an inch in breadth, presented a very
 regularly papillated appearance.         The marginal bands were perfectly
smooth and of a lighter colour than the rest of the organ. Subsequent
examination showed that this smoothness was due to the presence of
a layer of decidua (reflexa) which concealed the subjacent papillae.
    Chorion. — I have already remarked that the foetal membranes had
been ruptured where they lay in contact with the posterior extremity
of the embryo.        In consequence of this I experienced some difficulty
in the determination of their exact arrangement.                   With the view of
completing this with greater exactitude, I removed the entire ovum
from the uterus, and having carefully extracted the foetus by dividing
the umbilical cord, as well as the narrowest part of the placenta, I
placed the latter, together with the foetal membranes, in a vessel con
taining spirit. By floating out the membranes in this way I obtained
the view represented in fig. 2. From this drawing it will be observed
that a membrane which is continuous with each margin of the placenta
is prolonged outwards from the latter, so as to form a barrel-shaped
envelope in the interior of which the foetus was contained.                      This
            • Buffon'e  " Histoire Naturells," vol. vii, PI. XX.
               " Sitzungsber. Akad. Wissensch," Miinchen, 11 Miirz,
            t                                                         1865.
            % Ibid., 13 Mai, 1865.
    VOL. XXXII.                                                          U

280                              Dr. M. Watson.
membrane,        which    was  undoubtedly the chorion, agrees with that
described in the dog, cat, and other Carnivora, not only as regards its
form, but in the fact that a few blood-vessels were prolonged outwards
from its villous or placental portion to ramify in its non-placental area.
Judging from the extent to which the uninjured pole of the chorion,
which accommodated the anterior portion of the foetus, was prolonged
outwards from the placental margin, it did not appear probable that
any portion of what (with reference to the foetus) may be termed the
posterior pole of that membrane, had extended into the non-impreg
nated horn of the uterus.           This point, however, in view of the
lacerated state of the membranes, it was manifestly impossible to
decide in the absence of another and more perfect specimen.              At
the same time it is to be observed that the limitation of the chorionic
membrane to the impregnated uterine horn in the various species of
Carnivora previously examined, justifies the conclusion that in Procyon
that membrane does not extend into the unimpregnated horn, as
happens in the case of the Ruminants, Solipeds, and others.
   Allantois. — With regard to the exact arrangement of this membrane,
owing to the rupture which had taken place,            I am by no means
certain.      At the same time I may state that, by means of careful dis
section,    I  was able to detect a delicate membrane, which, although
closely applied to the foetal surface of chorion, could be readily
detached from the non-placental area of the latter.         This membrane,
which     I   regard as the allantois, was coextensive with, and formed a
lining   to   the uninjured pole of the chorion.     At the margin of the
placenta, the allantois could be traced onwards as a distinct membrane,
which closely invested the foetal surface of that organ.       Moreover, an
examination of the shreds of the posterior chorionic pole showed that
here also the allantois could be detached in a fragmental form from
the foetal surface of the former. I feel justified, therefore, in assuming
that, had the chorion been entire, the allantois would have been found
to be coextensive with and to have borne the same relation to it that
it bears in other Carnivora. I failed, however, to detect any prolonga
tion of the allantoic sac along the umbilical cord, nor did       I succeed
in isolating as a distinct membrane that portion of the allantois which
invests the outer surface of the amnion.
    Umbilical     Vesicle. — Of this structure I could not distinguish the
slightest trace.       Its absence in Procyon is remarkable in view of its
constant occurrence in other carnivorous mammals.
   Amnion. — After removal of the foetus from the bag of the chorion, a
third membrane was exposed, the interpretation of which occasioned
considerable      difficulty because of its peculiar relations to the other
membranes already described.          The appearance of the membrane is
faithfully reproduced in fig. 2. The sac in question, when floated out in
 spirit, presented an appearance not at all unlike the finger of a glove.

          On the Female Organs and Placentation           of tlie Racoon.        281
Its   one extremity was closed, and was attached to the central point of
placenta, immediately over the dorsal surface of the embryo.       It will
be recollected that at this point the placental substance was deficient,
and to the margin of this deficiency the blind end of the sac in question
was closely adherent.    The csecal extremity, however, did not project
through the aperture in the placenta, and consequently did not reach
the uterine surface of the latter.  A careful examination of the blind
end of this sac showed that its outer surface was clearly continuous
with that portion of the allantoic membrane which lined the foetal
surface of the placenta. Hence we conclude that in Procyon, as in other
Carnivora, the reflection of the allantois from the inner surface of the
chorion to the outer surface of the amnion takes place originally at the
central point of the placenta, that       from the margins of the placental
                                            is,
gap and that along
      ;                  with  the  amnion,    although not separable as a
distinct structure, there     combined the inner or reflected layer of the
                              is
allantois.   The other end of the sac was ruptured, and, extending
backwards (with reference to the embryo), was compressed between the
dorsal surface of the latter and the inner surface of the caudal pole of
the chorion. When distended with spirit this sac proved to be of such
a size that  I  had no difficulty in replacing the foetus in its interior.
Although from the ruptured condition and its abnormal position with
reference to the embryo, the resemblance of this sac to that of the
amnion was much obscured,            Ihave little doubt that       must be
                                                                         it
regarded as representing the latter.       In favour of this view   the factis
that, unless    be so regarded, there was no other structure the arrange
               it
ment of which was in any way comparable to that of the amnion; and
conversely    if   were not the amnion, and inasmuch as its relations
                   it
negatived the supposition that          could be the umbilical vesicle, we
                                       it
should be compelled    to assume   that, in Procyon, we have a foetal mem
brane of which there no representative in any other Carnivore, the pla
                         is
centation of which has been hitherto described.         Moreover, the close
attachment of the blind extremity of this sac to the margins of the
central deficiency of the placenta lends additional support to this view.
BischofF,* in his account of the placentation of the otter, refers to a
corresponding deficiency in the placenta of that animal.          A similar
observation    isrecorded by him in respect of the placenta of Mustela
foina and  Mustela   martes.f   The presence of this gap in the placental
substance he explains by supposing that the separation of the false
from the true amnion takes place in these animals at relatively later
                                                                   a
date than in the majority of mammals           and that, consequently, an
                                                  ;
obstruction    isthereby occasioned to the investiture, by the vascular
allantois, of the foetal surface of the chorion, resulting in the deficiency
in question.    In accordance with this view, the placental gap must
      * " Sitzungsber. der Akad. der WisBensch.," Miinchen,   4   Marz, 1865.
   t    Ibid., 13 Mai, 1865.
                                                                        D   2

282                             Dr. M. Watson.
of course correspond to the central point of the placenta, inasmuch
as at this point the separation of the true from the false amnion takes
place. The close attachment of the true amnion to this point, as well
as the fact that the continuity of the allantois over the junction of
what originally was the false with the true amnion, could be clearly
traced in Procyon, lends additional support to this view ; while, at the
same time, it strengthens the interpretation above given of the mor
phological significance of the sac in question.
                                    The Fcetm.
    Upon removing the foetus from       the uterus, the former was seen to be
 completely invested by an opaque       membrane of a bluish colour.        This
 membrane, to which the name             of epitrichinm has been      given by
 Welcker,* formed, as it were, a         second or supernumerary      cuticle to
 the foetus,    and was closely applied to every part of it. Over the
 greater   part   of the foetus it lay superficial to and concealed the hair
 with which the embryo was covered. At some places, however, and more
 especially over the inter-scapular region, the forehead, and the outer
 sides of the thighs, the free extremities of the subjacent hairs projected
 through this membrane, as did also the large vibrissa? surrounding
 the mouth.       The membrane was thinner and more closely adherent to
 the head, the distal half of the tail, and to the legs below the knee and
 elbow joints, than elsewhere, and could not be removed from these
 parts without tearing; whereas, from the other parts of the body, where
 the membrane was of greater thickness, it could readily be detached
 as an entire structure.       The membrane agreed in all respects with
 the epitrichium described by Professor Turner in the two-toed sloth
 (Cholcepus Hoffmanni),f except that in the latter, with the exception of
 the tactile vibrissoe of the snout, none of the hairs protruded through
 this membrane ; whereas in Procyon numbers of the hairs of other parts
 of the body pierced it. As iu Chola"pus Hoffmanni, so in Procyon, the
 epitrichium was continuous with the mucous membrane of the ears,
 eyes, mouth, and anus.        An examination of the deeper surface of the
  membrane disclosed a punctated and irregular appearance of the latter.
  This was doubtless due to the impact of the growing hairs. A similar
  appearance was met with by Professor Turner in the deeper surface of
  the epitrichium of the sloth.       Under the action of caustic soda, the
  membrane resolved itself into numerous flattened epithelial scales, in
  which at times distinct nuclei were visible.       These scales differed from
                                                          J
  those described by Professor Turner in the sloth, inasmuch as their
  edges were uniformly smooth, and presented            no trace of the inter
  locking processes described by that anatomist.
      * " Abhandlungen der Naturforsch. GeseUschaft," Halle, Band x, p. 20.
      t " Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin," vol. xxvii, p. 71.
      I  Ibid., p. 71.

        On the Female Organs and Placentation               of the   Racoon.      283
  A   supernumerary   epidermic covering or epitrichium is not confined
to Procyon.       A similar epidermic  covering has been described by
Welcker   as investing the  foetus of Bradypus, Chulcepus, Myrmecophaga,
Dicotytes, Sus, and Equus, and more recently Professor Turner has
noted its occurrence in the foetus of Cholcepus Muffmanni.    Welcker
states that he found no trace of this membrane in the foetus of Felis
or Ursus. Its total absence in the latter, and its presence in a well-
developed form in Procyon is remarkable, seeing that, in respect of so
many important structural details, these two genera approach one
another so closely. Further observations are necessary with regard to
the distribution of this membrane among the members of the Carni-
vora, and when made will in all probability establish its existence in
other genera than Procyon, in which alone it has hitherto been
described.*
  The   foetus,measured along the curve of the back from the tip of the
nose to the root of the tail, was 4£ inches in length, whilst a straight line
from the most projecting part of the forehead to the root of the tail
measured               The dorsal region and sides of the body were
              2£ inches.
covered with short hairs of a lead-blue colour, while on the forehead,
lower surface of the neck, and outer sides of the thighs, the hair was of
a lighter colour.  On the ventral surface of the body and inner sides
of the thighs the hair was not developed to the same extent as else
where.    The nails were pure white and fully formed.          The eyes
were completely closed ; and, looking at the comparatively mature con
dition of the foetus, I am inclined to believe that, in the case of the
racoon, as in that of some other Carnivora, the young are born blind.
The umbilicus was situated three-fourths of an inch in front of the
anus.
   An umbilical cord,        as such,   could   hardly     be said    to exist.   The
vessels composing      it,
                      after escaping from the belly of the embryo, almost
at once separated, and applying themselves to the narrowest part of the
placenta, extended forwards towards the back of the embryo, and, after
giving off numerous arborescent branches, disappeared by dipping
into the substance of the organ.
   The vessels composing the cord consisted of two umbilical arteries
and a single umbilical vein.
                     Microscopic Anatomy        of   the Placenta.
   After the placenta had        been     from the uterus, its uterine
                                        removed
surface was observed to present an appearance totally different from
that which characterises the corresponding surface of that organ in
either the bitch or cat, both of which      have myself examined, or
                                                 I
  • For full details respecting the nature and distribution of the epitrichium     the
reader  referred to the papers already quoted of Welcker and Turner.
        is

284                            Dr. M. Watson.
 indeed of that of       any other carnivorous mammal whose placenta
 has been hitherto described.       To the naked eye this surface presented
 merely   a flocculent  appearance, but when examined with the aid of a
 simple lens, or, still better, with the lower powers of the compound
 microscope (Ross, oc. A, object. 3-inch), this flocculent appearance
 resolved itself into a vast number of clearly-defined papillae, which
 covered the entire uterine surface of the organ.          The appearance
 presented under the microscope is faithfully reproduced in fig. 9.
 I have  said that the papillae covered the entire surface of the placenta;
 but, along each border of the organ, there was a narrow band, slightly
 raised above the level of the surface, where the papillae in question at
 first sight appeared to be absent.        Further examination, however,
 proved that the papillae were present here as elsewhere, but that their
presence was concealed by a superjacent layer of delicate tissue, which
proved to be of the same structure as the uterine mucous membrane.
This layer must therefore be regarded as representing the decidua
reflexa.    The papillae, under the microscope, presented an appearance
closely resembling that of the villi of the small intestine after a suc
cessful injection with opaque material, but were of considerably larger
size.   The papillae were mostly club-shaped, the apex of each being of
greater diameter than the base.          Their summits were for the most
part uniformly rounded, but here and there a papilla could be dis
tinguished which presented a central depression on its free extremity.
 The separate papillsB were uniformly simple, and in no one instance
did I observe secondary papilla? growing out from a primary stalk.          I
have observed that the separate papillae resembled the intestinal      villi,
but the surface of the placenta, as a whole, presented a widely different
appearance from that of the intestinal mucous membrane.            This was
due to the fact that each papilla was surrounded by a wall of placental
substance, which, as it were, enclosed a space, in the centre of which
the papilla was situated, and was thereby completely isolated from its
neighbours.       These walls were quite continuous all over the surface
of the placenta.       They were not so high as the papillae which they
surrounded     ; and, consequently, when the placental surface was viewed
obliquely, the walls were hidden at places by the papillae, and appeared
to be absent. More thorough examination, however, disclosed their
presence over the entire surface of the placenta.      The spaces bounded
by these walls varied in form.        In some places they were square, at
others five or six-sided, whilst occasionally they were circular.     Look
ing at the placental surface as a whole, its appearance was not unlike that
of a honeycomb filled with grubs, the walls corresponding to the
partitions between the cells, whilst the papillae very fairly represented
the contained grubs.
    Towards the margins of the placenta the arrangement just described
undergoes some alteration.         In the neighbourhood of the band of

        Chi the Female       Organs and Placentation     of the   Racoon.     285
decidna     reflexa, the ridges became irregular, and were no longer dis
tinguishable as continuous structures, but became broken up into
more or less elongated portions, the free margins of which were pro
vided with papilliform eminences.            This gradual dismemberment of
the continuous ridges could be clearly traced in passing from the
centre towards the margins of the placenta, inasmuch as the ridges
which were clearly continuous and regularly arranged, as above de
scribed, at one part of the placenta, became less and less regular and
more tortuous at another part.          The structure of these ridges, both at
the central and at the lateral margins of the placenta, is the same, and
differs widely from that of the papillae, which they enclose.                 The
papillae   I  regard    as  belonging to the foetal portion of the placenta,
whilst the maternal portion is constituted by the ridges just described.
Underneath the marginal band of decidua reflexa, the foetal papillaB
were of smaller size than elsewhere, and were arranged in tranverse
tortuous rows, which corresponded in breadth to that of the decidual
band.
   The foetal surface of the placenta, upon removal of the allantois,
was seen to be divided into numerous minute polygonal areas which
doubtless represent the so-called cotyledons described in the placenta
of other Carnivora.
   The placenta of the racoon presents no trace of the greenish
coloration met with in the margins of that organ in the case of the
bitch,* cat,f and fox.f Neither is it provided with any pigment-
containing sac similar to that described by Bischoff in the placenta of
Lutra,% Martes,§ and Mustela.§
   After removal of the placenta from the uterus,               I  attempted, by
means of a pipe inserted into one of the umbilical            arteries,  to inject
 the foetal vessels.     In consequence, however, of the parts having been
previously immersed in spirit, these were contracted to such an extent
as entirely to prevent the passage of the injecting fluid. To this
absence of injection was due the difficulty which I experienced in
obtaining a really satisfactory demonstration of the arrangement of
the placental blood-vessels in general, and more particularly of the
relation which the maternal vessels bear to those of the foetus.              The
elucidation of this point will only be accomplished by the examination
of another injected specimen, but in view of the difficulty of obtain
ing such, I think it advisable meanwhile to communicate the results of
my observations so far as they go.
    When sections were made of the placenta, and the uterine margins
of these were carefully examined under the higher powers of the micro-
   * Von Baer, " TJntersuchungcn."
   t Turner, " Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy of the Placenta," p.   71.
     " Sitzungsber. Akad. "WiBsensch.," Miinchen, 11 Marz, 1865, p. 218.
   X
   § Ibid.,  13  Mai, 1865, p. 339.

286                              Dr. M. Watson.
scope, there was observable a total absence of anything like a clearly-
 defined limitary membrane on the papillary surface.            Consequently,
 in sectional views, the papillaa were indistinctly isolated from one
 another, although as observed in surface views, the separation was
 clearly enough defined.        Here and there, but extremely rarely, an
isolated columnar epithelial cell was seen to be attached by its narrow
 end to the papillar surface. Whether the uterine surface of the organ
 had been invested by a continuous layer of these cells, or whether
those seen had been detached from the uterine mucous mem
brane,   I was unable to decide. In view, however, of the fact that
the uterine mucous membrane was entirely devoid of such cells, the
latter supposition appears the more probable.          The trenches between
the papillae, as well as those between        the latter and the surrounding
ridges above described, were, to a considerable extent, filled with
numerous shreds of decidua, as well as by a quantity of blood cor
puscles which presented various forms, due doubtless to the action of
the spirit in which the parts had been preserved.         It was particularly
observed, that no vessel of large size, and presenting the structure
which I believe to be characteristic of those constituting the foetal
portion of the placenta, extended beyond the uterine surface of the
placenta.     The marginal band of decidua reflexa presented the same
structure as that of the mucous membrane of the impregnated uterine
horn, to be afterwards described.
   The foetal surface of the placenta was clearly defined in sectional
views by the allantoic membrane.            From this membrane numerous
septa  were    given  off at  nearly regular intervals, and penetrated the
substance of the placenta, so as to form, as it were, supports for the
blood-vessels forming that organ.         These placental septa could occa
sionally be traced as continuous structures nearly as far as the uterine
surface of the placenta, but, for the most part, they disappeared before
reaching the latter.        In either case, they gradually became more
delicate, and were finally lost to sight in the convolute of placental
blood-vessels.
    On proceeding to examine the blood-vessels composing the placenta,
I found that     these presented two distinct types of structure, according
as I examined those which constituted the papillae, or those which
were met with in the circum- papillate ridges above described.                In
view of the facts which        I  am about to communicate, I regard the
circum-papillate ridges as the torn margins of those processes of
maternal tissue which interpenetrate the foetal villi, whilst the papillae
themselves are simply the free extremities of the foetal villi, which in
the racoon, as in the bitch,* and cat,f reach the uterine surface of the
placenta.      The vessels met with in the maternal portion of the
     * Turner, " Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy of the Placenta," p. 82.
     t Ibid., p. 79.

         On  the Female Organs and Placentation           of the   Racoon.   287
placenta resemble ordinary capillaries, whilst those which constitute
the foetal portion present an altogether different appearance.
    Foetal Portion of Placenta. — The foetal vessels constituted by far the
larger portion of the placenta.       Indeed, when sections of the placenta
were examined, the entire mass of the organ was apparently composed
of these. This     I afterwards found was due to the fact that the pro
 cesses of maternal tissue in the absence of injection, could not be
 traced to any great depth in the substance of the organ, and that the
 delicate capillaries with which they were furnished, were with diffi
 culty distinguished amid the much larger vessels of the foetal portion
 of the placenta. The fcetal vessels resembled neither arteries nor veins
 in the structure of their walls, and yet were of much larger calibre
than ordinary capillaries.      So far as I am aware, vessels presenting a
similar character have only once been previously noticed, and that by
 Professor Turner in the maternal portion of the placenta of Cholozpus
 Hoffmanni*       With the observations of that anatomist, with regard to
 the structure of these vessels, my own, except in one or two points,
almost entirely agree. When a portion of the placenta of racoon was
teased out under the microscope, the vessels in question were seen for
 the most part to run parallel with one another, from the foetal to the
 uterine surface of the organ, and could be readily detached in the
 form of bundles from the cut edge of the placenta. When one of these
 bundles was farther manipulated, the separate vessels were observed
 for the most part to be of uniform diameter, although occasionally
they presented well-defined enlargements.             These in some instances
occurred at regular intervals, and gave to the vessel a moniliform
character. The vessels freely communicated with one another by means
of transverse anastomosing branches of a similar diameter.                 These
transverse anastomosing vessels were given off at somewhat irregular
intervals, but for the most part they occurred at intervals which did
not much exceed the diameter of the vessels themselves. In conse
quence of this arrangement,          transverse-vertical and longitudinal-
vertical sections of the placenta presented much the same appearance
under the microscope.        An examination of the foetal margin of these
placental sections showed conclusively that at no spot did the vessels
pass beyond this surface of the organ, but that, on the contrary, they
invariably turned upon themselves, and re-entered the placenta, and that
therefore, so far as their distribution in this direction was concerned,
they were clearly confined to the substance of the placenta. With
regard to their arrangement at the uterine or papillar surface of the
placenta, as already observed, I could not distinguish any clearly-
defined limitary membrane bounding their distribution in this direc
tion. At the same time, I may observe, that although very numerous
                   * " Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin.," vol. xxvii, p. 79.

288                              Dr. M. Watson.
sections were made with the view of determining whether these
vessels ever passed beyond the placental substance, in no single
instance did     I  ever detect such an appearance as could lead me to
believe that the vessels in question had been divided, and had, pre
vious to the detachment        of the placenta, passed from the latter into
the wall of the uterus.       Had   such a passage taken place, it seems im
probable, in view of the comparatively large size of these vessels, that
the torn extremities of some at least of them would not have been
recognised.     The absence of any such appearance lends support to the
view   that   the   vessels under consideration           really constituted and
belonged to the foetal portion of the placenta.              Horizontal sections of
the placenta, that is, sections made parallel to the surfaces of the organ,
presented a different appearance.          In these, by far the greater number
of the vessels were seen to be either obliquely or transversely divided.
This showed that these transverse anastomosing vessels above de
scribed were not for the most part united at right angles with the
vertical trunks with which they inosculated, but that they pursued a
more or less oblique course between the latter.             Had they passed off at
right angles   with    these, the   appearance     of  the  horizontal would have
closely resembled the vertical sections, whereas, whilst the latter
under the microscope presented a very similar appearance, the hori
zontal sections differed from them in respect of the much smaller
number of longitudinally divided vessels which were visible.
   When a portion of the placenta was teased out with needles under the
microscope, these vessels were seen to be provided with extremely thick
but apparently structureless walls. When immersed in solution of log
wood, the latter were readily stained by that reagent.               That they were
composed    of a  form   of elastic  tissue was   clearly   shown    by the singular
immunity which they exhibited to the action of different reagents.
Even when boiled in dilute hydrochloric acid, or digested for eighteen
hours in solution of caustic potash, the walls of the vessels underwent
apparently little change, and subsequently manifested their elastic
nature by the resistance which they offered to the pressure of the
covering glass.      Professor Turner* observes that the walls of vessels,
which, in other respects, present so close a resemblance to those under
consideration,     which he met with in the maternal portion of the
placenta of Gholcepus         Hoffmanni,     possessed      "no clastic tissue or
muscular fibre cells." So far as the absence of muscular fibres is con
cerned, the placental vessels of Procyon agree with those of ChoUepus,
but differ inasmuch           as the wall, although apparently              homoge
neous under the microscope, is distinctly elastic in character.                These
vessels, in Procyon, were provided with a distinct endothelial lining
which, although not always distinguishable, was in some vessels
                    • " Trans. Roy.  Soc. Edin.," vol. xxvii, p. 80.

         On the Female     Organs and Placentation of          the Racoon.     289
clearly enough defined. It consisted of closely applied, flattened
endothelial scales, which at some places were of an oval form, whilst
at others they were fusiform in character.              As seen in transverse
sections, the vessels, doubtless because of their strongly elastic walls,
were observed to be uniformly open.            They were in some cases com
pletely, and in others partially filled by a granular looking material,
which doubtless consisted of altered blood-corpuscles.                In the latter
case the vascular contents had shrunk away from the wall of the
vessel, leaving a clear space between them and the endothelial lining
of the tube. The vessels were imbedded in a matrix of faintly
fibrillated connective tissue, which, however, was small in quantity,
and in some places appeared to be altogether wanting.                    At these
places,   the vessels lay directly  in  contact  with   one   another.
   It is worthy of remark, that the colossal capillaries just described
constituted by far the larger mass of the placenta, and that in this
portion of the organ there was an almost complete absence of
capillaries of the usual description, these being confined to the circum-
papillate ridges, and their prolongations, which I regard as constituting
the maternal portion of the organ.
   Having now described the histological appearances of what              I regard
as the foetal portion of the placenta,        I pass to the consideration        of
that of the maternal part.        I  have already shown that each of the
papillae met with on the uterine surface of the placenta was sur
rounded by a well-defined wall of tissue which bounded a space, in
the centre of which the papilla was situated.               The papillae consisted
exclusively of a mass of colossal capillaries, together with a small
amount of inter- vascular connective tissue matrix. An examination
of the circum-papillate      ridges  with   a simple lens showed that these
were merely the free edges of a        number   of elongated processes which
dipped into the substance of the placenta.             With a little care these
ridges, together with their intra-placental prolongations, could readily
be drawn out from the substance of the placenta and submitted to
microscopic examination.        After being teased out and placed under the
microscope with a magnifying power of 440 diameters, these processes
were seen to present exactly the same structure as the mucous mem
brane of the impregnated horn of the uterus, of which, without doubt,
they were prolongations.        They consisted of a slightly fibrillar connec
tive tissue largely intermingled with clear granular cells resembling
leucocytes, together with numerous spindle-shaped connective tissue
corpuscles.     Moreover, in certain preparations which            I was fortunate
enough to procure by simply drawing out the processes in question
from the placental substance, I was able to observe that the surfaces
of the latter were covered with a layer of columnar epithelial cells,
                   • " Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin.," vol. xxvii, p. 71.

290                            Dr. M. Watson.
which, at some parts, formed a continuous investment to the processes;
whilst, at others, the epithelium having, to some extent, been abraded,
although a continuous covering was absent, these cells, isolated, or
in groups of various sizes, still adhered to the surface of the process
under    examination.     These cells closely resembled those lining the
alimentary canal, and were provided with a well-defined nucleus of a
round or oval form.         I have little doubt that in the recent state
these cells had formed a complete investment to the maternal pro
cesses.    It was particularly remarked that in none of these processes
 was there any trace of the colossal capillaries above described, but
that their blood-vessels consisted exclusively of capillaries of the
 ordinary description,     and exactly resembled those met with in the
 uterine mucous membrane.
    Professor Turner has already described, in the placenta of Cholavpus,
 two sets of vessels which almost exactly correspond to those above
 referred   to Procyon.    His observations, however, were rendered more
 perfect than my own by the fact that he was able to inject the
 placenta both from the foetal and maternal vessels. From the com
 pleteness of this injection he was enabled to decide that the colossal
 capillary system constituted the maternal portion of the placenta,
 whilst the capillaries which presented the usual structure appertained
 to the foetal portion.     I have, consequently, endeavoured to reconcile
 my own observations with those of Professor Turner, but in vain.
 Of a direct connexion between the colossal capillary system and the
 foetal umbilical vessels in Procyon, I was, of course, in the absence of
 injection, unable to convince myself. But, bearing in mind the facts
 (1) that in no single instance did        I observe any appearance of the
 passage of a colossal capillary beyond the placenta into the wall of
 the uterus; and (2) the exact correspondence in structure of the
 circum-papillate ridges with that of the uterine mucous membrane ;
 and (3) the probable continuity of these processes with the mucous
 membrane of the uterus ;        I  can (subject, however, to future cor
 rection)   see no escape  from  the conclusion that in Procyon the colossal
 capillaries belong to the foetal, whilst the ordinary capillaries con
 stitute the vascular portion of the maternal placenta.
    Having now described the minute anatomy of the placenta, I pass
 to that of the uterine mucous membrane.           Having made sections of
 the wall of the left or unimpregnated uterine horn, and subjected
 these to the staining action of logwood, with the aid of the micro-
 scopo the presence of numerous uterine glands could be readily
 recognised.     These glands were very unequally distributed in the
  mucous membrane.        At some places they appeared to form patches,
  and were so closely packed that the interval separating any two
  of them did not exceed half the diameter of a gland tube,
  whilst at others the individual glands were separated by a much

         On the Female     Organs and Placentation    of the Racoon.      291
larger    interval.    They occurred    indifferently upon     the transverse
mucous      rugs and upon the intermediate        depressions.    The glands
themselves     corresponded    in length to the thickness of the mucous
membrane, their blind dilated ends closely approaching but never
actually penetrating the sub-mucous coat, whilst their free extre
mities opened upon the surface of the mucous membrane.                    The
gland tubes were extremely tortuous, so much so that, in some
instances, their regularly spiral course reminded one of the epidermic
segment of the duct of a sudoriparous gland. In some cases, the tubes
terminated      in a single dilated and somewhat acinous extremity,
 whilst in others two or even three of these dilated acini could be seen
 to terminate in a common tube.          The character of the epithelium
 lining these glands could not, unfortunately, be made out, but it seems
 probable that it does not differ essentially from that met with in the
 uterine glands of other mammals.            The epithelium covering the
 surface of the mucous membrane of the unimpregnated                 horn had
 entirely disappeared, and, therefore, its character could not be deter
 mined.
    The mucous membrane of the impregnated horn was quite entire.
 It differed from that of the barren horn in the absence of the well-
 defined transverse ruga? already described.         The mucous lining of
 this horn was much thinner than that of the opposite side, and
 appeared as if it had been mechanically stretched by the growth of
 the contained foetus.     When a portion was placed under the micro
 scope, it was seen to differ from that of the barren horn in respect of
 its much softer and more succulent character.         This was due to the
 presence of large numbers of leucocytes, as well as of spindle-shaped
 connective tissue cells in various stages of growth.           In the barren
 horn, the latter were present as formed connective tissue, and, con
 sequently, lent to the mucous membrane a denser, tougher, and more
 fibrous consistence.     In the mucous membrane of the non-placental
 area of the gravid horn uterine glands were but rarely distinguish
 able and then only in a fragmental form.           Here and there minute
 fragments of      gland   tubes  were observed, but, in no case, did I
 recognise a perfect gland similar to those met with in the opposite
 horn. In the mucous membrane of the placental site not a trace of
 a uterine gland could be recognised, the glands in this area having
 apparently atrophied and entirely disappeared.             As regards the
epithelial lining     of the gravid  horn, no  certain  information could be
obtained, as the mucous membrane had been almost entirely denuded of
epithelial cells. At the same time, the appearance of an occasional
 epithelial cell, columnar in character, and attached to the uterine surface
 of the placenta, renders it probable that previous to detachment of
 that organ the uterine mucous membrane had been provided with a
 layer of columnar epithelial cells, similar to that observed by

292                            Dr. M. Watson.
numerous authors in other species of mammals.               The fact, moreover,
that the intra-placental prolongations of maternal mucous membrane
were invested by such a layer of cells lends additional support to this
opinion.
   I have already remarked that, with the exception of its epithelial
layer, the mucous membrane of the gravid horn of the uterus, sub
sequent to detachment of the placenta, was quite entire, and that the
uterine surface of the placenta was not invested by a complete layer
of decidua serotina, such as is met with in the shed placenta of the
cat.*    In Procyon, therefore, the intra-placental prolongations of
maternal mucous membrane, together with the epithelium, are alone
deciduous, the mucous membrane of the uterus remaining adherent
after detachment of the placenta.
Comparison of the Placentation        of Procyon, with that of other        Car
                                    nivores.
   Prom the particulars above detailed, it will be seen that Procyon
agrees with the other carnivorous mammals, with the placentation of
which we are acquainted, in respect of the annular or zonary form
of its placenta. This form of placenta, and this alone, has been met
with in the various members of the group Carnivora, the placentation
of which has hitherto been examined.            In the majority of these the
placenta forms a complete zone, and presents no trace of the placental
gap which, in Procyon, occurs at that part of the placental band
which lies in relation to the dorsum of the embryo. The gap in
question has, however, been observed in the placentas of a few car
nivores.     So far as recorded observations             go, while failing     to
recognise the presence of this gap in the placenta of any digitigrade,
or pinniped Carnivore, they have affirmed its presence in the placenta
of every member of the plantigrade section, the placentation of which
has been hitherto examined.        The latter group includes the genera
Martes, Mustela, and Lutra, in the members of each of which a
placental gap has been observed.            With these, therefore, Procyon
agrees more closely as regards its placentation than with any member
of either the digitigrade or pinniped groups, in the placenta of none
of which does the gap in question occur.           If Bischoff's explanation of
the formation of this gap be correct, it would appear that, in the planti
 grade Carnivora, the closure of the true, and the consequent separation
 of this from the false amnion takes place at a relatively later date in
the latter than in either the digitigrade or pinniped Carnivora.
    But, whilst the placenta of Procyon differs, in this respect, from
that of the members of the digitigrade and pinniped groups of Car
nivora, it agrees with them in its truly deciduous character, as exempli-
   * Eschricht, " De Organis," pp. 14, 18 ; and  Turner,  " Lectures on the Com
parative Anatomy of the Placenta," p. 80.

          On  the Female     Organs and Placentation     of the Racoon.        293
  fied in the case of the bitch,      cat, fox, and seal.      The interlocking
  of the intra-placental processes of maternal mucous membrane
  with the foetal chorionic villi, and the separation of both from the
 uterine wall, have been already described ; and although the processes
 of maternal tissue could without difficulty be withdrawn from the
 interstices of the chorionic villi, it must be borne in mind that, at
  the time of separation of the placenta, the full period of gestation had
 not been completed, and that, in all probability, had such been the case
 the union between the foetal and maternal portions of the placenta
 would have been more intimate than in the specimen examined.
 Although, owing to the absence of injection, the precise form of the
 chorionic villi and the mode of interlocking of these with the
 maternal processes could not be ascertained, there seems little reason
 to doubt that their arrangement presented a close resemblance to
 that described by Professor Turner in the placenta of the bitch, cat,
 and seal. The structure of the maternal portion of the placenta of
Procyon, moreover, agrees in all respects with that of the animals just
named, consisting as it does of processes of the mucous membrane of
the uterus which are richly supplied with capillaries presenting the
same structure as those of the uterine mucous membrane itself.                  A
farther resemblance between the maternal processes of the placenta of
Procyon and those of the other mammals mentioned is to be found in
the presence, in all, of a well-defined layer of columnar epithelial cells
 investing these processes.
     With regard to the appearance presented by the uterine surface of
the placenta, Procyon agrees rather with Canis than with Felis. The
very regular arrangement of the uterine extremities of the foetal villi,
surrounded as they are by the circum-papillate ridges of maternal
tissue, is certainly peculiar to the racoon. At the same time, an examina
tion of the uterine surface of the placenta of the bitch, at nearly full time,
convinced me that the difference in this respect between the placenta
of Procyon and that of Canis is one of degree rather than of kind. In
the latter, although the arrangement of these two constituents on the
uterine surface of the placenta is by no means so regular as that met
with in the racoon, yet indications of it were plainly observable. In
the bitch, as observed by Turner,* and this observation          I   can confirm,
the chorionic villi reach the uterine surface of the placenta much as
in Procyon.        Surrounding them are numerous ridges of maternal
tissue which, although by no means presenting the regular honey
comb appearance met with in the racoon, nevertheless, at places, closely
resemble it.        In the bitch, these ridges for the most part enclose
irregular polygonal spaces, in the centre of each of which lies the
uterine extremity of a foetal villus, whereas in Procyon these spaces
present    a regular honeycomb appearance.
          •  " Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy of the Placenta,"   p. 82.

294                                Dr. M. Watson.
   But farther, a comparison of the placenta of the racoon with that of
the bitch and cat shows that in one important particular Procyon agrees
with Ganis rather than with Felis.                As has long been known, the
uterine surface of the placenta of the cat, after being detached from
the uterus, is covered with a distinct and continuous layer of decidua
serotina, whereas, in the bitch, as shown by Professor Rolleston,* this
is not the case.          In this animal, the deciduous portion of maternal
tissue consists simply of the intra-placental processes which are
detached along with the placenta, whilst the uterine mucous membrane
is not deciduous, but remains adherent to the wall of the womb.
Such is also the case in Procyon, and consequently in it, as in the
bitch (and apparently also in the fox),f the uterine mucous membrane
forms a continuous lining to the wall of the uterus, after detachment
of the placenta; whereas, in the cat, according to Turner, subsequent J
to the separation of that organ, only the deeper part of the sub
epithelial connective tissue of the uterine mucous membrane remains
adherent. Whether, in Procyon, the epithelium of the uterine mucous
membrane is normally detached along with the placenta, unfortunately
I could    not determine.
   Professor Turner has observed that in the mucous membrane of the
placental area of the sloths§ and seals, || the uterine glands appear to
undergo a retrograde metamorphosis, and to become of little functional
importance during the latter period of pregnancy.               The same remark
holds     good of the uterine mucous membrane of Procyon in which,
as already shown, the uterine glands, although well developed, and
present in large numbers in the unimpregnated horn, are with difficulty
recognisable in the non-placental area of the gravid horn, and then only
in a fragmental form, whilst, in the placental area, they have entirely
disappeared.        It would appear, therefore, that, at least in the Carni-
vora, the uterine glands are functionally inactive subsequent to the
period when the placenta has been fully developed.
   Whilst, however, the placenta of racoon agrees thus far with that of
other Carnivora, it differs materially in respect of the structure of the
blood-vessels which constitute by far the larger portion of that organ.
As already observed, Professor Turner met with similar vessels in the
placenta of Cholcepus.         In that animal, however, the placenta is dome
or bell-shaped and not annular in character.             So far as I can ascertain,
 Cholceptuf and Procyon are the only genera in which these vessels have
been hitherto discovered.            In every particular, except the elastic
nature of their walls, the foetal vessels of Procyon agree with the
    .* " Trans. Zool. Soc.," v, 1863.
                  " Lectures on the
     f   Turner,                    Comparative Anatomy of the Placenta," p. 85.
     t   Ibid., p. 80.
         " Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin.,"  vol. xxvii, p. 100.
     §
      || Ibid., xxvii, p. 300.

         On the Female     Organs and Placentation      of the  Racoon.     293
 maternal vessels of Glwlaejms.      I have already referred to the difficulty
 of reconciling two sets of observations, in accordance with one of
 ¦which, these vessels appertain exclusively        to the foetus (Procyon),
 whilst according to the other they belong as exclusively to the mother
 (Cholatpus).    This difficulty must remain until the placenta of Procyon
 has been re-examined      after successful  injection  of both the foetal and
 maternal   vessels.  But, even granting that future research may allot
 the colossal capillary system of Procyon to the mother and the ordinary
 capillary system of its placenta to the foetus, the mere presence of
 vessels of so peculiar and identical character in the placent® of Pro-
 eyon lotor and Gholapus Hojffimanni — animals between which there is
 not   a single   additional point of structural resemblance, — and the
 absence of such from the placenta of every other Carnivore which has
hitherto been accurately examined, appears to me to afford only one
 additional proof to the many hitherto adduced of the futility of any
attempt to base a sound classification of the Mammalia upon the form
 and structure of the placenta. There does not, indeed, appear to be any
reason why the placenta, either in respect of form, structure, or both,
should agree in animals which are closely allied, or differ in species,
which upon other grounds we regard as widely separated from one an
other. The researches of Turner and others have made us aware that,
reduced to its essentials, the connexion between the mother and the
child is the same in all mammals, that is, it consists of an intimate con
tact of the foetal and maternal blood-vessels. This, however, is simply a
physiological necessity, the accomplishment of which may be brought
about in many different ways.           A priori, therefore, the particular
arrangement by means of which this is accomplished is hardly likely
to be constant in, or confined to one group of mammals, or such as will
result in the formation of an organ which structurally, or morpho
logically, is likely to be of any value in affording a basis of classifica
tion. The zonary form of placenta is met with in such widely
separated groups as the Carnivora,           Hyracoidea,      and Proboscidea,
whilst the   diffused placenta   is common to the     Suidao,  DelphinidaB, aud
Equidro, and any classification based upon the possession by forms (in
other respects so widely separate) of a single organ, the placenta,
simply because it possesses the same form in all, must necessarily lead
to error in classification, if by classification we understand the group
ing together of animals in accordance with their affinities, that is,
in accordance with their entire structural organisation.          Similarly, to
attempt to classify the Mammalia in accordance with the structure
of the placenta would lead to the association of forms which in other
respects have nothing in common.            The Suidffl and Lemurina, in
respect of the structure and arrangement of the vessels composing
this organ closely resemble one another, as do also Procyon and
 Cholvepus    in the possession of vessels which present structural
    VOL. XXjlII.                                                    X

                                   Dr. M. Watson.
characteristics        not hitherto met with in the placenta of any other
mammal. And yet, to associate the members of either of these groups
would, 'taking into consideration             the wide divergence which they
otherwise structurally "possess, be as rational as to group together the
elephant and the spotted hyama, simply on account of the possession
by the "female of both of "these animals of a urogenital canal, pre
                          1
senting peculiar features not met with in'that of any other mammal.
A natural classification cannot possibly be based upon the form or
structure of any one organ in any group of animals, but must take
into consideration the various modifications of every organ of the
animal body       ; and more especially of those        proved by research to be
of great morphological, although not necessarily of equal physiological,
significance.        As additional evidence of the slight value to -be attached
to the form or structure of temporary uterine and foetal structures as
affording a basis of classification, I may refer to the fact "that whilst the
structure of Procyon is such that it has very properly led naturalists to
associate that genus with the>aretoid group of "Carnivores, yet the fcetus
of Procyon lotor is provided with a supernumerary cuticular invest
ment, or epitrichium, of which, according to the observations of
Welcker,* the fcetus of Ursna presents not a trace. Of the structure
of the bear's placenta we at present know nothing, but when it comes
to be examined, in view of the inconstancy of fcetal structures in the
members ot one and the same group of mammals, there seems to be
little ground to anticipate that vessels presenting the peculiarities
above described in the placenta of Procyon, will be found to 'be any
more characteristic of the arctoid group, as a whole, than the epitri
chium has proved to be.
    The fcetal membranes          of Procyon agree for the most part with
those of other Carnivora. The absence, however, >in the former of an
umbilical vesicle in the advanced condition of the embryo, is remark
able, and appears to separate Procyon fronrevery other member of the
carnivorous group of mammals.                The chorion differs in no respect
from that of other Carnivora. In Procyon, as in Canu, Fells, and
Phoca, the placental vessels extend beyond the placental into the non-
placental area of this membrane.               The allantois presents a similar
arrangement         in  all Carnivora.    With   regard to the amnion, Procyon
agrees with the members of the plantigrade section of Carnivora at
 the  same      time     that it differs   from those of the digitigrade and
 pinniped sections in the late closure of the amniotic sac, in the close
 attachment of that sac at one spot to the fcetal surface of the placenta,
 and (adopting Bischoff's           vievv)f in the consequent deficiency of
 placental substance at that spot.
         •   " Abhand. dcr Naturf. Gesellsch ," Halle, Band ii,
                                                                p. 39.
              " Siizungsber. der Akad. Wisscnsch.,"
           t                                         Munchen, 1865, p. 219.

         On the Female         Organs and Macentation           of the Racoon.        297
    In conclusion, it may be as well to summarise the observations con
tained in the foregoing pages. These show : —
    1. That Procyon agrees with all the other Carnivora in which that
organ has been hitherto examined in the possession of a zonary or
annular placenta.
    2. That similarly Procyon agrees with all in the mode of interlock
ing of the foetal and maternal portions of the placenta, and in the
consequent deciduate character of that organ.
    3. That Procyon agrees with the members of the plantigrade section,
at the same time that it differs from those composing both the digiti-
i/rade and pinniped sections of the Carnivora, inasmuch as at one spot
the placenta presents a gap or deficiency, at which spot the placental
structure is imperfect.
    4. That Procyon agrees with Canis at the same time that it differs
from Felis, in the absence of a continuous layer of decidua serotina
from the uterine surface of the detached placenta.
    5. That Procyon differs from every other Carnivore, the placenta of
which has been minutely examined, in the possession of placental
vessels possessed of a structure hitherto only met with in the placenta
of Cholapus Htiffmanni among the Edentates.
    6. That Procyon differs from every other Carnivore, the foetus of
 which has been hitherto examined, in the non-possession of an umbilical
 vesicle.
     7. That Procyon differs from all Carnivora of which the young
 have been hitherto examined, inasmuch as the foetus is provided with a
 supernumerary cuticle or epitrichium, a structure which has only been
 met with in the young of certain members of other mammalian groups.
                              EXPLANATION         OF PLATES.
   I   have to acknowledge,       with thanks, the kindness of my friend, Mr. Alfred
Young, in drawing        the   accompanying excellent illustrations of the microscopic
anatomy of the placenta and uterine mucous membrane.
                                           Plate  3.
 Figure  1. Exterior of    the female organs of Procyon lotor in the gravid state, two-
             thirds    natural size. B.C. Right cornu uteri in which the foetus was
             lodged. L.C. Left cornu uteri, o.o. Ovary encircled by the Fallopian tube.
             L.t>. l.d. Ligamentum diaphragmaticum uteri. L.T. l.t. Ligamentum teres
             uteri. L.L. Ligamentum latum uteri. B. Bladder.
 Figure  2. The   foetal membranes after removal from the uterus. As stated in the
             text, the membranes were ruptured when the specimen came into my
             hands.      Their appearance, after      I   had divided the placental belt
             and removed        the foetus, is faithfully    reproduced in this figure.
             A. Amnion.       C.c.c. Chorion.  P P. Placenta.     The umbilical vessels are
             seen ramifying on the foetal surface of the latter.
                                                                         x 2

298       On   the Female      Organs and Placentation           of the    Racoon.
Figure 3. The placenta,     showing the central gap which corresponds to the attach
            ment of the amnion, as shown in fig. 2.
Figure 4. The foetus with its epitriehial investment. The latter has been slit open
            along the ventral surface of the animal.
                                         Plats    4.
Figure 5. Interior of the gravid uterus of Procyon lotor, two-thirds natural size.
            In the right cornu uteri the foetus is shown enveloped by the chorionic
            membrane and surrounded by an annular or zonary placenta.                     The
            left cornu uteri is opened to show the transversely- arranged mucous
            folds. Between the cornua is the septum uteri, o.u. Os uteri, pro
            vided with a valve-like fold of mucous membrane,                which separates
            the uterus from v. the vagina,         u.o.o. Urogenital canal laid open.       A
             bristle is passed into the urethra.     Other letters as in fig. I, Plate 3.
Figure 6. Left cornu uteri, natural size, seen from above.         The drawing shows the
            abdominal opening of the Fallopian tube and the relations of that tube to
            the ovary, o. Ovary, c.u. Cornu uteri. l.d. Ligamentum diaphragmati-
            cum uteri. p.T. Fallopian tube.
Figure 7. Surface view of portion of the mucous membrane from the placental site
            of the gravid horn, slightly magnified.
Figure 8.  Section of wall of barren horn of uterus,         to show the uterine glands.
            Magnified 55 diameters.
                                         Platr    5.
Figure 9. View of uterine surface of the detached placenta, showing the honeycomb
            appearance, slightly magnified.
Figure 10. Horizontal section (i.e., the line of section was parallel to the surface of
             the organ) of the placenta, showing the colossal capillaries, for the
            most part divided transversely, magnified 235 diameters.
Figure 11. Portion of the placental substance, teased out after being submitted to the
            action of dilute sulphuric acid. The figure shows the structure of the
            colossal capillaries, their endothelial lining, and the mode of anastomosis
            between them, magnified 235 diameters.
                                         Plate    6.
Figure 12. Longitudinal vertical section        (i.e., the line of section was at right
            angles to the surface of the organ) of the placenta, showing the colossal
            capillaries, for the most part divided longitudinally,           magnified 235
            diameters.
Figure 13. Transverse vertical section of the placenta, showing the colossal capillaries
            with the intervascular matrix. The capillaries are for the most part
            divided longitudinally, magnified 235 diameters.




;¦ ¦


NaiAmrt. imp

                             On   the  Diastase  of Koji.                        299
 " On the Diastase of                    By R. W. ATKINSON, B.Sc. (Lond.),
                             Koji."*
        Professor of Analytical and Applied Chemistry in the Uni
        versity of Tokio, Japan. Communicated by Professor A.
       W. Williamson, For. Sec. R.S. Received March 3. Read
        March 10, 1881.
                                       Summary.
                      Section I. — Preparation of the Kdji.
    Mechanical preparation of the rice.         Addition of spores of EuroUum
 oryzece (Ahlb.).       Growth of mycelium in warm chamber. Rise of
temperature during growth sufficient to preserve the temperature of
 the chamber constant, and, in winter, much above the temperature
 of the outer air. Temperature of koji itself from 10° to 23° F. above
that of the chamber.
    Activity of growth shown by the rapid replacement of oxygen in a
confined portion of air by carbonic acid.
    Loss of weight of the rice during the growth of the fungus.
                     Section   II. — Action  of Water    on Kdji.
    Amount of solid matter dissolved depended upon time and tempera
ture of digestion, and upon the proportion of water used.
    Amount of albuminoids dissolved depended mainly upon the duration
of digestion.
    Temperature of greatest change in cold water extract of kdji.
       Section   III. — Action   of K6ji Extract  upon some Carbohydrates.
    Extract of koji causes inversion of cane-sugar.             It also effects the
hydration to dextrose of maltose and dextrin.              Curve A.
    Extract of koji breaks up the starch molecule into maltose and
dextrin ; the maltose is quickly hydrated, and the products after some
time are dextrin and dextrose.
    Experiments showing the action of koji extract upon starch-paste
at various temperatures from 4 — 10° C. to 70° C. Curves B to H.
    Effect of common salt in neutralising the hydrating power of koji
extract.
   • I feel that some apology is needed for using the Japanese word kdji, but as
there is no foreign product in any way resembling it, I have thought that there
would be less danger of confusion arising by retaining the Japanese word than by
                 " malt." As will be seen from the following description, the nature
using the word
of this substance is quite different from that of malt, so that the use of that word
might lead to erroneous impressions.
   The 6 is pronounced long, as it is a contraction for the diphthong an, the word
being written in Japanese kau/i, but pronounced as written above.

 300                        Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
 Section   IV. — Change   which the Rice Grain Undergoes    by the Growth of
                                  the Fungus.
    It is shown by a comparison of the analyses of rice and koji that
 the principal change which is to be observed is .the conversion of the
 insoluble albuminoids of rice into the soluble state, and, probably as a
 result of this, the large increase in the total soluble solid matter.
    It may be desirable before entering upon the preparation and
properties of the substance which the Japanese call koji, to mention
briefly the uses to which it is put in this country.        It is universally
employed as a fermenting agent, but it is something differing from
such a body as " barm or yeast," by which Dr. Hepburn translates koji
in his invaluable dictionary. Its principal use is in the production of
sake, the alcoholic liquid which is everywhere consumed in Japan.
This liquid is prepared from steamed rice by digestion with koji, the
diastase of which effects the conversion of the starch into matter
capable of being fermented.
   Another   use to which koji is applied is in bread -making. It is also
employed in the manufacture of the famous sauce " Soy," which is
likewise a product of fermentation, though its preparation is much
more complicated, and has not yet received an explanation.
   In "Natnre" (September 10th, 1878), I gave a very brief account
of the mode of producing sake, and about the same time Mr. O.
Korschelt read a paper before the German Asiatic Society of Japan
giving a detailed description of the process, together with some experi
ments upon the action of water upon kSji.         The result of his investi
gation was that koji acted as a kind of diastase, converting starch into
sugar, but he gave no experiments which could serve to identify the
product.
   In a paper read before the Chemical Society in March, 1880, of
which an abstract appears in the " Chemical News," April 9th, 1880,
I gave a series of analyses of the mash, as the result of which the
conclusion was drawn that the diastase of koji, unlike that of malt,
yields dextrose and dextrin when it acts upon gelatinised starch.        The
conclusion was correct as referring to the ultimate products, but
further experience has shown that the first product is not dextrose, but
maltose, which, however, is quickly hydrated to dextrose.          Evidence
of this will be found in a later part of this paper.
                         I. — Preparation of the K6ji.
   The rice grain consists of several envelopes, the outer of which are
easily removed in the form of chaff by threshing, and after being
burnt, the mineral constituents are returned to the soil. The grain

                                 On the Diastase           of Koji.                     301
  still  possesses     a thin  adhering skin which is removed by a very rough
  process of beating with wooden hammers, the grain being contained
  in a wooden mortar.* By this operation a large proportion of the
 grain becomes broken, and is thus rendered unfit for many purposes, as
  for eating, and for sake brewing.                      In the koji manufactory these
  broken grains, mixed with the thin skin, are converted into koji in the
 same way as the cleaned and whole grains, but the product is inferior
  in colour, and is put to other uses. Besides the loss of the skin the
 grains are incomplete, one end of each boing sharply curved inward
 owing to the complete removal of the embryo from the rough treat
  ment it has received. This alone shows- that the change which the
 rice grains undergo in being made into koji cannot resemble a process
 of germination.
     The rice thus cleaned is next soaked in water all night, and, on the
 following morning, it is heated in a current of steam until each grain
  is just soft enough, to be elastic, an operation which takes from four
  to five hours.        After this it is thrown upon mats laid upon the ground,
 and turned over continuously by the workmen until it is quite cool,
 the temperature taken on three different occasions being 84°, 86°, and
 84° F. By this constant working the grains are prevented from
 cohering into lumps, and the mass faels to the hand quite dry.
     To every two bushels the foreman adds three salt spoonfuls of the
 spores of a fungus, described by. the late Mr. Ahlburg as Eurotium
 vxyzece (Ahlb..).t         The whole of these -spores is mixed with a small
 portion of the rice, and the mixture is then scattered over the resfcof the
 rice as a husbandman scatters seed over the ground.                         The:mats are
 folded     over    at  each  corner,    and    the    rice thoroughly worked Again to
ensure a uniform distribution of the spores.                       After this the rice is
gathered        into baskets,   and   carried    into   the coolest part of the " growing
chamber." This is done about 2 p.m. on. the first day.
     In the sake breweries, where koji is made for brewing purposes, the
" growing chamber " is of a somewhat rough construction, being
formed near the surface of the ground, built up with timber, coated
 with mud, and covered with straw mats to avoid as much as possible
loss of heat.          In the koji manufactory proper, however, it is a much
 more satisfactory place. It consists of a long arched passage, cut in
the thick bed of clay which underlies Tokio at a depth below the
surface of from 15 to 20 feet. In the manufactory at Yushima, in
Tokio, with which I am best acquainted, theru are in all four of these
    •  It is a fact of some interest that    if the skin be allowed to remain, the sake pro
duced from such Icdji is more       liable  to   spoil than when the skin is removed.   Thii
is probably connected       with  the  large percentage of albuminoids contained in the
skin.
       " If ittheilungen
    f                      der Deutschen Gesellschaft .'iir Xatur- und Volkcrkmido      Ost-
asieus."      16ter Heft.    December,   ItCS,    p. 252.

 302                        Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
 underground     passages,  only one of which is used during the summer,
 as very little k&ji is made during that season.        The height is rather
 less than 4 feet, the breadth about 7 or 8 feet, and from the entrance,
 reached by descending a vertical shaft, it extends about 25 or 30 feet
 in one direction, then bends off nearly at right angles for about the
 same distance.     From the second passage two others extend, in the
 same direction as the first, for about :J0feet.     In these the temperature
 of the air is highest.
     Except at the beginning of the season, no fire or heating arrange
 ment is used, but after being disused for a long time, the chamber
would be too cold, and would delay too long the formation of the
 Mji.
     After the rice mixed with spores has been taken to the growing
chamber about 2 p.m. on the first day, it is thrown into a heap, covered
with mats, and left for one night. On the following day about noon
(second day) it is put into baskets, withdrawn from the chamber, and
sprinkled with water. At this time the temperature of various batches
which were examined varied between 75° F. and 7D° F. When the
li'vji ia required for take' brewing this operation is omitted, and the
product is then called raw koji (Jap. ki-koji). The common koji, which
is prepared by sprinkling with water is, however frequently bought by
the brewer for the purpose of mixing with tlie raw koji.
    About 5 p.m. on the same day (second day) the rice is spread over
small wooden trays, and placed upon the floor of the growing chamber
underneath the trays which at this time contain nearly finished koji.
The rice is spread out so that in no part is the layer of any thickness ;
the temperature, however, gradually rises during the night.          A sample
of    which  the temperature was taken at 8       p.m. on the second day was
80o-6 F., the temperature of the air at the same time being 81° F.         At
5 a.m. on the third day the workman re-enters the chamber for the
purpose of removing the trays of finished k6ji, and of putting in
their place the trays containing the mixed rice and spores of the third
day.      This mixtnre has at 5 a.m. a temperature a little higher than
that of the chamber ; the workman then collects the rice on each tray
into a small heap, and allows it to remain undisturbed till between
!• and 10 a.m.     The grains of rice on the morning of the third day
present a slightly woolly appearance, which shows that the spores have
already partly developed with the production of mycelial fibres.          The
temperature rapidly      rises; at 8 a.m.  the   temperature of the rice is
from 104° F. to 106° F., and it increases slightly until between 9 and
 10 a.m., when the workman works the rice over with his hands and
spreads it out to cool it. The temperature of the air during this time
remains tolerably constant, as will bo seen from the details of the
observations given afterwards.
     When the rice has become cooler it is again heaped up on the trays

                                On the Diastase      of Koji.                      303
and left till about 1 p.m., at which time its temperature has again
risen to over 100° F. After this, the heaps are broken down and the
thin layers gradually become cooler, the workman frequently rubbing
the matted masses between his hands to open them.
    During this period the mycelium has developed very greatly, long
silky fibres binding together the grains of rice. The koji is now left
until   5 a.m.    on the following morning (fourth day), when it is found to
have become cemented into one cake by the filaments of mycelium.
 It is then removed and preserved on the wooden trays until sold.
    I have taken temperature observations at two periods in the year, in
May and December.              The temperature of the chamber was taken by
means of a Negretti           and     Zambra maximum and minimum thermo
meter, suspended with the middle of the long cylindrical bulb about
one foot above the trays containing koji, and about the same distance
below the roof.           The temperature of the koji was taken by means of a
small tube thermometer plunged into the mass on the trays and
allowed to remain several minutes, until no further change was
observed.        The temperature of the rice on several trays was taken
and the mean of the observations              regarded as the true temperature.
        Table     I. — Temperatures       of Chamber and     Koji during May.
          I.            II.         III.          IV.           V.           VI.
                              Temperature      Minimum       Maximum    Temperature
       Date.          Hour.   of air outside  temperature  temperature   of k6ji on
                              the chamber.    of chamber.  of chamber.   third day.
      May    18 . .   8  A.M.      55 -3° F.       72° F.       76° F.    No kdji.
                      6  P.M.      61 8            72           74            tl
       „     19 . .   7  A.M.      59 0            72           77          89 6° F.
                      8  P.M.      64-0            74           76
       „     20  ..   8  A.M.      58 7            76           77          84-2
                      9  P.M.      64 6            75           77
       „     21  ..   7  A.M.      60   5          75           76
                      9  P.M.      65   0          74           76          86 0
       „     22  ..   9  A.M.      63   6          75           77          86 0
       It     )> * '  9  P.M.      60   0          76           79          89 8
       „     23  ..   7  A.M.      65   5          77           83
       n      »• • ¦  8  P.M.      65   0          79           82          95 0
       „     24 . .   7 A.M.       64   0          80           81         102 0
                      8 P.M.       66o             78           80          86 0
   The temperature of the chamber from the 18th to the 23rd remained
tolerably constant, but then for some reason an increase in both
maximum and minimum temperatures took place. The temperature of
the rice at the time of its introduction varied, as before mentioned,
from 75° to 79° F., and was, therefore, a little lower than that of the
chamber.         In Column VI is given the temperature of the koji on the

 304                             Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
third day. It varied considerably, sometimes rising very high, bat
always being above the maximum temperature of the chamber.                            The
increase in the temperature of the koji                  in  May is by no means so
marked as in the second series of observations made in December,
during which month much more koji is made than in May. The tem
 peratures given below refer, like the last, to koji of the third day only,
 as it is during that time that the greatest amount of growth takes
 place.
     Table     II. — Temperature       of Chamber and       Koji during December.
          I.            II.         III.                                        VI.
                               Temperature      Minimum       Maximum      Temperature
                      Hour.    of air outside  temperature   temperature    of Ic6ji on
                               the chamber.    of chamber.   of chamber.    third day.
     Dec.   5....     8 A.M.        40 -7" F.                                 104 -8° F.
       >l   W •• ••   2 P.M.        49-5           82 0° F.      83 -0° F.     919
       )>   )»*•¦*    8    „        42-5           81 0          83 0          88 '8
       „    6....     8 A.M.        41-5           80-0          83  0        106  6
       11   » •• * • 10    „        44-7           81 6          82  0        101  0
       )>   >)¦••*    1  P.M.       60 0           81 -0         82  5        104   1
       „    7....     9 A.M.        38 5           80 -0         82  5        104-2
                      2 P.M.        51 -0          80-5          82  0         93 6
       „    8 . . ..  8 A.M.        37 5           79 -0         82  5        100 -o
    If   we take the average temperature            on the three mornings at 8 a.m.,
and one at 9 a.m., we find it to be 103o-9 F., and the average for the
maximum temperature at the same time is 82°' 7, hence the koji has at
8 a.m. an average temperature 21°-2 F. higher than the chamber.                       The
observation at 10 a.m. on December 6 was intended to ascertain what
the highest temperature attained was, which the workman said occurred
about that time ; but on that day the rice became so hot that he was
obliged to spread it out before its temperature was taken, so that the
number 101° F. gives the temperature after partial cooling.                           The
observation at 1         p.m. was    made before the rice was spread out for the
second time, and         it will be seen that the temperature has risen con
siderably.         With    these results, one cannot doubt the truth of the
statement made by the workman that the rice becomes heated during
the growth of the mycelium.                    Mr. O. Korschelt* has previously
remarked that the temperature of the rice rises during the formation
of koji, but he gives only one observation.                 He says : " Ich fand dann
die Temperatur des Reises zu 25° C, wahrend die Luft in der Kammer
nnr 20° C. zeigte. Die nothige Warme also durch den Process selbst
entwickelt."
   * " Mittheilungen dor Doutschen Gesellsehaft fur Natur- und ViSlkerkuude           Ost-
atiens." December, 1878.          16ter Heft., p. 211.

                            On the Diastase  of Koji.                        305
   The rise in temperature is almost certainly due to respiration, a pro
cess common to      all plants. I know of no case, however, in which the
increase is so great as in the one under consideration.         Sachs says that
in the spadix of the Aroideee at the time of fertilisation, and especially
in warm air, an excess of temperature of from 4° to 5° C, or even
10° C, has been detected.* In the present case the respiration is suffi
ciently active not only to keep the temperature of the rice above that
of the surrounding air about 21° F., but at the same time to keep the
temperature of the air in the chamber from 30° to 40° F. above that
of the air outside, because no artificial source of heat is made use of.
   It is a little remarkable that the variation in the temperature of the
air in the chamber is so small, for, as the place is not artificially
warmed, but depends upon the heat given out by the growing fungus,
it might be expected to be much higher in the morning than in the
evening. Such a variation will, indeed, be noticed, but not. to a greater
amount than 2° or 3° F. The constancy in the temperature is no
doubt the result of having successive batches in the same chamber.
During the morning only the actively growing k&ji is there, and in
the evening, when the former is cooling down, a new batch is brought
in, which gradually rises in temperature during the night and attains
its maximum between 8 and 12 in the forenoon.
   That the growth of the fungus takes place with great vigour is
shown not only by the rise in temperature, but by the rapidity with
which it removes oxygen from the air. A specimen of the actively
growing koji (at 8 a.m.) was placed in a bottle of about 4 litres
capacity and well corked. Tubes were arranged so that a specimen of
the enclosed air could be removed from the bottle, and it was then left
in the chamber from 8 till 12 noon. Over the koji which was exposed
to the air the mycelium of the fungus had developed considerably and
had caused the grains of rice to cake together into a solid mass.            The
rice in the bottle, however, remained quite loose, and no increase in
the amount of the mycelium could be observed.              Analysis of the air
in the bottle showed that the whole of the oxygen had been replaced
by carbonic acid. The inference to be drawn from this experiment is
that so long as the oxygen was present the mould went on growing,
but that the amount of air contained in the bottle was insufficient for
its growth, and hence, instead of becoming matted together, the grains
of rice remained distinct.
   The diminution in the weight of the rice is considerable.            Mr. Jihei
Kamayama was good enough to weigh for me the rice used in one
operation, and the koji which was formed from it. He found that 100
parts of the whitened rice, after being converted into koji, weighed
 101*3 parts.     Samples of each were obtained and the amount of water
            * Sachs, "Lehrbuch der Botanik," 4th edition, 1874, p. 694.

306                               Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
determined.    The rice contained 14-2 percent, of water and the ledji
29'5 per cent; thence 85-8 parts of the dried rice yielded 76"35 parts
of dry koji, that is, 89 per cent., and thus a loss of weight occurs
amounting to 11 per cent, of the dry rice used.      This loss consists
mainly  of starch, which  is oxidised to carbonic acid and water, and
corresponds to an oxidation of 4"9 per cent, carbon.      More carbon,
therefore, undergoes oxidation than Day found in the case of germina
ting barley,* which varied from 2" 3 to 2" 6 per cent.
     As in one day about 107 lbs. of dry rice are converted    into koji in
each chamber, the amount of carbonic acid formed will be           x 5-24=     'j1
19-2 lbs., and such a large quantity evolved in situations from which
it    difficult to remove
     is                     frequently leads to stoppage of the work for
                                 it
some time.      The only means adopted of effecting a change of air con
sists of a square shaft about     inches in one direction and
                                         8                        inches in    6
the other, leading from the anterior end of the passage into the open
air above. It will be evident, therefore, that as the ventilation depends
upon the difference of temperature between the inner and the outer
air,  itwill be much better in winter than in summer.     In fact,     is in         it
the spring and early summer that the stoppages occur, for, as the tem-
peratnre observations taken during May show, the difference at that
period between the inner and outer air      not more than a few degrees.
                                                         is
Under such conditions the growth of the fungus must be much less
active, and perhaps this     one reason why the production of koji in the
                                  is
summer     is   almost abandoned.
                              II. — Action   of    Water on   Koji.
   The koji prepared in the manner just described consists of grains of
rice bound together in lumps by the interlacing threads of mycelium.
A single grain separated from the rest presents a peculiar woolly
appearance on the surface, but does not appear to have increased very
much in bulk. Under the microscope, a section shows that the outer
cells are loose and penetrated by the fibres of the mycelium, whilst in the
centre of the grain the cells have a horny appearance, and the starch
granules cannot be distinguished.
  When the koji grains are allowed                  to remain in contact with water
for some time,     large proportion
                        a                            dissolved by the water, which
                                                    is
then assumes a yellow colour.                Very little of the koji remains except
the mycelial fibres and the skeleton of cellulose when the digestion                      is
made in warm water.      The amount of matter brought into solution
varies according to the duration  and the temperature of digestion.  At
low temperatures,      and after about fifteen                or twenty minutes, from
12 to 15 per   cent,  of solid matter, calculated              on the koji used,    found
                                                                                   is
in solution    but
                ;      the digestion
                         if             allowed
                                              is              to go on at a higher tem
perature,  or for    longer
                        a    time, from  30 to 60             per cent, will be dissolved.
                    *   " Journ. Chem Soc.,"      Trans., 1880, pp. 631-657.

                                  On the Diastase         of Koji.                           307
    In Table         III some      analyses of the solution of hoji, made at the
 ordinary temperature,            are given.    They are taken from a large number
 made, and are selected to show the influence of varying proportions of
 water used, and also that of length of digestion.*
 Table   III. — Composition of          the Solution made from 100 grms. of                 Koji
                                       at 10° to 15° C.
             Total vo
                                        Total    Ave! age     Glucose                Average
              lume of                                                     Specific
                           Time of      solid    percent per cent, of rotatory specific
     No.    solution of
                          digestion.   matter      age of    total solid             rotatory
             100 grms.                                                   power p.
                                      per cent.    solids.     matter.                powor.
               of kdji.
                 c.c.        hrs.
       1          500         12        17  7                   60°0       65°
       2        1,000         18        25  7                              61             O
       3          II           »1       24  2                    , .       55  7      • 57 6
       4          11           >l       23  0                              56   0
       5          11          12        33  3                   49   0     65   3
       6                       n        33  3                   51   0     65   4
       7          (J           >i       29  4     •27   0-      45   0     62   9
       8          II           n        28  6                   46   5     67   7     •64 6
       9                       II       26  8                   53   0     61   4
      10          M                     22  5                   53   0     64   5
      11          n            „        22  2                   54   0     65   0
      12                       4        28  0                              61   4
      13       2,000           3        31  1                   68   0     78  -0
                                                           ¦
      14       2,500           ii       32  2                   58   0     68   1
      IS          II           ii       32  5                   70   0     65   2
                                                                                      ¦69-3
                                                 i-31 -4-
      16          l»           ii       30 7                    65   0     73  -8
      17          1*           n        30  1                   68   0     70   2
      18       5,000          24        30  0                   47   0     64   5
      19      10,000           »i       40  0        ••         66   0     60   5
     These examples will suffice to show how variable the amount of
solid matter dissolved by the water is, even under apparently the same
conditions.          Thus when 100 grms. were dissolved in 1,000 cub.
centims. of water, and kept for twelve hours at a temperature of
10° to 15° C, the amount of solid matter dissolved varied from 22 per
   * The analysis of the solutions of hdji was carried out in the following manner.
The total solid matter was calculated from the specific gravity of the solution taken
at 16° C, compared with water at the same temperature, by dividing the excess
above 1,000 (water = 1,000) by 3 86. This eives the number of grms. in 100 cub.
centims. of liquid, from which the percentage is easily found. The glucose was de
termined by the gravimetric process recommended              by O'Sullivan (" Journ. Chem.
Soc.," 1876, [ii], p. 131).
   The specific rotatory power of the solid matter in solution was determined by ob
serving the number of divisions upon the scale of a Soleil-Duboscq saccharometer
which corresponded to uniformity of tint of the two halves of the field. The light
was always observed through a column of liquid 200 niilliuis. loug.                The specific

308                             Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
cent, to 333 per cent. The percentage of glucose contained in the
solid matter varies from 45 to 68 per cent., but usually ranges
between 50 and 60 per cent.    The specific rotatory power of the
solution made in the cold does not vary much outside the limits
60° and 70°.
   The solution contains dextrose, dextrin, and albnminoids, the two
latter in nearly equal amounts.    In some solutions in which the
nitrogen dissolved was determined, the specific rotatory power of the
albuminoids was found to be —40°, and it will, probably, not be far
from the truth to take this number as the average specific rotatory
power of the albuminoids.
    Two points are brought out by a consideration of Table III. In
tlie first place the proportion of water used appears to influence con
siderably the amount of solid matter brought into solution.        The
average of the numbers obtained when 100 grms. of hSji were dissolved
in 1,000 cub. centims. is only 27, whilst when the same weight was
dissolved in 2,500 cub. centims. the average was 31 4.    The single
experiments given also bear out this with the exception of No. 18 ;
but in a matter of this nature no reliance can be placed upon isolated
observations.  The second point is that the specific rotatory power of
the solids in solution appears to be mainly influenced by the length of
the digestion, being much higher when the digestion is short than
when it is continued for some time.       The average specific rotatory
power   of the solutions made in eighteen hours was 57° '6 ; after twelve
hours, 64°-6 ; and after three hours, 69°3 ; although the last number
is not fairly comparable with the two former ones, a different propor
tion of water having been used.       The explanation of this fact is
 probably that when the digestion is continued for only a short time,
 a smaller proportion of albuminoids enters into solution than when
 the digestion is long continued.     It is probable, in fact, that the
 albuminoids require  time  to  be  degraded to such a form that they
 are soluble in water.   Hence, when the amount of albuminoids        is
 small, the dextrose and dextrine mainly contribute to the specific
 rotatory power, which            is,
                           therefore, higher.
    In Table IV are given a few results of experiments in which the
 mixture of koji and water was heated fcr different periods.
 rotatory power (which   hare expressed throughout the paper by the symbol
                           I                                                            p)   was
 calculated from the formula —
                                                «
                                          Pi=   —   x   0   242
                                                    2   x   e
 where »   is   the number of divisions read off from the scale,
       0'242     is  the factor for converting scale-divisions into degrees of arc (cane-sugar
                    being taken =73"-8),
                the amount of solid matter in
      i
      is                                          cub. centim. of solution in gra-ns.
                                                    1

                               On the Diastaxe          o/Koji.                                309
Table   IV. — Composition         of the Solution made from              100 grms.       of Koji
                               at Higher Temperatures.
                                      Total Tolume Total solid    Dextrose
                                                                              Specific
          Time and temperature         of solution  matter per per cent, of
 No.                                                                         rotatory
              of digestion. ,         of 100 grms. cent, of kdji total solid
                                                                             power p.
                                         of kSji.      used.       matter.
                                      cub. centims.
   1      2 hours at 50° C. + 18                                                               o
                                                                              68-0
                                      |    1,700             51 8                         68
   2      1 hour at 45° C                  2,000             31 8             84-9         76 1
   3      2 hours at 45° C                 2,000             61 6             68 5         53 5
   4                                       6,000             37 2             66 0         63 2
   5      24 hours at   15°C    + 2
                                      |   10,000             49 2             58 0         73 8
   The percentage of solid matter dissolved out is greater in most of
these experiments than in those conducted at the ordinary temperature.
Experiments 2 and 3 (Table IV) are interesting as they were made at
the same time, with the same specimen of koji, and with the same pro
portion of water, the only difference being in the time of digestion. It
will be useful to compare them with the results of an experiment
made with the same koji at the ordinary temperature of the air.      100
grms. of the koji were digested with the 2,000 cub. centims. of water
at 10° to 12° C. for eighteen hours. The results of the three experi
ments are grouped together in Table V.
                                          Table V.
                                      Total solid                    Dextrose
                                                        Dextrose                     Specific
                                      matter per                    per cent, of
                                        cent, of        per cent,                    rotatory
                                                                    total solid
                                                         of kdji.                    power p.
                                          kdji.                       matter.
        18 hours at 10— 12°    C...       29 2           20-25         69-3           66-3
                                          318            27 00         84-9            76 1
                                          61-6           42-20         68-5            53 -5
   There is not much difference in the amount of solid matter dis
solved out in the two first experiments, but the proportion of dextrose
contained in the second is very much higher than in the first. In the
third, the total solid matter has increased very greatly, but the dextrose
dissolved has not kept pace with                  it,
                                        and forms only the same propor
tion as in the solution  made   in  the cold.  The lower specific rotatory
 power shows, however, that the proportion of the other constituents

310                            Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
has not remained the same. This will be better seen by calculating the
amount of dextrine, albuminoids,                  and dextrose from the specific
rotatory power, assuming that of the albuminoids to be — 40°, an
assumption which, if not quite accurate, will, however, not materially
influence the results.
          Table  VI. — Composition of         the Solid Matter in Solution.*
                                            Dextrose       Dextrin      Albuminoids
                                            per cent.      per ceut.       per cent.
                                              69 -3          n-7             16 0
                                              84 9           12 5             2 6
          2 hours at 45° C                    68 5           10 0            21 5
    It  is evident that the percentage of dextrine is smaller when the
digestion is carried on at a higher temperature, but that relatively t<i
the amount of dextrose it has not altered within the time limits ol
the experiments at 45° C. will be best seen by calculating the amounts
of dextrine and albuminoids per 100 parts of dextrose.
      Table   VII. — Amounts        of Dextrin and Albuminoids per 100 of
                                         Dextrose.
                                                  Dextrin.           Albuminoids.
             11 hours at    10-12° C. ..            21  i                23  1
             $ hour at 45° C                        14 7      ....        3 06
             2 hours at 45° C                       14 6      ....       25 3
The amount of albuminoids dissolved out after half an hour's digestion
at 45° C. is only about one-eighth of the quantity dissolved after two
hours.      This bears out the observations made with respect to the cold
solutions of koji, viz., that the longer the time of digestion the greater
was the amount of albuminoids dissolved.                    It may reasonably be in
ferred from this that the albuminoids, as they exist in koji, are not iu
a soluble form, or not so to any great amount; but by the growth of
the fungus the albuminoids of the rice have been brought into such a
state that they are easily degraded by the action of water and rendered
soluble.
    The action of heat upon the cold water extract is not very marked
   • Calculated thus :—
                    k = grm. of glucose   in 1  grm. solid matter ;
                    x = grm. dextrine ;
                    1 — (x + k) =grm. albuminoids ;
                    p = observed  specific rotatory power.
    f = 216x + 59i — 40{1  —x—   1\,  from which jr, the unknown quantity, is fouud.

                                                     On tlie Diastase                         of Koji.                                                      311
¦except at temperature between 45° C. and 60° C. It then produces a
slight difference in the colour of the liquid, which becomes more red ;
it reduces slightly the specific rotatory power, and increases the
amount of glucose, owing partly to the hydration of the dextrin, and
partly to the precipitation of a portion of the albuminoids, especially
at the higher temperatures, when the liquid always becomes more or
less turbid.   The following series of experiments (Table VIII) was
made by Mr. Y. "Watanabe, Graduate of the University of Tokio, and
shows very clearly the effect of heating for one hour at the specified
temperatures.
     Table      VIII. — Action                       of Heat upon the Cold-water Solution of                                                            Koji.
                       Solid matter in 100                                Dextrose in 100 cub.                                  Specific rotatory
                                cub. centime.                                             centime.                                  power.
                                     Grins.                                                Grins.                                            P-
        Tem
      perature.            ni
                           S
                                           Heated.           Increase.        Unheated.     w 5 $ ¦6           Increase.        Unheated.                   Decrease.
                        t
                           A
                                                                                                                                                              j
                                                                                               OS
                         1
         30°   C. ..    4-88                                             2-97             3-015                045
                                                                                                       0 0 0
         35      ...    4-88                                             2-97             3   062              092
         40      ...    4-89           .
                                       ,                 . .             2-98             3-079                099                 o
                 ...           92     4-98                      06       2-92                 '412      0-492                               70
                       4 4 4
      f45                                              0 0                                                                                        1 0
                                                                                          3                                                             4
         50      ...           95            02                 07       2-79             3-285         0-495               70              67          2-9
                                     5 5
     1
 i       55      ...           92            00         0-08             2-92             3-463         0-543               74              68-9        5    1
      [60        ...   4-95           5-02                      07       2-79             3-30                 510          70              67          2-2
                                                                                                       0 0 0
                                                       0                                                                                          8
         65      ...   4       89                        . .             2-98             3-081                101
         70      ...    4-89                             ••              2-98             3-075                095
   Below 45° C. the increase in the specific gravity was so small that
it  could not be determined with any certainty, and     will be seen that                                                  it
although there     an increase  in
                               is  the amount of dextrose the increase                                                                                                  is
very small. Between 45° and 60° C. the increase in total solid matter
and in glucose, and the diminution in the specific rotatory power, an-
more marked. From the columns showing the increase in solid matter
and glucose,     will be seen that the greatest change occurs at 55° C.
                       it                                                                                                                                               :
and this    borne out by the diminution in the specific rotatory power,
                 is
which is greatest at that temperature. The limits of greatest change
are from 4-5° to 69° C, for either below or above these points there                                                                                                    is
a sudden falling off in the increase of dextrose.
               III. — Action          of         Solution                of   K&ji         'upon some Carbohydrates.
     (1.) Action           of       K&ji Extract upon Cane-sugar. — Extract of koji                                                                             haw
     vol.. XXXII.                                                                                                                           v

312                         Prof. ft. W. Atkinson.
the property of causing      inversion  of a solution of cane-sugar,    as the-
 following experiments will show : —
    T974 grm. of dry cane-sugar was dissolved in          25 cub. centims. of
koji extract, then diluted to 100 cub. centims.        The amount of optical
rotation    was found, by observation, to be 15"8 scale-divisions,    and the-
number calculated was 15-5.        Thus —
       1-974 grm. cane-sugar dissolved     in  100 cub.
          centims. would give rotation                  =12-1 divisions.
      25 cub. centims.    of koji solution   diluted to
          100 cub. centims                              = 3'4      .,
                                                           15-5    „
After being allowed to stand for eighteen hours the rotation was ob
served to have diminished        to 5 scale-divisions,  and the solution con
tained l-67 grm. of glucose.       Deducting 0"36 grm. glucose contained
in 25 cub. centims. of koji solution, the amount formed from the cane-
sugar was 1*31 grm., equivalent to V2445 grm. cane-sugar; and hence
0'7294 grm. of unaltered cane-sugar was present.           We thus find the
calculated number of divisions of rotation to be + 5"43, against
5 divisions    actually observed.
      Unaltered cane-sugar (*7294 grm.) in
          100 cub. centims                         +¦44 scale divisions.
      Koji extract (25 cub. centims. in 100
         cub. centims.)                            +3'4    „       „
      Invert sugar formed       (1*31  grm.   in
          100 cub. centims.)                       —2 37
                                                   + 543
If the calculation be made in degrees of arc, it will be found that the*
specific rotatory power of the solution had diminished from /j=74° to
p=10°.
   The progress of the inversion of the solution of cane-sugar will be
seen from the following observations taken at successive intervals of
time : — A solution of cane-sugar containing 5"41 grms. in 100 cuh.
centims., and giving in a 200 millims. tube an optical rotation of 33' 1
scale-divisions (equal to/>=74°), was employed.          75 cub. centims. of
this solution were mixed with 25 cub. centims. of a solution of koji
which contained 0-365 grm. of solid matter, 0'253 grm. glucose, ami
which gave in a 200 millims. tube an optical rotation of 8 scale-
divisions.     It may be remarked that from these and other experiments
made with the same solution of koji, it was found to be exceptionally
weak in its inverting power.       The observations are as follows, deduc
tion having been made for the koji solution present : —

                           On   the Diuxtase    of Koji.
    At  commencement solution gave rotation=24-8 div.                .'.    />=74'0
    After 1| hour at 15° C                            =237 „         . \ P=70      G
                                                                        ¦
    After 20£ hours at 10—12° C                       =21"0 „        . .    />=626
    After  |  hour longer at 40° C                    =20 0 „        .
                                                                        •
                                                                          . />=60 2
50 cub. centims. of this mixture and 25 cub. centims. of kbji were
heated for a further period.       Corrected for kbji added —
      After  1£ hour at 40° C. rotation          112 divisions     .\     p=50"
                                                                     •
      After  2 hours longer at 45—50°        C.   4-0      „       .   .  P=U-8
It will be seen that the action is very slow at low temperatures, and
even as high as 40° C. it is not very rapid ; but it becomes much more
so between 45° and 50° C, a temperature at which the koji has been
found to be most active in converting starch.
                                                      —
   (2.) Action of K6ji Extract upon Maltose. The Japanese prepare a
kind of sweetmeat by the action of malt-extract upon steamed rice or
millet, and this product, called dine, from the examination of a large
number of specimens, was found to contain from 68 to 94 per cent, of
maltose.*     A quantity of maltose was prepared from this according to
the directions given by Mr. 0'Snllivan,t but the purest product which
could be obtained contained sufficient impurity to reduce the specific
rotatory power from 150" to 144°"5.           For the present purpose it was
unnecessary to use an absolutely pure specimen, so this was employed
without continuing the attempt to purify it completely : —
   100 cub. centims. of a solution of maltose containing l-334 grm. of
solid matter, and the equivalent of 0-855 grm. glucose were mixed
with 100 cub. centims of koji solution containing 3-572 grms. of solids
and 2-14 grms. glucose, and the mixture heated for 2^ hours to 35° to
40° C. The liquid after heating (deduction having been made for the
koji solution present) contained in 100 cub. centims. T374 grm. solid
matter and T348 grm. glucose. It is evident, therefore, that the
solution of maltose had been completely converted into glucose.
   A solution of maltose was prepared containing 2'68 grms. of solid
matter in 100 cub. centims., and which gave in a 200 millims. tube a
rotation of 32-l divisions, corresponding to a specific rotatory power
p=1440-5. 100 cub. centims. of this solution were mixed with 100
cub. centims. of koji extract containing 2- 3 grms. of solid matter, and
giving in a 200 millims. tube an optical rotation of 10'5 scale-divisions.
This mixture was heated to 60° C. for 2^ hours, then cooled and
diluted to 250 cub. centims. at 15° C. It then contained 2-03 grms.
of solid matter in 100 cub. centims., and gave an optical rotation of
11"5 divisions.    Deducting the rotation and amount of solid matter
         * " Transactions of the Asiatic Society of Japan," vol. vii, p. 313.
         t " Journal of the Chemical Society," 1876, [ii], p. 128.
                                                                         Y 2

 314                         Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
 due to the solution of koji, we find as the result of the action upon                the
 maltose —
                                           Before heating.            After heating.
       Total solid matter                   2'68 grms                  2*775 gnus.
       Optical rotation                     32-l divns                  7'3 divns.
       Specific rotatory power,      p .        144°"5        ....        79°-6
 The hydrating action of koji upon maltose is, therefore, very decided.
 The action ceased at 79°-6, probably because the activity of the koji
 was exhausted at that high temperature.                 The following series of ex
 periments shows the progressive reduction in the specific rotatory
 power of the solution when observed at successive intervals of time.
 100 cub. centims. of the same solution of maltose were mixed with
 100 cub. centims. of a freshly prepared extract of kSji, which contained
2"424 grms. of solid matter in solution, and which gave an optical
rotation of 11 divisions in a 200 millims. tube. The mixture of maltose
and IcSji solutions was diluted to 500 cub. centims. at 15° C, and after
standing ten minutes a sample was withdrawn for analysis.                         The re
mainder     was   placed  in  a   water-bath      heated to 45°       C,   and samples
were withdrawn after the lapse of thirty minutes, one hour, and two
hours, by which time all the solution had been used up. The numbers
given are corrected for the koji solution added.
                                      Table     IX.
                                      Total solid
                                                      Optical rotation       Specific
                                    matter in 500
                                                        in 200 millims. rotatory power
               Time.                cub. centims.
                                                       tube (corrected     of maltose
                                    (corrected for         for koji).       products.
                                         koji).
                                         Grms.             Divisions.            0
                                         2 685                6-5            144-5
    After 10 minutes at 15° C. . .       2 826                5 -8           124-2
      „   i hour at 45° C                                     5-3            1111
                                   j     2-886
                                                   |
                                                              4-7
                                                              3-7
                                                                              98-5
                                                                              77 -6
   The action is very regular, as will be seen from Curve A, which ex
presses graphically the above numbers.               There is no evidence at the
end of two hours of the action of the koji extract upon the maltose
having been exhausted, and the fall in the specific rotatory power
would doubtless have continued to 59° if the experiment had been
allowed to continue longer.         The fact that kSji solution thus converts
maltose into dextrose is evidence of the difference of this diastase from
that contained in malt, which, according to the experiments of Brown
and Heron,* has no action upon maltose.                  It is a point of interest to
             *  "Journal of the  Chemical Society," 1879, Trans., p. 648.

                              On the Diastase     of Koji.                  315
  observe that whilst cane-sugar yields invert sugar on liydration, its
. isomer maltose yields only dextrose, a fact which indicates a difference
  in the chemical constitution of the two bodies, arising probably from
  the   union of levulose and dextrose to form an ether in the case of
  cane-sugar, whilst in the case of maltose the ether is formed of two
  molecules of dextrose.
                                      Cubve A.
                           Action of Mji  extract on maltose.
                                           ¦¦¦¦¦
                          L
                       •SO
                                           ¦¦¦ ¦¦
                                           ¦¦¦¦¦
                   8.
                  00
                                           ¦     ¦¦¦¦
                                  Time in hours.   —»
     (3.) Action of Koji Extract upon Dextrin.
                                                        — A specimen of com
  mercial dextrin was used, probably prepared by the action of heat
  upon starch, although its history was not known.            50 cub. centims.
 of a solution of this dextrin containing 2-78 grms. of solid matter,
 and having a specific rotary power, /o=174°, were mixed with 50
 cub. centims. of solution of koji, and the mixture heated for 1^-
 hours at a temperature of 45° C. After heating, the solution con
 tained (deduction having been made for the koji added) 2-86 grms.
solid matter, and possessed a specific rotatory power, />=92°.             The
activity of the koji solution was destroyed, because when an additional
amount of koji solution was added, and the mixture heated for a
longer time, the specific rotatory power of the dextrin products further
diminished to 85°.
    This experiment, which has been confirmed by others, leaves no
doubt that dextrin gradually becomes hydrated under the influence of
the diastase of koji.
    (4.) Action  of   Koji Extract      upon Gelatinised Starch. — When ex
tract of koji is added to thick starch-paste at the ordinary temperature
of the air (i.e., from 15 to 20° C), in about ten minutes the paste
becomes very thin, but the solution does not become transparent.
When, however, the same experiment is made at any temperature

 316                         Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
 between 35° and 55° C, the paste becomes thinly liquid within
 a minute and a half, and is perfectly transparent in from five to
 ten minutes.      These results are obtained with a solution containing in
 500 cub. centims. the soluble matter of 25 grms. of koji; but it varies
 with different samples to some extent, and also with the same sample
 at different periods, the activity becoming less as the sample grows
 older.   If koji solution of greater strength than that mentioned is em
 ployed, the hydrating action upon the maltose takes place so rapidly,
 that its formation may be overlooked.            For a long time, I was under
 the impression that no maltose was formed, and it was only by using
 much weaker solutions of koji, that satisfactory evidence could be
 obtained of its production.
     The following experiments will,        I think, show that the first action
 of the koji extract is to split up the starch molecules into maltose and
 dextrin, and that when the action is continued with a greater quantity
 of the active agent, the maltose is completely hydrated to dextrose,
 whilst if samples be taken at intermediate periods, the solution will be
 found to contain both maltose and dextrose. In this respect, the koji
diastase differs markedly from malt extract, which Brown and Heron
 have shown to possess no action upon maltose. It resembles, however,
the diastatic ferment of the pancreas, which the same observers,* con
 firming the work of Musculus and De Mering,t have shown to effect the
 hydration of the maltose first formed.
    The mode of analysis followed was essentially the same as that
described in detail by Brown and Heron.              J I   will give in full the
results of one experiment to illustrate the method.
    A koji solution was prepared by digesting for a short time 25 grms.
of a freshly prepared sample of koji in about 100 cub. centims. of water.
The liquid was then filtered, the residue digested with a fresh quantity
of water, and the whole thrown upon the filter and washed, until the
filtrate amounted nearly to 500 cub. centims.            The solution was then
diluted exactly to 500 cub. centims. at 16° C. The filtration occupied
three or four hours, even with the assistance of a filter-pump, on
account of the slimy nature of the insoluble matter.             The solution so
made contained in 100 cub. centims. 1'46 grm. of solid matter, calcu
lated from the specific gravity (using the divisor 3'86) ; 1-0125 grm. of
glucose, and caused an optical rotation of eight divisions in a 200 millims.
tube.   This gives   a specific rotatory power,
                                                    p=JL?L?-J^L=660"3.
    5 grms. of starch, previously dried at 100° C, were gelatinised with
about 75 cub. centims. of water, the paste allowed to cool to 40° C,
then mixed with 25 cub. centims. of the koji solution, and left for
           * " Chemical News," xlii, p. 63.
          t " Bull. Soc. Chim.," xxxi, 105.
          J  " Journal of the Chemical Society," 1879, Trans.,
                                                               pp. 600, &c.

                              On the Diastase        of Koji.                  317
twenty-five minutes, till it was quite clear. It was then rapidly heated
to boiling, cooled, and diluted to 250 cub. centims.
   100 cub. centims. of this solution, after filtration, contained 2"15
grms. of solid matter, and 0*63 grm. glucose, determined by weighing
the cnpric oxide after ignition. The optical rotation in a 200 millims.
tube was 32-4 scale-divisions.     As the koji solutions contained in
250 cubic centims. was 25 cub. centims. (that                   is,
                                                        one-tenth of the
whole), we must deduct the weight of solid matter and glucose con
tained in 10 cub. centims. of the koji extract from the weights above
found in 100 cub. centims. of the liquid. The optical rotation must
likewise be diminished by one-tenth the amount caused by the koji
solution alone. We thus get —
Solids     in   100    cub.   centims.
   formed from starch                       2*15 —0'146= 2-004 grms.
Olncose (or its equivalent)                 0 63— 0101=    529 „0
Optical rotation                      '.   32-4 —0-8   =31     scale-divisions.
                                                                '6
From which the observed specific rotatory power —
                              r   31-6x0-242^^.3
                                  2   x 0-02004
  The percentage         composition       calculated   from the cupric oxide re-
¦dncing power     is
                        Maltose                            43-28
                        Dextrin                            5672
                                                          100-00
which requires />=187°-4, taking maltose =150°, and dextrin 216°.
 The agreement between the observed and specific rotatory powers                is
sufficiently close to show that maltose and dextrin are produced.    It
may    be  remarked,   in passing, that Brown and Heron's equation,
 No.  4,requires maltose =41-3 per cent., and f>=188°'7.
  5   grms. of starch were gelatinised, and, after cooling to 40° C,
mixed with 25 cub. centims. of the same koji extract, and kept at
 that temperature for three-quarters of an hour.         An additional
.25 cub. centims. of koji was then added, and the whole allowed     to
remain at 40° C. for a quarter of an hour longer, then boiled and
diluted to 250 cub. centims. After filtration, the solution contained,
deduction having been made as before for the koji) —
      Solid matter                          2-035 grms. in 100 cub. centims.
      Glucose (or equivalent). .            0-8882         „        „
      Optical rotation                     285     scale-divisions.
                              .:p   (obs.)=169°-5.

318                       Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
   The percentage composition,     calculated as before, is
                     Maltose                        7154
                     Dextrin                        28 46
                                                   100-00
and calculated the specific rotatory power is />=168°-8.
   With a solution prepared from different kSji, using 50 cub. centims.
containing -603 grm. of solid matter, the following results were
obtained from 5 grms. of gelatinised starch kept for two hours at 10c
to 15° C.
                     Maltose                        70-00
                     Dextrin                        3000
                                                   100 00
                     p (observed)                =174°-0
                     p (calculated)             = 169°-8
   The two last results correspond     with Brown and Heron's equation
No. 7.
              lOC^HapOio + 7H30 = 7C12H33On + SCUHgAo,
which requires   70-9 per cent, maltose, and p=169°'2.
   An example may now       be given of  a solution  containing both maltose
and dextrose.
   5 grms. of gelatinised starch were mixed with 56 cub. centims. of
koji extract, the same as in the last experiment, and allowed to stand
at a temperature of from 10° to 15° C. for twenty-four hours.          After
diluting to 250 cub. centims., and making deductions             for the koji
added, the composition of the solid matter was—
                  Maltose                    52'8 per cent.
                  Dextrose                   2379      „
                  Dextrin                    23-41     „
                                            100-00     „
                   P (observed)                   =143°-8
                   P  (calculated)                =143°-8.
   It may be observed, that the number of molecules of each body pre
 sent is very nearly the same — a mixture of one molecule of maltose,
 one of dextrose, and one of dextrin, requiring
                  Maltose                   50'00 per cent.
                  Dextrose                  2630        „
                  Dextrin                   23-70
                                           100-00
 and p=141°-7.

                          On the Diastase  of Koji.                     31&
    From the experiments described in an earlier part of this paper,
which showed that the extract of koji caused the hydration of maltose,
it might at once be accepted as a fact that longer digestion of the
starch products with the koji solution would result in the complete
removal of the maltose, only dextrose and dextrin remaining, the latter
being much more slowly hydrated than maltose. We cannot, indeed,
expect any indications of definite chemical reactions occurring, because
they would be disguised by the simultaneous hydration of the maltose
and dextrin.
   The following experiments illustrate the complete removal of the
maltose.    20 grms. of dry starch gelatinised     and 200 cub. centims.
of a solution of koji were diluted to one litre and heated at 40" C.
for six hours, then allowed to stand for twenty hours at 15°C. The
solution contained in 100 cub. centims. (deduction having been made
for the koji used) 1"96 grm. of solid matter and 1'68 grm. of glucose,
and caused a rotation of 12-8 scale-divisions.     This gives a percentage
composition   for the solid matter —
                  Dextrose                 85 "7 per cent.
                  Dextrin                  14*3      „
                                        100-00
                    P (observed)                 =79°
                    P (calculated)               =81°-4
4 grms.   of gelatinised starch and 96 cub. centims. of koji solution
were heated to 35° C. for 3£ hours, then evaporated to about 200 cub.
centims., and diluted to ^ litre.    The composition of the starch pro
ducts in solution was  —
                  Dextrose               86-00 per cent.
                  Dextrin                14-00       „
                                        100 00
                    p (observed)                  =85°7
                    p (calculated)               =81°
   Without attaching much importance to the fact, it may be noticed
that in the last two experiments the molecular ratio is about six of
dextrose to one of dextrin ; a mixture which would give —
                  Dextrose                   87 per cent.
                  Dextrin                    13      „
                                           100
and p= 79°"4.
   Having thus shown the nature of the reaction which occurs between
starch-paste and the diastase of koji, some     experiments   will next  be

320                         Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
described which     will show the rapidity of the action at different tem
peratures   and  with  differing proportions of koji and starch.       The first
series of experiments was carried out at the ordinary temperature of
the air, which at the time varied between 4° and 10° C.               450 cub.
centim8. of starch-paste containing 11 -43 grms. of dry starch were
mixed with 50 cub. centims. of koji extract containing l-786 grms.
of solid matter.    The mixture was allowed to stand at this tempera
ture (4 — 10°   C.) with an occasional shaking, and samples were with
drawn at the specified times. After making deductions for the k&ji
the amount of the starch products was found to be as follows : —
         Table X.— Action of K&ji Extract         on Starch at 4— 10°C.
                     10 grms. starch to 8'75 grms. koji.
                                        Weight of
                         Dry starch                  Total starch
                                                                  Specific
                                        k6ji used
                           in 500                                 rotatory
                                       to form the    products.
                       cub. centime.                                power.
                                         extract.
                           Grms.          Grms.         Grms.
                           11   43          10           9-714     109°6
       120  „                 ¦i                         9-904     100 -2
       192  „                 >»             »          10 369      90-4
      240                     »                         10 -450     80-4
   The course of this reaction is represented graphically in Curve B.
The action, comparatively rapid at first, goes on slowly but con-
                                     Ctravs B.
                    Action of koji extract on starch at 4' — 10".
                                   Time in hours.

                           On the Diastase        of Koji.
tinuously to the end of the experiment, which lasted ten days. The
liqnid remained quite clear to the end, the temperature being too low
for the development of organic life. In a second series of experi
ments conducted at the same temperature, with different proportions
of starch and koji, corresponding results were obtained.
        Table   XI.— Action      of Koji Extract     on  Starch at   4-10° C.
                      10 grms. starch to 40 grms. h6ji.
                        Dry starch      Weight of                       Specific
                                                        Total starch
           Time.          in 500         Hji  used,
                                                         products.
                                                                       rotatory
                      cub. centime.      as extract.                    power.
                          Grms.            Grms.           Grms.
        68 hours           5 08              20            4-638        100°4
       164   „               >t               u            4-816         75 3
   The influence of a larger proportion of JeSfi is seen in these experi
ments, for whereas in the first series 8-75 grms. of k6ji were used to
10 grams of starch, in the second series the weight of koji was
40 grms. to the same weight of starch.                  It will be seen that in
164 hoars the larger proportion of koji used has effected a reduction
in the specific rotatory power greater than in 240 hours, with the
smaller proportion, but the rapidity of change does not seem to be
proportional to the quantity of koji used.
   The next two series were carried out in exactly the same way, but
the temperature of the air varied between 10° and 15° C.
      Table    XII.— Action      of Koji Extract on Starch at 10—15° C.
                      10 grms. starch to 10 grms.           koji.
                        Dry starch      Weight of                       Specific
                                                        Total starch
           Time.          in 500         koji used,                    rotatory
                                                         products.
                       cub. centims.     as extract.                    power.
                          Grms.            Grms.           Grms.
                             10              10            10 -61       172°8
                              n              a             10 -45       158
      2U                      ii              a            10 56        131
      26                      it              a            10-65        120 4
                              it              a            10-51        110 5
   The next series was conducted exactly as the one just described,
 but samples were not taken until 48 hours after the first hour.

 322                        Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
       Table XIII.— Action      of Koji Extract on Starch at 10—15° C.
                      10 grms. Btarch to 10 grms. Ic6ji.
                        Dry starch       Weight of                  Specific
                                                     Total starch
           Time.           in 500        k&ji used,                rotatory
                                                      products.
                       cub. centime.     as extract.                power.
                          Grms.            Grms.        Grms.
                             10              10         9 705       193°
                              »>             »          9 925       112
       72                     »                         9 925       102-7
    The results of these experiments are shown graphically in Curves-
 C and D. In the last series, Table XIII, at the end of 72 hours the
 reduction in the specific rotatory power is not much greater than in
 the previous experiments after 48 hours, although to all appearance
 the conditions were identical.        But it is probable that different por
 tions even of the same lot of kSji differ somewhat in activity. Another
 possible cause of difference is suggested by Curve C. The inclination
 of that curve between 21^ hours and 26 hours is much greater than
                                 CtTEVES   C and D.
                  Action of hdji extract on starch at 10°— 15° C.
                                   Time in hours.
the average inclination after the first rapid fall is over.       This was un
doubtedly due to the temperature between these two observations
having been higher than the average taken over the whole time.
During the greater part of the time the temperature was not higher
than 10° C, except in the middle of the day, when it stood about
15° C.    The two observations at 2\\ hours and 26 hours were made

                               On    the      Diastase        of Koji.                            323
"in the middle   of the day, and thus the more rapid action is explained.
 In   the same   way, the average temperature during the series first
 mentioned may have been more nearly 15° C. than during the last
 series, although I do not know this to have been so.         It      at any              is,
 rate, a possible cause of difference.
    No certain conclusions can,       think, be drawn as to the reaction
                                              I
 being expressed by any definite chemical equation there          at first in
                                                                           ;         is
 all cases a very rapid fall; and, in Curve         the specific rotatory
                                                                     C
 power, after twenty minutes, nearly agrees with that required by Brown
 and Heron's equation No.         before alluded to
                                         7,          but, after this, the
                                                                       ;
absorption of water by the maltose would make the curve very regular,
and   it would show no breaks in its continuity.
    The two following series of experiments were conducted at a tem
 perature of 40° C, the flask containing the mixture being immersed in
 a water-bath kept at that temperature, and samples were taken at
certain intervals of time. The solution used for determining the total
solid matter from its specific gravity was rapidly cooled by means of
ice, and the other portion in which the specific rotatory power was to
be determined was poured into a dry flask containing        little salicylic     a
acid, as recommended by Brown and Heron, and also rapidly cooled.
Deduction was made for the amount of koji solution added, as in the
previous experiments.     The two series of experiments differ only in
the relative proportions of koji and starch used — that in the first
series being   5grms. of koji to 10 grms. of starch   and, in the second,;
10 grms. of koji to the same weight of starch.
      Table   XIV.— Action of Koji Extract                      upon Starch at 40° C.
                     10 grms. of starch to           5        grms. of koji.
                              Dry starch          Weight of                            Specific
                                                                     Total starch
           Time.                in 500            hdji    used,                       rotatory
                                                                      products.
                             cub. centims.        as extract.                          power.
                                 Grms.              Grms.                Grms.              a
                                  10                  5                  10 08            167
                                    tt                   n               10-08            127
  +   92 hours at 15° C. .          tt                   tt              10 26            106

324                         Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
        Table  XV.— Action       of  Koji Extract upon Starch at           40°  C.
                   10 grms.    of starch    to 10 grms. of koji.
                            Dry starch       Weight of       Total starch
                                                                               Specific
                               in 500         JcSji used,                     rotatory-
                           cub. centims.     as extract.
                                                              products.
                                                                               power.
                               Grins.           Grms.           Grms.
                                 10                10                           143 1
   1                              II               it            9  64          127
                                                                 9  64          115
   3                              II                ii           9 -66          105
   41                             II                             9  67           88
   6    ,                         »                              9-69            86
    + 20 hours at 15° C. .                         It            9 79            80
   The preceding results are represented graphically by Curves E and F.
The influence of a greater proportion of the koji solution will again be
noticed in the much greater fall in specific rotatory power in a given
time ; and further, that in neither of these curves is any very sudden
bending to be observed.          The inclination of the curve during the first
half an hour is certainly greater than it is afterwards ; but, although
in neither case has the activity of the diastase been destroyed, the
bending does not occur at the same specific rotatory power.                       This is
doubtless owing to the action of the diastase upon the maltose first
formed, which at this temperature is rapidly hydrated to dextrose.
The hydration is more rapid in the case of the experiments repre
sented by Curve F, although in other respects the two curves show a
remarkable    similarity.
                                    Curves E and F.
                      Action of hdji extract on starch    at 40°  C.
                                     Time in hours.
   The next table gives the results of an experiment                    carried    ont at

                               On the Diastase       of Koji.                           325>
45°  C,     10 grms.    of dry starch, and the extract of             10 grins, of      koji
being contained in 500 cub. centims.
          Table   XVI.— Action        of  Koji Extract on Starch at       45° C.
                      10 grms.    of starch to    10 grms.   of kSji.
                                Dry starch     Weight of     Total starch
                                                                               Specific
                                  in 500        koji  used,                    rotatory
                                                              products.
                              cub. centims.    as extract.                       power.
                                   Grins.         Grms.         Grms.
   _
                                    10              10           9-48
   25     ,                          *'                          9 93           128 3
                                                     n           9-93           lOfi
   n                                 m               ¦»                         103 6
                                                     •t          9-98           103
   3    „                                                        9-98             98 3
   4    ,                                            >»                           98 3
   Fresh koji added.
                                     »»              ii         10 18             88
   These results are represented graphically by Curve G. The fall is
very rapid for the first five minutes, until a specific rotatory power of
 142°'6 is attained, then the curve follows an almost straight line till
one hour has elapsed, a specific rotatory power, />=106J being attained.
After this it follows an almost horizontal path until a fresh addition
of koji extract was made, when it again falls, the inclination being
almost the same as between five minutes and one hour.                       This shows
that   the     cessation at 106° was due to the exhaustion of the koji
extract, an d not to the existence of any definite chemical equation
corresponding to />=106°.
                                          Curve G.
                         Action of koji extract on starch at 45° 0.
             (The thick vertical line indicates fresh addition of kdji solution.)
                                        Time in hours.

326                           Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
   The last series     I   shall give contains experiments made at a tem
perature    of 60°  C,   the  proportions of starch and koji being the same
as in the last series.
      Table    XVII.— Action        of  K6ji Extract upon Starch at          60°  C.
                    10 grms.     of starch to      10 grms.    of koji.
                              Dry starch       Weight of                       Specific
                                                               Total starch
           Time.                in 500          leSji used,                    rotatory
                                                                products.
                             cub. centims.     as extract.                      power.
                                 Grms.            Grms.           Grms.
                                   10                10            9-70         182°1
   15    „                          „                 M              »l         180 2
   30    „                                            n              t|         168
                                                                     If         168
   H                                                  n              II         164 6
   If „ Fresh   Uji added         10 02              20              l»
                                                      n           10 19         145  8
  2t „                                                i»             if         131  8
  3   „                                                              ii         128  2
  3t „                                                n                         131  8
  4   ,                                               i»             t»         131  8
  Curve     H   represents these results in a graphic manner.                        It is
probable that the result given for fifteen minutes is incorrect ; there
appears to be no good reason for the curve deviating from the expected
course as    it  does.    After     the lapse       of   thirty minutes     the   specific
                                         CTjEVB   H.
                     Action of koji extract upon starch at 60° C.
        (The thick vertical line indicates the addition of fresh koji solution.)
                                      Time in houra.

                           On the Diastase  of Koji.                  327
 rotatory power remains practically stationary at 164—168° for 1| hour,
 then, when a fresh addition of the koji extract was made, the curve
 rapidly falls to 131°"8, at which point it again remains fixed, if we
 assume, as is probable, that the result at three hours is erroneous.
 The first stoppage, and doubtless also the second, was caused by the
 exhaustion of the activity of the koji, and not to the decomposition of
 the starch at that point according to any definite chemical equation,
 because the action goes on immediately after the addition of a fresh
 quantity of diastase, and ceases after about the same time.
    At 60° C, therefore, the activity of the diastase is very quickly
 destroyed, and at 70° C. the action is so small that no satisfactory
 determinations    could be made.   The extract of 10 grms. of koji, pre
 viously  heated  to 70°  C, was added to starch-paste containing 2 grms.
 of dry starch. After fifteen minutes the solution diluted to 250 cub.
 centims. only contained 0'40 grm. of solid matter, and caused a
 scarcely perceptible rotation of the ray of polarised light.     We may,
 therefore, conclude that at some point between 60° and 70° C, the
 diastase of koji is destroyed.
    The experiments described do not allow us to conclude that the
 starch molecnle breaks up in a definite manner under the influence of
 koji diastase, as appears to be the case with the starch molecule under
 the influence of malt diastase (O'Sullivan, Brown and Heron,
Ac.), but they do not contradict the supposition, and the results are
just such as might be expected, knowing the comparatively energetic
 action which the koji solution has upon dextrin, and especially upon
 maltose.
    The diastase of koji resembles that of malt in one respect, that its
activity is lessened by the presence of certain bodies, such as common
salt. In preparation for an investigation into the chemistry of the
" Soy " manufacture, Mr. Watanabe made some experiments upon the
influence of varying amounts of common salt upon the activity of the
k/jji solution. In each experiment 5 grms. of dry starch were gela
tinised, and when cold the given amount of common salt was added.
The whole occupied about ] 50 cub. centims. The required amount of
koji extract was then added and the mixture left for one hour.         At
the end of that time the solution was diluted to 250 cub. centims. and
filtered. The results give the cupric oxide reducing power of the
solid matter in solution, and the specific rotatory power, both
corrected for the salt and koji extract previously added.
    VOL. XXXII                                                  7.

328                          Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
Table   XVIII. — Action        of Koji Extract upon Gelatinised Starch in
                            presence of Common Salt.
           Common salt used          Cupric oxide        Specific rotatory
           per cent, of starch.    reducing power.            power.
                      0                  30  8               17» 8
                    10                   28  6                179 3
                    30                   26  1                182-6
                    50                   23 -8                187 6
                    75                   20-9                 190-3
                   100                   20 1                 189-1
                   150                   19 1                 190 -2
                   200                   18 0                 192-2
                   300                   16-9                 194 1
                   500                   14 -4                197-5
    The diminution in the cupric oxide reducing power, and the in
crease in the specific rotatory power, corresponding with an increased
proportion of salt present, are so marked and so uniform that no
further remarks are needed.
   No other observations have, to my knowledge, been made upon the
effect of moulds in transforming starch into sugar, although M. Gayon
(" Compt. Rendus," torn. 80, p. 52) has shown that cane-sugar is in
verted by certain fungi, such as Pénicillium glaucum and Aspergillus
niger.
    M. Pasteur, in his interesting work on " Beer,"* has drawn atten
tion to the possible employment of moulds in industry on account of
the powèr they possess of destroying organic matter.                      He says : —
" Un jour viendra cependant, j'en suis persuadé, où les moisissures
interviendront dans certaines opérations de l'industrie par leur pro
 priétés de destruction de la matière organique."               And in a note, "Je
 montrerai un jour que les combustions dues aux moisissures provo
 quent   dans certaines      putréfactions     des   dégagements considérables
 d'ammoniaque,      et    qu'en réglant     leur   action   on pourrait les faire
 servir à retirer, sous cette forme, l'azote d'une foule de débris orga
 niques, commo aussi, en empêchant la production de ces petites plantes,
 on pourrait accroître beaucoup la proportion des nitrates dans les
 nitrières artificielles.     En entretenant humides des morceaux de pain
 dans un courant d'air et cultivant à sa surface diverses sortes de
 moisissures, j'ai pu faire dégager des torrents d'ammoniaque à la
 suite de la combustion par ces mêmes moisissures des matières hydro
  carbonées.    La putréfaction des asperges et celle de beaucoup d'autres
  substances animales ou végétales m'ont donné des résultats ana-
               •  " Etudes sur la Bière,"           Also note on p. 251.
                                           p. 253.

                           On the Diastase    of Koji.                      329
logues."    The industrial employment of fungi under consideration is
an illustration of this, for, although the organic matter of the rice is
not completely destroyed it is removed to some extent in the form of
carbonic acid, and the albuminoids, though not converted into am
monia, are undoubtedly degraded, and brought into such a form that
they can be dissolved out in great measure by water. It is doubtless
to the presence of albuminoids in this form that koji owes its re
markable action upon gelatinised starch.
     IV. — Change    which the Bice Grain      Undergoes     by  the Growth
                                 of the Fungus.
   What is the nature of the change which occurs in the conversion of
rice into koji ? As the grains have been exposed for a period of four
or five hours to the vapour of boiling water, and further, as the
embryo has been completely removed, it cannot be of the nature of
germination. The use of the fungus-spores and the growth of the
mycelium indicate that the alteration in properties is connected with
the growth of the mould, and it is probably of a similar character to
that described by Brown and Heron, which takes place in a solution
of barley under the influence of the yeast cell.                They say : " An
aqueous extract of barley, which is submitted for a few hours at a
temperature of 30° C. to the action of ordinary yeast has its power of
transforming starch much increased by this treatment
It is evident, that the growing yeast cell is capable of inducing certain
 modifications in the albuminoids which, during the ordinary process
of germination, are brought about by the action of the living vegetable
cell itself."*
   In this case we may suppose that the yeast cell in absorbing nitro
genous food, does so by attacking the insoluble albuminoids contained
in the barley, and having taken what it requires, leaves the rest behind
in a degraded state, in such a form that water easily dissolves it. In
the formation of koji, we may assume that something of the same sort
 occurs, the growing fungus attacks the insoluble albuminoids of the
rice, and in proportion as they are brought into a soluble state, so does
 the diastatic property of the rice increase. The principal aliment of
 the fungus is, doubtless, the starch granule, and this will be found to
 be the case on examining the grain microscopically.            The outer layers
 of the koji grain are loose; the mycelium penetrates between the cells
 everywhere, but in the centre the cells are horny, and no starch
 granules are to be distinguished.
    The chemical change which takes place may be seen by comparing
 the analysis of rice with that of koji. The rice, before the removal
 of the thin skin, has been examined by a number of chemists, and as
             • "Journal of the Chemical Society," Trans., p. 653, 1879.

   330                       Prof. R. W. Atkinson.
   all the analyses very nearly agree, the grain may be considered not to
   vary very much in composition.              The following is one of many
   analyses made in this laboratory, of the rice newly grown.
                     Analysis of Husked Rite Dried at       100°   C.
           Starch, including sugar and dextrin        . .   83-20 per cent.
           Fat                                               1-21
           Albuminoids                                        8' 10      „
           Cellulose (by difference)                         6'58        „
           Ash                                               091
                                                          100-00
                     Water in original grain, 11'96 per cent.
      The outer cells, which are removed during the cleaning, are much
  richer in nitrogen than the rest of the grain. A sample analysed in
  the University Laboratory, contained 16' 7 per cent, of albuminoids
  calculated on the dried substance, and other observers have found
 from    15 to 16'4 per cent.    It  therefore    contains about twice as much
 as the average of the whole husked            grain, which must be rendered
 proportionately poorer by its removal.          In one sample of the cleaned
 rice used in making kdji, the amount of albuminoids calculated on the
 dried grain was found to be 6'47 per cent.
      The following is a complete analysis of Jcoji ; unfortunately I have
 not the analysis of the rice from which it was made to compare with
 it.
                       Composition  o/Kdji Dried     at 100° C.
 Soluble in water=37'76 per cent.        : —
             Dextrose                              25-02 per cent.
             Dextrin (by difference)                 3"88        „
             Soluble ash                             0"52
             Soluble albuminoids                     8-34
                                                          1  Total albuminoid   s
 Insoluble in water=6224 per cent.          :—             >
                                                                           cent
                                                                        er CCU
                                                                      P61"
             Insoluble albuminoids                   1'50J
             Insoluble ash                          0 09 per cent.
            Fat                                     0-45
             Cellulose                              420
             Starch (by difference)                ob' OO       „
                                                  10000
                       Water in fresh kdji, 25'82 per cent.
     The chief point which a comparison of these analyses brings out,
is the large proportion of the total albuminoids which is dissolved by

                           On    the     Diastase      of Koji.                         33]
 water from koji. Referring always to the material dried at 100° C,
the total albuminoids in koji amount to 9'84 per cent., whilst 8-34 per
cent, was found in solution.      In the case of rice, the amount of
albuminoids    dissolved by water is very small ; in one specimen of
cleaned rice examined, it was 1'38 per cent., the total albuminoids
amounting to 6'47 per cent. It is evident, therefore, that one change
effected by the growth of the fungus is to increase the proportion of
soluble nitrogen.
   If the total amount of albuminoids in koji be compared with the
amount in rice, it will be seen that it is greater in the former than in
the latter, evidence of the removal of the carbohydrates, alluded to in
Section I.
   The broken grains which result from the cleaning of the common
rice are also converted into koji. As the bran is mixed with the
broken grains, the whole contains a larger proportion of albuminoids
than the original rice.     The following analyses were made of the
broken grains, and of the koji formed from them. In both cases the
results are given upon the material dried at 100° C.
   Table   XIX. — Composition           of   Koji prepared from Broken Grains.
                      Soluble solid                                          Insoluble
                                              Dextrose.
                         matter.                            albuminoids.   albuminoids.
                          Per   cent.         Per   cent.    Per   cent.    Per cent.
                            5 04                                  1-47        7 33
                          25 90                 12 80             7-08
   The amount of solid matter dissolved from the koji is just about
five times as much as that dissolved from the rice, and the soluble
albuminoids have increased in nearly the same proportion.
   Beyond the recognition of this alteration in the solubility of the
albuminoids, and the related increase in the amount of solid matter
dissolved,   I
            have been able to come to no definite conclusion.     hope,            I
however, to have the opportunity of examining more in detail the
nature of the individual albuminoids present in koji, but thus far,
that is a part of the problem I have not touched.        It     indeed,      is,
generally believed, that the converting effect of diastase    owing to      is
the existence of certain albuminoids in solution, and the results
obtained in this research go to show that the active properties of koji
are accompanied by the presence of soluble albuminoids, but to go
beyond this, and to show how, by the growth of the fungus, this
change  is effected, is   aproblem which, however interesting, lies
beyond my power.
   Having drawn attention to the fact that a particular fungus has
  VOL. XXXII.
                                                                           2
                                                                           A

332                         Election of Fellows.                   [June 3r
 this power of rendering the rice grain diastatic, an effect which has
hitherto been attributed only to the germination of the embryo, the
question whether the effect is a general one or not, must be left to
professed vegetable physiologists.
   In conclusion, the pleasant task remains to me of expressing my
obligations, and offering my thanks to Hiroyuki Kato, Esq., President
of the University of T&kid, who has rendered my task a comparatively
easy one, by the assistance he has given me in various ways.              To
Mr. Jihei Kameyama also, the proprietor of the koji manufactory in
                   I
Yushima, T6ki6, am deeply indebted for the willingness with which
 I have been allowed to make experiments, and to collect information
 in his works.   I wish also to thank my assistant, Mr. Nakazawa, for
 the interest he has taken in the research, and for much assistance
        I
which have received from him.
                               June  3, 1881.
    The Annual Meeting for the Election of Fellows was held this day.
                     THE PRESIDENT in            the Chair.
    The Statutes relating to the election of Fellows having been read,.
 Sir Joseph Fayrer and Mr. J. W. Hulke were, with the consent of the
 Society, nominated Scrutators to assist the Secretaries in examining
the lists.
    The votes of the Fellows present were then collected, and the fol
 lowing candidates were declared duly elected into the Society.
Ayrton, Prof. William Edward.           McLeod,     Prof.   Herbert,  F.I.C.,
Bates, Henry Walter.                       F.C.S.
Bristowe,    John     Syer,    M.D.,    Phillips, John Arthur.
   F.R.C.P.                             Preece, William Henry, C.E.
Christie, William Henry Mahoney,        Samuelson, Bernhard, M.I. C.E.
   M.A., Sec. R.A.S.                    Stoney,     Bindon Blood, M.A.,
Dickie, Prof. George, A.M., M.D.,          M.I.C.E.
   F.L.S.                               Traquair, Ramsay H., M.D.
Kempe, Alfred Bray, B.A.                Watson, Rev. Henry William.
Macalister, Prof. Alexander, M.D.,       M.A.
   Sec.  R.LA.                          Wright, Charles R. Alder, D.Sc.
    Thanks were given to the Scrutators.

  1881.]    On the Poisons    of certain Indian     Venomous Snakes.     333
                                 June  16, 1881.
                     THE PRESIDENT in             the Chair.
    The Presents    received were laid on the table, and thanks      ordered
 for them.
    Professor William Edward Ayrton, Mr. Henry Walter Bates,
 Dr. John Syer Bristowe, Mr. William Henry Mahoney Christie, Pro
 fessor Herbert McLeod, Mr. John Arthur Phillips, Mr. William Henry
 Preece, Rev. Henry William Watson, and Dr. Charles R. Alder
 Wright were admitted into the Society.
    The following Papers were read : —
    I. " On the Differences in the Physiological Effects produced
       by the Poisons of certain species of Indian Venomous
       Snakes."      By A. J. Wall, M.D. (Lond.), Surgeon H.M.
       Indian Army.         Communicated by Sir JOSEPH FAYRER,
       M.D., K.C.S.I., F.R.S.       Received May 2, 1881.
    Hitherto no clear distinction has been recognised to exist between the
actions of the poisons of the various species of venomous reptiles.        It
will be the object of this paper to examine closely the symptoms produced
by these poisons in order to detect any differences that may be present,
and to see if the poisonous agents can be classified according to their
physiological effects. As poisonous reptiles admit of a simple anato
mical classification into colubrine and viperine, one member of each
group will be taken. It will be convenient to begin with the cobra,
which is one of the most virulent and best known of colubrine
venomous snakes.
       I. — The Physiological  Effects of the Poison of the Cobra (Naja
                                  Tripudians)   .
   In  order to exhibit the effect of this venom, it will be necessary to
detail the results that follow when animals of different classes have
been poisoned by this snake.
                                Experiment    I.
   At   10.46 a.m., a pariah dog was bitten in the thigh by a cobra.
   II. 14 a.m.   Very lame in the bitten limb.
                                                               2 A 2

 334                           Dr. A.   J.  Wall.     On the             [June  16,
     11.27   a.m.    Affected by the poison. Staggers when he attempts to
 walk. Chewing movement of the jaw and lips.
     11.28 a.m.      Salivation.
     11.30 a.m. Pupils somewhat small.
    11.31 a.m. Attempting to vomit.
     11.35 a.m. Respiration becoming slower.
     11.37 a.m.      Respirations 16 per minute.
     11.38 a.m.      Copious salivation.
    11.39 a.m. Respirations fallen to 12 per minute.
    11.42 a.m. Tongue hanging out of the mouth.
    11.43 to 11.46.        Convulsions.
    11.47-^ a.m.      Respiration completely ceased.         Pupils dilating.
    11.49 a.m.       Heart stopped.       Dead.
                                      Experiment   II.
    A  fine large cock had        2   mgrms. of dried cobra poison in solution
injected into its leg.
    3.13 p.m.      Injection.
    3.20  p.m.     Respirations 30 per minute.
    3.38  p.m.    Head drooping as if the neck were too weak to support
It ; but from time to time the head is raised with a jerk.
    3.41 p.m.     Respirations 25 ; can barely stand.
    3.48 p.m.     Respiratory movement very slight.
    3.50 p.m.     Cannot stand.
    3.55  p.m.    Respirations 19 ; pupils somewhat contracted.
    4.3 p.m.     Respirations 16 ; movement exaggerated.
   4.5 p.m.      Comb has become of a dusky purple colour ; slight con
vulsive movements of the body.
   4.9 p.m.      Respirations 9.
   4.17 p.m.      Convulsions.
   4.20 to 4.22 p.m.         Convulsions continuing, but gradually becoming
less violent.
   4'25 p.m.      Pupils widely dilated.       Dead.
                                  Experiment    III.
   A   medium-sized        frog (Rana tigrina) had 5 c grins, of dried cobra
poison    dissolved    in  water,  injected into its dorsal sac : —
   12.42    p.m.    Injection.
   1.23   p.m.    Struggling violently to      escape.
   1.40   p.m.    Becoming     paralysed.
   1.53 p.m.      Dead.
   In these three experiments the effects of cobra poison on mammals,
birds, and amphibia, are well shown.              But as the symptoms in man,
owing     to   the   differences    in his  nervous    system, are peculiar, it is
requisite to give an outline of the results of cobra poisoning in his

  1881.]        Poisons of certain Indian    Venomous Snakes.           335
 case.    The one selected is condensed from Dr. Hilson's account
  ("Indian Medical Gazette," October, 1873).
     A punkah coolie was bitten by a cobra on the right shoulder about
 half-past 12 o'clock at night. He immediately felt an acute burning
 pain on the spot, which increased in severity.       A quarter of an hour
 afterwards he said he was beginning to feel intoxicated, but seemed
 quite rational, and answered questions intelligently. The pupils were
 natural, the pulse normal, and the respiration was easy. He next
  began to lose power in his legs, and staggered.       Half an hour after
  he was bitten his lower jaw began    to fall, and frothy and viscid saliva
 to run from his mouth, and he spoke indistinctly, like a man under
 the influence of liquor, and the paralysis of the legs increased. Forty
 minutes after the bite he began to moan and shake his head from
 side to side, and the pulse and respiration were somewhat accelerated.
    He was unable to answer questions, but appeared to be quite con
 scious, and his arms were not paralysed.       The breathing then became
 slower and   slower, and finally ceased  about  one hour and ten minutes
 after the bite, the heart beating for about one minute longer.
     From these cases, and from the evidence given by other experi
 ments, we can draw up a summary of the chief facts to be noticed
 during cobra poisoning.       The first manifestation of cobra poison
 having been injected beneath the skin is a sensation of pain in the
 bitten part. The evidence of pain occurring in animals is very clear ;
 the animal turns and licks the spot, and if it is the leg that is
 wounded it either limps on that leg or, what is more usual, draws it up
 so as to ease it.
    This action has been termed paralysis of the bitten leg, due to the
 local contact of the poison with the muscles.      Now, though it can be
 proved that the local effect of cobra poison on muscle is to weaken it,
yet after the bite of a cobra a very small extent indeed of muscle
comes in contact with the poison — very often none at all ; and if the
limb were really paralysed it would hang uselessly down, dragging
upon the ground, instead of being drawn up.
    This pain is accompanied by, or rather is dependent on, a very
characteristic local condition, that is worthy of careful attention. If the
body of a man or animal killed by snake-bite be examined, there may
be scarcely a sign to mark the spot where the snake bit — a scratch or
puncture may apparently be the extent of the injury. If an incision
be made through the skin and carried through the punctures, very
little change will be found in the true skin. It may be somewhat
more injected with blood than normal, and the punctures will be found
to be intensely so just at their edges, and a small quantity of blood
may be effused there.     But the areolar tissue lying beneath the true
skin is the site of the chief changes. It will frequently be found to be
of a purple colour, and to be infiltrated with a large quantity of

336                     Dr. A.   J.   Wall.    On the                   [June      16,
coagulable purple blood-like fluid. In addition the whole of the neigh
bouring vessels are intensely injected.      This injection gradually
lessens as the site of the poisoned part is receded from, so that a
bright scarlet ring surrounds the purple area, and this, in its turn,
fades into the normal    colour of the neighbouring tissue.                   At   the
margin also the purple blood-like fluid is replaced by a pinkish serum,
which may often be traced up in the tissues surrounding the vessels
that convey the poison to the system. In one case in which the
victim was bitten on the hand, I traced this effusion around the veins
as   high as the elbow. The local appearances differ considerably in
different cases, varying from those excessive ones just described to a
mere hyperemia. It has been asserted that these changes are merely
the result of haemorrhage from the divided vessels.      But this will not
account for the pain or for the intense injection of the surrounding
parts, or for the fact that should the bite not prove fatal the site of it
nearly always suppurates.     The real explanation is that cobra poison
is an intense irritant and produces acute inflammation.          Thus, if a
small quantity be placed in the eye, the most severe inflammation of
the conjunctiva follows.    The existence of this local inflammation is
of great value. It takes place with startling rapidity, one minute or
less producing marked hyperemia. This local hyperemia                 there is,
fore, the first indication that we can obtain that snake poison has
really entered the system. As life itself depends upon the rapidity
with which snake poisoning can be recognised,        will be seen that this
                                                     it
is  a matter of the greatest practical importance.
    An interval now occurs before any fresh symptom            noticed, but
                                                                   is
the length of     varies greatly in different cases.
                 it                                     In dogs bitten by
cobras the average of four experiments gave 18"2 minutes             as the
length of this interval.
    It not possible to determine with exactitude the average length,
       is
of this period in man, but in the case given      was fifteen minutes, in
                                                    it
another instance reported by the same observer           was an hour and
                                                              it
fifteen minutes   ;and an eye-witness, who evidently described a case
with great accuracy as to details, stated four hours passed before any
change was noticed.     The evidence available on the subject makes it
probable that an interval of an hour       the average of this period in
                                          is
man.
   This pause,    can be proved, depends on two separate factors.
                 it                                                   The
one factor  isthe time required for the absorption of the poison    for      ;      it
is  lessened by the poison being injected simultaneously     into several
different sites. The other    is clearly dependent on some secondary
change produced by the poison for which time             is
                                                   necessary    for if the
                                                                        ;
part into which the poison has been injected be excised before the
occurrence of a single constitutional symptom, yet, nevertheless, the
animal may die apparently as rapidly as       no interference had been
                                               if

 1881.]          Poisons  of certain Indian   Venomous Snakes.            337
attempted ; showing that the mere presence of the poison in the blood,
even in sufficient quantity to kill, is not capable of producing directly
a physiological effect.      On the other hand, to prevent grave miscon
 ception,   it should be stated that it is quite possible to save life by
excision    of the bitten part, if it be done sufficiently quickly to prevent
 any considerable absorption.
    The symptoms once developed follow one another with great rapi
 dity.    In man a feeling of intoxication appears to be the first consti
 tutional effect of the poison. It is very generally complained of, but
 not universally, as it would require some intelligence on the victim's
 part to mention it. It is not possible to get evidence of a purely sub
jective condition in animals.
    In man the next symptom is loss of power in the legs. There is
 first staggering, then inability to support the body, and finally there is
 complete incapacity to move the lower limbs.          At the same time there
 is scarcely any loss of power in the arms, which may remain com
 pletely under the influence of the will. The exact nature of the
 action of cobra poison on the nervous system is, however, a very
 difficult subject.     Sir Joseph Fayrer and Dr. Brunton, in their
 valuable series of papers on the subject, maintain that though the
 greater part of the nervous system is affected, yet the terminations of
 the motor nerves suffer especially, and in a very marked manner.
They base their reasoning on the results produced by experiments in
 which the excitability of two nerves of the same animal is tested, one
 of which has been subjected to the action of the poison, and the other
 has been kept from the contact with the poisoned blood by the limb to
 which it is distributed being ligatured, the nerve, however, being left
 intact.    These experiments I have repeated with, however, some dif
 ferences in the arrangements, with the result that though the poisoned
 limb lost its excitability to a very much greater extent than the non-
 poisoned limb, yet the spinal cord, as long as it was capable of sti
 mulation at all, could convey stimulation to the poisoned and un-
 poisoned nerve, but that the excitability of the cord was exceedingly
 quickly lost. These results would imply that the terminations of the
 motor nerves only suffered, pari passu, with the cord itself, and that
 there is no special elective affinity for the endings of the nerves.     Nor
 are the results of the experiments of Sir Joseph Fayrer and Dr.
 Brunton incompatible with this view. For when one thigh of the
 subject of the experiment was ligatured, and the other was poisoned,
 when the cord was excited by a current, the stimulus had to be trans
mitted to the non-poisoned leg through the trunk of the nerve which
 was unaffected ; whereas on the other leg it had to overcome the
 resistance induced by the paralysing poison.            There is no need to
 suppose a special effect of the poison on the ends of the motor nerves ;
 the different lengths of the trunks affected would account for a con

 338                       Dr. A.  J.  Wall.   On the               [June  16r
siderable difference.     To this we have also to add the paralysing effect
on muscle, which, though not so great as on the nerve, is yet not un
 important,     and would tell on the same side. Moreover, it does not
follow that because a nerve to which poison has had access conveys
electrical stimuli in a very imperfect manner, or not at all, therefore
the effect of that poison has been to paralyse the nerve.         It is unfor
tunate that the only test       we   have  of the  vitality of a  nerve  is its
power of causing contraction in a muscle when irritated by electricity
or mechanically.
    It would be going too far to say, therefore, that because a nerve did
not transmit such rude stimuli it was dead ; and when an animal loses
the power of withdrawing a member that is being painfully stimulated,
the break in the power of conducting impressions or stimuli may be
in any part of the nervous chain involved, or may be distributed
equally throughout. A poison also that produces death by totally
different means than paralysis may yet       cause  in the nerves  a complete
deadness to stimuli.
                                Experiment TV.
   The right thigh of a frog (Rana tigrina) was ligatured, so as to
completely prevent circulation through the limb, the nerve being
included in the ligature. Two cgrms. of strychnia in solution were
then injected into its dorsal sac.
   12.53 p.m.     Injection.
   12.56   p.m.   Tetanus.
   1.10 p.m.     Reflex action ceased.
   1.23 p.m. Muscles of right leg infinitely sensitive.
    1.25 p.m.    Muscles of left (poisoned) leg contract with 0-75 volt.
   1.39 p.m.     Bight (unpoisoned) sciatic nerve infinitely sensitive,
causes muscular contraction with less than '0001 volt.
    Now strychnia certainly does not kill by paralysis, and yet the
difference between the poisoned and the non-poisoned sides in regard
to their nerves was more marked than was recorded in similar experi
ments made with cobra poison.          In another frog this difference was
very pronounced before the strychnia had ceased to produce tetanus,
  o that it occurs long before exhaustion has taken place.           The com
 plete interference with the vital fnnctions produced by tetanus is the
 real cause of death, and the deadening of the nerves is simply the
result of the excessive nervous discharges that have taken place
 through them. Thus, though the trunk or extremity of a nerve may
 be found paralysed, it does not follow that it is the direct action of a
 poison that may be present, or that it was the paralysis that caused
death.
   In  cobra poisoning also it is possible to get very distinct evidence of
 sensation long after the nervous centres of organic life have been so

1881.]          Poisons    of certain Indian     Venomous Snakes.             33i>
completely destroyed by poison, as to render the animal dependent on
artificial respiration for life.
   In this direction another point mnst be taken into account. It has
already been stated that one of the most characteristic features of
cobra poisoning in the human subject is paralysis of the legs.                The
patient is unable to walk or to stand, though his arms have not as yet
experienced any loss of power.            Now, it would be difficult to suppose
that this was due to the terminations of the motor nerves of the legs
becoming paralysed, while those of the arms remain unaffected.                  It
is much more probable that the spinal cord is becoming paralysed, one
of the first effects of which would be that it would lose the power of
maintaining the tone and necessary contraction in the many complex
groups of muscles on which the upright posture is dependent.                  But
in cobra poisoning in dogs paralysis of the hind limbs without the
fore is rarely seen.         In the vast majority of cases power is lost
simultaneously     in all  four members.      In those few cases in wKich it
has been noticed that the hind legs have suffered first, the animal has
been bitten on the hind leg, which would always cause a certain
amount of lameness and difficulty in walking with the hind quarters,
due to the local effect of the poison.           But even with this source of
fallacy it holds good that in men suffering from cobra poisoning
paraplegia is a most constant symptom, whereas it is very exceptional
in dogs. The reason of this great dissimilarity is to be found in the
different functions of the inferior portion of the spinal cord in the
two cases.     In man the lower portion of the cord is, to a great extent,
a distinct nervous centre. The ganglia there not only are the centres
on which the lower limbs rely for their nerve power to maintain the
upright posture, but the sensation of contact with the ground of one
foot in walking is translated in these lower centres into a motor
stimulus to excite movement in the other leg, and paralysis affecting
these centres would at once destroy the process.               But in dogs the
mechanism      is very  different.     They  move  the foreleg of one side with
the hindleg of the other.             It is necessary, then, that the centres
governing     the   movements      in  these limbs should be coupled — so to
speak   — together.     The stimulus that moves the foreleg of one side
 has to excite simultaneous movement in the hind leg of the other.
 Therefore the posterior extremity of the cord has in the dog merely
to transmit the motor impulse from the forepart, whereas in man it
 has to translate sensations into stimuli to excite movement, and this
in man is the first faculty destroyed by cobra poison. It is, therefore,
probable that the earliest injury inflicted on the nervous system by
cobra poison is a paralysis of the centres in the lower part of the
spinal cord.
   The next symptoms of cobra poisoning are very characteristic.              The
 patient  loses  power    of  speech,  of  swallowing, of  moving  the  lips,  the

340                      Dr. A.  J. Wall.    On  the             [June   16,
tongue becomes motionless and hangs out of the mouth, and the
saliva which is secreted in largo quantities runs down the face, the
patient being equally unable to swallow it or to eject it. It is singular
that the striking resemblance of these symptoms to the disease known
as glosso-laryngeal   paralysis has not been previously noticed.      Now,
the preponderance of opinion attributes this latter disease to lesion of
certain tracts in the medulla oblongata.         It cannot, therefore, be
thought anything    but reasonable to connect both diseases with paralysis
of those centres in the medulla oblongata which are so closely associated
together, and which are in connexion with the roots of the vagus, the
spinal accessory, and the hypoglossal nerves, and the lower nucleus of
the facial.   Bnt the resemblance does not end here. In both diseases
the respiration becomes feebler and feebler, and the victim at last dies
suffocated. In other words the lesion in the one case, and the paralysing
poison in the other, have invaded the respiratory nucleus so near to the
centres they have already destroyed, and have thus rendered the respira
tory act difficult, and at last impossible.    Lastly, after all the lower
centres have been completely paralysed, the one by which connexion is
made with the second, fifth, and seventh nerves still acts, and the eye is
closed when touched, and even when approached, after the animal is
dependent on artificial respiration for life.   For these reasons it seems
natural to conclude that the principal action of cobra poison on the
nervous system consists of an extinction of function, extending from
below upwards, of the various nerve-centres constituting the cerebro
spinal system; but in addition to this, there is a special and rapid
action on the respiratory and allied nuclei, and it is to this special
action that death is to be attributed in most cases of cobra poisoning.
In very rapid cases of poisoning, when a very large quantity of poison
has entered the circulation at once, instead of the gradual extinction
of function of the cerebro-spinal centres, the poison appears to act
almost immediately by stopping the action of the respiratory centre.
There is, of course, no time then to watch the gradual extension of
the influence of the poison on the nervous system.       In these cases, the
slight  stimulation  of  the  centres which   almost  always   precedes the
paralysis, instead of being represented by slight irregular contractions
of the muscles, is exaggerated into violent clonic convulsions, but they
are almost instantly followed by complete paralysis.
   The action of the cobra poison on the respiration is of the deepest
importance in the light it throws on the special action of the poison,
and its relation to other poisons.
   The first change that is noticed in the breathing of an animal after
the introduction of cobra poison, is a decided quickening and deepen
ing of the respiratory movements. Sir Joseph Fayrer and Dr. Brunton
have shown that this effect is no longer to be perceived after section of
both vagi. The inhibitory effect of section of the vagi may be too power

1881.]        Poisons    of certain Indian       Venomous Snakes.           341
No. 1. — Tracings  of Respiratory Movements of             a Fowl under gradual
                                Cobra Poisoning.
                                Normal respiration.
                                         II
                         Slightly exaggerated   breathing.
                                       in
                               Commencing slowing.
        Slowing greater.    Sudden and abrupt inspiration and expiration.
                                  Great slowness.
                                       \  \\
                   Respiratory movement      barely perceptible.
                                       VIE
                             Convulsions commencing.

342                    Dr. A.     J. Wall.     On   the          [June  16.
No. 2. — Respiratory Tracings from a Fowl that died very rapidly
  from a large dose of Cobra Poison.           The tracings are nearly con
  tinuous.
                   Slow and deep but natural respiration.
                                  Quickened.
                            Still more quickened.
                        Slightly lessened excursus.
                           Excursus very slight.
                                      VI
                    Respiration ceased — Convulsions.

 1881.]          Poisons  of certain Indian    Venomous Snakes.           343
f ul  to allow, of the accelerating action of the poison being perceived.
Bnt this quickening, however produced, is merely temporary, and is
followed by retardation. The simplest form in which to see the effect
of cobra poisoning on respiration is afforded by the common fowl.
The stethometric chart, marked No. 1, gives in a concise manner the
effects of cobra poisoning when the action is very gradual.
    The main points to be noticed are the slight quickening first per
ceived, and the increase of the excursus.             These are followed by
rapidly increasing retardation with a certain amount of lessening of
the excursus, though the excursus is less affected than the frequency.
It  is also to be noticed that inspiration becomes sudden and abrupt,
and is immediately followed by an expiration equally sudden. The
movement that remains is, therefore, peculiarly unfavourable              for
respiration. In the end the respiratory movement is entirely abolished,
and after a pause the convulsions of asphyxia terminate life. Chart
No. 2 presents some contrasts of interest.         It gives nearly the whole
course of the respiratory movements of a fowl from the injection of
the poison till death, in a case in which a large amount of cobra
poison was given, causing death very rapidly. From it will be seen
how very much more pronounced the acceleration is when a large
quantity of poison is given, and that when the stage of acceleration is
passed the excursus is lessened quite as rapidly as the frequency.       The
respirations before the administration of the poison bear to the respira
tions at their greatest degree of acceleration in the tracing IV a ratio
of 4 to 7. Chart No. 3 is a series of tracings from a large pariah dog,
the acceleration followed by retardation, and the accompanying diminu
tion of excursus are well shown, but the chief points of interest are
in the tracings of the occurrence of convulsions ; they begin by
regular contractions of the inspiratory muscles, in the period of their
greatest violence they lose all respiratory character, and then gradually
fade away in gentler and gentler attempts at inspiration.          The cat is
an animal that shows a peculiar power of resisting cobra poison, pre
senting a marked contrast to the dog. Chart No. 4 is from a cat in
whom this resisting power was well shown.            After the retardation of
respiration   is accomplished,  it will be  noticed  that an occasional deep
respiration occurred ; it is as if the animal, aware of its lessening
breathing power, made conscious efforts to assist respiration.             A
similar feature appears to have been frequently noticed in the human
subject under like circumstances.         The series of tracings in Chart
No. 5 shows graphically the instantly destructive character of cobra
poison on the respiratory function. They were taken from a dog on
whom the following observations were made.
                               Experiment    V.
   A powerful pariah dog had        1  cub. centim.   of fresh cobra poison

344                     Dr. A.  J. Wall.       On the          [June   16.
  No. 3. — Tracings of 'Respiratory Movements of      a Dog with Cobra
                                Poisoning.
                        Normal but deep respiration.
                                Quickened.
                            Lessened  excursus.
                        Movement greatly lessened.
                               Convulsions.
                        Termination of convulsions.

1881.]        Poisons of  certain   Indian Venomous Snakes.          345
  No. 4. — Tracings of the Respiratory Movements of     a Cat under tbe
                       Influence of Cobra Poison.
                             Normal respiration.
                         Quickened by cobra poison.
                                         ill
                            Commencing slowing.
                                        IV
                         Occasional deep inspiration.
                        Respiration barely perceptible.
                                 Convulsions.

                          Dr. A.  J. Wall.     On the             [June   16,
 injected into its saphena vein.      No change was noticed for thirty
 seconds, at the end of that time normal respiration abruptly stopped,
 its place being taken by violent and irregular contractions of the
 respiratory muscles. The heart's action continued strong, but increased
  greatly in frequency.    Very soon all movement ceased, with the excep
  tion of that of the heart, which continued acting for about ten seconds
 longer.     The whole time from injection to death was under 100
 seconds.
     Chart No. 5 is a continuous tracing of the respiration of this
 animal from the administration of the poison till death.         It will be
 seen that the normal respiratory rhythm is suddenly displaced bv
 violent alternate upheavings and depressions of the chest walls, and
 that then all movement ceases suddenly.         But it will be noticed that
 the convulsions, though of course irregular, have a distinct respiratory
 character.    When cobra poison enters the blood rapidly and in large
 quantity, its first action is to stimulate the respiratory centre so
 as to cause more irregular respiratory movements, and then one might
 almost say simultaneously it paralyses it completely, the heart acting
 for a short time longer.      This, however, is not the usual course of
events.     A much more common method is the one depicted in the
 stethometric charts, Nos. 1, 2, and 3, where a fair amount of cobra
 poison is gradually absorbed, as from the bite of a cobra, and where
 there is in consequence gentle primary acceleration of respiration,
 with gradual lessening of its rapidity and excursus, and death with
 convulsions.    In still more gradual cases, the primary acceleration is
very faint, and the diminution of the respiratory function very gradual,
and there is often an attempt — half conscious — to fight against the
poison by occasional deep inspirations ; at last respiration is arrested,
and generally without convulsions, the heart stops after a short
interval. This appears to be the usual course in man.
     On the circulation, cobra poison cannot be said to exercise a very
great influence.     The heart nearly always acts for some little time
after respiration has ceased, and if the place of normal respiration be
supplied by artificial means, the heart will continue acting for very
many hours.      On the temperature, also, no decided effect can be deter
mined.     There may be a slight rise or even fall, but in several cases,
watched carefully for the purpose, no change was observed.            Nor is
there any noticeable effect on the special senses, the poisoned animal
appears to hear and see perfectly.         The pupil of the eye is also
unaffected, and answers to light.       If life be preserved by artificial
respiration, the pupil remains somewhat contracted.          I once noticed
the pupil remain contracted after death from cobra poisoning, in which
long continued artificial respiration had been resorted to.
    On secretion, generally, cobra poison has great influence ; nearly all
secreting tissues are stimulated by it.        The lachrymal glands act.

1881.]        Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes.             347
No.  5. — Continuous  Tracing of Respiratory Movements of Dog from
   the moment of Intravenous Injection of Cobra Poison till Death.
            Cm
                                     w
                           AAAw'l'VVV^A                  -         j
freely, and salivation is a most marked and constant symptom.
It is rarely absent either in men or in dogs. Saliva often runs in
streams from the mouth.           The whole of the mucous tract is
also in an active state of secretion.      After the stomach has been
thoroughly emptied by vomiting,       the  animal will often bring up
repeatedly large quantities of mucus, and mucous discharges are also
frequently     evacuated from the rectum.      The respiratory mucous
membrane is also similarly affected. Little can be known of its action
on the liver or kidneys, the time of observation being so short ; in the
more chronic cases the kidneys often act freely, but sometimes there
is a diminution of urine.
   There is but little evidence of the effect of cobra poisoning on the
blood.    The blood is clearly the carrier of the poison to the system,
and it is necessary for it to be some short time present in the blood
   VOL. XXXII.                                              2 B

348                            Dr. A.     J.  Wall.    On  the               [June 16,
before a physiological effect is produced, except in those rare cases in
¦which     an overwhelming           quantity of poison is injected into a vein
directly.       In   man,   after   cobra    poisoning, the blood is nearly always
found incoagulable, though in animals, especially dogs, the blood
generally coagulates as usual. That there is no great change in the
blood is evident from the fact that, when an animal has survived the
nerve symptoms produced by cobra poison, it is found to be quite well
and to suffer no further inconvenience from blood poisoning or other
causes.
                                      Experiment      VI.
     A  large pariah dog had 5 mgrms.               of dried cobra poison dissolved
in water injected into its hind leg.
     12.12.   p.m.    Injection.
     4 p.m.     Vomited.
     7.30 p.m.     Salivated.       Looks depressed.
     10.15   p.m.    Still depressed ; salivation slight; respirations 14.
     12.5 a.m.     Still salivated    ;   very depressed.
     8 a.m.     Very weak,        hardly able to walk        ;   all the   legs  equally
affected.
     8.25 a.m. Respirations 12          ;  pupils somewhat dilated, but contract to
light.      Site of injection very red, hot, and swollen.
     11.30 a.m. Respirations 15 ; frothy salivation.
     12 p.m.      Rectal temperature, 39° C.
     12.38 p.m.      Pulse about 120, extremely irregular ; chewing move
 ment of jaw and lips ; salivation considerable.
     2.21 p.m.     Better, can walk, salivation ceased ; ate sparingly.
     7.30   p.m.   Recovering fast. Urinated — no albumen in the urine.
     8 a.m.     Seems quite well. Purulent discharge from the site of the
 injection ; respirations 20, pulse 120.
     The dog was kept under observation but remained quite well. The
 normal pulse rate was 90 and respirations 28.
     Here, though the most severe nerve symptoms were present, when
 they passed off the animal was quite well, and suffered no further incon
 venience.        The same also occurs in the human subject.                Dr. Vincent
 Richards relates a case of cobra poisoning, from his own observation,
  in which a man lost completely all power over his legs, was unable to
  speak, to move the lips, or to swallow, and where there was profuse
  salivation, and yet after a few hours complete recovery ensued, the
  man by the next day being well.                 The microscope also gives no evi
  dence of structural change in the blood.                 In cobra poisoning, also,
  albumen       in  the   urine   is  unknown. In animals that have suffered
  most severely from nerve symptoms in which                   I  have tested the urine,
   albumen has not been present in a single case either fatal or non-fatal.
  When, however, artificial respiration has been performed for some

 1881.]          Poisons   of certain Indian   Venomous Snakes.            349
 time after apparent death, it is not unusual       for blood to  be present in
the urine ; but if the kidneys are examined         in these cases the wonder
 will be, not that blood was found in the           urine, but that any urine
 was secreted at all, so great is the renal        congestion.    This circum
stance can, therefore, hardly be taken as evidence of blood change,
and coupled with the fact of the rapid recovery that ensues in cobra
 poisoning after the nerve symptoms have passed off, leads us to the
 conclusion that all cases of death from cobra poisoning have their
origin in the direct action of the poison on the nerve-centres.
   II. — The    Physiological Effects of the Poison of the Daboia Russellii.
    The Daboia Russellii, or Russell's viper, is selected as being an
 extremely deadly member of the viperine family, and is the best
 known of the Indian vipers. The following experiments show the
course of the symptoms produced by this snake.
                                 Experiment   VII.
    A  somewhat small pariah dog had a pulse of 88 per minute, respi
rations    30, rectal temperature 39° C.
    3.24   p.m.   Bitten by a Daboia Russellii in the thigh.
    3.28   p.m.   General muscular spasm of the most violent character,
all parts of the body taking part. The animal fell down and rolled
about in convulsions, even the muscles of the eyeballs being affected
— jerking the eyes about in the strangest way.
    3.30 p.m.     Convulsions ceased, complete paralysis of both hindlegs,
tries to stand, but can only rest on his forelegs.
    3.3LJ p.m. Contractions of muscles of eyeball continue ; respira
tions very shallow, 68 ; pupils somewhat dilated.
   3.37 p.m.     Mnscles of eyeball at rest; seems utterly prostrate and
unable to move ; respirations 40, chiefly abdominal .
   3.40 p.m.     Respirations 56, shallow, occasionally a deep sigh.
   3.44 p.m.     Pupils somewhat dilated but contract to light.
   3.47   p.m.   Respirations 67, about every tenth one is very deep.
   3.53 p.m.      Pulse 156.
   3.56   p.m.   Moaning. Temperature 39°-5 C.
   4.1 p.m.     Respirations 32 ; sighing and moaning, lying down para
lysed,   sanious   discharge from the rectum, pupils widely dilated.
   4.9  p.m.    Respirations 36.
   4.12   p.m.   Respiration reduced to   a quick inspiratory spasm, followed
by relaxation.
   4.15 p.m.     Respirations 16.
   4.17   p.m.   Dead.     Temperature   39° 4 C.
                                                                2  b 2

350                          Dr. A.  J.  Wall.    On the             [June  16,.
                                 Experiment    VIII.
   A small     quantity of fresh daboia poison (about O'l cub. centim.) was
injected     into  the thigh of a pariah dog.
   12.20    p.m.   Injection.
   12.25 p.m. Very lame in the leg in -which the injection was made.
   12.52 p.m. Very drowsy, unsteady in walking.
   12.54 p.m.        Pupils widely dilated ; iris only just visible.
   12.56    p.m.    Moaning.
   1 p.m.      Panting ; raised himself to a standing posture, but his legs-
 gave way under him, and he fell to the ground.
    1.5 p.m.     Violent respiratory movements ; respirations 28.
    1.6 p.m.     Still able to move his head freely.
    1.15  p.m.     Tries occasionally to rise.
    1.17 P.M. Moaning.
    1.20 p.m.       Moderately loud screams.
    1.25  p.m.     Convulsions.
    1.34  p.m.     Dead.
                                   Experiment   IX.
    A pariah       dog had 5 mgrms. of dried daboia poison injected         sub-
 cutaneously, dissolved in 1 cub. centim. of water.
     12.56 p.m. Injection.
     1.54 p.m.      Quite well. Respirations 44.
     7 p.m.     Ate freely.
     6 a.m.    Looks a good deal depressed. Respirations 48 a minute.
     7.20 A.M.      Pupils contracted, panting ; respirations 60 a minute.
     8.15 a.m. Panting excessively.
     8.30 a.m. Passed a sanious discharge per rectum.
     8.45 a.m.      Respirations 80, excessive dyspnoea, blood oozing from
  mouth.
     9.30 a.m.      Dead.
     After death the fatal      dyspnoea  was found to be dependent on oedema
  of the lungs.
                                    Experiment   X.
      A  small pariah      dog was bitten in the thigh by a small        Daboia
  Riissellii.
      12.34   p.m.    Bitten.
      12.35   p.m.    Slightly panting.
      12.35£ p.m.      Fell over suddenly in violent convulsions, the      hind-
  legs being especially strongly convulsed, pupils contracted.
      12.36 p.m.      Slight attempt at respiration.
      12 39 p.m.      Dead.
      From these experiments it will be seen that there is a               great

1881.]          Poisons    of certain Indian  Venomous Stiakes.        351
•diversity in the symptoms between different cases of daboia poisoning.
The animal may fall down at once in convulsions and expire as in
Experiment X, or it may never have any nerve symptoms at all, but
die many hours after from a remote affection as in Experiment IX.
    The following experiments         throw light on the causes of these
differences.
                                  Experiment XI.
    A   pariah   pup had about O'l cub. centim.     of fresh daboia poison
injected subcutaneously into the shoulder.
    12.52 p.m.     Injection.
    1 p.m.    Vomiting.
    1.4  p.m.   Can stand but cannot walk.
    1.8  p.m.   Cannot stand ; moaning.
    1.11 p.m.     Slight sanious discharge from the rectum.
    1.15 p.m.     Short rapid respiration with an occasional   deep inspira
tion.
    1.30 p.m.    Respiration very slight.
    2.6  p.m.   Dead.
                                  Experiment XII.
    A  pariah pup of the same litter as the one in the last experiment,
And as nearly as possible of the same size, had 0'3 cub. centim. of fresh
daboia poison injected into its shoulder subcutaneously.
    1.31 p.m.    Injection.
    1.35 p.m.     Pell over in convulsions.
    1.37   p.m.   Unable to stand.
    1.45 p.m.     Lying down, is quite paralysed, but occasionally groans.
    2.1 p.m.    Totally unconscious.
    2.16   p.m.   Respiration failing.
    2.29   p.m.   Dead.
    In  these two dogs, which were of the same age and size, the daboia
poison was injected into exactly the corresponding part of each, and
subcutaneously ; but, in the latter experiment, three times as much
poison was injected as in the former case. This was the only differ
ence in the two experiments, and the result was that the animal which
had the larger quantity of poison suffered in four minutes from violent
convulsions, and from that time was quite paralysed ; whilst the other
only gradually became paralysed, and had no sign of convulsions at
all.    The poison in both cases was from the same viper, and extracted
at the same time. In the same way it can be proved that an equal
 quantity of poison injected into two animals of different sizes will kill
 the small one almost instantly in convulsions, but will only cause
 death after a long interval, and without violent symptoms, in the
 larger one. Daboia poison, therefore, commences its constitutional

 352                       Dr. A. J. Wall.   On   the            [June     16.
 action by causing convulsions, though a certain proportion of animals
 will escape them through an insufficient quantity of poison having
 been injected.     It should be stated here, that the preliminary effect*
of the poison differ only in degree from those of cobra poisoning. The
local pain appears to be peculiarly acute, and the accompanying
inflammation      exceedingly severe ; and, from the amount of blood
stained    serum   effused, might almost be said to have a      "specific"
character.
   The contrast between the effects of the two poisons comes              out
singularly clearly when birds are selected as the subject of              ex
periment.
                              Experiment  XIII.
   1 cgrm. of dried daboia poison was dissolved in 1 cub. centim. of
distilled water, and the solution was injected with great care just
beneath the skin of the leg of a fowl.
   3.10 p.m.    Injection.
   3.11 p.m.    Slightly lame in the leg in which the injection was made.
   3.12 p.m. Violent convulsions.
   3.12£   p.m.   Dead.
                               Experiment  XIV.
   1  cgrm. of dried cobra poison dissolved in 1 cub. centim.   of distilled
water was injected just beneath the skin of a fowl.
   3.30 p.m.    Injection.
   3.34 p.m.    Drowsy.
   3.36  p.m.   Beak resting on the ground      ; unable to stand  ; eyelids
closed, pupils contracted.
   3.37 p.m.    Unable to lift its head from the ground.
   3.40 p.m.    Convulsions.
   3.42 p.m.    Dead.
   In these two experiments the greatest care was taken to ensure the
conditions being exactly the same ; yet, with daboia poison, the bird
died in two and three-quarter minutes with only the occurrence of
convulsions ; while, with cobra poison, it died after twelve minutes,
and went through the regular course of paralysis.         The convulsions,
therefore, are not dependent upon the injection of a large quantity of
poison directly into a vein.        The next point to be determined is
whether the convulsions are due to asphyxia, like those that often
occur    after the cessation of respiration from paralysis in cobra
poisoning.
                               Experiment  XV.
   A fowl    had its trachea   opened, and a tube in connexion with a
bellows for artificial respiration inserted into it. 2 cgrms. of dried

1881.]          Poisons   of certain Indian    Venomous Snakes.           353
daboia poison in solution were then injected subcutaneously into its
leg. Immediately on the injection being completed, artificial respira
tion was commenced.
    2.23 p.m.   Injection.
    2.23£  p.m.   Artificial respiration commenced.
    2.26 p.m.   Convulsions,    in which the bird died.
    Here, though ample means were employed to keep the blood oxy
genated, the bird died at once in convulsions.            The convulsions of
 asphyxia that occur after the paralysis of cobra poisoning are removed
 by artificial respiration.    It is clear, therefore, that the convulsions of
 daboia poisoning are primary, and in no way due to defective aeration
of the blood.
    The convulsions are exceedingly violent in character, the whole of
 the voluntary muscular system being affected, even to the muscles of
 the eyeball. Sometimes, but rarely, the convulsion is tonic, the
 muscles clasping, as it were, the frame of the victim. The convul
 sions may be due either to the direct action of the poison on the
 muscles, or on the muscular terminations of the nerves, or on the
 central nervous ganglia.          The following experiment        determines
 this.
                                 Experiment   XVI.
    A fowl was placed under the influence of chloroform, and its right
 crural nerve divided ; the left crural nerve was then isolated, and
 a ligature placed round all the other structures so as completely to
 obstruct the circulation, but the nerve was left uninjured. The
 moment the bird became conscious, a small quantity of solution of
 daboia poison was subcutaneously injected into the tissues at the
 back of the neck. Almost directly after, convulsions occurred, but,
 in these convulsions, the muscles supplied by the right or divided
 nerve took no part, remaining perfectly flaccid, while the muscles of
 the left leg were violently tetanized.       Here the muscles of the right
 leg which wero freely supplied with the poisoned blood, but the nerve
 to which was divided, escaped the convulsions; while those of the left
 leg, which had no contact with the poisoned blood, but whose nerve
 was still in communication with the central nervous system, took part
 in them. It is evident, therefore, that the convulsions depend upon
 the direct irritation of the central nervous system by the poison, and
 in no way on the contact of the poison with the muscles or with the
 terminations of the nerves.
    These primary convulsions occur in from one to ten minutes after
 the infliction of the bite, and they may have any degree of severity,
 from those producing almost instant death to merely a few mus
 cular twitchings. The course of the symptoms after the convulsions
 also varies.    Respiration may never be thoroughly re-established, the

354                         Dr. A.   J.  Wall.    On tlu             [June 16,
animal    dying very soon, or respiration may recommence, bnt com
plete general paralysis is found to Lave supervened, and the animal
dies of consequent asphyxia.           It may happen that, for a short time,
the victim recovers completely from the convulsions, walking about
for a few minutes as if nothing had occurred, but the fatal paralysis
is only delayed for a short time.
   It appears as if daboia poison acted somewhat differently in different
classes of the animal kingdom. Birds are most easily affected, and
next to them come the Lacertilia.
                                Experiment     XVII.
   About 0"4 cub. centim. of fresh daboia was injected beneath the
skin of the upper surface of the tail of a large specimen of Calotes
versicolor.
   The respirations were 54 per minute.
   3.49 p.m.    Injection.
   3.51  p.m.   Convulsions.
   3.52  p.m.   Quite paralysed.
   3.53  p.m.   Respirations 12 per minute.
   3.56  p.m.   Respirations 4 per minute.
   3.59  p.m.   Dead.
   Mammals also are very easily affected by the convulsion-producing
property of the poison, whereas the Amphibia only have symptoms of
gradual paralysis.
                               Experiment    XVIII.
   A   medium     sized frog (Banc tigrina) had       1  cgrm. of dried daboia
poison in solution injected into its dorsal sac.
    1.12 p.m.   Injection.
    4.30 p.m.   Violent respiratory efforts.
    4.39 p.m.    Fast becoming paralysed.
    4.53  p.m.   Completely paralysed.
    5.11 p.m.    Dead.
    Though birds are      so sensitive to the agent    in the poison that pro
 duces these nervous discharges, that it is difficult to poison them at
 all without the occurrence of primary convulsions — 1 mgrm. often
 producing them — yet by heating daboia poison in solution to 100° C.
 it loses completely the power of causing this symptom even in them.
                                 Experiment     XIX.
    5 cgrms.   of dried daboia poison in solution were heated for a short
 time to 100° C. The solution was then injected snbcutaneonsly into
 the leg of a fowl.
    12.27 p.m.     Injection.
    12.34 p.m.      Seems drowsy ; eyes closed.

 1881.]         Poisons  of certain Indian    Venomous Snakes.            355
    12.45 p.m.   Breathing rapid.
    12.47  p.m.  Respiration failing, comb becoming purple.
    12.49  p.m.  Lying down, head drooping.
    12.50  p.m.  Fallen over on its side  ; respiration fainter.
    12.53  p.m.  Grasping.
    12.56  p.m.  Convulsions.
    12.58  p.m.  Convulsions lessening.
    12.59  p.m.  Dead.
    Here, though the amount of poison injected was more than fifteen
times that required to cause almost instant death from convulsions,
simple exposure to a heat of 100° C. completely altered the symptoms.
They were those of gradual paralysis which caused the respirations to
cease, and the convulsions which occurred at the end of the paralysis
were simply the expression of carbonic acid poisoning.            They were
secondary, and no longer primary.        Even with the abolition of primary
convulsions, however, the symptoms differed materially from those of
cobra poisoning.
    Should primary convulsions not occur the history is that of advanc
ing paralysis.     The respirations and pulse become greatly accelerated,
and there is gradual loss of power in all the limbs ; vomiting may
occur.     Sanious  discharges   issne from    the rectum    and other parts.
The pupils are usually widely dilated, and the respirations become less
and less, and may cease with or without convulsions.
    But there is a third form of death from daboia poisoning, quite
 unlike anything that is seen in cobra poisoning. It occurs in those
cases in which but a very small quantity of poison indeed has been
 injected. The animal has very few nervous symptoms, very likely
 none at all ; but on the second day he appears ill, refuses food, has
diarrhoea, his urine contains albumen, and he may linger on in this
state for days, dying exhausted, or some acute complication may super
 vene as in Experiment IX, causing death rapidly.          In that case it was
 an oedematous condition of the lung that proved fatal, whereas in a
case recorded in the "Indian Medical Gazette" (June 1, 1872), it
 was a haamorrhagic condition of the system generally.             The snake
 was evidently from its description the Daboia Russellii, or its congener
 the Echis carinata.
     A Mahomedan, forty years of age, was bitten by a snake on the
 finger. The bite was soon after incised, and stimulants given. The
 hand and arm became much swollen, and on the same day he passed
 blood by the rectum, with his urine, and he also vomited blood. The
 next day he was sick, and was still passing blood from all the channels.
 In this state he remained eight days, losing blood constantly, and dying
 in consequence exhausted on the ninth day.
     In this case no symptoms occurred for many hours, but when they
 did supervene they increased in severity till the man died from

356                       Dr. A. J.  Wall.   On  the           [June Hi,
haemorrhage.      There was no paralysis or any other special symptom.
The case presents in every detail a complete contrast to Dr. Richard's
case of cobra poisoning, where for some hours the patient was in the
greatest danger from nerve symptoms, and yet the next day made a
fall and complete recovery.
    This chronic form of daboia poisoning occurs whenever only a small
quantity of daboia poison is injected.
                               Experiment  XX.
    A cat had about 5 mgrms. of daboia poison in solution injected into
its leg. No symptom was noticed for about twelve hours, when it
became ill, refused food, had diarrhcoa, and remained in this state till
the fourth day, when it died.
    In regard to the paralysis caused by daboia poison, there a few
points to be observed.      It certainly supervenes earlier than in cobra
poisoning, but it does not extinguish the respiratory function nearly
so soon.    Paraplegia is occasionally noticed in dogs, especially if the
hind legs have been much convulsed. It is probably due to exhaustion
of the conducting elements of the cord by the violence of the con
vulsion-producing discharges.       Care, however, should be taken not
to confonnd it with inability to use the hind quarters occasioned by
the pain of the local injection, which appears to be peculiarly severe.
Again, the paralysis of the lips, tongue, larynx, and pharynx, which is
so marked a feature in cobra poisoning, is absent in daboia poisoning.
The tongue, instead of being pendulous, is retracted, and the larynx,
so far from being paralysed, gives utterance to loud screams, often as
long as life lasts, as in Experiment VIII. It is as if the poison exerted
its paralysing influence on the main motor tract, and had not that
marked affinity for the respiratory and allied centres that cobra poison
has ; a conclusion borne out by the way in which it commences its
action, and by the time it takes to extinguish the respiratory
 function.
    The course of the respiration in daboia poisoning is of necessity as
varied as there are modes of death from the poison.          Chart No. 6,
from a fowl, gives a typical example of respiration when the primary
convulsions    are fatal.    It contains nearly all the chest movements
from the moment of injection till death. The first sixteen respirations
are normal, the excursus is then slightly increased, and a sliglit
 retardation is to be observed ; then without further warning, the most
violent convulsions took place, and with them life was extinguished.
 It affords corroborative evidence of the fact, that asphyxia has nothing
 to do with the causation of the convulsions, as respiration is perfectly
 well performed up to the moment of their occurrence.         Chart No. 7
 is from a fowl that was poisoned by daboia poison, which had been
  heated in solution to 100° C, and so deprived of its power of causing

1881.]         Poisons of certain Indian Venomous Snakes.                    'Anl
    No. 6. — Tracing of Respiratory Movements in Fowl under the
                          Influence of Daboia Poison.
           Respiration after the injection of the poison, but still normal.
       Slightly exaggerated  breathing, suddenly interrupted by convulsions.
                                    Convulsions.
                                End of convulsions.
convulsions.     The acceleration of the respiratory movements is most
remarkable, as is also the way in which the excursus is exaggerated
and maintained ; it is only at the very end of life that the respiratory
movement is diminished.
  Chart No. 8 is from a dog, to which sufficient poison was not given
to cause convulsions.          The very much greater acceleration of the

358                       Dr. A.     J.  Wall.      On tlie       [June  16,
     No. 7. — Tracing of Respiratory Movement in a Fowl under the
       Influence of Daboia Poison that had been heated to 100° C.
                                         I
                                        Normal.
                                 Great acceleration.
                                          Ill
                                         17
                     Great acceleration  with increased excursus.
                                  Lessened excursus.
respiration than can be caused by cobra poisoning is seen, the respira
           I
 tions in and    III being as two to five. But in IV, a singular condition
 is to be noticed, that is exceedingly common in daboia poisoning.      It is
 a pecnbarly deep inspiration, followed immediately by expiration. It
 occurs generally once in every ten or fifteen respirations, and at a

1881.]        Poisons of certain Indian       Venomous Snakes. 3591
  No.  8. — Tracings of Respiratory Movements of Dog under Daboia
                                 Poisoning.
                              Normal respiration.
                                 Acceleration.
                                        hi
           ¦
            \AAAAAAAAAyV\AAAAAyVWVAA
                           Rospiration still quicker.
                            Irregular respiration.
                                         V
                             Respiration slowing.
                                        VI
               A         j\         It  *         1
                        End of respiratory movements.

                                                                                 !
 360                        Dr. A.   J. Wall.    On  the             [June   16,
 time when the animal is often profoundly unconscious.               It is quite
 characteristic of daboia poisoning, though it is not always present,
sometimes the whole body taking part in the movement.                 After the
 primary    convulsions   have  occurred,  it is exceedingly  rare for death to
 be preceded by the convulsions of asphyxia, the respiratory function
 appearing gradually to fade away, as in the tracing VI.
    In its influence on the temperature and circulation, daboia poison
does not differ materially from cobra poison.          But while cobra poison
has    no effect on the pupil of the eye, wide dilatation is always, or
nearly always, to be seen during some stage of daboia poisoning. The
iris is sometimes barely visible during the primary convulsions.           Over
secretion, daboia poison has also some power, though less than cobra
poison, and the mucous discharges are nearly always largely mixed
with blood.        But salivation, the constant accompaniment of cobra
poisoning,     is almost  unknown in daboia poisoning.         Out of a large
number of experiments,        I have only seen it once, and in this case it
was by no means marked, and might easily have been overlooked,
unless special attention had been paid to its occurrence.
    In daboia poisoning there is a good deal of evidence to be considered
as to the effect of the poison on the blood.          It is almost universally
found after death, that the blood has been rendered uncoagulable, the
only exceptions being when the animal has died almost instantly in
convulsions, or in those cases where the animal has struggled for a
long time against the poison, when the coagulation will be found to be
imperfect, as if an attempt towards restoring the normal condition of
the blood had been made. Even in rapid cases of daboia poisoning,
we have proof that the relation of the blood to the tissues is altered.
In Experiment VII a sanious discharge occurred thirty-seven minutes
after the infliction of the bite. So grave are these changes in the blood,
that they are by far the most frequent causes of death in daboia
poisoning (Experiments IX and XX). The haemorrhages chiefly take
place from the rectum and kidneys, but I have seen them from the
mouth, and even the skin.
    In cobra poisoning albuminuria is unknown, but in every case of
daboia poisoning in which symptoms were present, and in which six
hours elapsed before death, I have detected albumen in the urine. It
is generally not in large quantity, but it is quite unmistakeable.
                                Experiment    XXI.
    A  solution of about    5 mgrms. of daboia poison      was injected into a
dog.
    4 p.m.    Injection.
    8 a.m.    No symptom.
    4 p.m.    5  mgrms. more of daboia poison injected.
    9.30  p.m.    Affected ; respirations 50 ; pupils widely dilated.

1881.]          Poisons of certain Indian   Venomous Snakes.         361
   6 a.m.    Depressed and ill.
   3 p.m.    Passed some albuminous    urine.
   9 p.m.    Diarrhoea.
   12 p.m.    Urine albuminous ; still very ill.
   As it was clear that the animal would suffer the usual prolonged
¦course of blood-poisoning, more poison was injected to shorten life.
   1.30 p.m.    Injection.
   3.17 p.m.    Cannot stand.
   3.20  p.m.   Respiration failing.
   3.29  p.m.   Dead.
   There is evidence, therefore, that daboia venom is a most severe
blood poison, producing death when not administered in sufficient
quantities to cause serious nerve symptoms, and that it is even possible
for death to occur early from this cause alone, nerve symptoms not
having supervened.
   Conclusions. — The regular course of the symptoms of cobra poison
ing is slowly advancing general paralysis, coming on after a well-
marked interval without symptoms, with special paralysis of the lips,
tongue, larynx, and pharynx, and complete destruction of the
respiratory function. Death is often attended by convulsions, which
depend on asphysia.
   Daboia poison commences its action by inducing violent general
convulsions, which are often at once fatal, or may be followed im
mediately by paralysis and death, or may also be for a short time
recovered from, paralysis and death following later.       These convul
sions do   not   depend  on asphyxia,  and  they may  be absent if only a
small quantity of poison has been injected.          The paralysis that
succeeds is general, and lasts a considerable time before respiration
is extinguished, and there is no special paralysis of the lips, tongue,
larynx, and pharynx.
   Cobra poison very quickly destroys respiration ; after slight ac
celeration the respiration becomes slower, and the excursns is lessened.
   Daboia poison at first quickens the respiration very much more than
cobra poison does, and the lessening of the excursus, and the retarda
tion of the respiratory movements do not occur so soon.
   Daboia poison invariably kills birds and reptiles at once in con
vulsions ; cobra poisoning only after paralysis.
   The effect of cobra poison on the pupil is so small as to be a matter
of doubt ; daboia poison causes wide dilatation of the pupil. Salivation
is a constant symptom in cobra poisoning ; it is exceedingly rare in
daboia poisoning.
   The effect of cobra poison on the blood is not great, sanious dis
charges are rare, albuminuria has not been seen, and should the
patient not die from the paralysis, recovery is perfect and complete,
no symptom being left in a few hours.

3fi2                              Mr. A. M. Worthington.                            [June]
  In daboia poisoning,  sanioas discharges are the rule ; albuminuria
is always found, should the victim live any time, and after the                                         nerve
symptoms pass over, the subject has to go through a period of
poisoning little,  at all, less dangerous than the primary
                       if
                                                             symptoms,
from which he may die as late as the end of the second week.
  Lastly, the physiological properties of daboia poison undergo                                         great
change by its being heated to 100° C. in solution, whereas                                              ol
                                                                                                        j
poison remains unaltered.
II.    " On Pendent Drops." By A. M. Worthtngton, M.A
        municated by Professor B. Stewart, F.R.S. Received
        May 16, 1881.
                                              [Plate     7.]
  About two years ago was led to examine the forms of pendent
                                I
of liquid by   method of great simplicity, which seems capabl
                   a
being used with considerable accuracy for determining the valJ
the surface tension.
   Previous observers, so far as    am aware, have observed onl
                                               I
weight of drops which fall, and, making this the basis of calculation,
have endeavoured to find the influence on the size of such dro;
the rate of influx of liquid, shape of terminal,  as in the e
Dr. F. Guthrie,* or to ascertain the value of the surface tension
liquid as in the case of Professor Quinckef and M. Dupre.J
   Under no circumstances, however,      the weight of the drop
                                                         is
falls exactly the weight of the volume which          necessary to   it   is
in order to ascertain the value of the surface tension, though
certain     circumstances             it   approximates        thereto.   Hence we find
Prof. Quincke rejects this method of finding the tension, or
recommends only where other methods fail
          it                                 albeit all his results obtained
                                                           ;§
by this method are vitiated by an assumption to which              shall        I
occasion to draw attention.     The principle of the method which                        I
now describe      simply to project a magnified image of a drop
                   is
from a cylindrical tube on to a screen, and there to trace its
at any required stage of its development.
    A vertical cylindrical glass tube, A, whose lower end
truly flat and with a sharp edge, communicates by means of                          C, a is
wider tube, B, and a piece of india-rubber or lead tubing,           wii
air-tight syringe,  D, some 10 or 12 feet away.      For the usual                            syringe
                                            E,
piston     acup of mercury,         substituted, which can be
                                            is
  •    " On Drops."   By Dr. F. Guthrie. " Proc. Eoy. Soc.," vol.              13, p. 444.
       " PoggendoriTs Annalen," vol. cxxxv,         " Phil. Mag.,"
 t                                          p. 621.                            1869.
       " Theorie Mecanique de la Chaleur,"    332.
J                                                   p.
  §    Loe. tit., p. 637,   §   12.

                 Fhvc.Roy. Soc. Vol. 32. FL.7.
Duxnv. -
         cm..
         • 7238.          Diem  -  cm.
                                  -448


  1881.]                       On Pendent   Drops.                       3(53
 raised   or lowered by a rack and pinion-screw,       so as to serve as a
 perfectly air-tight piston.
                                     Fig. 1.
    By means of an Argand lamp, F, whose light is condensed by the
 lens G, a magnified image of the end of the tube is thrown by the
 lens H, upon a piece of white paper, I, fixed on the wall of the room
 near the syringe.
    K is a plate-glass cell filled with water to keep off the heat of the
 lamp.
    A supply    of the liquid to be observed is drawn up into the bulb or
 wide tube    B,  by means of the syringe, or more conveniently by means
 of an india-rubber bulb, L, interposed for the purpose between B and
 D.
    The tube A is then carefully wiped on the outside with a clean
 linen cloth, and the observer standing by the paper gradually expels
 the liquid by raising the mercury cup, and a drop is extruded which
 wets the whole of the bottom of the tube, the outline of which he
traces on the white paper with a finely-pointed         lead pencil, at any
stage of which he desires a record, up to the point of rupture.
    This tracing affords all the information necessary for calculating
the value of the surface tension, the amount       of magnification   being
known from the ratio of the diameter of the tube to that of its image
on the screen.
    As the first few drops expelled are apt not to wet the whole of
the base    of the tube thoroughly, and therefore to be rather smaller
than    those which follow, it is well to let one or two fall off before
taking a tracing if a series of outlines at different stages is required.
    The tube A can be exchanged at pleasure for others of different
diameters, and when it is wished to observe the form of a drop of one
liquid pendent in another, the latter is placed in a plate-glass cell with
parallel sides, and the tube A dips into it.
    The figures of the Plate are tracings (reduced one-half) obtained in
this way with different liquids and tubes of various diameters, and
    vol. xxxii.                                               2 c

364                          Mr. A. M. Worthington.                               [June 16,
show the manner in which the form of the surface                         alters    with the
growth of the drop.
     The instability of the figure close to the point of rupture makes it
  difficult to trace the outline correctly quite to that point.
     The short horizontal line below the drop shows the maximum depth
  attained before rupture, and the area enclosed by the last outline that
 could be drawn correctly, and the one which is nearest the limit of
 stability is shaded for the sake of distinctness.       The dotted outline,
 generally the innermost, shows the amount of liquid which remained
 adhering to the tube after the separation of the lower portion.
     It may be worth while to mention here that where the liquid wets
 the whole of the base of the tube the form and dimensions of the out
 line were found to depend on the external and not at all on the
 internal diameter of the tube.
     One of the first points that strikes anyone inspecting these figures
 is, that the maximum depth attained varies surprisingly little with the
 diameter of the tube.
    An early series of observations on this point made with insufficient
magnification showed so slight a variation that                    I
                                                        was led to suppose
 that the maximum depth might really be constant and independent of
 the size of the tube, and to seek for an empirical formula involving
only the physical constants of the liquid to express this depth.*
    Greater magnification, however, shows that this is not the case ; that
the maximum depth diminishes on the whole with the size of the tube,
but is rather less in a drop pendent from a plane surface of indefinite
extent than in one hanging from a tube just narrow enough for the
drop to attach itself at the edge.
    Another point that attracts immediate attention                    is,
                                                                that whereas
the form of drops of different liquids hanging from the same tubes
differs materially (compare, for example, water and turpentine), yet
drops of (say) turpentine hanging from narrow tubes are similar in
form to water drops hanging from wider tubes.
    That this would be the case has been already shown from theoretical
considerations by M. Dupre,f who has also pointed out the ratio be
tween the diameters of the tubes that corresponds to complete simi
larity of the drop form for two different liquids.
  *   A   very close approximation   is   given by the formula —
                          Maximum depth =         /
                                                 $7r   A
                                                       V
                                                           tfn91°",
                                                           density
which was suggested by the equation to the generating curve,
f   " Theorie Meeanique de la Chaleur,"      329.
                                                p.
  The following method of finding the ratio of tube-diameters, necessary for the
symmetry of drops of different liquids, being rather simpler in form than that given
bv M. Dupre, may be welcome to some readers.

1881.]                              On Pendent Drops.                                   3(55
   It will be observed that with wide tubes the inclination which the
extreme element of the curve makes with the horizontal base of the
tube gradually increases as the drop is expelled, till it separates ; but
with narrower tubes it           through a maximum value, which may
                                  passes
be greater than 90°, after which   it diminishes again.
   Professor Quincke has shown that the angle of contact between a
given liquid and solid in air is definite and constant. This, however,
   Taking the vertex as origin, and the axis of revolution as the axis of y, the equa
tions to the generating curves of the two liquids may be written —
                    t.(—
                      V Pi
                           +4-)-^=»>yi
                            pi/ Ri
                                                                       (0,
                     T2(—
                       \pa
                             +
                                 i-)-^
                                 p3/ Kj
                                                  =
                                                       D^3            (ii),
where T] and T» arc the surface tensions.
      p,p', and p,p 'o are the principal radii of curvature at any point,
      Rj and Rj are the radii of curvature at the vertices,
      D, and T>2 are the densities of the liquids.
   If these curves are symmetrical, the ratio between all corresponding lines must be
the same, and remembering that         p',
                                     and p'3, the radii of the curvature due to revolu
tion, are the normals drawn from the curve to the axis, and therefore corresponding
lines in the plane of the paper, we have —
                                                 £}    HL1-JL   TT
whence, writing    R^RjK,        p!=p2K, &c., in (i), and dividing by (ii), we have —
                                  '\pgK          p'-.K   Rj,K/ _D,y
                                             +
                                   Hp2           p'3     B*/
whence                                           K2 = ^r?<
     The empirical formula of the note to page 364 contains the experimental verification
of this result, and shows in addition that the limit of stability     isreached at corre
sponding stages by drops    that develop  similarly, or that this limit  does not depend
on the absolute dimensions of the curve. M. Dupre's tacit assumption that this will
be the case seems to me hardly legitimate.
   M. Dupr6 makes extremely sagacious use of the relative weight of drops whoso
forms while hanging are similar, for finding the surface tension.
   My observations, however, go to show that the depths of residual liquid are not
 usually proportional to the other linear dimensions, and that any such use         is not
•certain to lead to results that are more than approximately correct.
                                                                           2
                                                                           c   2

                          Mr. A. M. Worthington.                         [June   16.
is in no way inconsistent with the variation jnst noticed, for the angle
at which the liquid leaves the tube is practically indeterminate at the
sharp edge of the glass where the liquid can select and attach itself to
some elementary portion inclined at the required angle.                    But this
constancy    of  the real  angle   of contact    accounts    for  the fact that if a
very narrow tube be used, the drop will spread up it on the outside
before separating.      As soon as the angle between the extreme element
of the curve and the vertical side of the tube is equal to this definite
angle of contact the spread will take place.
    It will be noticed, especially with wide tubes, that the base            of the
drop suffers but little change after a certain point.
    The concavity, however, of the upper portion is seen to deepen before
the liquid separates, but the drop remains suspended after this deepen
 ing has begun.
    It is very difficult to tell precisely where separation takes place, since
it is accomplished generally with great rapidity, but I am inclined to
think that it occurs at the place of greatest concavity.
    Sometimes the small secondary drop (observed by Dr. Guthrie) is
seen to follow the main drop.          This was very noticeable in the case of
water dropping through petroleum, where separation is effected com
paratively slowly. The point at which this small drop is first seen
 serves, in this case, to determine fairly accurately the place of separa
 tion.    There can be no doubt that this secondary drop is due to the
 spontaneous segmentation of the cylindrical neck of liquid, which joins
 the upper and lower portions up to the last moment before complete
 separation takes place ; and that it is the same phenomenon that was
 first observed and explained by Mr. Plateau in his experiments on
 cylinders of mercury.*
    It is obvious that if drops are extruded in rapid succession there
 will be a considerable influx of liquid through this residual neck into
 the lower portion after it has begun to separate, and that the drops
 which fall will on this score be larger.
     Since, however, the velocity of the inflowing liquid will produce a
 pressure on the lower portion of the drop, tending to hasten separa
 tion, it is to be expected that a definite increase in the rate of influx
 will produce a greater effect on the size of the drop which falls off
  when the rate of dropping is slow than when it is fast.
     These considerations go far to explain the results of Dr. Guthrie's
  experiments on the influence of the rate of dropping on the drop size.
  It is further evident that an influx of liquid, after separation has
  begun, only complicates the phenomenon, and that it is from a study
  of the curve, when the influx is zero, that we are most likely to obtain
  an insight into the manner and cause of separation.
                      * " Statique Expfsrimentale (lea Liquides."

1881.]                      On Pendent     Drops.                    367
    Perhaps a statement of the physical circumstances under which the
drop develops and separates, in the light of the information afforded
by the tracings, may not be out of place here.
    The cohesion of a liquid, as is well known, manifests itself in a
uniform internal compression (A) which may conveniently be regarded
as transmitted from the surface, and, in addition, a surface tension
 (T) which produces a further pressure proportional, at any point of
the surface, to the sum of the reciprocals of the principal radii of cur
vature at that point, so that the total pressure at any point of the
surface may be written,
                               A+T/I+1Y
                                     \P     P '
    The value of the last term may be positive or negative, according to
 the nature of the curvature, but the total pressure must always be
 positive, indeed the term A is always relatively very great.
    The surface acts in many respects like a membrane stretched uni
 formly in all directions, and in the case of a pendent drop, the liquid
 within may be regarded as sustained by the tension of this skin.
    On ordinary hydrostatic principles the pressure must be the same
.at all points in the same horizontal plane, from which condition the
 equation to the generating curve is at once obtained —
                             v    p  /
 where the axes are those of the figure, D the weight of the unit
 volume of the liquid, and c a constant expressing the pressure due to
 t-urvature at the base of the drop where y=0.
                                   Fig. 2.
    If  we take the radius of curvature    in the plane of the paper as

 ;568                     Mr. A. M. Worthington.                              [June    1(>.
 then   p is the radius of the curvature due to revolution round the axis
 of y, and is equal to the normal PM.
    It is possible to obtain, by inspection of the curve, some notion of
 the value of the total curvature as measured by                          *° '''hich ^e
                                                              (~"'""~r^
 pressure is proportional.
    The length of the normal       p    is of course capable of exact measure
 ment, while that of the radius of curvature p may be obtained approx
 imately by striking the circle of curvature.
    At  a point of recurvature,      -=0,     and the normal       alone determines
                                      P
the pressure.
    If the reader  will trace in this way, in one of the figures, the value
of the total curvature from the vertex of the drop to the base of the
tube at different stages of extrusion, and will, in the case of some one
liquid, compare the final values attained before separation, when tubes
of different diameters are used, he will perceive that, before the drop
has attained its maximum size, the tension of the surface seems to
press the contained liquid against the end of the tube. But, as the drop
increases in size, the tension is more and more exerted in supporting
the additional weight of liquid, and this pressure at the end of the
tube diminishes ; and that this pressure at the base, when the drop
separates, is greater with small tubes than with wide ones, and is
obviously still positive in the case of water hanging from the narrower
 tubes.
    But, with a wide tube, the final value of the total curvature that is
attained before rupture is obviously less than with a narrow tube ; and,
by the methods of measurement, which will be described in the sequel,
it was found that, as the diameter of the tube is increased, the final
value of the curvature becomes gradually smaller, zero, and then
increasingly negative, and here the term A in the expression for the
pressure
                                            \p   p /
gives meaning to the whole expression which would otherwise be nega
tive and meaningless.
    Up to the point at which the curvature at the base is greater than 0
everything would have gone on the same, even though this term A
were non-existent,* the tension of the surface sufficing for the support
of the drop ; but, at this point, the tension ceases to be sufficient, and
is aided by the true internal cohesion of layer for layer of the liquid,
and the adhesion of each unit of area of the liquid for the solid base
   * This is only mathematically, not physically, conceivable.    T  is really a function
of A, and would cease to exist with it.

  1881.]                      On Pendent Drops.                          3fi9
  with which it is in contact. The extent to which this portion of the
  cohesion is called into play in sustaining the weight of the drop, is
  measured by the amount of negative curvature abeve-mentioned.
     Direct evidence of this negative curvature is easily obtained by allow
  ing a drop to hang from the end of an open vertical tube of narrow bore,
 into which a supply of liquid is led by a fine capillary thread ; as the
  drop grows the head of liquid supported may be observed to diminish.
  Owing, however, to the smallness of the change, the slowness with
  which the meniscus in a fine tube adjusts itself, and the liability to
 alteration of the surface tension of the drop through long exposure,
 the method cannot be used with advantage for measuring the curva
 ture.
     It is important, however, to notice that there is not any physical
 breach of continuity, or critical point reached, when the pressure at
 the base becomes zero or negative, which can influence the separation
 of the drop. For there is no reason to suppose that the small negative ¦
 pressure finally attained at the base of the drop, varying as it does
 with the diameter of the tube, represents any physical limit of the
 cohesion, which is probably very great.
     Hence, it is clear that the separation of the drop is to be attributed
 to the surface becoming unstable for small oscillations, rather than to
 the cohesion being in any true sense overcome by the force of gravity,
and that the cleavage of the drop is analogous to the cleavage of the
 nnduloid or cylinder first studied experimentally by M. Plateau.
     It is necessary to insist on this point, for it has been apparently
misconceived by Professor Quincke, who has endeavoured to deduce
 the value of the tension by equating the weight of the drop which
falls to the tension multiplied by the circumference of the tube or
cylinder from which it hangs, the latter being taken so small that the
drop hangs with the uppermost element of the liquid vertical. (See
 fig. 3.)
    The nature of his proceeding     will  be best seen  from the following
quotation.*
                                    Fig.  3.
   • From a paper communicated to the Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin,
May 28, 1868, and translated in " Phil. Mag.," 1869, by Professor Jack. The
italics are my own.

 370                       Mr. A. M. Worthington.                     [June  16,
     " The equation                  ^-=T,
                      (7)            2jit
 is true also for drops formed at the mouth of a vertical pipe on the
 assumption that in consequence of the gradual accession of new fluid the
same pressure is found in the interior fluid at the mouth of the pipe as in
                            " The drop
 a level fluid surface."                   goes on increasing till W=0, or till
 the highest element of the fluid is vertical, and then it falls off.
    " If the radius of the cylinder on which the drop is formed be very
small, the weight of the portion of the fluid which remains hanging
may be neglected, and the weight of the portion of the drop which
falls may be treated as the W in equation (7)."
    He is here speaking of a drop pendent from a tube so small that it
 wets the outside and hangs as in fig. 3.          It is, however, obvious that,
under such circumstances, the surface of the liquid, where vertical,
shares the curvature of the tube, and that the equation of equilibrium
should be 2jrrT=W +-the pressure on the area of the section of
radius r,
or                               27rrT=W + 7rr2-L,
                                                    r
                                     W        T
 or                                        =1.
                                     5J-/-
    In other words, Professor Quincke's value of the tension is precisely
half what it ought to be. Hence, the very low value that he obtains
for the surface tension of water by this method, '0548 as compared
with '08253 by other methods.
    He applies the same equation to Professor Guthrie's experimental
data, although indeed it is not applicable to the larger terminals used
by the latter, so that the approximate agreement of the results with
those obtained by other methods is really due to a fortuitous cancelling
of errors.*
    I will now explain the manner in which the tracing may be used
for evaluating the pressure at the base, and determining the value of
the tension.
    It is convenient to assume first that this pressure is zero, then to
introduce in the value of T the correction which is found from an
examination of the curve to be necessary.
    Assuming then that the pressure at the base is zero, it is evident that if
any horizontal section of the drop be made, the vertically resolved
part of the surface tension across the circumference of this section is
equal to the weight of the portion of the drop below the section, plus
the pressure of the head of liquid reaching from the section to the
bottom of the tube multiplied by the area of the section on which it
acts.
                         * " Pogg. Ann.," vol. cxxxi, p. 137.

1881.]                           On Pendent Drops.                          371
    Thus     if —
       r be the    radius of the section,
       0 the    inclination of the tangent to the axis of revolution,
       H    the head of liquid in centims.,
       V   the volume of the part below the section in cub. centims.,
       T the surface tension in grams per linear centim.,
       D the weight in grams of        1 cub. centim. of the liquid,
 then                        Tcos0x27rr=(V + 5rr!H)D,
                                  T_(V + ^H)D
                                         2irr cos 0
    r and H were measured carefully with compasses and a millimetre
scale, which could be read by estimation to tenths of millimetres, and
•cos 0 was determined directly by the same means after drawing the
 tangent to the curve.         V was obtained by dividing the area below the
section into      narrow   horizontal strips, whose dimensions were measured
 with scale and compasses, and the volume of the solid generated by the
revolution of each, considered as the frustum of a cone, was calculated.
 It was found in practice that the bottom part of the curve is generally
 so nearly circular that the best way is to strike the circle of which it
is the arc, for other parts of the curve lines, ruled at a distance of
 5 or 10 millims. apart (when the magnification         was about fifteen times
linear), gave a sufficiently accurate approximation, it being impossible
to distinguish from straight lines the small portions of the curve inter-
¦cepted    between each pair.
    It was easy, by marking the depth, to take two or more independent
tracings at exactly the same stage of extrusion, and superposition of
these    showed      very complete agreement, and gave confidence in the
result   ;   moreover,    the symmetry of the tracing on the two sides of
the axis affords a check on the accuracy of the drawing. The tangent
is most easily drawn at a point of re-curvature, or where the curvature
in the plane of the paper is small ; on the other hand, an error in the
value of cos 0 increases in importance as 0 increases.
    These considerations should influence the choice of sections.
    Treating in this way the curve of a drop of olive oil hanging in air,
the following values were obtained for the surface tension at the
different sections (1), (2), (3), and (4), which are arranged in order
of increasing area.
                                    T1
                                       = -049401,
                                    T2=-051215,
                                    Ts= -057775,
                                    T4= -065063.
   The discrepancy         at once shows that the assumption of no pressure

372                        Mr. A. M. Worthington.                                       [June 16,
due to curvature at the base is wrong, and that the pressure is in reality
negative, and that each value of the tension requires to be diminished
by a correction which, being proportional in each case to the area of
the section,    will affect the higher values most, the smaller least.                                 If
we call the  unknown pressure due to curvature at the base                                       c,   and
introduce this in the equation, it becomes
                     T cos 0 X llirr= ( V + irr-R) D — irfic,
                          orT_(V + ^H)D                             rc
                                     0 2n-rco8                     2cosf'
so   that   we have now   four equations for determining T and                         c,   viz.,
                                    T=T1 + -2     cos    Ox
                                    T — T J-      r'2c
                                    T=T,+
                                        s
                                          —                    ,
                                                2 cos    0;,
                                    T=T*+2^
any two of which are sufficient.
  Combining these equations by the method of least squares so as
to obtain the most probable values of the unknown quantities, we
get
                    c=— '09943 grm. per square centim.,
                   T=       "03373     grm. per linear centim.,
and using these values        to calculate     the most probable                     values    of the
observed quantities       T15 T2,
                                     &c,   we have
                            Calculated.                             Observed.                           .
                      T1=     -04935            ....                 -04940
                      T,=      05121                                 05181
                      T3= -05777                                     •05688
                      T<= -06506                                     ¦06538
   It remains to observe that, as will appear in the table of results,
the pressure due to curvature at the base was found to be negative
even where the drop hung from a plane surface of indefinite extent
which     wetted entirely.
          it
     It
     must be admitted that the surface here (see fig.   Plate     really        1,          7)
passes  into continuous plane where the curvature, and consequently
               a
the pressure due to curvature,     zero   and that, nevertheless, at an
                                           is      ;
indefinitely small distance below this, the pressure due to curvature
is   undoubtedly negative.

                                 '
1881.]                             On Pendent Drops.                               37a
     The explanation is, I think, to be found in the fact that the liquid
film which wets the surface, is, by reason of the contact, in a modified
condition, viscous and unable to transmit pressure like the rest of the
liquid.* The existence of such modified covering films seems to have
been well established by Professor Quincke. t
    I  have endeavoured to lessen the labour of calculating the volume
of liquid supported by the tension at any section, by cutting out of a
uniform sheet of card the area by whose revolution round the axis this
volume is generated.            The magnitude of this area was found by
weighing, and the position of its centre of gravity by balancing on a
knife-edge, from which, by applying the well known " Property of
 Guldinus," the volume of the solid was at once obtained.                      Owing,
 however, chiefly to the unequal thickness of even the most uniform
 material, whether card or metal foil, that            I could procure, the results
 obtained in this way were liable to differ from those obtained by the
 previously described method of integration by 1 or 2 per cent., so that
 the method cannot be recommended.                  I have, however, retained in
 the following table the measure of T obtained in this way for water in
 a particular case, and have also inserted for comparison the values thus
 obtained at different sections of a chloroform drop. The table con
 tains the record of results obtained in the way described.
     In most cases a tube was used, the diameter of which is recorded,
 instead of a plane surface of indefinite extent, since it was found
 difficult to prevent the drop from gliding about and getting out of
 focus, when pendent from the latter.
     The temperature (when recorded) is that indicated by a thermo
 meter placed close to the drop.
     The surface tension (T) is expressed          in grams per centim.
                            Olive Oil (density -92129).
                 Indefinite plane.       Temperature      about   18° C.
                              Calculated.                Obserred.
                         T1= -04935           ....        -04940
                         T3=    -05121        ....         05181
                         T3= -05777           ....        -05688
                         T4=    -06506        ....        -06538
                                      c=-    09943
                                     T=       03373
    *  It sometimes seemed to me that the rest of the liquid started out of this films
 at a small but definite angle, of which  I obtained the following measures in the case
of turpentine hanging from a flat iron terminal, which it wetted to an indefinite-
distance :— 18°, 20°, 21°-5, 20°-5, 19P-2 mean 19°-84.
       " Phil. Mag.," June,
    t                        1878.

374                 Mr. A. M. Worthington.                        [June
                      Alcohol (density -8001).
    Diameter of tube '9525 centim.       Temperature     about 18° C.
                      Calculated.               Observed.
                  ^="03396           ....        -03415
                  T2= -03617         ....         03583
                  T3=  -03821        ....        -03834
                              c=--05596
                             T=     -02586
               Russian Turpentine (density -8679).
    Diameter of tube 1-153 centim.       Temperature     about 18° C.
                      Calculated.               Observed.
                 T1= -040185                     •040354
                 T.3= 042123                     •042088
                 T3= -045613                     ¦045749
                              c=-   -081236
                            T=      -028179
                   Chloroform (density 1-51294).
         Diameter of tube    -9525.    Temperature about     15°.
                              Drop No.    1.
                      Calculated.               Observed.
                 T1= -037113          ....       -037354
                 T3= 039542           ....       -039239
                 T3= -048582          ....       -048644
                             c=   - -04438
                            T=      -03025
                            Drop No.    2.
                       Observed.             Bv" weighing.
                  T1=   -02983                   -02921
                  T2= -03034                     •02949
                  T3= -03074                     •03005
                                                 •02958
                  T5= -03046                     •02965
           T=mean= '03034

1881.]                      On Pendent Drop?.                           375
  Here the difference between the values at different sections wns        so-
small that c was neglected and the mean taken.
                                    Water.
          Diameter of tube    -9525 centim.      Temperature  —
                       Calculated.                Observed.
                   T,=   -098829        ....       -098804
                   T2= 092912           ....       -09324
                   T.,= -098829         ....       -098804
                                c=- -07625
                               T=      -080056
      Diameter of tube -9525 centim.         Temperature about   18° C.
                                Ti=   -078802
                                T2= -077588
                                Ts= -078349
                               T4= -078592
  Here the difference was    so small    that the correction was neglected
and the mean taken —
                                T=   -078327.
  In saturated air.   Temperature      about 15° C.     December 4, 1880.
                     Diameter of tube     1*252 centim.
                        Calculated.               Observed.
                           09376        ....       -09377
                    T2= -09677          ....       -09648
                    Ts= -010005         ....       -010001
                                c=--12547
                               T=      -07359
                            Water (continued).
                  Indefinite plane.      October  15, 1880.
                        Calculated.              Observed.
                    T1= -10158          ....      -10142
                    T,= 10999           ....      -11023
                    Ts= 11528           ....      -11522
                                c=-     -11600
                               T=       -07383

376                              On Pendent Drops.                                       [June 16,
                                      By weighing.
                Diameter of tube         -9525.         Temperature         4° C.
                            Calculated.                         Observed.
                       T1=      -07598           ....            -07516
                       T2= -07685                ....            -07797
                       T.,= -07930               ....            -07897
                                        c=-      -03030
                                         T=       07180
  It will     be observed    that the values of             T for water vary very             con
siderably.     Moreover,    on no occasion have                 I obtained
                                                           high a value       so
as the mean -08253 deduced by Professor Quincke by the method of
flat bubbles.
   The agreement of the measures is in each case so close as to leave no
doubt  that the surface tension of the liquid really differed con
siderably on different occasions.   I have at present no better explana
tion of this to offer than the fact that the surface tension of water is
particularly liable to diminution by exposure to the impurities of the
atmosphere.
  To aid a comparison of the method with that of flat drops or
bubbles, on which Professor Quincke seems chiefly to rely,     append                     I
a table giving the values of the tensions by the two methods in
parallel columns. It is to be observed that the liquids used are often
not quite the same, as is indicated by the difference of density.
  The name of the observer is signified by the initial letter.
                                                                 Surface tension in grams
                                      Density.
                                                                        per centim.
      Name of substance.
                                 Q.              W.               Q-                 W.
      Water                 l               1                     08253      •0718 to 08005
                                •7906           •8001             02599          •02586
                                ¦88<?7          •8679             03030           028179
                                ¦9136         •92129              03760           03373
                            ] -1878         1 5129               •03120           03025
   Professor Quincke's result in the case of water is the mean of seven
measures ranging between -0800 and -0892 ; that for turpentine is
the mean of eight ranging from -0284 to -0318; that for olive oil is
the mean of seven, ranging from "03617 to -04113.
   The method of flat drops and bubbles                   is,
                                               as he himself points out,
only approximate, since the curvature due     to revolution   neglected,            is
and    liable to give results that are rather too high.
      is

1881.]         Mr. A.   J.   Ellis.            On the Potential           Radix.          377
   The method which I am advocating is open to no such objection ;
it moreover rapid, allowing little time for the alteration by exposure
   is
of the surface under consideration, and it is independent of the very
difficult determination of the contact angle of liquid and solid, which
enters into some other methods.
   At the same time the results are probably not so accurate as could
be obtained by the use of photography for recording the form of the
drop.
    Iam in hopes of obtaining, by its means, results which may, in some
measure, serve to verify the fundamental assumptions of the theory on
-which the value of the so-called surface tension is calculated.
   Of the phenomena, to which                  I
                                    have ventured incidentally to call
attention, that of the approximate constancy of the drop-depth, re
quires closer investigation than           I
                                  have been able to give   as   seems          it,   it
to offer a very satisfactory means of obtaining a first approximation
to the value of the surface tension. In all experiments on this sub
ject the scrupulous     cleanliness         necessary renders pro
                                           so absolutely
gress slower than many would suppose, which     my excuse for pre    is
senting  an investigation, which trustImay be found  useful, though
obviously incomplete.
III.    " Postscript to the Chronological Summary of Methods of
        Computing Logarithms in my Paper on the Potential
        Radix."    By Alexander J. Ellis, B.A., F.K.S., F.S.A.
        Received May 18, 1881.
    After the publication of my " Chronological Summary of Methods of
                             in the "
                                                  " for 3rd
Computing Logarithms,"                 Proceedings            February,
1881 (vol. 31, pp. 401-407), Mr. Isaac Todhunter, F.R.S., kindly
pointed out to me an almost unknown pamphlet by George Atwood,
F.R.S., inventor of " Atwood's Machine," which he informs me                               is
not mentioned even by Dr. Thomas Young, in his account of Atwood.
A copy of the pamphlet        in the library of the Royal Astronomical
                             is
Society, and at the request of Mr. Peter Gray, F.R.A.S., was kindly
lent to me for inspection.    The following account of this important
and little known work should be inserted in my summary, on p. 403,
between 1771, Flower, and 1802, Leonelli —             :
   1786. Atwood, George, P.R.S.       "An Essay on the Arithmetic of
Factors, applied to various computations which occur in the practice of
numbers." This    isessentially a method, when any number A       given,             is
of finding factors, M, p, r,  q,     such that A x M being very nearly
                                      s,   t,
=1, of the form -9 .    .
                        .  or L0 . ., and p,
                                      .              being of the form
                                                           q,   r,   s,
                                                                      t
1   +
    m0nk (where  0„ means n successive zeroes, as in the notation of my

                Mr. A.   J.   Ellis.    On the Potential     Radic.      [June  16.
paper, or, as Atwood writes 1 . [«]/.• or 1 . [n]£) then               \=AlipqrtL,
to any required number of decimal places.                   Atwood    works to 13
places to secure 1 2, and applies the result to extraction            of roots, 4c,
as   well as to the computation of logarithms and anti-logarithm.*,
which can alone be noticed here. It is evident that when these factors
are once found — log A=log M + log p + log q + . . . to any base, and
that p, q, &c, and log p, log q, &c, will be numbers and logarithms
in a positive or negative numerical radix (vol. 31, p. 398) according
as p, q, &c, are of the form 1 + '0nk or 1 — "0„&.
   If B=the first or two first figures of 10" -5- A, then we may take
M=B-=-10", where n is the number of places in the integer of A, or
 — n is the number of zeroes between the decimal point and the first
significant digit.      This determination of M is an anticipation of
the   "                              " of Thoman, 1867, and Atwood's Table
        reciproques approchos
IV of the values of B is equivalent to the two first columns of
Thoman's Table I, and of Hoppe's Table IV. The number is thus
reduced to the form        "9 ...  or 1*0 . . .
   Taking     the first case,     where the reduced       number is less than 1,
Atwood multiplies it           " up to 1," which is a revival of Flower's
reflected   rule, with     which     Atwood was clearly not acquainted.         But
instead of retaining the reduced number in the form '9 . . ., and
finding the factors l'0ant as Flower did, by taking m = the excess of
9 over the corresponding          digit in the number, Atwood transforms it
into the form 1 — -0 . . ., by subtracting each digit, except the last,
from 9, and the last from 10.               This is an anticipation of Hoppe's
artifice, 1876.      In this case the values of m in l'O.m are the succes
sive digits of 1 — "0 . . . themselves.
    The product of the resulting factors, say, 1*04, 1"0S6, 1'0,1 (or in
Atwood's notation 1 . [1]4, 1 . [3]6, 1 . [4]1), were not written as a pro
duct but as 1 "04061, the line underneath indicating that it is not a
decimal fraction, and the position of each digit indicating the number
of preceding zeroes in the corresponding factor. The figures under
lined correspond precisely to Flower's "line of ratios." To find the
nat. log of this product 104061, Atwood observes that it is very
nearly "04061, which, however, is too large, and requires correction,
 being in fact the sum of the first terms of the nat. logs of the factors.
 This correction he finds by assuming that log l-0gl=-06l to 13
 places, and similarly for all smaller numbers, which determines the
 kind of logarithm, and then he finds the logarithms of larger num
 bers in his radix by resolution into factors.           Finally he tabulates only
 the differences or 0Hm— nat. log (l + -0Bn?) in his Table I, which is
                         '
 thus identical with Hoppe's Table             III to the first 13 places.  By this
 table and resolution into factors, Atwood calculates log B (where B
 consists of two digits, and is between 1 and 10), and his Table HI,

1881.]             Mr. A.    J. Ellis.    On the Potential        Radix.             379
the equivalent of Hoppe's Table II, and (with the substitution of natural
for tabular logarithms) of Thoman's Table I, col. last. Atwood's
first case is therefore precisely the same as Hoppe's method, having
identical tables but a different arrangement of computations and
notation.
     Taking the second case, where the reduced number is greater than 1,
Atwood multiplies it " down to 1." The process of finding the
factors is precisely that of Weddle, 1845 ; Hearn, 1847 ; Thoman,
1867 ; and Wace, 1873 ; exemplified in my former paper (vol. 31,
p. 400).
             +
               The product of the factors (1--04),             (l-   036), (1--041), is
written      1'04061,    for which might      be substituted        1—  '04061, where
 — "04061 is the sum of the first terms of the natural logarithms of the
factors, which in this case are all negative.               Hence on calculating a
          of            — nat. log
                                     (1— '0„m), which is easily done by the
table         — '0nm
first case, we find the corrections.                These are given in Atwood's
 Table II, which has not been given by any subsequent writer, because
 Hearn and Thoman, using tabular logarithms, gave the complete
 value of the tab. log of the factors, instead of corrections for the
 first term.
     Hence it appears that Atwood, 1786, rediscovered Flower's method,
 1771, but transformed it in the manner carried out ninety years later
 by Hoppe, 1876 ; and not only anticipated Weddle's method, 1845,
 but showed the connexion of the two methods, as that of multiplying
 the reduced number " up to 1 " in the first case, and " down to 1 " in
 the second.       To Atwood, then, must be attributed the real discovery
 of these methods, their correlation, and their subordination to a
  general principle of an
                                  " arithmetic of factors," and the merit of
 having calculated his tables, as he says (p. 36), " without reference to
  the hyperbola, binomial theorem, or any fluxional process, by multi
 plication only, the elementary properties of ratios and of powers and
  their indices being granted."
     Errata. — The following slight errors escaped correction in my former papers :
  vol. 31, p. 397, 1. 1,/or The preparation read In Ex. 2 the preparation j same page,
  L 18, for Here read In Ex. 3 ; p. 398, 1. 15 from bottom, for Wolframm read
  Wolfram ; p. 399, 1. 6, read paper, by the positive numerical radix, and dele 1. 9 ;
  p. 405, 1. 9 from bottom, read (supra, p. 382) ; p. 406, 1. 6, read *Gray ; ibid., 1. 19
  from bottom, read fPineto; ibid., 1.17 from bottom, read Petersburg; and 1. 9
  from bottom, read Thesaurus, and p. 409,    1. last, read gives (on p. 412).
      VOL. XXXII.

 380                         Mr. C. Wesendonck.                        [June 16,
 IV. " Note   on the Spectrum            of Carbonic Acid." By CHARLES
       Wesendonck (Berlin).             Communicated by Professor Helm-
       holtz, For. Mem. R.S.            Received May 16, 1881.
    The well-known spectrum first observed by Swan at the inner
 cone of a number     of flames produced by burning liquid and gaseous
combinations of carbon, has been ascribed by Messrs. Attfield* and
 Wattsf to the element carbon itself ; while several other natural philo
sophers, amongst whom        I  only mention Messrs. Thalen and Angstrom,      J
 P. Smyth, Liveing§ and Dewar,|| believe it to be due to some com
bination of carbon with hydrogen.               The fact that the bands and
lines of Swan's spectrum are seen even when oxide or binoxide of
carbon is made luminous in a Geissler tube by means of an electric
current, the last-named gentlemen explain as being caused by the
gases not having been entirely deprived of all moisture when intro
duced into the vacuum tube.               I  therefore believed it to be not
altogether without interest to make some experiments on carbonic
acid dried with the utmost care. For this purpose I used a mercurial
pump, as invented by Professor Toepler, with some slight changes in
the original construction indicated by Dr. Hagen,^[ which enables us
not only to obtain the most perfect vacua, but also to avoid every
cock or junction by slided pieces, which must be greased in order to
be hermetic, so that no vapours and gases containing carbonic matters
arising from the grease, either by increase of temperature or by the
electric current when passing the vacuum tube, would render impure
the carbonic acid, as is the case with the common Geissler pumps.
Carbonic acid was produced in the well-known manner from marble
and diluted muriatic acid in a Kippian apparatus, well washed with
water in a large Woolf's bottle, and then sent through concentrated
sulphuric acid, three tubes of \J form containing chloride of calcium,
and a double tube half filled with anhydride of phosphoric acid.             To
this last tube were fastened, by means of sealing, two Geissler glass
cocks, being on the other side fastened by sealing to a valve of sul
phuric acid, that prevented all vapours coming from the cocks from
entering the vacuum tube. After all air had been driven and pumped
out of the whole apparatus, the spectrum tube was evacuated to the
highest possible degree, in order to free it from all moisture adherent
to the sides of the glass.        This, however, was found to cause some
                   •  "Phil.   Trans.," vol. 152, 1862.
                      " Phil.
                  t            Msg.," Ser. 4, vol. 38, 1869.
                  j   " Nova Acta. Upsal.," Scr. 3, vol. 9.
                      " Phil. Mag.," (5), 8, 1879.
                   §
                      " Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 30, 1880.
                   ||
                  %   "Wiedemann's     Annalen," Neue Folge, Bd. 12, 1881.

1881.]           Note on  tlie Spectrum    of Carbonic Acid.               381
difficulty, for the green hydrogen line was seen with great constancy
in high vacua, even if not the least trace of it could be remarked
when the carbonic acid spectrum could be seen brightly.                I  soon
recognised that the more the gas had been deprived of moisture, the
further had the exhaustion to be carried on to render the said line
visible again, but for a long time I could not get quite rid of it. By
repeatedly filling and exhausting the vacuum tube, in doing which the
 gas naturally was only permitted to pass very slowly through the
phosphoric anhydride tube, and the spectrum tube was heated to the
 highest degree possible,   I at last arrived at such a degree of perfect
 dryness as no more to give any trace of the fatal green line, not even
 if the tube was exposed to high temperature ; this, indeed, always had
 the effect of driving into the vacuum some matter adherent to the
 sides of the glass, and causing the illumination of the tube, when this
 had been so far exhausted as no longer to permit any current to pass,
 to reappear.    But the brilliant mercury spectrum seen under such cir
 cumstances    showed  nothing of a hydrogen line. Nevertheless, after
 this exceedingly high degree of dryness had been obtained, when there
 was some gas admitted into the spectrum tube and this again ex
 hausted, the fatal line was feebly seen, showing clearly that the gas
 had not been entirely deprived of its moisture by its passing through
 the system of drying apparatuses.          I therefore finally only experi
 mented with such carbonic acid as had been in perpetual contact with
  the phosphoric anhydride during at least twelve hours, and it was not
  till now that I got rid of every trace of the hydrogen lines. When
  making the experiments that       I believe to be decisive, I always took
  care to convince myself, by rarefying, not only that the gas had
  remained perfectly dry, but also that the current had not introduced
  any trace of hydrogen or hydrocarbon when passing through the tube ;
  for both would have been discovered in the high vacuum by the
  appearance of the green line, the spectrum of hydrogen being by no
  means oppressed by that of carbon in such a vacuum, as        I most clearly
  observed when experimenting      with olefine gas, which  in  a very rarefied
  state shows from the beginning of the current's passage a very dis
  tinct spectrum of the first order of hydrogen, besides the one of carbon.
  If the bands and lines observed by Swan really belonged to hydro
  carbon only they could not have appeared in our case, but they did
  appear very distinctly and clearly, as soon as the density of the gas
  became great enough to oblige the current to pass as a spark
  through the vacuum tube ; and even not less brightly was Swan's
  spectrum seen at much lower pressures by using a Leyden jar. Tha
  capillary tube hi which the said spectrum alone was seen was then
  wholly filled by the luminous discharge ; no real spark appeared in
  this case, while the wide parts of the spectrum tube showed
  Watte' second carbon spectrum.         It is these last-mentioned experi-
                                                               2 d 2

382        Mr.   J. S. Russell.        The Ware      of Translation.      [June 16,
merits only, made by use of a Leyden jar, that                   I   believe to be
decisive, and to prove irrefutably that Swan's spectrum cannot be
ascribed solely to hydrocarbon.              As to the phenomenon shown by
sparks, it is not quite so convincing; for, accepting Wiillner's*
ideas, one could object that the spark affecting only a set of molecules
of infinitely small transverse section could have carried forth from the
electrodes an exceedingly small quantity of hydrogen, which would
quite escape observation when expanded throughout the whole vacuum
tube, but would be sufficient to induce the hydrocarbon spectrum in
the line of the spark. This explanation, however,            I do not think to be
at all probable.      The tube used in these experiments was of common
size ;  the ends of the electrodes, which were of aluminium, had a dis
tance of about 15 centims. from one another.               Some results, differing
from those just mentioned, were obtained in a wide spectrum tube
without capillary tube, the ends of its electrodes being distant about
3 centims. from one another.                The spark then no longer exhibited
Swan's spectrum, even when the carbonic acid was not dried with
the utmost care, as in the above-mentioned researches ; but there
were seen the enlarged maxima of Watts' second spectrum, which I have
shown by some researches, of which a short account has been published
in the " Berlin. Monatsb.," 1880, p. 791, to be generally due to the
continuous form of discharge, according to the nomenclature of Messrs.
Thalen and Angstrom. If the density of the gas was still increased,
there flashed a very brilliant line spectrum, never before observed by
me, in a tube of common size. These facts, at all events, show that
there exists some relation between the different orders and forms of
spectra and the conditions of discharges (probably, according to my
opinion, the quantities of electricity sent through the unit of space in
the unit of time,     till now unknown to us) that will doubtless become
clear as soon as the causes governing spark discharges shall be better
recognised — a subject on which Sir W. Thomsonf says that it is
difficult even to conjecture an explanation.
V. "The Wave of Translation and the Work it does as the
       Carrier Wave of Sound." By John Scott Russell, F.R.S.
       Received June 13, 1881.
                                        Synopsis.
   Short history of the wave of translation discovered by me in 1832-3.
Investigation of its shape, nature, speed, and difference from all other
waves in its character as a solitary carrier wave.
        • Wiillner, " Lehrbuch   der Experimental Pbysik," vol.  2, p. 260, Ac.
        t Papers on
                     " Electrostatics," &c., p. 247.

1881.]        On Electrical Stimulation         of the Frogs Heart.               383
   The application of this solitary wave in air to the carrying of sound.
   Errors of the phrases in general use for the explanation of the con
veyance of sound.
   My theory of the mode in which sound is propagated as distin
guished from the mode of its creation.
   Consideration of the aerial wave of sound, its analogy to the solitary
wave in water.
   The depth of the air ocean and its correspondence to that of the
water ocean.
   The speed of the solitary or carrier wave in each element. The speed
is due to the depth.         What happens in the interior of the solitary
wave in water ? The same motions take place in the same nature of
aerial wave.
   Elucidation by the comparison of three equivalent oceans.
   Similarity and dissimilarity between the oscillating waves and the
carrier or soWary wave.
   Musical sounds in their melodic and harmonic relations to this
wave.     Numerical nomenclature of sounds.
    How the message of the sound wave is delivered to the brain.
 VI.   "On     the Effect of Electrical Stimulation of the Frog's
       Heart, and its Modification by Cold, Heat, and the Action
       of Drugs." By T. Lauder Brunton, M.D., F.R.S., and
       Theodore Cash, M.D.             Received May 16, 1881.
                                     (Abstract.)
   From the results of the recorded experiments conducted on the
frog's heart in its normal position and still exercising its circulatory
function, we have found —
    I. That electrical stimulation by a single induced shock has either
an obvious effect on the contraction and rhythm of the organ, or no
such effect is apparent.
    II. That the effect is modified by —
                                                                              —
    (a.) The time of the cardiac cycle in which stimulation falls. Thus
Marey has already shown that a so-called refractory period is demon
strable under certain conditions.*          Well-marked variations in latency
when the stimulation is potent to induce a systolic contraction are to
be recognised.
                                                             — Refractory periods
    (b.) The strength of the stimulation applied.
possible under minimal stimulation can no longer be demonstrated
   • The conditions of this refractory period, or '* period of diminished excitability,"
                                                                                " Proc.
have been very  fully investigated by Dr. Burdon Sanderson and Mr.      Page.
Koy. Soc.," vol. 30, p. 373.

384         On   the  Action of Ammonia and its Salts,    Sfc.   [June  16,
under maximal, whilst a disturbance of the relationship of auricular
and ventricular contractions may be induced.
   (c.) The area of the heart to which stimulation is applied. — A refrac
tory period demonstrable under stimulation of the ventricle may cease
to occur when the sinus venosus is the seat of irritation.
   (d.) The action of heat, cold, and drugs. — Thus cold prolongs the
systole, the refractory period, and the latency of an induced contrac
tion ; whilst strychnia, leaving the curve of systole unaltered, lengthens
the refractory period to a marked degree.
VII.   " On the Action of Ammonia and its Salts, and of Hydro
      cyanic Acid upon Muscle and Nerve." By T. LaUDER
      Brunton, M.D., F.R.S., and Theodore Cash, M.D. Re
      ceived May 26, 1881.
                                 (Abstract.)
   Ammonia. — The curve caused by stimulating either muscle or nerve
is prolonged.     Fatigue increases this prolongation much more rapidly
than it would do in the case of a healthy muscle.           The viscosity,
or residual contraction, remaining after active contraction is much
more increased in the case of direct (muscle) than of indirect (nerve)
stimulation.
   Chloride of Ammonium. — A powerful, though slightly lengthened,
contraction occurs on direct stimulation. The muscle, as stimulated
from the nerve, yields a few (if any) lengthened and feeble contractions,
and then ceases to respond altogether to stimulation.
   Nitrate of Ammonium. — The nerve, in this case, is not more affected
by the poison than the muscle. If the poisoning be very complete,
neither direct nor indirect stimulation has any effect ; if it is not so,
the cnrve is observed to be prolonged.         In the case of both, but
especially in that of the directly stimulated muscle, the contraction
remaining after stimulation is very extensive.
   Nitrite of Ammonium. — If poisoning be complete, no reaction occurs
either on direct or indirect stimulation ; if not, the curves of both are
much prolonged, even more so than in the case of the nitrate.          The
rapid repetition   of  stimulation causes the curve to become   enormously
prolonged, whilst the viscosity after the active contraction is much
increased.
   Cyanide   of Ammonium. — Stimulation of the nerve produces no
effect whatever; whilst that of the muscle causes a considerable
though prolonged curve.       Viscosity is much increased.     The curve of
hydrocyanic acid alone, yielded by both direct and indirect stimulation,
is prolonged, but it neither shows the length nor the viscosity of the

  1881.]                   On Stratified Discharges.                       385
 cyanide muscle curve    ;  whilst its nervous contraction    is still powerful
 in contrast to the utter loss of excitability in the latter.
    The latency varies in the case of the different salts of ammonia.
 Thus, in stimulating the nerve, it is much lengthened in the chloride,
 and still more so in the cyanide — if the muscle be examined soon
 enough to yield response to nerve stimulation — it is increased slightly
 by ammonia, and by its nitrate and nitrite. In direct stimulation, the
 latency appears to be increased in the cyanide nitrate and nitrite, un
 altered in the chloride and hydrocyanic acid, and unaltered or slightly
 decreased in the early stages of poisoning by ammonia.
 VIII.    " On Stratified
                            Discharges. VI. Shadows of Striae." By
       William Spottiswoode, President R.S., and J. Fletcher
       Moulton, F.R.S. Received May 27, 1881.
    One of the most interesting questions connected with the subject
 of stratified discharges is this : What is the physical, as distinguished
from the electrical, nature of the striee themselves ? Are they, in
fact, to be regarded as aggregations of matter possessing greater
density than the gas present in the dark spaces, or are they to be
considered as indicating merely special local electrical conditions ?
The fact of their having a definite configuration, especially on the
side which is turned towards the negative terminal of the tube, that
of their temperature being higher than that of the dark spaces, the
manner in which they are affected by solid bodies, and other considera
tions, all tend to give support to the view that the striro are loci of
greater density than the dark spaces.        Still it can hardly be said that
as yet any experimental proof of this has been given, sufficiently
decisive to decide the question conclusively.         And it is in the hope of
contributing something towards the solution of this question that
the following experiments are submitted to the notice of the Royal
Society.
     In the former papers of this series (" Proc. Roy. Soc," vols. 23, 27),
and in our memoirs " On the Sensitive State of Vacuum Discharges
                                                                              "
("Phil. Trans.," 1879, p. 155, and 1880, p. 561), we have described
experiments which show how a discharge through a. tube, whether
sensitive or non-sensitive, may be affected in various ways by inter
mittent discharges ab extra. In the experiments now to be described
the problem has been reversed, and it has been proposed to ascertain
how far such an external discharge can itself be affected by the
internal one. The discharge ab extra, however, presents such feeble
luminosity, that it is not possible to come to any certain conclusions
on this head by direct methods.        But, as has been before pointed out,

 386       Messrs.  W. Spottiflwoode and      J. F. Moulton.    [June IS,
the intermittent discharge ah extra is eminently calculated to produce
Crookes' green phosphorescence, and the effect produced on this
phosphorescence by the striae of the internal discharge proves to be
not only well marked, but even striking, and of this we now propose
to give an account.
    In the second of the two memoirs above quoted, Section 14, we
studied " the effect of intermittent inductive action of an impulsive
type upon continuous discharges."       In the present instance the instru
mental disposition was not very different from that which was there
described.     The -two terminals of a Holtz machine were connected in
the usual way with the two terminals of the tube, so as to produce
a stratified discharge.      A narrow strip of tin-foil, or a wire, was
stretched along the tube opposite the column of stria?, but not extend
ing much beyond it. The reason for the latter precaution will be
mentioned below.       The positive terminal of a second Holtz machine
(in practice   we used for this purpose a Toppler machine) was connected
with the tin-foil, and the negative terminal with one (either) terminal
of the tube. An air-spark, or interval across which sparks could pass,
was interposed in the part of the circuit between the machine and the
tin-foil. The effect of this arrangement was similar to that described
in our first memoir, p. 170, viz., in the interval between two sparks
the tin-foil and tube became charged like a Leyden jar ; the tin-foil
being the outer coating, charged positively, and the gas inside serving
as the inner coating, charged negatively.         When the spark passed
across the interval mentioned above, the jar (i.e., the tube) became
discharged, and the electricity previously held bound on the two
coatings was set free.
                                "
    When the first (say the internal ") machine was not working, or
when it was disconnected, i.e., when no regular discharge was passing
through the tube, then, whenever a spark passed at the second (or
" external
             ") machine, a negative discharge with its accompanying
 Crookes'   radiation  took place from the inside of the tube next the
 tin-foil, and the opposite side of the tube became covered with a sheet
of green phosphorescence (the tube being of German glass).             The
length of the sheet was equal to, or very slightly greater than, that of
the tin-foil strip, while the breadth was measured by the angular
 dispersion from the strip, as described in the second memoir.
    When, however, other things remaining as before, a discharge from
the internal machine was sent through the tube, and a good stratified
column was produced, it was found that the green phosphorescence was
entirely cut off from the parts of the tube opposite to the striae, while
on the parts opposite to the dark spaces it remained, in the form of phos
phorescent rings, at least as brilliant as before. The experiment was
repeated with various tubes with various degrees of strength of current,
and with various densities of gas (produced by heating a chamber of

 1881.]                  On Stratified Discharges.                      387
 potash in connexion with the tube).     It may be added that when, as is
sometimes the case, through greater exhaustion, the striae became
feebler in illumination and less compact in appearance, the shadows
cast by them lost proportionally in sharpness of definition and in
completeness of extinction of the phosphorescent light.
    The reason for not extending the tin-foil beyond the column of striae
is, that when this is done the negative discharge from inside the strip
combines with that going on in the main dark space behind the anchored
strise in such a manner as to shorten the column by the length of the
strip. When this takes place, as is often, although not always the
case, the experiment is frustrated.
    The brilliancy and definition of the phosphorescent rings may be
increased by inserting a small Leyden jar in the circuit, care being
taken that the jar shall discharge itself completely each time. If this
is not the case, the main discharge is followed by subsidiary discharges,
which tend to blur the effect.   The angle of dispersion may be increased,
or rather supplemented, by placing more than one strip on the tube,
distant from one another by an angle of 90° or 120°. By this means
the rings may be made to comprise the entire circumference of the
tube.
    It should be here mentioned that if the striated column be carefully
examined at the moment when the external discharge passes, it will be
noticed that the entire column (or more strictly speaking the part of
it lying between the positive terminal and the end of the tin-foil nearest
to the positive terminal) undergoes a slight displacement.        This dis
placement amounts usually to half the distance between two striae.
The actual shadows cast in the green phosphorescence are those due
to the displaced striae, as may be easily verified.
    It thus appears that the striae are competent to cast shadows in the
radiant showers issuing from the inside of the tube adjacent to the tin
foil, which part acts as a negative terminal.     Many experiments have
contributed    to show that these  radiant  showers, although accompani
ments of the discharge, are not carriers of the discharge ; and that,
having once issued from their source, they continue their own course
irrespective of that of the discharge proper.    They are in fact material
showers, and, although not improbably charged with electricity, yet
their ulterior course does not appear to depend on their electrical
condition. Under these circumstances the most probable explanation
of the phenomena above described appears to be that the showers are
arrested by material obstacles in the shape of striae ; and consequently
if that be the case, we here have an experimental proof that the striae
represent loca l aggregations  of matter, and not merely special electrical
conditions of the gas.

388        Messrs.    W. Spottiswoode and     J. F. Moulton.     [June 16,
IX.    " On Stratified Discharges.      VII.   Multiple Radiations from
       the Negative Terminal."           By William Spottiswoode,
       P.R.S., and J. Fletcher            Moulton, F.R.S.        Received
       June   16, 1881.
    In our memoirs " On the Sensitive State of Vacuum Discharges "
we have often alluded to, and even insisted on, the importance of the
remarkable dissymmetry which manifests itself in electrical discharges
in  gases at low pressures.   As the pressure is lowered this dissymmetry
becomes more and more marked ; the striffi themselves become indi
vidually unsymmetrical, and recede one by one into the positive ter
minal ; the features which are associated with the negative increase
in importance, until at last they occupy almost the entire area of the
tube.     The researches of De La Rue, Crookes, Goldstein, and others,
have intended to increase the interest which attaches to the action
which takes place at the negative terminal. And it is with a view of
adding one more contribution to the interpretation of the phenomena
of the negative discharge and the analysis of its nature and modus
operandi that the present experiments are described.
    On examining the image of a negative terminal as traced out in
tubes of great exhaustion, by the phosphorescence due to Crookes'
radiations, we have often noticed that the image was not a simple
figure, but that more than one outline of the contour of the terminal
might be traced. From the fact of the double contour having been
first remarked, where the terminal was of a conical form, it was at
first supposed that the second image might be due to internal reflexion,
or to some property appertaining to the edge of the cone. But this
supposition led to no satisfactory explanation of the phenomenon.
    It was, however, thought that, inasmuch as the two images implied
 different  systems of radiation, a magnet, suitably disposed, might
affect them in different degrees, and thereby throw some light on
 their origin. For this purpose we used a large electro-magnet with
 its coils so coupled up as to give the two poles similar polarity.    By
bringing the two poles together, inclined at a moderate angle, a single
pole and a field of great magnetic strength was produced.
    The tube was then placed in the plane containing the axis of the
two poles, and in the direction of a line bisecting their directions.
 The tubes first used were of great exhaustion, and were placed some
times with the positive, sometimes with the negative terminal towards
the magnet.       When the tube was placed in a comparatively weak
part of the field, the two images of the cone were seen in their usual
positions relatively to each other, except that they were slightly more
 separated.    But as the tube was brought gradually into a stronger
 part   of the  field, the two images became further separated, and by

1881.J                    On Stratified Discharges.                      389
degrees a third, a fourth, and even more images were brought out on
the side of the tube.       In one tube of very high exhaustion, for
•which we are indebted to Mr. Crookes, as many as eight images
became visible.
    The phenomena here described having been once clearly seen in
tubes of high exhaustion, with conical terminals, and under the in
fluence of a very powerful magnet, were afterwards distinguished in
other tubes of less exhaustion, with other forms of terminal, and in a
less powerful magnetic field.
    In the absence of a magnet, the lines of radiation are approxi
mately (though not exactly) normal to the surface of the negative
terminal for all the images ; and in a magnetic field their tendency is
to follow the lines of magnetic force which pass through the point of
issue from that surface.     The effect of the magnet, therefore, whether
the positive or the negative terminal of the tube is presented to the
pole, is to direct the lines of radiation more nearly along these lines
of force than they would be without its action ; and since lines of
weaker radiation would be more affected than lines of stronger
radiation it follows that different images, formed by lines of
different strength (or velocity of discharge) would be separated from
one another by the magnet.        A similar result would follow if they
differed in other respects in their normal condition.
   We have then, as an experimental fact, a series of images, each
formed by a system of rays issuing from the surface of the negative
terminal. The images being distinct, the system of rays must be
distinct also. Now, as it seems hardly possible to imagine that,
from every point of a surface, there can issue at one and the same
instant of time a variety of -systems of radiations, each system rang
ing over a finite angular distance, and each differently directed in
space, we are driven to the conclusion that these radiations must have
issued successively and not simultaneously from the terminal.              In
other words, the various images      are formed  in  succession.   Now,   the
entire series of images are present whenever a discharge passes
                                  "             "
through the tube ; and when a continuous           discharge (such as that
from a Holtz machine) is passing, they are all as steady and as per
sistent as are any other features of the discharge.           From this it
follows that the radiations are not a continuous phenomenon, but that
they are composed of a recurrent series of discharges, each having its
own angular range, and its own direction in space ; and as the elec
tricity, which is the motive power, and the metallic terminal, which is
the directing machinery, are the same in kind for each image, we are
led to the conclusion that the positions of the images are determined
by the force with which the radiations are projected.            In fact, we
understand that the various images are due to a succession of dis
 crete discharges of successively diminishing strength.

 390                    On Stratified Discharges.              [June   16,
   The phenomenon      of multiple images of the negative terminal as
explained above has an important bearing on the nature of electrical
discharges in vacuum tubes.      For, if the phosphorising radiation con
sists of a recurring series of discrete discharges, the radiation in each
series, and a fortiori the radiation as a whole, is discontinuous ; and
consequently the electrical discharge, to which it is due, must itself be
discontinuous or " disruptive."        We appear, therefore,    in these
phenomena to have an experimental          proof, independent of and in
addition to those adduced by Mr. De La Rue and others, of a funda
mental point in the theory of these discharges, namely, their disrup
tive character.
   The conclusion, that each main discharge consists of a series of
minor discharges, has an interest as throwing light on a difficulty that
may perhaps have been felt in respect of one of the conclusions in
our second memoir.       It was there shown that when the exhaustion
was carried to a great degree of perfection, the negative part of the
                              "
discharge showed signs of a durational character ;" and the difficulty
consists in associating the character of duration with that of disrnp-
tiveness, as attributed to one and the same discharge.        But if the
explanation of the multiple images here suggested be correct, it may
be possible to reconcile the two ideas by considering that the duration
is to be understood     not as implying a continuous process, but as
measuring the interval from the commencement of each main dis
charge until the last of the series of minor discharges belonging to it.
   This idea of rapidly recurring elemental discharges going to form
a single discharge is very similar to the state of things which one of
the authors of the present paper showed to take place in the case of
a discharge from a coil.
                                    " Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 25, p.
                             (See                                    73.)
The revolving mirror showed that each discharge from the coil,
though apparently single, and, if not instantaneous, at least continu
ous during the time it lasted, was, in fact, made up of a regular series
of elemental discharges, each group of such discharges (constituting
a single coil discharge)     being composed of like elements.        The
phenomena above described go to show that even the so-called con
tinuous discharge is made up of very rapidly recurring discharges,
each of which is in its turn composed of a group of elemental dis
charges, the successive members of which bear definite relations to
each other.

 1881.]               On Stigmata in the     King Crab.                     391
 X. " Note on the Existence in the King Crab (Limiting poly-
       phemus) of Stigmata corresponding             to the Respiratory
       Stigmata of the Pulmonate Arachnida, and on the Morpho
       logical Agreements between Limulus and Scorpio."                  By E.
       Ray Lankester, MA., F.R.S., Jodrell Professor of Zoology
       in University College, London. Received May 26, 1881.
          I. — The  Agreements   between      Limulus and Scorpio.
    The conclusion arrived at by Straus Diirckheim (1828) to the effect
 that Limulus is an Arachnid, and as such to be placed in a distinct order
 of the class Arachnida, has not as yet been generally accepted by zoolo
 gists. It is, however, to be noted that whilst the zoologists of the first
 half of this century had no hesitation in placing Limulus among the
 Crustacea, and even in associating it in one order with such Crusta
 ceans as the Phyllopoda, yet there has been an increasing tendency
 within the last five-and-twenty years to recognise very distinctly
 something like affinity between Limulus and the Arachnida.                This
tendency     has shown itself in the proposal made by some eminent
authorities of late (Haeckel, Dohrn, Claus, Gegenbaur) to place
Limulus in a distinct gronp by itself (Gigantostraca or Poecilopoda),
neither Crustacean nor Arachnidan, but nearly equally removed from
and equally related by supposed genetic connexions to both the
Crustacea and the Arachnida.        Professor Edouard Van Beneden, ot
Liege, alone, professedly basing his conclusion upon an examination of
the embryological history of Limulus, has categorically declared that
 " the Limuli are not Crustacea ; they have nothing in common with
the Phyllopoda, and their embryonic development presents the greatest
analogies with that of the Scorpions and of the other Arachnida, from
which it is not possible to separate them."
    I have elsewhere* stated my full concurrence with Professor Van
Beneden's conclusion on this subject, and proposed accordingly to
divide the Arachnida into the Branchiopulmonata and Tracheopul-
               I
monata, but have not hitherto taken an opportunity of setting forth
the grounds upon which     I am led to hold that the Limuli are Arach
nida and not Crustacea. These grounds are entirely independent of
those advanced by Professor Van Beneden, which were derived from
the phenomena of embryonic development.            The grounds upon which
I base my conclusions are, on the contrary, found in the facts of the
adult structure of Limulus on the one hand and of the pulmonate
Arachnida on the other, more especially of Scorpio.
   I  have recently become acquainted with some undescribed struc-
   * "                                           "
       Notes on Embryology and Classification."    Quart. Journ. Micr. Science,"
October  1877.

302                          Prof. E. R. Lankester.                     [June     16,
tures in Limulus, which appear to me to be strongly confirmatory of
the identification of the structural elements of that animal with the
structural elements of Scorpio; and, pending the preparation of a
more complete account of the matter,           I am anxious to place on record
the chief grounds which appear to me to exist for classifying Limulus
with the Arachnida in very close association with the pulmonale
members of that class.
    Without depreciation of the morphological insight of those who
have previously approached this question, amongst the foremost of
whom are the English zoologists, Huxley, Woodward, and Owen, I
may venture to say that it appears to me that the fact that Limulut is
little else than an aquatic scorpion, and Scorpio little else than a ter
restrial king crab, has not as yet become an accepted conclusion of
zoological     science, because those zoologists who have discussed the
question and instituted a comparison between Limulus and Scorpio —
whether (as Straus Durckheim) favourable to their association or (as
every other zoologist) opposed to it — have not to begin with hit upon
the true terms of comparison.             We have in Limulus, on the one
hand, and in Scorpio, on the other, a series of more or less completely
expressed body-segments and a corresponding series of appendages.
Everything depends on making a correct start in the comparison, sup
posing that a very close agreement exists between the two series in
a barely masked condition, and is to be made evident as the result of
the comparison.
    The notions as to the importance of the innervation of appendages
from a ganglion lying in front of the mouth as opposed to the condi
tion when innervation proceeds from a ganglion behind the mouth,
have tended to obscure the true relationships of Limulus and Scorpio.
For it is only quite recently that it has           been   established (Alphonse
Milne-Edwards) that the ganglion in front of the moutb does not
innervate the first pair of appendages of Limulus* and that, similarly,
the innervation of the first pair of appendages (chelicerse) of Arach
nida    does not proceed     from the primitive " ganglion in front of the
mouth "; but from right and left lateral nerve-centres, which are
embryologically quite distinct from the primitive praeoral ganglion,
and posterior to it (Balfour).
    Whilst there has been a difficulty        in regard to this point of com
parison, which is now removed, there has not been a full and well-
grounded      conviction of the identity in structure and position           of  the
   •
      [June  24th, 1881.  I am able fully to confirm the exactness of the account of
the nervous    system  of Limulus given by M. Alphonse Milne-Edwards,        having,
through tho kindness of Mr. Carrington, F.L.S., received from the Boyal West
minster Aquarium a living specimen of Limulus, which enabled me to dissect out
the relations of the nerves to the ganglionic centres in the most satisfactory
manner.]

1881.]                On Stigmata in the   King Crab.                   393
series of projecting books of (about) 150 double lamellae seen in Limulus,
with the similar series of sunken books of (about) 130 double lamellae,
seen in Scorpio.
   A careful study of the structure of these respiratory organs in the
two animals, together with the explanation afforded by their external
                                                   "
position in Limiting, of the " comb-like organs      of the Scorpion, and
the observation of the fact that the genital operculum of Limulus is
represented in miniature by the genital operculum of the Scorpion, and
in an exactly corresponding position relatively to legs and gill-books,
are the factors which, above all others, are likely to contribute to
forming in an observer the impression that there is a very real and
intimate agreement between Limulus and Scorpio. This impression
is confirmed in a remarkable way by the agreement of details of struc
ture in the two animals — such, for instance, as the form of the legs,
the relation of the coxae to the mouth, and to the sternal sclerites, the
minute structure of the gill-plates, and their exact arrangement and im
brication to form those peculiar book-like organs which have no parallel
in the animal kingdom. The impression is further confirmed by one of
the main facts on which Straus Diirckheim relied for his conclusions
on the subject, viz., the existence in Limulus and in the Arachnida of
                                                            " : further
a very peculiar loose skeletal piece — the " entosternite                by
the close similarity of the digestive canal and its csBca in Limulus and
Scorpio ; by the close agreement of the very highly developed vascu
lar system in the two animals ; by the close agreement in its general
disposition of the central nervous system in the two animals.            In
addition to all this, it has recently been shown that the structure of
the compound eye of Limulus, though necessarily not that of any
living Arachnid, is also unlike that of any living Crustacean (Gre
nadier).    Lastly may be mentioned, as confirmatory of the existence
of a close relationship between Limulus and the pnlmonate Arachnida,
on the one hand the living Arachnida, which, like Limulus, exhibit a
suppression of the segmentation of the hinder part of the abdomen as
compared with Scorpio, and on the other hand those fossil forms,
the Eurypterina, which correspond with Scorpio exactly in the
number of segments developed in the abdominal region, and very
closely in their general form, whilst unmistakably related in the
closest way to Limulus (as generally admitted) by the structure of
their great digging leg (the hindmost pair) and of their genital oper
culum. The cephalo-thoracic limbs of the Eurypterina, though but
five pairs in number in place of the six pairs present in Limulus and
Scorpio, yet, as long since pointed out by Professor Huxley, present
no difficulty on this account in the way of a close approximation of
the forms in question ; for it is obvious from the condition of the
anterior pair in such a Eurypterine as Slimonia, that there is a
characteristic tendency   to the reduction  and hence suppression of the

304                          Prof. E. R. Lankester.                        [June   16,
anterior   appendages,     which has, in the       case   of the whole group of
Enrypterina, led to the suppression of the foremost pair of appendages
corresponding to the chelicerse of the Scorpion and of IAmulus. The
probability of such a suppression having taken place has a direct
bearing upon questions which arise when a comparison is attempted
between the series of appendages of the Arachnida as a class with
those of other classes of Arthropoda.            It is significant in this con
nexion that such a suppression of at least one pair of anterior
appendages has been very generally considered to be a characteristic
of the Arachnida, whether the attempt to harmonise their structure
with that of other Arthropoda has been made in assimilating them
through Galeodes to the Hexapod Insects, or throngh Scorpio to the
Decapod Crustaceans.
   I now submit as a summary of the conclusions to which                 I  am led, a
tabular view of the structural identities of IAmulus and Scorpio, in
so far as the sclerites of the body and appendages are concerned ; and
shall next    describe certain cavities and their stigmata which               I have
detected in IAmulus which appear to me to be the representatives of
the stigmata of the pulmonate Arachnida, and of the pulmonary
chambers in which their gill-books have become concealed.*
                Notes   in  reference   to the  Tabular Statement.
   Camerostome.    — The tubercular sclerite at the         base   of the first pair
of appendages overhanging          the mouth may be spoken          of by this term
(introduced by Latreille) both in IAmulus and the other Arachnida,
without prejudging the question as to its relations to the " labrum "
of Hexapod Insects or of Crustacea.
   Chilaria. — This term has been applied by Professor Owen to the
pair of small processes placed mesially between the coxa? of the last
pair of legs in IAmulus.          Although supplied by distinct nerves, yet
their late appearance in development, as shown by Packard, and their
simple structure, lead to the conclusion that they are not rudimentary
appendages, as has been supposed, nor parts of the coxae of the sixth
pair of legs as has been suggested, but special tubercular elevations
of the sternal surface.
   Genital operculum. — On account of the concentration of the nerve-
centres in the cephalo-thoracic region, and the consequent origin of
the pair of nerves to this organ from that region, the genital oper
culum IAmulus of has been regarded by some writers as belonging to
  •
     [June   24th, 1881.    In  October, 1878 ("Quart. Journ. Micr. Science")        I
published an account of     the motility of the spermatozooids     of Limulus.    This
character tends to separate  Limulus from Crustacea.    It also tends to unite Scorpio
and Limulus.     The most    important difference between the two animals, is the
absence from Limulus of      Malpighian tubes.   Eudiments of these may yet be dis
covered.]

                          SCORPIO.
Segments.
                                                                                  •6
                       Stern ites.                             Tergites.
            ¦
1
            iinerostome      (of     La-                                          1
             re ille), or upper lip.
2
             iliterated by the mesiad                                             2
            extension   of the coxae of
3            lie four walking legs;
            lie two anterior moyable,                 Ccphalo-thoracic carapace   3
            he two posterior fixed.
4            Tn Mygale a distinctly                    with central and peri
            narked small prothoracic                                              4
            ternite      followed by a
                          is                                pheral eyes.
5           urge     oral       niesothoracie
            ternite.                                                              5
6
            ntagonal           clongato   sele-                                   6
            ite    or           nietathoracic
            ternite.
                      .    .                      .
7           tv ;»»              •                 1


1881.]                On Stigmata in the    King Crab.                 395
the cephah-thoracic tergites.   It   has, however, a
                                                 distinctly emarginated
tergal surface corresponding  to it in the abdominal carapace. This
emarginated area is much more distinct in the embryonic condition
than in the adult. In Limulus, the median portion of the base of the
genital operculum and of the following five lamelliform organs
appears in each case to be a projecting ridge of the sternal surface
simply, whilst the distal and lateral area only (right and left of the
shallow median fissure) are to be regarded as representing a right and
left " appendage." The exact limit of the two elements, that is, of
the appendage proper and of its sternal base, can only be decided by
an exact knowledge of the development of the parts in the embryo.
   Abdominal Carapace and Telson. — In young embryos of Limulus
there are, according to Packard's observations, eight, if not nine, dis
tinct segments indicated in the tergum of the abdominal region,
besides the rudiment of the post-anal spine.   Of these the first repre
sents the tergite of the genital operculum, and, in the adult, is in
dicated by an emarginated area and immovable spine or angular pro
                  of the fused mass forming the abdominal carapace.
cess on either side
The next five embryonic segments correspond to the five pairs of
appendages carrying the "biblioid" gills, and are indicated each in
the adult by a movable spine, at the side of the tergum, and by five
area? on its free or pleural lower surface, marked out by the disposi
tion of the hairs which clothe it.
   The next following embryonic segment (the seventh) is indicated
in the adult by a pair of lateral movable spines on the tergum (the
sixth pair of movable spines), but there is no further indication of
segments ; what was seventh, eighth, and ninth segments in the em
bryo is fused into one piece, together with the segments in front, and
exhibits no rudiment of the former segmentation in the form of ridges
as do the first six abdominal segments.    It forms an oblong area of
considerable bulk, not much smaller in its axial portion than the whole
of the abdominal segments in front of it. In the soft integument
beyond this is placed the anus and beyond that the anal spine.
                     " has been
   The word " telson             applied, in my opinion, unwisely to
the post-anal spine. The telson of such a Crustacean as Antaeus is
that region of the body following upon the segmented region and
carrying within its area the anus. It is (as more especially pointed
out by Clans) a region which may be characterised as one of potential
segmentation ; it is not precisely a segment, but something more than
a segment, viz., that tract of the hindmost region of the body which
can, and in incompletely developed forms does, give rise to new
segments, by a process of separation from its anterior border.       It has
necessarily, and by definition, a certain extension anteriorly, that   is,in
front of the anus.
   Now, the post-anal spine of Limulus has no such character.          It    is
   VOL. XXXII.                                               2   s

396                         Prof. E. R. Lankester.                           [June          16,
homologous with the post-anal sting-spine of Scorpio, or the jointed
post-anal filament of Thelyphonus, and if it may be compared with
anything in Astacus it is with the post-anal joint of that Crustacean's
telson.
   The true "telson" of Limulus embraces the larger part of the
 unsegmented area, the area of potential segmentation which extends
from the sixth pair of movable lateral spines and the axial area from
the base of the last pair of gill-plates backwards.        In the embryo
this area has one or possibly two segments marked off from             so             it,
that the small area formed by their re-fusion in the adult is, strictly
speaking, not
               " telson."
   The whole pras-anal region of the telson of Limulus (together with
the two embryonic segments of which all trace          lost in the adult)
                                                          is is
corresponds to the six proximal (proximal that         to the anus) prav
anal body-rings of Scorpio, of which that including the anus should
be called " telson."    That this bulky region should remain unseg
mented in Limulus, whilst giving rise to several segments (some
elongate and annular) in Scorpio,       no difficulty in the way of the
                                         is
assimilation of the two forms, so far as Arachnidan characters are
concerned, firstly, because in the Spiders, which are typical Arachnida,
the abdomen     isobscurely segmented in a manner parallel to that
observed in Limulus and, secondly, because in the Eurypterina (the
                        ;
close affinity of which to Limulus we are permitted to assume as
demonstrated) the exact number of segments and an approximation
to the form, shown by Scorpio in this part of the body,       found.   is
   Whilst the term telson had,     seems, best be reserved for a larger
                                  it
area than that occupied by the post-anal spine,        to be noted that
                                                          it      is
Professor Owen has urged, not by the mere implication of a name,
but explicitly, that the post-anal spine of Limulus corresponds to the
several pro-anal segments of the Scorpion's tail as well as to its
" sting," and   he has pointed to indications of annulation in the struc
ture of this spine. The traces of annulation appear to me to be pre
cisely similar in character to the annulations of the jointed post-anal
filament of Thelyphonus, and      itappears to me that there    the same    is
inducement when the comparison of general form only          made in the
                                                                       is
case of Thelyphonus compared with Scorpio, to regard the narrow-
jointed post-anal " tail " of the former as the equivalent of the latter's
tail, consisting of true prse-anal body-segments, as there        when           is
Limulus and Scorpio are compared, to assimilate the king crab's
spine to the segments of Scorpio just named.        In yielding to the
inducement in either case, we should,     think, mistake a resemblance
                                              I
of superficial adaptation of form for one of true genetic equivalence.
            II. — The   Para-branchial        Stigmata   of Limulus.
  The views which have been advanced in the preceding                        section        of

1881.]             On Stigmata in the     King Crab.                 397
this note, as to the practical identity of the gill-books of Limulus and
the lnng-books of Scorpio, implicitly contain the affirmation that
either the structures of Limulus have been derived from those of
Scorpio, or those of Scorpio from those of Limulus, or that a third
(possibly now extinct) form has given rise to both Limulus and
Scorpio.   Further, it is to be observed that such extinct form might
be more   like to Limulus than to Scorpio, or vice versd, in respect of
any particular element of structure.
   To make a long story as short as possible,    I may say that without
prejudicing   the recognition  of the (as I think) well-established mor
phological identities above pointed out, we may best explain their
existence by assuming that an aquatic form breathing the dissolved
oxygen of the water inhabited by    it,  by means of book-like gills, was
the common ancestor of Limulus and of Scorpio.           From the book
like gills of this ancestral form, the broad series of Limulus and the
narrower lung-books as well as the pectinee or combs of the Scorpion,
have been derived.     The form of the book-like gills of this Arachnidan
ancestor was probably something intermediate       between the three
existent modifications of   — and best conceived of, perhaps, by ima
                             it
gining the teeth of the Scorpion's " pectinate organs
                                                      " to become soft
and flattened and increased in number.
  To obtain from     these the Limulus gill, we have but to suppose
certain definite changes of dimension, the imbrication and character of
the lamellae and their external position remaining unaltered.
   To arrive at the book-lungs of the Scorpion, we have to imagine
the ventral surface on each side in close proximity to the short ap
pendages carrying the gill-books — to have become deeply capped or
depressed ;so that two series of cup-like pits should be formed,       a
right and a left,apair being placed in each segment, corresponding
to each pair of gill-books. Each cup must have become so large in
area and so deep as to embrace within its limits the relatively small
adjacent gill-book. Further, when once the gill-book had been in
volved in this cup-like depression, the walls of the cup must have
tended to grow together so as to form a pulmonary chamber with only
a narrow slit-like opening to the exterior, and pari passu with this
closing in of the cupped area — and the protection of the respiratory
lamellae — the Arachnid must have acquired the power of leaving the
water and of breathing the atmospheric oxygen admitted to the damp
chamber formed by the cave-like areas of depression.
   Whilst framing such a hypothetical account of the way in which
the transition from naked " gill-book
                                         " to in-sunken " lung-book "
could have taken place, one naturally asks — Is
                                               "       not a somewhat
                                                       it
gratuitous assumption to imagine   that cupped  areee should form con
veniently by the side of the gill-books of the aquatic ancestor, so «s
to be ready to increase in size and ultimately draw into themselves,
                                                            2
                                                            e
                                                            2

398                     On Stigmata    in  the  King Crab.             [June   16,
as   it were, the gill-books?" " Is there," we are led on further to
ask,
       " any known instance in Arachnida of the formation of cupped
are® on the      chitinous surface of the body        ?   If so, can we   show in
what mechanical         relation they are formed ? And lastly, can it be de
monstrated      that such mechanical relation probably existed in con
nexion with the gill-books of the assumed common ancestor of
Limulus and Scorpio ?
                               " If all these
                                                questions can be affirmatively
answered, then        our   hypothesis  as   to  the transition of the aquatic
Arachnid to the pulmonate condition acquires great plausibility.
    The answer to these questions, which I am able to give as the result
of some careful examinations of specimens of Limulus and Scorpio,
Thelyphonus, and other Arachnida, appears to me to have more than
ordinary interest, since the formation of cupped areae on the chitinous
surface of the body and the mechanical relations connected with their
formation have come to light as demanded by the hypothesis.                  They
exist in Limulus itself and in Thehjphonns.                In Limulus, there are
two great muscles, a right and a left, inserted into the soft ventral
integument near the base of each double gill-plate. These muscles
known as the thoraco-abdominal muscles, serve (together with others
which enter the appendage itself) by their contractions to move the
gill-plates in the water and so aid in aquatic respiration.          The position
of the insertion of each muscular mass is marked by a deep funnel
like depression of the integument.              From the external surface this
depression appears as a
                                " stigma," and a rod can be introduced into
it to the depth of an inch. The funnel-like depression has a narrow
mouth which is often as much as half an inch in length.                Internally
the invaginated cuticle stands up as a flexible chitinous tendon, giving
attachment to the muscle already mentioned.                     These structures
appear to have remained hitherto undescribed.
    In Limulus,     I  find a pair of these " muscle-stigmata,"         right and
left behind the genital operculum, and a pair (right and left) behind
 each of the lamelliform fused appendages which carry the gill-books.
 The mouth of each stigma is strengthened by a small " epistigmatic
           "
 sclerite    and two adjacent still smaller sclerites.
    We have only to suppose the appendages carrying the gill-books not
 to have fused as yet in the middle line, and the muscular stigmata to
 have become greatly developed (perhaps by increased development of
 the muscle aiding in aquatic respiration) and we have at once the gill-
 book sinking within the area of the stigmatic pit.
    A very important feature in the supposed further development is
 the correspondence of the atrophy of the muscle (which atrophy is
 required to fit in with our hypothesis, and to convert the muscle-pit
 into a pulmonary sac) with the changes in the structures which would
 necessarily result were the physiological              conditions  gradually to
  become    such  as   to favour aerial in place of aquatic respiration.      The

1
   881.]           Prof.  J. A. Ewing.    Effect* of Strest.           399
violent agitation of the gills by the muscle attached to the stigmatic
pit wonld     become useless, supposing   an exposure of the gill-lamella?
to the atmosphere       became   by degrees habitual with the ancestral
Arachnidan.       In proportion as these hypothetical creatures acquired
the habit of aerial respiration — the deepening and arching in of the
stigmatic pit would       be favoured, and the atrophy and final disap
pearance    of the  muscle   which was attached to its inner surface, and
had mechanically brought it into existence, would also be directly pro
moted.
    A further confirmation of the view now advanced is found in the
remarkable Javanese Arachnidan Thelyphonus.            This Arachnid has
not four pairs of lung-sacs      like Scorpio, but only two pairs, corre
sponding to the two foremost lungs of Scorpio, and to the second
and third gill-book-pairs of Limulut. Nevertheless, the four segments
of the abdomen posterior to these are each marked by a pair of shallow
stigmata placed in line with the orifices of the pulmonary sacs of the
 two anterior segments. When the internal structure corresponding to
 these parts is examined, it is found that a large muscle (similar to the
 similarly placed muscle of Limulus) is inserted into each of the four
 right and four left stigmata in the segments posterior to the pul
 monary sacs.      The two segments into which the two pairs of pulmo
 nary sacs are sunk, have no such muscles. The pulmonary sacs are,
 therefore, in this case, also, to all appearance, enlarged muscular
 stigmata, from which their former muscles have disappeared by
 disuse and atrophy.
 XI. " Effects     of Stress on the Thermoelectric Quality of Metals.
       Part I." By J. A. Ewing, B.Sc., F.R.S.E., Professor of
       Mechanical Engineering in the University of Tokio, Japan.
       Communicated by Professor Fleeming Jenkin, F.R.S. Re
       ceived May 31, 1881.
                                  (Abstract.)
    This investigation     was undertaken, in the first instance, with the
 view  of finding   whether  the gradual mechanical change which goes on
 with lapse of time after stretching wires (which the author described
                        " Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 30, p.
 in a former paper,                                      510) is associated
 with a corresponding change in thermoelectric quality. But the expe
 riments brought to light some very unexpected results with regard to
 the immediate effects of stress, and the present communication deals
 with these only. Part I is further limited to the effects of longitudinal
 pull on iron. The author is proceeding to extend the same inquiry to
 other metals and to other modes of stress.

400             Prof.  J. A. Ewing.      Effects  of Stress on    [June  1«\
   The method consisted in applying load to wires by the weight of a
hanging tank containing water, which could be run in and run out at
any desired rate, the junction between the stressed and unstressed
parts of the wire being kept at 100° C. and 18° C. approximately.
The thermoelectric effects were measured by the deflections produced
in a short-coil mirror galvanometer, adjusted for great sensibility.
   The effect of applying a moderate amount of longitudinal pull to iron
wires was found to be negative (that is to say, the position of iron in
the thermoelectric series, with the given condition of temperature, was
shifted towards antimony).        This result was merely a confirmation of
the observations of Sir William Thomson (" On the Electrodynamic
Qualities of Metals," "Phil. Trans.," 1856).               But, instead of
increasing up to the breaking point, the effect reached a negative
maximum, after which it decreased and sometimes even changed to
positive before the wire broke.       This result was confirmed by a large
number of tests of different     wires.
    When loading was stopped shortly before the wire broke, and the
load was gradually withdrawn, the thermoelectric effect passed back
through a negative maximum, different from the first, and, finally,
with no load, it reached a positive value as a consequence of the
stretching which had taken place. (This positive effect due to pre
vious stretching when the load was withdrawn had been observed
before by Magnus and by Thomson.)           The fact that the thermoelectric
 quality passed back through a negative maximum during unloading
showed that the maximum which had occurred during loading was not
 the result of an antagonism between the influences of stress and strain.
    A second loading of the same wire gave a series of thermoelectric
 values greatly different from those got in either of the two former
 processes of first loading and unloading, and showing another negative
 maximum long before the new limit of elasticity was reached.          When
 that limit was passed, the subsequent drawing out of the wire was
 associated with a relatively rapid change in the thermoelectric quality
 towards positive.
    When, after a wire had once been stretched,         any given   load was
 gradually applied and removed successively within the new elastic
 limit, the thermoelectric effects for equal intermediate amounts of stress
 during loading and during unloading were widely different, but passed
 through a cyclic series of values for each repetition of the cyclic
 change of stress. This effect is shown in the paper by curves which
 give the relation of stress to thermoelectric current. The curves got
 by putting on load (not exceeding the elastic limit) and by taking it
 off are far from coincident, but form a closed figure containing a wide
 area.
    This cyclic phenomenon is experimentally studied at length in the
 paper,   and the thermoelectric     effects of various  cycles of loads are

1881.]               the Thermoelectric       Quality     of Metals.             401
shown graphically in a number of diagrams.            To apply a load, remove
part of    it,
             re-apply    it,and continue the application, forms a wide trat
closed, or nearly closed, loop on the " on curve. Similarly, to remove
                                                "
load, stop during the removal, and replace part, and then go on again
with the removal, forms loop of like kind on the "off " curve.
                               a          a
    The curves got during the gradual removal of load always show a
negative maximum, even though the applied load has been less than
that required to pass the negative maximum during loading.
    The effect of beginning to reload a stretched wire which has been
unloaded       at first feebly positive, passes a positive maximum, becomes
               is
negative, passes a negative maximum, and finally,            the wire does not
                                                                 if
break too soon, becomes once more positive before rupture takes place.
    The leading characteristics of the cyclic action mentioned above are
sufficiently obvious from the diagrams, but can scarcely be described
verbally, except at great length. The curves show a lagging of thermo
electric effect when the stress     is changed.     It proved that this lag
                                                            is
 ging of effect      not a time action, for
                    is                          it shown to be independent of
                                                     is
 the rate of increment and decrement of the stress. Moreover, the
 thermoelectric     value associated with any load (not exceeding the
 elastic limit), arrived at in any manner,        constant so long as the load
                                                  is
is constant.
    One very remarkable feature of the curves             that the first effect
                                                            is                        of
reversal from loading to unloading, or from unloading to loading,      to        is
continue the same kind       thermoelectric
                               of            change which has been going
on just before the reversal takes place.    For example, if the wire had
been becoming negative when loading was stopped and unloading
began,   continued to change towards negative during the very first
          it
part of the subsequent unloading.    This law appears to be general.
   As a consequence of the cyclic action    follows that there may exist
                                                 it
between a stress and its associated thermoelectric effect any relation
which can be expressed by a point within the wide area enclosed
between the most distant " on and " off
                               "          " curves. To
                                                          attempt, there
fore, to assign a relation irrespective of the preceding states and
changes of stress would be altogether futile.
                               "
   Instances are given of molecular reminiscences " of previous stress-
actions, exhibiting themselves by modifying the form of the curves in
the next succeeding experiments with the same wire.
   It shown that mechanical vibration greatly reduces,
      is                                                        does not    it
                                                                           if
wholly destroy, the distinction between the "on" and "off" curves                     of
thermoelectric quality and stress,   the wire be kept in
                                     if                  state of vibraa
tion during the application and removal of the load.
   It also shown that two widely different values of thermoelectric
      is
quality, got by reaching the same stress in two different ways (namely
by addition of load from zero and by partial removal of load from
                                                                                      is a
high value), become almost equal to each other when the wire

 402                Profs. G. D.   Liveing and    J. Dewar.       [June   16,
 vibrated, not during, but after, the changes of load through which the
 given state has been reached.
    It is also shown that this approximate equality produced by vibra
tion continues after the vibration ceases.       Also, that when a cycle of
loads is gone through afterwards, without vibration, the old difference
                     "
between the " on and " off
                                 "
                                   curves reasserts itself.
    It is suggested that the cyclic phenomenon so conspicuous in this
investigation is not peculiar to the thermoelectric effects of stress, but
is probably present in other effects of stress, and may perhaps be found
to occur in the changes of any quality of matter which is a function of
another variable quality (such as temperature) when the latter quality
is subjected to increment and decrement.
    Lastly the results of certain independent experiments made by others
in other branches of physics are referred to in confirmation of this
suggestion.
XII. "On       the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours. No.
       VIII.    (Iron, Titanium, Chromium, and Aluminium.)"               By
       G. D. Liveing, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, and J.
       Dewar, M.A., F.R.S., Jacksouian Professor, University of
       Cambridge.       Received June 2, 1881.
   In our    last communication     on this subject we observed (" Proc.
Roy. Soc," vol. 29, p. 405) that iron introduced as metal, or as
chloride, into the electric arc, in a lime crucible, in the way which had
proved successful in the case of many other metals, gave us no reversals.
We succeeded, however, in reversing some ten of the brightest lines of
iron, mostly in the blue and violet, by passing an iron wire through
one of the carbons, so as to keep up a constant supply of iron in the
arc.    Considering the great number of iron lines, and that so many of
them are strongly represented amongst the Fraunhofer lines, it seemed
somewhat surprising that it should be difficult to obtain a reversing
layer of iron vapour in the arc inclosed as we use it in an intensely
heated crucible.      A like remark might be made respecting titanium,
which is almost as well represented as iron in the Fraunhofer lines,
but has heretofore given us no reversals.        Almost the same might be
said of chromium, except that the number of chromium lines is so
much less than that of either of the other two metals.
   We have since found that most, if not all, of the strong lines of
these three metals may be reversed by proper management of the
atmosphere and supply of metal in the crucible.          Indeed, with regard
to iron we have found that the method employed with other metals
was successful so far as the ultra-violet rays were concerned, though it

 1881.]     On  the  Reversal of the Lines of Metallic   Vapours.       403
 failed for less refrangible rays. When iron has been pnt into the
 crucible through which the arc of a Siemens' dynamo-electric machine
 is passing, and then fragments of magnesium dropped in from time to
 time, most of the strong ultra-violet lines of iron are reversed.      The
 magnesium seems to supply a highly reducing atmosphere, and to some
 extent carry with it the iron vapour.     It also produces a good deal of
 continuous spectrum, at least in certain regions, and against this the
 iron lines are often depicted      on the   photographic    plates sharply
 reversed.   In this way we have observed       the reversal  of the strong
iron lines about the solar lines L and M, four strong lines below N, the
line 0, all the strong lines from S2 to U inclusive, and two strong
groups still more refrangible.
    Potassium ferrocyanide introduced into the arc instead of magnesium
gives a reversal of the same lines as are mentioned in the foregoing
paragraph.
    Iron wire fed in through a perforated pole gives reversals of the
highest group (wave-length 2492 to 2480), but with the lines so
much expanded as to form broad absorption-bands instead of lines.
    With a vertical arrangement of the carbons, similar to that used by
us for resolving the fine double lines (" Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 32, p. 231),
and a stout iron wire in the axis of the lower (positive) carbon, many
more lines in the visible part of tho spectrum are seen expanded and
reversed.     This effect is sometimes enhanced by leading into the
crucible through the upper carbon, which is perforated for the purpose,
a very gentle stream of hydrogen gas ; the stream must be no more
than is just sufficient to give a tiny flame at the mouth of the crucible ;
a stronger stream diminishes the amount of metallic vapour, probably
by its cooling action, and lessens the effect. By this treatment, some
of the strongest lines of iron remain reversed for some time, the
weaker lines are seen to expand and be reversed for a few seconds at a
time, when, from a change in the intensity of the current, or some
other reason, a larger amount of metal is volatilized and shows itself
by burning in brilliant scintillations at the mouth of the crucible.
    A list of the iron lines reversed, designated by their approximate
wave-lengths, is subjoined.
              5614-5
              5585-5
              5445-6
              5428-5
              5405
              5396
              5370-5
              5327 the more refrangible of this pair.
              5268-5  E

404                   Profs. G. D. Liveing and         J.  Dewar.       [June  16,
                 5226 the less   refrangible of this double line.
                 5166 8 64
                 5064
                 5072
                 4956'5 both lines of pair, the less refrangible strongly.
                 49197            3727   M        3007-5         27447
                 4918             3722            3006-5         2743
                 4890-5           3720            3000           2741-3
                 4890             3707-5          2999           27362
   4871 both lines of pair.       3705 5         2994   t        2722-7
                 4414-5           3647            2984           2720
                 4404             3631            2982           2718
                 4382-5           3502            2974           2549-5
                 4325             3492            2971           2545-5
                 4314-5           3475            29675          2541
                 4307 G           3465-5          29655          25357
   4271 both lines of pair.       3440 0          2957           2534
                 4071             3402-5          2953-5         2529
                 4063             3272*           2948   U       2528-6
                 4045              3246*          2941           2527-3
                 3898             3099-5 S3       2937            2524-2
                 3886              3082           2932            2523
                 3859              3072           2929            25183
                 3856              3057           2912            2511
                 3833-5            3056           2871            2502
                  3827-5           3046-5   s     28663           2492
                 3825              3041           2860-8          2491 6
                  3824             3036-5         28364           2491
                  3820  L          3030            2829-8         24893
                  3815             3024-5         2824-2          2485-4
                  3767             3022-5         2767-3          2484-6
                  37635            3020   T        27552          2481
                  3757-5           3017-5          2754-3         2480
                  3745 5           3016-5          2749           2474
                  37365            3008-5          2748           2465
                  3734-5
    It  is by no means always           the strongest   lines which are reversed.
 For instance, in the group of lines between wave-lengtlis              5428-5 and
 5396 there are four strong lines             5423-5, 5414-6, 5403, and 5382-4,
 which are all much expanded and diffuse when iron is introduced into
 the arc, but have not been seen reversed by us, while three other lines
 — 5396, 5405, and 5428-5 — are well reversed, but not much expanded.
   •  It  is possible that these may hare been the copper lines which were reversed,
 and not the iron lines, which are nearly identical in position.

1881.J       On the Reversal     of the Lines of Metallic   Vapours.      405
Considering the enormous           complexity of the iron spectrum, which
probably reaches to something like a thousand distinct vibrations, we
should expect to find a greater variation in the relative strength and
reversibility of the lines of this metal, according to the circumstances
in which it is placed, than we find in the case of metals giving simpler
spectra.    So that we may say, on the whole, that the phenomena in the
case of iron are of much the same general character as we have
observed before in the case of other metals ; but the number of obser
vations to be made on so extensive a subject renders it extremely
difficult to come to any general conclusions.
   When the perforation         of the lower carbon is filled with titanium
cyanide    instead of the iron wire, the titanium lines come out very
brilliantly and steadily, and many of them, especially in the green and
blue parts of the spectrum, are expanded and reversed.              We give a
list of those we have observed to be reversed.
                6260            5038          4535-5          4617
               1 lines of pair. 5036          4535            4305
                5223            5035          45332           4299-5
                5209            5013          4531-7          4299
                5102            5007          4690-5          4298
                5129            4999           4681           4295
                5064            4990           4666-5         4290-7
                5039            4981          4655-5
    In the  case of chromium,     introduced into the crucible either as oxide
or as bichromate of ammonia, there were no reversals until a gentle
current of hydrogen or of coal gas was led in through the perforated
carbon.     This brought out the triplet in the green, wave-lengths 5207,
5205, 5203, sharply and steadily reversed, and likewise the three strong
lines in the indigo, wave-lengths 4289, 4274, 4253; also a triplet near
N at wave-lengths about 3578, 3593, 3606, apparently coincident with
strong lines in Cornu's map of that part of the solar spectrum, and a
rather strong double line just below O at about wave-length 3446.
The reversal of another chromium line at about wave-length 3217 is
doubtful. A triplet at wave-lengths 2799-8, 2797, 2794, is more easily
reversed than any other of the chromium lines. This triplet is generally
strongly developed whenever a compound of chromium is introduced
into the crucible, so that we conclude that it is due to that metal, but it
is sometimes visible in the photographs when other chromium lines are
not seen. A still more refrangible chromium line, wave-length about
2779-6, is also frequently reversed by a gentle current of hydrogen.
   The two aluminium lines near S are frequently reversed when a
fragment of the metal is dropped into the crucible, the less refrangible
line, wave-length 3091*5, being more strongly reversed, and continuing
reversed for a longer time than that at wave-length 3080'5.

406                          Magnetic Declination.                    [June   16,
XIII.    "Note on     a Comparison      of the Diurnal Ranges of Mag
      netic Declination at          Toronto     and Kew."         By Balfour
      Stewart, L.L.D., F.R.S., and William Dodgson. Received
      June    9, 1881.
   Through the kindness of the Science and Art Department, South
Kensington, and of Mr. Carpmael, Director of the Toronto Observa
tory, we have received daily values (excluding Sundays) of the diurnal
range of magnetic declination at Toronto.           These observations extend
from 1856 to 1879 inclusive, thus forming a series of twenty-four
years.    Each number is the difference in scale divisions of the declino
meter between the greatest eastern and greatest western deflection of
the declination magnet on each day, as observed at the hours 6 a.m.,
8 a.m., 2 p.m., 4 p.m., 10 p.m., and midnight, of Toronto mean time, one
scale division of the instrument being equal to 0''72 nearly.               It is
probable   that  such   differences  represent very nearly      the true  diurnal
range.
   Disturbances   appear to be violent at Toronto, and we have rejected
a few of the most disturbed observations, embracing those which
denote ranges above forty scale divisions, or 28' -8.       In all 107 observa
tions were thus rejected in the series of twenty-four years.           Although
this rejection has been made, it must not be supposed that the remainder
are entirely undisturbed, but are only freed from the excessive influence
of a few violent disturbances.        We have reduced in the meantime the
sixteen years extending from 1858 to 1873, in order to compare them
with a similar series of the Kew diurnal declination ranges, including
disturbances.
   The method of reduction has been precisely that adopted for the
Kew series, and already described by us (see " Proc. Roy. Soc.,"
No. 20, 1879, p. 313).
   Our object was to see whether there is any difference in phase
between the various Toronto and Kew inequalties, and for this
purpose we have adopted precisely the method formerly pursued by
us when comparing together the declination ranges at Kew and
Prague (see "Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 29, p. 316).
   We have thus obtained the following result : —
 Table 1. — Algebraic sum of Toronto and Kew Magnetic Inequalities.
        Toronto and Kew (Toronto          1 division to left) = 154514.
                               (together)                      =161094.
                   ,,          (Toronto   1 division to right) = 165016.
                                          2         „          =165418.
                                          3         „          =161404.
                                          4         „          =154320.

1881.]           On the Absorption     of  Gases by Solids.              407
    It would appear from this table tbat the phases of the various
magnetic inequalities occur at Toronto nearly two days (more strictly
1*6 days) before the advent of the corresponding phases at Kew.
    The result already obtained for Kew and Prague shows that the
phases of magnetic inequalities occur at Kew nearly one day (more
strictly 0"7 day) before the advent of the corresponding phases at
Prague. Thus the two results agree together in representing a pro
gress of magnetic weather from west to east, and agree also with a
result obtained by Balfour Stewart and Morisabro Hiraoka (see " Proc.
Roy. Soc," vol. 28, p. 288), showing that magnetic weather changes
occur at Trevandrum, in India, 9*7 days later than at Kew.
    It ought, however, to be borne in mind that in the intercomparison
of Toronto, Kew, and Prague, the observations include disturbances,
while in the intercomparison of Kew and Trevandrum the undisturbed
observations at Kew are compared with the whole body of observations
at Trevandrum, this latter being a tropical station in which the effect
of disturbance is extremely smalL
XIV. "On       the Absorption of Gases by Solids."                By J. B.
       Hannay. F.R.S.E., F.C.S. Communicated by Professor G.
       G. Stokes, D.C.L., &c, Sec. R.S. Received June 4, 1881.
    During the progress of the investigations which     I  have from time to
time had the honour of bringing under      the notice of  the Royal Society,
I   have again and again noticed the apparent disappearance of gases
inclosed in vessels of various materials when the disappearance could
not be accounted for upon the assumption of ordinary leakage.          After
a careful examination   of the subject  I found that the solids absorbed
or dissolved the gases, giving rise to a striking example of the fixation
of a gas in a solid without chemical action.
    In carrying out that most troublesome investigation, the crystalline
separation of carbon from its compounds, the tubes used for experi
ment have been in nine cases out of ten found to be empty on opening
them,   and in most cases a careful testing by hydraulic press showed
no leakage.    The gases seemed to go through the solid iron, although
it was 2 inches thick. A series of experiments with various linings
were tried. The tube was electro-plated with copper, silver, and gold,
but with no greater success.       Siliceons linings were tried — fusible
enamels and glass — but still the tubes refused to hold the contents.
 Out of thirty-four experiments made since my last results were pub
 lished, only four contained any liquid or condensed gaseous matter
 after the furnacing.  I became convinced that the solid matter at the
 very high pressure and temperature used must be pervious to gases.

408                         Mr.   J. B. Hannay.                      [June   16,
This I find to be the case, and to    a very remarkable     extent.    I am still
investigating this matter, but as     I have so much on hand it may be
some time before      I can finish  the work,  so   I wish to place on record
the results so far as   I have proceeded.      I  find that glass, when at a
 temperature    of about  200°, absorbs  a  large quantity of gas when the
latter is under a pressure of 200 atmospheres.            Oxygen and carbon
 dioxide have been used, and have been found to be largely absorbed,
and on cooling the glass under pressure the gas is retained per
 manently fixed.     So much is absorbed that, on quickly raising the
temperature to the softening temperature of the glass, the sudden
 escape of gas drives the glass into foam.       On slowly raising the tem
 perature and retaining it at 300°, most of the absorbed gas is given off
 without any visible action.
     The frothing up of the glass by the outrush of gas is very striking.
 Other silicates, and also borates and phosphates, absorb gas, especially
 carbon dioxide, under great pressure.         Metals absorb hydrogen and
 some of its compounds with carbon.         As the treatment of quantities
 of matter sufficient for analysis at these high pressures and tempera
 tures is a matter of great difficulty, the majority of experiments being
 failures, the work proceeds but slowly ; but I hope during the summer
 and autumn to be able to elucidate the subject quantitatively, when            I
 shall detail the results to the Society.
 XV. " On the States of Matter."              By   J.  B. Hanxay, F.R.S.E.,
        F.C.S.    Communicated       by Professor G. G. Stokes, D.C.L.,
        &c, Sec. R.S.     Received    June   4, 1881.
     The conception which had been held from the earliest times that the
 three recognised states of matter were clearly separated from each
 other received a rude blow from the interpretation put upon the work
 of Andrews, that the liquid and gaseous states were really continuous,
 and that the two states could only be classified under one head — the
 fluid state. Andrews demonstrated that by placing a liquid under a
 pressure greater than the critical, and then raising the temperature,
 the liquid might be made to pass to an undoubtedly gaseous state
 without any sudden change having been visible. Thus the continuity
 of the liquid and gaseous states seemed established.            I  say seemed,
           I
 because have shown in former papers that under any pressure the
  fluid passes at a given temperature from a state where it possesses
  cohesion, capillarity, or surface tension — the distinguishing property
  of liquid, which prevents it freely mixing with a true gas — to a state
  where it possesses no cohesion, capillarity, nor surface tension, and
  where it mixes freely with any gas — in fact, to the gaseous state ; and
  this change takes place at a fixed temperature independent of pressure.

1881.]                      (hi   the States   of Matter.                            409
   As MM. Cailletet and Hautefeuille have recently come to the con
clusion that the continuity claimed by Andrews does not exist, and have
                                    I
thus corroborated my work, wish to place on record more fully the
conclusions to which this work has led me.
    In examining a subject of this kind it is important that we should
first arrive at a clear understanding of the meaning of the language
we use; second, of the means we have of proving our knowledge of
the state of matter ; and, third, of the value of such proof.
    First, then, as to the meaning to be attached to the words solid,
liquid, and gaseous. The solid state is that state of matter which in an
isolated portion free to move displays sufficient rigidity of its sub
stance to retain permanent irregularity of figure.      The liquid state
denotes that state of matter which in an isolated portion free to move
displays sufficient freedom of motion in its substance to assume a form
in accordance with the forces acting upon      but which when partially
                                                     it,
filling an inclosed space retains a permanent limiting surface exhi
 biting capillarity.   The gaseous state denotes that state of matter
in which       assumes no surface nor definite figure, and which
              it                                                      so             is
extensible that any quantity will distribute itself throughout a
space.
   Having defined the nomenclature, let us see what means we have of
proving our knowledge of any state. Let us conceive that we are
working with what we rarely or never have — pure substances. "When
water    is
          nearly pure   freezes perfectly transparently
                       it                               in fact, except
                                                                   ;
for rigidity and difference in density      could not be distinguished
                                                it
from liquid water. Now consider a vessel frozen quite full of pure ice                    ;
there    no free surface to examine, therefore one test of its state
         is                                                                               is
gone. Now let enormous pressure be brought to bear upon the ice till
its density    reduced to that of water at the same temperature, and
               is
let the temperature    be the new freezing-point           ;   then there   is   no way
of knowing whether the inclosed water            liqnid or solid, without
                                                     is
applying special tests. Either the vessel must be broken to test the
rigidity of the contents or motion must be given to the vessel, and
dynamic tests made as to the behaviour of the contents but what        ;              I
wish to impress is, that sight can teach us nothing directly as to the
condition of the contents. A free surface         required to indicate the
                                                     is
state of matter.    So it    with the liquid and gaseous states, but just
                            is
as they are  more  subtle, so are the modes of experimenting with them
more difficult.  Let us consider the case of a liquid inclosed in space          a
bounded by transparent sides having a piston free to move. When the
pressure of the piston      less than that of the vapour of the liquid,
                            is
there will be   space occupied by vapour over the liquid, and the sur
                   a
face of the latter will be visible and its state recognisable at a glance                 ;
but let there be more pressure upon the piston than equals that of the
vapour, then no vapour will be formed, and the liquid will fill the whole

410                             Mr. J.  B. Hannay.                   [June   16.
cavity, in which state the whole substance cannot be determined by
sight alone, because no free surface is visible. It might be solid for all
our eyes could tell us. Here, again, we see that a free surface is
necessary for determining the state. In Andrews' experiments there
is no free surface, for at pressures greater than the critical a free
surface is impossible. It was towards the procural of this free surface
at any pressure that my work tended.            The last definition is that of
the phrase   " free surface."     A free surface is that surface of a solid or
liquid  matter   which   is in  contact  with vapour or gas, in fact, a surface
in contact with a space where it has freedom of motion.
   The difference      between    the solid and liquid states being easily
recognisable, need not be stated, but that between the liquid and
gaseous requires some consideration.          Regnault has shown that every
liquid has a certain molecular activity corresponding to each tem
perature, in virtue of which it throws off from its free surface with a
definite mean velocity, a certain number of molecules per unit of
surface.    When the space over the liquid is limited, some molecules
pass back again     into the liquid, and when this number equals that of
those outgoing, the space is said to be saturated.       The pressure which
the molecules by their impacts cause upon the sides of the vessel is
called the vapour tension of the liquid.         When the temperature rises,
a greater number of molecules are thrown off than with the liquid, and
the density of the vapour increases until it is nearly equal to that of
the liquid.    But still there is a limiting surface indicating the lower
portion   to be   liquid.      Let the temperature be now raised till the
densities of the upper and lower portions are equal, then we have a
state of matter in which the substance " assumes no surface nor definite
figure, and which is so extensible, that any quantity will distribute
itself throughout a space," as we before defined the gaseous state.
   Now as to the proof that it is really in the gaseous state.             The
general effect of the attraction of the molecules of a liquid for each
other and for solids, yields three measurable phenomena.             First, the
property of tensile strength measurable in liquid films (as soap-
bubbles), second, capillary attraction, and third, the cohesion by reason
of which the neck of a drop can support it as a wire supports a load.
It has been shown by experiment, that all these three manifestations
of attraction decrease as the temperature rises, and each may be used
as a measurement of the other.           As " surface tension " is the feature
of the liquid state, it was necessary to investigate how it is affected
by the gas or vapour with which it is in contact, and the results
showed    that   the height of a liquid in a capillary tube is not per
ceptibly affected by replacing the air by hydrogen, or removing every
thing except the vapour of the liquid. Even when hydrogen was
compressed at 200 atmospheres pressure over a liquid in which it is
nearly insoluble, the capillarity only fell very slightly.        It appeared

1881.]                    On the States   of Matter.                    All
that the cohesion or capillarity of a liquid depends upon temperature
alone, and that pressure has no effect upon it.
    Practically, it was found that the less soluble a gas is in a liquid
the less effect does its presence canse at any pressure, and it is certain
that had we a gas totally insoluble in a liquid, we might compress
that gas under any pressure over the surface, without effecting the
slightest change in the capillarity of the liquid.
    To return to Andrews' experiment.        It was seen that to determine
the state of every quantity of matter, it was necessary to have a free
surface, but by Andrews' mode of experimenting at pressures greater
than the "critical," this was impossible, the tube being filled with a
homogeneous fluid ; but it is possible to have a free surface, and to
watch the alteration of the capillarity at any pressure, provided a gas
can be obtained wtich is insoluble in the liquid. We have seen that
when a gas dissolves in a liquid, the capillarity of the mixture is lower
than that of the liquid alone, so by these means we can tell whether
or not a gas is soluble. In this way it was found that hydrogen was
insoluble in several liquids, and thus the conditions were established
 for examining loss of capillarity with rise of temperature at any
pressures, the hydrogen keeping a free surface without affecting the
 liquid.   It was found that the capillarity fell to zero at the same tem
 perature, independent of pressure ; in other words, the matter passed
from a state where it " retains a permanent limiting surface exhibiting
 capillarity," to a state where it
                                        " assumes no surface nor definite
 figure, and which is so extensible, that any quantity will distribute
 itself throughout a space," as we defined the liquid and gaseous states.
    The state of affairs in those experiments is this: — The hydrogen
 takes the place of a portion of the vapour of the liquid, but unlike the
 molecules    of the vapour,   its molecules   are unable to penetrate the
 surface of the liquid, in any quantity, but merely act by striking
 against the molecules which would otherwise pass out, and driving
 them back into the liquid. Could there be any greater proof than
 this of the special properties of a liquid surface ? Let the temperature
 be very near the critical, yet the mixture over the liquid retains a very
 much lower density than the liquid, as the hydrogen does its work in
 keeping back a portion of the vapour molecules.           In this case the
 upper does not become equal in density to the lower portion of the
 fluid as in Cagniard de la Tour's experiment, yet when the critical
 temperature is reached the meniscus disappears and diffusion occurs
 between the upper and lower portions.          This phenomenon is seen at
  any pressure up to five times the "critical" pressure, showing that
  the change of state is independent of pressure.      Gaseity is dependent
  upon molecular velocity (thermal activity), and to give it this velocity
  a very strong cohesion must be overcome.        The velocity is not in any
  way dependent upon the pressure or upon the size of the vessel, and
     VOL. XXXII.                                                2 F

                                                                      [June   16.
412                     On   the Stales   of Matter.
therefore the gaseous state proper cannot be altered by pressure alone.
The liquid state is thus bounded by an isotherm which marks the
thermal activity equivalent to the attraction of the molecules, and the
continuity of the liquid and gaseous states enunciated by Andrews is
only apparent.
   The passage from the liquid to the gaseous state might be repre
sented by a curve where the line representing decrease of capillarity
passes through zero to a negative side, which
                                              in reality represents re
pulsion.   In other words, the curve for liquid represents excess of
attraction  over repulsion,  that for gas excess of repulsion over
attraction.
   The existence of this cohesion in liquids has been too much over
looked by the statistical method of looking at the states of matter. It
is something very great compared with the amount of energy required
to give the molecular velocity required to sustain the gaseous state.
Let us by Dr. Joule's method make a calculation.     Suppose the mole
cules in a gram of steam to be at rest it would require 92 gram-
                                                    mte
degrees ' or, in absolute    measure,     383,161         g™-, to give them
                                                       sec.3
velocity enough to exert            of one atmosphere.
                              a pressure                  Now the
energy added to cause a gram of water to become steam at one
                                                             atmo
                                                                   *~r"
sphere pressure     is 540 gram-degrees      (or 2,244,780     —               or
about six times as much work to be done. And this is not all. We
 started from rest in the other calculation, here we start from water
whose molecules are in motion.   Five-sixths of the energy has gone to
overcome the cohesion of the liquid. As we know, that to bring
 matter to the same state we must expend the same amount of energy,
and as we may bring matter to the gaseous state either by boiling or
by Andrews' apparently continuous method ; in the first case we would
say the heat used up represents the latent heat of steam, and in the
other the specific heat of water, but they are both really measures of
the thermal value of the energy required to overcome the attraction of
the molecules.  When, therefore, this energy has been given to the
water, the cohesion has been overcome and the liquid state passed,
whether or not it has been visible to our eyes.     Thus from all evi
dence, experimental and theoretical, the liquid state has a limit, and
the liquid and gaseous states are not really continuous.
   The definition of the gaseous state as a state of matter not alterable
by pressure alone leads us to a clear division of aeriform matter into
two states, the vaporous and gaseous, the first alterable, the second
unalterable by pressure alone.     Another distinction between vapour
and gas is this : gases are solvents of solids ; vapours are not.   Let a
liquid be  coloured  by having some non-volatile coloured solid dissolved
in    it,
       and let it   be heated under pressure, the liquid will remain

  1881.]              On the White Blood Corpuscles.                    413
 coloured while the vapour    will be quite colourless, and will remain   so
 up to the critical point.
    Now let the fluid be raised above its critical point, all the internal
 space will be coloured, showing that (the contents being gaseous) the
 gas dissolves the solid while the vapour does not. We have here a
 clear separation of the two kinds of aeriform fluids. The definition
         I
 which applied to the gaseous state at the beginning of this paper
 does not apply to the vaporous state, as we know that any quantity of
 it will not distribute itself throughout a space, because if we try to
 force vapour into a space already saturated, we cause a change of
 state, and a portion of the matter becomes liquid.       Thus,, instead of
 only two we have four distinct states of matter : solid, liquid, vaporous,
 and gaseous.
  XVI. "The Relation of         the White Blood Corpuscles to the
       Coagulation of the- Blood."        By L. C. Wooldridge, B.Sc.
       Lond., Physiologieche Anstalt, Leipzig.            Communicated
       by  Dr. Lauder    Brunton,    F.R.S.   Received June 8, 1881.
                                 (Abstract.)
    The following is an abstract of some researches which have been
 carried out by the author in the Physiological Institute of the
  University of Leipzig.
    It has long been known that the white blood corpuscles are con
 cerned in the coagulation of the blood.
    Alexander Schmidt, to whom we principally owe our knowledge of
 this fact, has distinctly formulated the part they play.     He considers
 them as the source of two of the three factors which are, according to
 his well-known theory, necessary for the formation of fibrin.
    The two components which arise from the white blood corpuscles
 are, according to Schmidt, paraglobulin and fibrin ferment.
    The recent researches of Hammarsten have made it very probable
 (hat paraglobulm is not directly concerned in the formation of fibrin.
    If this be true, and if the views of Schmidt concerning the parti
 cipation of the white eorpuscles be also correct, the latter must neces
 sarily only play a very subordinate part ; that is, they must be mere
ferment producers.
    In order to arrive at exact conclusions on this subject, the author
 has considered it necessary :— 1st. To attain some more knowledge
 than we at present p assess concerning the chemical nature of the white
 blood corpuscles.    2nd. To have exact data for the amount of white
blood corpuscles which disappears during coagulation.
                                                            2 f  2

414              Mr. L. C. Wooldiidge.          Relation   of While    [June   16,
     The first of these two subjects the author considers here.
     For this purpose the leucocytes of lymphatic glands have been            used
as material.
     It  can be considered as in the highest degree probable that these are
essentially identical with white blood corpuscles.
     The leucocytes are obtained by finely dividing the glands (mostly
the mesenteric glands of the calf) and gently rubbing the fragments in
a mortar with ^ per cent, solution of common salt.
      By filtration through       a fine cloth, the cells are separated from the
other constituents of the glands which remain behind on the filter, the
cells passing through.
      By means of the centrifugal machine, the leucocytes are well washed
 out with a       i per cent, solution of common salt. The cells are perfectly
distinguishable under the microscope and are apparently unchanged.
 After the washing out is completed, the cells are suspended in a little
 normal salt solution and are subjected to various experiments, the most
 important of which are as follows : —
        1. The lymph cells are changed by simple chemical reagents       into a
                            substance closely resembling fibrin.
      If to one volume of suspended cells an equal volume of 10 per
 cent, solution of common salt is added, the whole is immediately con
 verted into a peculiar semi-transparent jelly.
      If this be poured into water, or into 1 per cent, solution of common
  salt,   it becomes    immediately opaque.
      It  now appears in the form of a white rounded             lump, or it forms
  large membranes, often many inches in extent.
      These latter have the greatest resemblance to fibrin membranes such
  as appear      in plasma obtained by various methods. The resemblance of
  the product to fibrin is made much more apparent if the substance be
   freed, by means of filtration and expression, as much as possible from
   water.      It then appears as small flocculi, distinctly fibrous in their
   texture and elastic.
       The chemical behaviour of these flocculi are as follows: —
       In water they are insoluble.
       In solutions of common salt, they gradually swell up.
       In 0'2 per cent, hydrochloric acid, they are totally insoluble           ;  if
    anything, they become firmer and more elastic.
       In dilute alkalies, they gradually dissolve.
       The microscopical examination shows that the cells, as such, have
    disappeared.        Only nuclei, imbedded in a distinctly fibrous ground
    substance, are visible.
        If the leucocytes are treated with distilled water, or with solutions
    of sulphate of magnesia, similar results are obtained.            The cells are
     changed    into  a  fibrous  mass,  with nuclei imbedded therein.

1881.]        Blood Corpuscles     to the  Coagulation  of the Blood.       415
                   2. Behaviour of Leucocytes   towards Plasma.
     The only animals at the author's disposal were dogs. The most
convenient way of obtaining plasma from dog's blood is to inject a
solution of peptone into the blood of the living animal. If the animal
be bled five or ten minutes after the injection of the peptone, the
blood does not coagulate.          (This fact was discovered by Dr. Adolf
Schmidt, Mulheim.)
     By means of the centrifugal machine the blood corpuscles can be
separated from the plasma.           With this plasma I have experimented,
and I shall call it peptone plasma.
     A general account of the action of peptone on the blood has been
published by my friend, Dr. Fano.            His researches were also carried
out at Leipzig, and his observations have supplied me with many
necessary details.      My observations have led me to the conclusion that
peptone plasma behaves towards the cells in a manner which is essen
tially similar to that in which solutions of common salt, of sulphate of
magnesia, and distilled water behave.            As I have already stated, by
these latter reagents the protoplasm of the lymph cells becomes con
verted into a fibrous mass resembling fibrin.
     When peptone plasma is the destroying agent, the substance pro
duced is undoubtedly fibrin, and it owes its origin to a simple trans
formation of the protoplasm of the leucocytes into fibrin. It is per
fectly independent of the presence of a fibrinogonic substance in the
plasma.
     The grounds on which        I  base  this statement   are clearly  brought
forward in the following           experiments,    which  I   shall  adduce   as
examples.
    A   dog was injected     with peptone ; five minutes afterwards it was
bled.     The corpuscles were separated from tho plasma by the centri
fugal machine, and the plasma allowed to stand overnight in ice.
During the night, incomplete coagulation of the plasma occurred.
     This is a perfectly normal occurrence in peptone plasma, and it can
be immediately brought about by dilution of the plasma with water,
or by passing a stream of carbonic acid through it.
     The plasma in question, after the coagula had been separated by
 filtration, presented the following characters : —
     It was  totally uncoagulable —
     1.  On  dilution with water.
     2.  On  passing a current of C02 through it.
     3.  On  addition of Schmidt's fibrin ferment.
     4.  On  addition of paraglobulin.
     5.  On  addition of normal serum.
     6.  On  standing till it was foul.

 416            Mr. L. C. Wooldridge.      Relation of White     [June lfi,
 In   short, by no means could the presence of a coagulable    substance —
 fibrinogen —in the plasma be demonstrated.
     It behaved as follows towards cells : —
    To 20 cub. centims. plasma a very small quantity of lymph cells
were added.        Two minutes afterwards it coagulated, but only imper
fectly. The coagulum contracted rapidly. The serum which exuded
was divided into two portions, to one a large quantity of lymph cells
were added ; very complete coagulation          occurred in two or three
minutes.       The other portion showed not the slightest sign of coagu
lation for the twenty-four hours it was under observation.
    Thin process was repeated four times ; ultimately, the plasma lost the
property of changing the cells into fibrin.
            I
    Now, say the plasma changes the cells into fibrin, and       I base thn.
statement on the following facts, in addition to those already men
 tioned   : —
    1.  The weight of the coagulum found is identical, that is, as nearly
so as   can be in such determinations, with the weight of cells which
 have been added.
    2. Tho percentage of albumens in peptone plasma before coagulation
with cells is identical with the percentage after coagulation with cells.
    3. The protoplasm of the cells has completely disappeared and has
been converted into a partly fibrous, partly granular, ground substance
the nuclei remain.
    4. If to a very large quantity of suspended cells, say 50 cub.
centims., a very small quantity (1 cub. centim.) peptone plasma be
added, the whole clots firmly. The microscope shows that the cell-
 body has disappeared.
    These facts suffice to show that the plasma converts the cells into
 fibrin, and that this conversion is independent of the presence of a
coagulable substance (fibrinogen) in the plasma.
    But this is not all.   I have already referred to the fact that a spon
taneous coagulation occurs in peptone plasma on standing, and that
this can be accelerated by dilution with water, or by passing a current
of carbonic acid through it.        Solutions of the fibrin ferment also
bring it about, but not very much more rapidly than mere dilution.
    In some cases, the coagulation which can be induced by these means
is very complete, in others it is very scanty.          The case     I have
described at length was one of the latter.
    In other cases, the coagulation is very complete, a firm dense clot is
formed by the means adopted. Now, on adding cells to such a plasma,
not only are they converted into fibrin, but they induce the coagula
tion of the existing fibrinogen in the plasma.
    I may    here remark, that I have failed to find any ground whatever
for the assumption that paraglobulin arises from lymph corpuscles.
    In the destruction of the lymph cells by salt solutions the only pro-

 1881.]       Blood Corpuscles    to the Coagulation    of the  Blood.        417
 duct is the fibrinous body mentioned, not the slightest trace of a
 globulin can be detected.
     In peptone plasma, paraglobulin is present in large quantities, and
                               I
yet it is quite certain, as shall mention later, that no breaking up of
 white blood corpuscles has taken place.
     3. The generally received view, as to the course of events in the
normal coagulation of the blood, is as follows : —
     Very soon after leaving the body the white corpuscles die        ; as a con
 sequence of this they break up, and thereby give rise to the ferment
 and paraglobulin.
     The fibrinogen is pre-existent in the plasma.
     According to this view, then, the essential element in coagulation is
 the death of the white blood corpuscles.
     The results of my experiments are totally opposed to this view.
     They are shortly stated as follows : —¦
     The injection of a large quantity of dead lymph cells into the blood
 of a living dog, both in its normal state and when it has been injected
 with peptone, has no marked influence on the functions of the animal.
 No sign whatever of emboli can be detected after the animal is dead.
     I give one example : —
     A dog was peptonised ; five minutes later a small quantity of blood
 was removed and divided into two portions, to the one lymph cells
 were added,     it coagulated immediately, exactly like normal coagula
tion.     The other portion remained uncoagulated for hours.
     After the removal of this small test quantity of blood, a very large
quantity of dead lymph cells, suspended in ^ per cent, solution of
common salt, were injected into the animal.             The latter was appa
rently quite unaffected by this. It was in the narcotic state always
produced by peptone, but it was able, in the course of three-quarters of
an hour, to walk about.          No coagula were found on post-mortem
examination.
    These facts are of great importance, for they show that coagulation
is the result of a change in the plasma, and has nothing to do with
the vital properties of the cells ; and they further fully confirm what         I
have endeavoured clearly to bring out, that the conversion of the
white cells into fibrin is quite independent of the presence of any
"              " substance. Fibrinogen is present in " living "
   fibrinogen                                                            plasma,
yet the dead cells produce no coagulation.            Fibrinogen was absent
from the peptone plasma, which still gave practically unlimited quan
tities of fibrin with lymph cells.
    Now, Alexander Schmidt has shown most distinctly that white blood
cells do unquestionably disappear as such during the normal coagula
 tion of the blood ; and, in another communication              I shall confirm
 this in a most decided manner.        I feel, therefore, justified, although   I
 have, at present,    only fully worked out peptone plasma, in saying that

418          Dr. F. W. Pavy.       Research     bearing on Vie          [June   16,
there are two essential processes in the coagulation of the blood, one
of which has been hitherto entirely wrongly appreciated or overlooked.
                                         "
This latter process is that the " dead     plasma converts the white
corpuscles  directly into fibrin. At the same  time, however, that this
occurs,   a substance   is liberated    from   the cells which converts the
fibrinogen also into fibrin. This is the other process.             The substance
which is liberated from the cells is fibrin ferment.
XVII.    " A New Line of Research bearing on the Physiology of
      Sugar in the Animal System."    By F. W. Pavy, M.D.,
      F.R.S. Received June 8, 1881.
  Twenty-three years ago I presented a communication to the Royal
Society, entitled
                  " On the alleged Sugar-forming Function of the
Liver."
    Four years previously, viz., in 1854, whilst conducting experiments
directed towards determining the manner in which the sugar presumed,
under the glycogenic doctrine, to escape from the liver was destroyed
(as it was then believed to be) in the lungs, I discovered that what had
been taken as representing the natural condition of the liver, and of the
blood escaping from it in relation to sugar, was founded upon a falla
cious inference.    By those who have only been acquainted with what,
in recent times, has been recognised as constituting the state existing,
the original position in which the matter stood will hardly be fully com
prehended.     The strongly saccharine state in which the liver and the
blood of the hepatic veins are found shortly after death was looked
 upon, without any question being raised about         it,
                                                        as representing the
 state existing during life. Without the slightest prior conception that
 such was likely to be the case,I   found first that the blood between the
 liver and the lungs was not during life in the condition that had
 been supposed, and next that what       Idiscovered for the blood applied
 also to the liver.  The evidence which presented itself led me, as              is
 known, to dispute the validity of the glycogenic theory, and the
 additional information which  I   have since from time to time obtained
 has materially strengthened the position took. To my own mind, the
                                               I
 conditions that we have to deal with looked at in their entirety, are
 totally irreconcilable with the glycogenic theory but know that the
                                                       ;       I
 difficulty which has existed in accounting for the disposal of the
 glycogenic matter of Bernard encountered in the liver has stood in
 the way of a general adoption of my views.        This subject, however,
I   am now prepared to approach        and consider.
  When the glycogenic matter was discovered,                   was described     as
undergoing transformation into sugar immediately           it it   was brought into

  1881.]         Physiology  of Sugar in     the Animal System.               419
  contact with blood. Bernard said of it " Cette derniere [matiere
  glycogene du foie] est tellement alterable qu'elle ne pent pas exister
  dans le sang sans etre inimediatement changee en sucre, de sorte qu'elle
  ne pent jamais sortir du foie que sous cet etat." This impression has
  governed the position left open to us to take in relation to the disposal
  of the material, and rendered it necessary to look for some undis
  covered mode of transformation of it within the liver under the pre
  sumption that it does not reach the circulatory system as sugar.
      We have here a fundamental point to deal with ; and, as in my
  original communication to the Society,          I had to commence by clear
                                                           I
  ing the ground of error, so now it happens that have to proceed in
  a similar way in relation to the point in question.          I have results to
  communicate which appear to me to place us in a new position, but
  before these are considered it is requisite that tho knowledge upon
  which we start should be set right.
      Whatever may be the future of the glycogenic theory, the substance
  which Bernard was the first to recognise will stand as it exists now.
  The name " Glycogen
                            "  was applied to it when certainly an erroneous
  notion existed regarding the condition of the liver and of the blood in
  relation to sugar. Its presumed destination suggested the application
  of the term. I have hitherto objected to its employment, and I have
  stronger grounds for doing so now. To avoid the incorporation of
  theory,   I  have spoken, in my previous writings, of the body in ques
  tion under the provisional name of " amyloid substance."           Something
  more definite than this is for final purposes required, and it appears to
  me that it would bo a fitting tribute to the memory of its discoverer
  to call it "Beruardin." Such, a name will be at once suggestive of
  the substance to which it is intended to refer, and will form an im
  perishable memorial, which, whatever doctrine may prevail, will serve
. to identify the person, to whom all must admit physiological science
  owes so much, with the subject which formed the most prominent field
   of his labours.
      Entering now upon the results which it is the object of this com
   munication to make known, I will begin with the experiments bearing
   on the effect of bringing Bernardin (glycogen) into contact with
   blood.
      In these experiments the Bernardin was dissolved in         a small quan
   tity of water, and mixed with the blood in a defibrinated state.
   Sheep's blood was the kind of blood used.            The product was placed
   in an oven specially constructed      for   such  a purpose, and maintained
   for half an hour at a temperature between 100° and 110° F. It was
   then subjected to examination,         and the quantity of sugar present
   ascertained by the ammoniated cupric test.*
      * The   ammoniated cupric test referred to was described by mo in former
   communications published   in " Proc. Roy. Soc." vol. 28, p. 260, and vol.

420             Dr. F. W. Pavy.             Research bearing on the          [June    16,
   In some instances, the process of preparation for titration with the
test consisted of extraction with alcohol, and in others of precipitation
of the albuminous and colouring matters by heat with the aid of
sulphate of soda. Bernardin     (glycogen) prepared in different ways
was used, and no difference     in the results was perceived.    Some
of the specimens employed were obtained by simple           extraction
from the liver with water and precipitation with spirit. The actual
condition of the specimen used as regards purity was ascertained
by subjection to the converting action of sulphuric acid and heat,
and the estimation of the glucose formed.        In this way, the in
formation was obtained for supplying the figures found in the sub
joined table representing the Bernardin used, expressed in its equiva
lent of glucose.   The figures representing the sugar produced were
obtained by deducting from the sugar found in the product of experi
ment the figures yielded by a specimen of the blood alone purposely
exposed to parallel conditions.
  Bernardin (glycogen)         added to Blood and exposed for            half an hour
                        to a temperature of 100° to 110° F.
                                                  Amount of sugar
                                                  producible from
                               Amount of blood
                                                   the Bernardin        Sugar produced.
                                    used.
                                                   mixed with the
                                                       blood.
                                cub. centims.          grm.                  grm.
   Experiment      1.                60               0-267                 0-007
                   2,                CO               0 267                 0 018
                   3                 30               0-535                 0 005
                   4.                30               0-535                 0 005
                   5                 25               0-232                 0 009
                   6,                60               0-432                 0 014
                   7.                60               0-288                 0-021
                   8.                50               0 144                 0 007
                   9.                60               0-294                 0 009
          »     10,                  60               0 147                 0-009
                11.                  60               0-144                 0 036
                12.                  50               0 144                 0 033
          .,    13.                  25               0144                  0 (07
                14.                  50               0 144                 0 009
          „     15.                  25               0-144                 0-000
                16.                  25               0 112                 0-003
                17.                  25               0112                  0 002
p. 272.  Since bringing it under the notice of the Society,         I have had a Terr
large experience with    it,and am thus enabled to speak in definite and confident
terms about it.  Its facility of application, delicacy, and precision place us in a most
advantageous position in relation to the quantitative determination of sugar.        An
important feature also belonging to  it    that its action
                                          is             is not interfered with by the
presence of nitrogenous matter as      is the case with the ordinary cupric solution.
 Under my supervision    ithas been used,   I am quite within bounds in saying, some

1881.]           Physiology of Sugar in         the   Animal System.                 421
    The total of these results is that Bernardin (glycogen) equivalent
to 4'085 grms. of glucose was added to 705 cub. centime, of blood,
and that the amount of sugar produced was 0194 grm.                             I do not
know      the  reason    of the figures standing so much higher                in experi
ments 11 and 12 than in any of the others.                  The two were conducted
together and with the same specimen of blood, which was only used in
these particular experiments.
    The amount of sugar produced is too insignificant to be snsceptible
of recognition by ordinary testing. Half a gramme of a sample of
Bernardin (glycogen), standing equivalent to 0'367 grm. of glucose,
was mixed with 25 cub. centims. of blood, and exposed for half an hour
to 100° F. Prepared for testing with heat and sodic sulphate in
the ordinary way, the product gave with the cupro-potassic test no
visible indication of the production of sugar.
    The point shown by these experiments is that Bernardin (glycogen)
may be brought into contact with blood and kept in contact, for some
time, at a temperature equal to that of the living body, without under
going conversion into sugar to more than what may be spoken of
as quite an insignificant extent.             Not only do the quantitative deter
minations of sugar prove this, but there is the further conclusive fact
that the Bernardin is subsequently recoverable from the blood. The
ground is therefore cleared in such a manner as to show that there is
nothing inconsistent with Bernardin existing in and constituting a
natural element of the blood.
    Having established this foundation,                I  will now proceed to deal
with the blood as it exists in the body, investigated in relation to
Bernardin.
    It is only when light begins to dawn upon a subject that the path of
thousands of times ; and if an experience of this kind will justify an expression      of
opinion,   I may state that  I am satisfied it will be found invaluable alike to the phy
siologist, the chemist, and the physician.
   The test is prepared by adding ammonia to a cupro-potassic solution, for which
the following is the formula : —
              Cupric sulphate                                       34"65 grms.
              Potassic sodic tartrate (Rochelle salt)              170      „
              Potash                                               170      „
              Water                                               to 1 litre.
   For the ammoniated     test 120 cub. centims. of the above solution are mixed with
300 centims.    of strong ammonia (sp. gr. 0 880), and water added to a litre.         20
cub. centims. of this ammoniated cupric liquid are decolorised           by 0 010 grm. of
glucosa.
   The liquid to be examined is allowed to drop from a burette into a suspended flask
containing the test, which is kept briskly boiling till decoloration has been attained.
The reduction being attended with decoloration without precipitation, there is
nothing to obscure the determination of the moment when the precise point wanted
has been reached.

422            Dr. F. W. Pavy.         Research bearing on the      [June     16,
investigation, which is calculated to lead to an extension of knowledge,
appears in view.        Until a definite purpose to work up to, suggested bj
something     or  other  which has been extricated from the realm of dark
ness   is attained, engagement in the laboratory operations of research
is unsatisfactory employment.           For some time,   I persevered in con
ducting general analytical examinations of the blood and liver, hoping
that, through the results obtained, light might appear in some direction
or other, but they failed to lead to any useful acquirement of know
ledge.     Later   on, from information supplied      by a collateral course of
inquiry,   I  was induced to conduct examinations by another method of
procedure, which was not likely to have been hit upon accidentally ;
and through these a new field has been opened out, which, if            I  judge
rightly, has given signs of proving productive of an important addi
tion to our knowledge.
    It would scarcely occur to     a person, unless forced upon him by what
he had otherwise        observed, to think it necessary in relation to the
matter under consideration, to preserve the coagulated residue of
blood and submit it to examination.            It will be seen, however, from
what has to be stated, that besides a       certain amount of glucose, which
may be removed by alcohol, blood contains a principle which agrees
with Bernardin (glycogen)        in being insoluble in alcohol, and converti
ble into    glucose by exposure to the influence of sulphuric acid and
heat.     Some of this principle is dissolved out by water under aqueous
 extraction, but the remainder clings to the coagulated residue, which
iias to be subjected to special treatment in order that it may be brought
into view. Thus, unless a special mode of examination is adopted
which is not likely to suggest itself accidentally to the mind, the
principle in question incorporated with the coagulated residue will
remain concealed from observation.
    In conducting a full or detailed examination of blood, the first step
to be undertaken       is the separation of the glucose which it contains
for quantitative examination.          Let 25 to 50 cub. centims. of defibri-
nated blood be poured into five or six times their volume of spirit.
The glucose being soluble in alcohol is susceptible of extraction by
this liquid.     It is held, however, more tenaciously by the coagulated
matter than might be expected, and hence to effect a complete re
moval several washings and pressings are required.                         I
                                                                 At first was
deceived through not fully realising this fact, and thought               I   had
obtained evidence of the presence of glucose, of a maltose-like body
giving a greater cupric oxide reducing action after being subjected to
 the converting influence of sulphuric acid and heat than before, and
 of a substance agreeing with Bernardin (glycogen) in blood.                  The
 first I found in the alcoholic extract, the second in the aqueous extract,
 and the third in the solid residue.          The maltose-like body,     I   have
 since ascertained, has no real existence.          The cupric oxide reducing

1881.]          Physiology   of Sugar in  the  Animal System.             423
action in the aqueous extract noticeable before subjection to sulphuric
acid and heat, arose from the glucose not having been thoroughly
extracted in the alcoholic process, and the increased reducing action
after sulphuric acid and heat was due to the presence, in addition to
the glucose referred to, of a little Bernardin (glycogen) dissolved out
from the residue by the water.
    The plan that I adopt for effecting the complete removal of the
glucose is as follows : — The defibrinated blood which has been taken
for examination is poured into the requisite quantity of spirit, and the
two are well stirred together.       I am under the impression that it is
advantageous       for  the coagulnm   to  be allowed to remain in contact
with the spirit till the following day. After being boiled by the heat
of the water bath, the alcohol is strained off through a piece of linen
material which has been cleansed so as to be free from dressing.
 Washing with alcohol is performed, and the coagulum in the linen
is subjected to forcible squeezing in a suitable sized press. The
 residue, which by this process is converted into a dry cake, is pulverised
 in a mortar, mixed with fresh spirit, boiled over the water-bath, and
 again strained and pressed.       The process is repeated once more, and
 this I find is sufficient.   Thns extracted three times, there is practically
 no glucose left in the solid residue, and when an aqueous extract is
 made it gives no appreciable cupric oxide reducing action before sub
 jection to the influence of sulphuric acid and heat.
    Two extractions with alcohol might prove sufficient if carefully
 made, but it is safer to use three.          To give the representations of
 actual results yielded, 50 cub. centims. of sheep's blood were extracted
 with alcohol.       The first alcoholic extract contained 15 mgrms. of
 glucose, the second 4, and the third no definite amount.         Some sugar
 from diabetic     urine  was  added to  sheep's  blood, and 50 cub. centims.
 taken.    The first alcoholic extract was found to contain 144 mgrms. of
 glucose, the second 9, and the third nothing definite.
    To prepare the alcoholic extraction for testing, the mixture of alcoholic
 liquids obtained is acidified with acetic acid, heated to near boiling
 point over the water-bath, and then filtered through ordinary filtering
 paper.     It is now brought down by heat to a small bulk, and treated
 with an excess of crystals of sulphate of soda with the view of
 causing the fatty matter finely dispersed through the liquid to agglo
 merate so as to be susceptible of removal by filtration.            Water is
  added to the surplus crystals of sulphate of soda, and a hot solution
  made which is used for washing purposes.
    The titration of the product of alcoholic extraction with the
  ammoniated cupric test gives quantitative          results which stand in
  complete accord with those I obtained by the gravimetric process,
  which were mentioned in communications published in " Proc. Roy.
  Soc," vol.    26, pp. 314 and 346.

 424          Dr. F. W. Pavy.     Research    hearing on the     [June   16,
   For the purpose of ascertaining what kind of sugar is contained in
the alcoholic extract, the product of extraction has been titrated with
the ammoniated cupric test before and after subjection to the convert
ing influence of sulphuric acid and heat. The resutts have shown that
no increased reducing action is given after treatment       with sulphuric
acid and heat.
   The cupric oxide reducing principle, therefore, which is extracted
by alcohol from blood, consists of glucose.
   When the alcoholic extraction has been thoroughly effected, the
coagulated residue of blood fails, as    I have stated, to yield to water
anything possessing per se a cupric oxide reducing property. After
treatment, however, with sulphuric acid and heat the aqueous extract
is found to exert a certain amount of cupric oxide reducing action.
The substance removed by water which possesses this property is part
of the material present in the coagulated residue, which closely resem
bles, if it does not actually constitute, Bernardin (glycogen).      There
appears to be uncertainty in the amount extracted by water, and           I
think it may be considered that no useful information is derivable from
the examination of the aqueous extract.        Just for the purpose, how
ever, of giving a representation of what       I have found,   I may state
that taking the several observations of which      I have a record (thirty-
two in number), the amount of material contained in the aqueous
extract convertible into cupric oxide reducing substance by sulphuric
acid and heat, stands at about 0'290 per 1,000 expressed as glucose.
   It did not occur to me, at starting, to do anything in the way of
examining the residue left after alcoholic and aqueous extraction, not
imagining that there would be anything of concern to me present. In
the course of investigation, however, grounds presented themselves for
leading me to deal with the residue, and I determined to treat it as I
have been in the habit of treating the liver in making a quantitative
determination of Bernardin (glycogen).
   This process consists of dissolving by means of an alkali, pouring
into spirit, and collecting the precipitate.    Bernardin (glycogen) pos
sesses two properties which greatly facilitate its separation from other
bodies, viz., resistance to the action of an alkali and insolubility in
alcohol.   Albuminoid matters are attacked by caustic alkalies, and are
then not precipitable by spirit as before.      A method of separation is
thus supplied.    The object of applying the process was to ascertain
whether there existed concealed in the residue anything of the nature
of Bernardin (glycogen).
   The residue was treated with water, and caustic potash added in the
proportion of about one-fifth of the original weight of blood taken for
examination.    Heat was applied until solution occurred, and the pro
duct was poured into about five or six times its volume of spirit. The
precipitate was allowed till the following day to settle, and the spirit

  1881.]       Physiology  of Sugar in the Animal System.              425
  was then carefully decanted off and some fresh spirit added and time
  again given to settle.   The next step was to purify the product, and
 this was done by collecting and dissolving it in a little water,
 thoroughly acidifying the solution with acetic acid, filtering from the
 precipitate produced, and then re-precipitating with spirit.     The pre
 cipitate thus finally obtained was dissolved in water and examined.
  The solution was found to exert no reducing action upon the ammo-
 mated cupric test before treatment with sulphuric acid and heat, but
 did so afterwards.     Such is the behaviour of Bernardin (glycogen),
 and such behaviour, it is to be noted, was obtained from a product
 furnished by the process of preparation adapted for yielding in a
 separated form whatever of the principle in question the blood might
 contain.
    I  have spoken of the material   I have been referring to, which is
 precipitable by spirit and convertible into glucose by sulphuric acid
                                               I
 and heat, under the name of Bernardin, but am not prepared to state
 that the principle which exists in the blood is absolutely identical with
 that belonging to the liver. The determination of this point must
 form the subject of future investigation.
    The process   I have described is the one by which     I learnt that a
 principle agreeing  with  Bernardin (glycogen) may   be recognised in the
 blood. A shorter method, however, may be had recourse to for reveal
 ing its presence. The blood may be at once treated with potash and
 the product poured into spirit.    The subsequent steps to be followed
 are those which have been already described.
                                                    I
    It is through the ammoniated cupric test that have been led on to
 the acquirement of the information that I have obtained. The delicacy
of the test, and the circumstance that its action is not interfered with
 by the presence of a small quantity of nitrogenous matter, have
enabled me to discern conditions which the ordinary application of
the cnpro-potassic test wquld have failed to have revealed.       Once in
possession   of the knowledge supplied through    the ammoniated    cupric
test, I could see that the ordinary cupro-potassic test ought to be sus
ceptible of being rendered applicable for revealing the glucose pro
duced from the Bernardin (glycogen) existing in blood, and such, I
find, proves to be the case. From half a litre to a litre of blood should
be taken and treated by being at once boiled with potash and poured
into spirit. The aqueous solution of the ultimate alcoholic precipitate
obtained possesses, as will be understood, not the slightest cupric oxide
reducing power of its own ; but, after treatment with sulphuric acid
and heat, and subsequent neutralisation, gives a good reaction with the
cupro-potassic solution used in the ordinary way.       The suitability of
blood for operating upon to show this result varies, and a specimen
should be procured from an animal in good condition and well fed up
to the time of death.     The blood obtained from the slaughter-house is

426            Dr. F. W. Pavy.          Research bearing on the      [June 16,
not always a favourable specimen for the purpose, and this is scarcely
to be wondered at, looking at the abnormal state the animals often
exist under for a day or two previous to being killed.           Similarly, it is
found    that for collecting Bernardin (glycogen)          from the liver, the
slaughter-house       often affords a very    unfavourable   specimen    for the
purpose.
   I  will furnish the results of the quantitative analyses        I  have per
formed.      They were simply taken just as the specimens happened to
present    themselves.               I
                             As yet have not done anything towards ascer
taining in a systematic way how the quantity of the principle is modified
by antecedent conditions.          This will form a subject for subsequent
investigation.      The glucose figures yielded by the analysis have been
brought into Bernardin (glycogen) figures by the method of calcula
tion which will be later on referred to.
       Amount of Bernardin (glycogen) found per 1,000 of Blood.
               Sheep.            Bullock.      Cst.      Rabbit.     Horse.
       0-621          0 388       0-540       0-837       0 858       0-504
       0-422          1 025       0-522       0 423
       0 540          0-605                   0-387
       0 630          0- 709                  0-441
       0-549          0 -594                  0 630
       0-432          0-687                   0-967
       0-623          1-483                   0-693
       0 423          0-261
       0-797          0-283
    The mean of these twenty-nine results, taken altogether, gives 0'616
 as the amount of        Bernardin found per 1,000 of blood.
    It has been seen that the method I adopt for the quantitative deter
 mination of the Bernardin present in the blood, is the conversion of it into
 glucose by the agency of sulphuric acid and heat, and then estimating
 the glucose by means of the ammoniated cupric test. This is the plan
 adopted for the quantitative determination of starch.           I have experi
 mented to ascertain the conditions required for securing complete con
 version into glucose, and have found that Bernardin offers a far greater
 resistance to the converting action of sulphuric acid and heat than I
 had at first anticipated.       The particulars of an observation are before
 me which showed that, after the process of boiling had been carried on
 for four hours, full conversion had taken place ; whilst, at the end of
 three hours, conversion was considerably short of complete.
    Fortunately for the progress of investigation, it happens that by
 exposure to a higher temperature under pressure, a comparatively
 short time suffices for effecting the complete conversion of Bernardin

1881.]         Physiology   of Sugar in   the Animal Systein.            421
into sugar.     If  the necessity existed for having recourse to such a
prolonged operation as boiling for four hours, a serious obstacle would
be offered to the performance of the quantitative determination to
which we have to look for the supply of information. To shorten the
time of exposure,      I at first employed a stout glass flask with a vul
canised rubber bung wired into its mouth, and immersed this in an
oil-bath heated to a considerably higher temperature than that of
 boiling water.      Finding that     I could not make sufficiently rapid
 progress with my investigations by proceeding in this way,          I had a
 stout copper boiler constructed for the application of heat under
 pressure.    It is provided with a lid which is screwed down with iron
 bolts, and has a lever safety-valve with a shifting weight to regulate
 the pressure. The boiler is large enough to receive a number of flasks,
 so that several products can be operated on at a time.          I am in the
 habit of working it at 45 lbs. pressure, which gives a temperature
 just under 300° F. At this temperature, the conversion into glucose is
 accomplished within about a quarter of an hour. It is reliably secured
 by exposure for half an hour, and this time           I am in the habit of
 allowing.
    The quantity of sulphuric acid used is in the proportion of about
 4 per cent, of the strong acid to the volume of liquid that is being
 worked upon. It is essential to give attention that the conditions are
 not such that the acid is appropriated to the liberation of another acid
 unendowed with the power of exerting a converting influence : such,
 for instance, as would occur if acetic acid had been previously used so
 as to leave a considerable quantity of acetates present.
     From the amount of glucose, which, through the ammoniated
 cupric test has been ascertained to be produced, the quantity of
 Bernardin (glycogen) is calculated.             The accepted formula for
 Bernardin is the same as for starch, viz., C6H10O6.         The formula for
  glucose is CsH1206.       The   equivalent  of  the one is 162 and of the
 other 180. From these we obtain the factor for the conversion of
 glucose figures into Bernardin figures : —
     Let x = the amount of Bernardin equivalent to one part of glucose.
     Then,  as                  180 : 162 :: 1  : x,
                                    180    10
  Hence -9 stands as the factor to multiply by to convert glucose figures
 into Bernardin figures.
    I  have shown that after the extraction of glucose from blood by
 alcohol, there is to be found a material which gives no cupric oxide
 reducing action before treatment with sulphuric acid and heat but
  does so afterwards.       Water dissolves out a certain portion of this
     vol. xxxn.                                                 2 o

428             Dr. F. W. Pavy.      Research  bearing on    the    [June 16,
material ; but the larger portion remains incorporated with the solid
residue and is susceptible of being brought into view by boiling with
potash and subsequent precipitation with spirit.
    Bernardin (glycogen) added to blood behaves in a similar way. It
is carried down, in great part, by the precipitated matter when coagu
lation is induced, and afterwards so tenaciously held that only the
minor portion is removed by washing with water.               The proportion
dissolved   out  by  water  has varied  considerably  in  different  instances,
and I have been led to question whether, in some cases, it may not be
held to a more fixed extent than in others.            I  was at first much
puzzled to know what had become of the substance, and it seemed,
until   I recognised it in the coagulated residue, that contact with blood
led to an immediate extensive disappearance.             To recover it, the
coagulated matter requires to be subjected to disintegration by boiling
with a caustic alkali.        In some experiments, a notable amount of
Bernardin has still remained unaccounted for, but, in some others, it
has been nearly all recovered.        For instance, in two recent experi
ments, after half an hour's exposure to a temperature of from 100° to
110° F., the following results were obtained : Bernardin equivalent to
0"112 grm. of glucose was in each case added, and Bernardin equiva
lent to 0"105 gnu. of glucose in each case recovered.             In another
experiment Bernardin equivalent to 0"294 grm. of glucose was added,
and Bernardin equivalent to 0-269 grm. of glucose recovered.             I con
sider that further observations upon this subject require to be under
taken.
    It is known that precipitates have a tendency to carry down other
substances with them, and this principle, it may be suggested,
accounts for what has been adverted to above.       I  am inclined to think,
however,     from   a review of all the evidence before me, that there is
something      more   than this at the foundation of what occurs.           The
question may be raised whether there is not some feeble combination
existing, and whether this may not have a bearing of considerable
physiological importance.       Subjoined are results touching the point
under consideration.
    A weighed quantity of liver from a recently killed dog was reduced
 to a pulp and thoroughly extracted with alcohol for the removal of
 glucose.    The coagulated residue from the alcoholic washing was then
 extracted with repeated washings of boiling water till the washings
 came away clear instead of lactescent as at first.      The washings were
 collected and the Bernardin (glycogen) estimated by conversion into
 glucose and calculation from the glucose found.           After being thus
 washed the liver residue was kept in a moist condition till the follow
 ing day, when the process of washing and estimation of the extracted
 Bernardin was again performed.         The process was subsequently re
 peated in a similar way ; and, finally, the liver residue which had been

 1881.]         Physiology  of Sugar in the Animal System.                  429
 subjected to the several daily washings      was boiled with potash and
 the liquefied product poured into spirit and the Bernardin collected
and estimated. The following are the figures that were yielded : —
                                                       Per  1,000 of liver.
             Bernardin extracted the 1st day                 13-833
                              „        2nd „                   3 879
                                       3rd „                   2 961
                                       4th „                   2-817
             Bernardin remaining in the liver residue   . .  35'145
    In  another similarly conducted experiment    upon the liver of a cat
 the following results were obtained : —
                                                       Per  1,000 of liver.
             Bernardin extracted the 1st day                   3-951
                                       2nd „                   1134
                   „          ,,       3rd „                   Trace
             Bernardin remaining in the liver residue   . .    3'609
 The above liver, it will be seen, was poor in Bernardin ; and this is
 often noticed in the cat, unless the animal has been fed with milk or
 bread in addition to, or in lieu of, meat.
    In a third experiment upon the liver of a rabbit the following
 figures were furnished : —
                                                       Per  1,000 of liver.
             Bernardin extracted the 1st day                 13-503
                   „          „        2nd „                   3-376
                   „          ,,       4th „                   3'688
                                       8th „                   2-466
                                      12th  „                  2-299
             Bernardin remaining in the liver residue   . .  73-167
    These results show how imperfectly ordinary extraction with water
 removes Bernardin from the liver substance, and account for the small
-quantities which, perhaps, may have been noticed to have been
 obtained when aqueous extraction has been had recourse to for collect
 ing it.
    Before the above quantitative experiments were performed,        I  noticed
the following circumstance, which, indeed, led me to undertake them.
 Some bruised liver substance was washed in a beaker with boiling
¦water,   till the water failed to present the slightest appearance           of
lactescence.      The last washing was poured off, and the liver substance
simply   left  in a moist condition in the beaker, till the following day.
On then boiling it up with water, a highly lactescent liquid (from the
extraction of Bernardin) was again obtained. A few repetitions of the
washing resulted, as on the previous day, in clear liquid being yielded,
and the residue placed aside as before in a moist state, gave rise on
                                                               2g2

430             Dr. F. W. Pavy.         Research bearing on the       [June     16,
the following day to a recurrence of the phenomena.               In some way
or other, the Bernardin is held in the tissue, and with the lapse of time
is set free for heing taken up by water.
    Although what     I  have described is noticeable when the liver sub
stance is extracted with water at 212° F., yet a very different result is
attainable by extraction under pressure, at a temperature of 300° F.
At this temperature, it is found that all the Bernardin is speedily
extracted.      The copper boiler or digester, which        I  employ for the
conversion     of Bernardin  into    glucose by sulphuric acid, has been made
use of for the extraction of liver experiments at 300° F., and half an
hour, as the following statement of results obtained shows, has sufficed
for the full accomplishment of extraction.
    Two weighed portions of rabbit's liver, which had been bruised to a
pulp in a mortar, were treated with spirit, and washed and pressed for
the removal of glucose.        The solid residue was then, in the one case,
boiled with a solution of potash, and the Bernardin precipitated with
spirit, and afterwards estimated in the usual way by conversion into
 glucose. In the other case, the liver residue, after alcoholic extraction,
 was treated with water and extracted at 300° F.                  The aqueous
extract was then boiled with a little potash, and the Bernardin pre
cipitated with spirit and estimated by conversion into glucose.                The
 figures yielded   stood  thus   : —
                                                                Bernardin per
                                                                 1,000 of liver.
       After solution of liver substance in potash                  91 "314
       After extraction at 300° F                                   93 015
    In  a second   similarly conducted experiment        upon a rabbit's     liver,
 the figures obtained were     : —
                                                                Bernardin per
                                                                 1,000 of liver.
       After a solution of liver substance in potash                64 "242
       After extraction at 300° F                                   68 040
     In  a third experiment upon a cat's liver, the results were      : —
                                                                 Bernardin per
                                                                 1,000 of liver.
       After solution of liver substance in potash                   30 -735
        After extraction at 300° F                                   31  742
     Whatever the precise explanation, it follows from the results which
  have been set forth that the manner in which Bernardin (glycogen) is
  held, or the condition under which it exists in the liver, is such that
  at a temperature of 300° F., it is readily and completely susceptible of
  removal by water, whilst the resistance offered to removal is at the
  same time sufficient to permit only partial extraction to occur within

1881.]          Physiology   of Sugar in   the   Animal System.                           431
moderate    limits of       time   at the ordinary            boiling       temperature    of
water.
    When referring to the Bernardin (glycogen) discoverable in the
 blood, I stated that   I was not prepared to assert that the principle
existing in the blood is absolutely identical with that belonging to the
                                                          I
 liver. There is a point of difference which have noticed in relation
 to the effect of extraction with water at 300° F. ; but whether this is
-due to a difference in the properties of the principle itself, or whether
 to the manner in which it is held by other matter, I am not yet in a
 position to decide. The Bernardin of the liver, as                     I
                                                           have shown, is
readily extracted with water at 300° F., whilst according to the ex
 periments  I   have conducted, that of the blood is not similarly sus
ceptible of removal.
     Ihave not yet said anything about               the structures of the body
generally in relation to Bernardin.              I   have subjected the spleen,
pancreas, kidney, brain, and muscle to the same kind of examination
as   I
     have adopted in the case of the blood, and have found in all a
notable amount of Bernardin.
  Muscle has long been known to contain Bernardin (glycogen), but
                 I
the quantity obtain by the potash process is decidedly greater than
what I believe is generally thought to be present. From cat's muscle,
in one of my observations, the analysis yielded upwards of 5 per 1,000.
Horse's muscle has been known to be specially characterised as con
taining Bernardin, and 9 per 1,000 in one instance is the quantity                          I
have obtained.
     Inthe observations      I
                            have yet made upon the spleen, pancreas,
kidney,  and brain, the largest amount of Bernardin has been found in
rtbe spleen, and in one instance the quantity indicated was a little
under 4 per 1 ,000.
    Bernardin therefore has been found as a constituent of all the tissues
I  have up to the present examined.              I
                                            have likewise obtained it in
notable amount from both the white and yolk of egg.
    Besides Bernardin, there       is,
                                 in the several tissues have referred to,
                                                                  I
a cupric oxide reducing substance, which         susceptible of extraction
                                                     is
 by alcohol, and this also   present to a somewhat notable extent.
                              is                                        In
 the case of the spleen, pancreas, kidney, and brain, this body appears
 to be glucose, the reducing power in most of the instances having
 come out about the same before and after the treatment with sulphuric
Acid and heat. In the case of muscle, however, the reducing power
 has been usually observed to be about twice as great after the treat
ment with sulphuric acid and heat as before. It seems, therefore, that
we have here     body of the nature of maltose, instead of glucose, to
                 a
<leal with.
   AlthoughI    have a considerable number of observations before me,
jet consider advisable, at present, only to speak in the general way
     I           it

 432                     Mr. G. H. Darwin.         On the              [June     16,
       I
 that have done upon this last subject.         Observations conducted under
 varied physiological conditions require to be undertaken, so that
 besides having the facts as mere chemical facts before us, we may be
 in a position also to deal with them from a physiological point of view.
 In a subsequent communication, I will enter further into this matter,,
 and then supply details of the actual quantitative results.
                             Summary of Conclusions.
    Bernardin (glycogen) does not undergo any significant transforma
tion into sugar in contact with blood.
    Bernardin exists to a distinctly notable extent as a normal consti
tuent of blood.
   The evidence derivable from the observations recorded on the
addition of Bernardin to blood and its subsequent recovery, and on its
extraction from the liver by boiling water on successive days, and by
water at 300° F., tends to show that Bernardin enters into feeble com
bination with nitrogenous matter.
   Bernardin exists in notable amount, not only in muscle, as has been
previously known, but also in the spleen, pancreas, kidney, and brain.
These are all the structures       I have yet examined.         It also exists in
notable amount     in  the  white and  yolk  of egg. These     several   products
likewise contain a cupric oxide reducing substance, which is extracted
 by alcohol, and which, in most instances, possesses the characters of
glucose, but, specially in the case of muscle, the characters of maltose.
    Through the existence of Bernardin (glycogen) throughout the
system, as has been represented, we have a carbohydrate occupying-
a parallel position to albumen, viz., existing in the colloidal state, and
thus adapted for retention within the body, instead of passing off as a
diffusible substance     as glucose tends to do.
 XVIII.     " On the Stresses caused in the Interior of the Earth
       by the Weight of Continents and Mountains." By G. H.
       Darwin, F.R.S. Received June 11, 1881.
                                   (Abstract.)
    In this   paper   I  have considered the subject of the solidity and
 strength of the materials of which the earth is formed from a point of
 view from which it does not seem to have been hitherto discussed.
    The first part of the paper is entirely devoted to a mathematical in
 vestigation, based upon Sir William Thomson's well-known paper on
 the rigidity of the earth.* The second part consists of a summary
and discussion of the preceding work.
     • " Thomson and Tait's Nat. Phil.,"           " PhU. Trans.," 1863, p. 673.
                                         § 834, or

1881.]        Stresses caused in the Interior  of the Earth, fyc.       433
    The existence of dry land proves that the earth's surface is not a
figure of equilibrium appropriate for the diurnal rotation. Hence the
interior of the earth must be in a state of stress, and as the land does
not sink in, nor the sea-bed rise up, the materials of which the earth
is made must be strong enough to bear this stress.
    We are thus led to inquire how the stresses are distributed in the
earth's mass, and what are magnitudes of the stresses.
  • In this
            paper   I have solved a problem of the kind indicated for the
case of a homogeneous incompressible elastic sphere, and have applied
the results to the case of the earth.
    If the earth be formed of a crust with a semi-fluid interior, the
stresses in that crust must be greater than if the whole mass be solid,
very far greater if the crust be thin.      As regards the condition of in-
compressibility attributed to the materials of the earth, it is proved in
this paper that the compressibility of the solid would make no sensible
difference in the results ; except, indeed, in the case where the defor
mation of the sphere is of the second spherical harmonic class, when
large compressibility would considerably modify the results.
    The strength of an elastic solid is here estimated by the difference
between the greatest and least principal stresses, when it is on the
point of breaking, or, according to the phraseology adopted, by the
breaking stress-difference.     The most familiar examples of breaking
stress-difference are when a wire or rod is stretched or crushed until
it breaks ; then the breaking load divided by the area of the section
of the wire or rod is the measure of the strength of the material.
Stress- difference is thus to be measured by tons per square inch.
    Tables of breaking stress-differences for various materials are given
in the paper.
    The problem is only solved for the class of inequalities called zonal
harmonics ; these consist of a number of waves running round the
globe in parallels of latitude. The number of waves is determined by
the order of the harmonic. In the application to the earth the equator
here referred to may be any great circle, and is not necessarily the
terrestrial equator. The second harmonic has only a single wave, and
consists of an elevation at an equator and depression at the pole ; this
constitutes ellipticity of the spheroid.      An harmonic of a high order
may    be  described   as a series of  mountain   chains, with intervening
valleys, running round the globe in parallels of latitude, estimated
with reference to the chosen equator.
    The case of the second harmonic is considered in detail, and it is
shown that the stress-difference rises to a maximum at the centre of
the globe, and is constant all over the surface.         The central stress-
difference is eight times as great as the superficial.
    On evaluating the stress-difference arising from given ellipticity in
a rotating spheroid of the size and density of the earth, it appears that

434         On Stresses caused in Interior               of the Earth, §c.        [June   16,
if the excess or defect of ellipticity above or below the equilibrium
value  were t£gts> then the stress-difference at the centre would be
8 tons per square inch ; and that, if the sphere were made of material
as   strong   as brass,   it would just on the point of rupture. Again,
                                     be
if the homogeneous earth, with ellipticity j-J-j, were to stop rotating,
the central stress-difference would be 33 tons per square inch, and it
would rupture if made of any material Excepting the finest steel.
   The stresses produced by harmonic inequalities of high orders are
next considered.      This is in effect the case of a series of parallel
mountains and valleys, corrugating a mean level surface with an
infinite series of parallel ridges and furrows.
   It is found that the stress-difference depends only on the depth
below the mean surface, and is independent of the position of the
point considered with regard to ridge and furrow.
   Numerical calculation shows that if we take a series of mountains,
whose crests are 4,000 meters, or about 13,000 feet, above the inter
mediate valley bottoms, formed of rock of specific gravity 2-8, then
the maximum stress-difference is "2-6 tons per square inch (about the
tenacity of cast tin) ; also if the mountain chains are 314 miles apart,
the maximum stress-difference is reached at 50 miles below the mean
surface.
   The solution shows that the stress-difference is nil at the sur
face.   It      however, only an approximate solution, for
              is,                                              will not          it
give  the  stresses actually in the mountain masses, but  gives correct it
results at some three or four miles below the mean surface.
   The cases of the harmonics of the 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th, and 12th
orders are then considered   and;    shown that,
                                          it   is   we suppose them
                                                                  if
to exist on a sphere of the mean density and dimensions of the earth,
and that the height of the elevation at the equator      in each case       is
1,500 meters above the mean level of the sphere, then in each case the
maximum stress-difference      about is tons per square inch.
                                                    4             This
maximum      reached in the case of the 4th harmonic at 1,150 miles,
               is
and for the 12th at 350 miles, from the earth's surface.
     In the second part of the paper   shown that the great terrestrial
                                           it     is
inequalities, such as Africa, the Atlantic Ocean, and America, are
represented by an harmonic of the 4th order  and that, having regard
                                                            ;
to the mean density of the earth being about twice that of superficial
rocks, the height of the elevation                to be taken as about 1,500 meters.
                                          is is
   Four tons per square inch                      the crushing stress-difference of
average granite, and accordingly        concluded that at 1,000 miles
                                           it       is
from the earth's surface the materials of the earth must be at least as
strong               A very closely analogous result also found from
           as granite.                                                 is
the discussion  of the case in which the continent has not the regular
wavy character of the zonal harmonics, but consists of an equatorial
elevation with the rest of the spheroid approximately spherical.

 1881.]    ,           On the Refraction     of Electricity.                   435
    From this we may draw the conclusion, that either the materials of
the earth have about the strength of granite at 1,000 miles from the
surface, or they have a much greater strength nearer to the surface.
    This investigation must be regarded as confirmatory of Sir William
 Thomson's view, that the earth is solid nearly throughout its whole
mass.     According to this view, the lava which issues from volcanoes
arises from the melting of solid rock, existing at a very high tempera
ture, at points where there is a diminution of pressure, or else from
comparatively small vesicles of rock in a molten condition.
XIX. " On       the Refraction of Electricity."             By Alfred       Tribe,
       F.I.C.,   Lecturer on Chemistry in Dulwich College.                    Com
       municated      by Dr. GLADSTONE, F.R.S.              Received June         7,
       1881.
    On December 15, 1880, I had the honour of communicating to the
 Royal Society the latest results of my work on electric distribution.
 In that paper there is included a description of results which form the
basis of a graphic and electro-chemical method of investigating the
field of electrolytic action.      These results may be classed under three
         —
heads : 1st. Distribution of electricity on metallic conductors in elec
trolytic media. 2nd. Physical differences in corresponding parts of
non-homogeneous electrolytic fields.           3rd. Direction in which the
energy is transmitted.
    As the detailed account of these experiments has not yet been
published, it is necessary for the appreciation of the evidence to be
adduced to give in this place the groundwork of that part of the
method relating to the direction in which the energy is transmitted.
It will be convenient to do this under three heads. Let it be remem
bered that a rectangular electrolytic cell was used, that the electrolyte
was a solution of copper sulphate, and the electrical relations of the
liquid were ascertained by immersing in it a rectangular silver plate
(called an analysing plate or analyser), on which the ions were depo
sited.    In all cases the positive ion separates and is distributed on that
part of the plate which may be supposed to receive — electrification, or
by which the + energy enters the analyser, while the — ion separates
on that part of the same plate which receives + electrification, or
from which the energy emerges.
   a. When the course of the energy* is parallel with any two edges of
an analyser, and therefore with the sides, the boundary lines of the
ions on both sides of the plate are parallel with the plane of the elec-
   * I assume that the energy in a homogeneous field runs in straight parallel lines
from one electrode to another, and that this course is not appreciably disturbed by
an analyser.

436                           Mr. A. Tribe.                     [June  16,
trodes, and consequently perpendicular to the direction of the influence.
Distributions having these characteristics are named parallel.        The
dotted lines in the figure represent the boundary lines and the arrows
the course of the energy.
   p. When the course of the energy is parallel with the sides of an
analyser, but makes with its edges an oblique angle, the boundary lines
of the ions are still parallel with the plane of the electrodes, but
necessarily cross the sides of the plate obliquely to its edges.     This
obliquity varies proportionately    with the angle of inclination of the
analyser to the energy, so that in all cases the bonndary lines are per
pendicular to the direction of its transmission.
   7.  When the course of the energy makes an oblique angle with the
sides  of the analyser, neither the magnitude nor the boundary configu
ration of the same electrification is identical on the two sides of the
plate.    The boundary of the positive ion on the side in opposition to
the direct course of the influence is now markedly convex, and greater
in magnitude than on the reverse side, where, moreover, the boundary
configuration of the same ion is markedly concave.            Again, the
boundary    line of  the  negative  ion  on the  first-named  side of the
analyser is concave and smaller in magnitude than on the reverse side,
where the boundary of this ion is convex.        The convexity and con
cavity of these several boundaries increase as the direction of the
energy approaches a perpendicular to the sides of the analyser.      Both
the classes of distributions described in p and 7 are named non-
parallel.
   The position of the ions on an analyser, and the character of their
boundary lines determine then, and with accuracy, the direction of the
energy in the electrolytic field relatively to either side or edge of the
analysing plate.

 1881.]                 On the Refraction       of Electricity.                   437
    Many questions have occurred to me in the investigation of which
 this method might be expected to afford material assistance. But the
one of immediate attraction was whether electricity is endowed, like
light, heat, and sound, with the quality of refraction. From the
general resemblance of the fundamental laws of the forms of energy, I
instituted experiments in the expectation of finding an answer in the
affirmative to this question, the better conducting electrolytic medium
being taken as the electric analogue of the more rare medium in
light.
                                     Refraction.
    My first trials were made with double convex-shaped bladders.
These gave what I took to be a slight evidence of refraction, though
the result was far from satisfactory.              Triangular-shaped cells were
next employed, made by placing diaphragms of parchment-paper
obliquely across the electrolytic cell near its ends. In this way unmis-
takeable proof was obtained of the bending of the energy in passing
the line of demarcation of the two media. When the influence passed
from one medium to the other perpendicularly, i.e., when the dia
phragms were parallel to the plane of the electrodes, no refraction
whatever took place.
    On further consideration the arrangement which appeared less open
to objection, and at the same time the most simple and theoretically
the best, was a refracting cell, having parallel sides of some material
permeable to the electric influence.          In the first instance parchment-
paper was the material employed.             Two sheets of this substance were
fixed in a vertical position across an electrolytic cell, 380 millims. long,.
128 millims. broad, and 128 millims. deep, at an angle of 45°. They
were parallel to one another, 76 millims. apart, but equidistant from
the respective ends of the cell.
    An unit current was employed, and copper electrodes of the breadth
and depth of the outer or transmitting cell. A 1 per cent, solution of
copper sulphate was placed in the inner or refracting cell, and a con
centrated solution of the same salt in the transmitting cell.             On placing
successive analysers* lengthwise in several parts of the central line
joining the electrodes, parallel distributions were recorded by all the
 plates in the transmitting cell, but the one in the refracting cell
 recorded a non-parallel distribution of a most pronounced character,
 and it was evident from the degree of curvature of the ions that the
 course of the energy on passing into the medium of less conductivity,,
 had bent out of its original course some 20°.
    The difficulty of keeping the parchment diaphragms as rigid as was
 necessary for a more extended study of this phenomenon of refraction
   * Unless the contrary is stated, it is to be understood that analysers 40 x 7
 millims. were used, and placed in the electrolyte with their shorter edges upright.

438                                     Mr. A. Tribe.                    [June   16,
led to their substitution by others of unglazed earthenware.    These
consisted of the sides of a large rectangular porous cell ground to as
uniform a thickness as possible.    With this alteration, but with all
the other above-mentioned conditions, the following experiments were
made.
  Analysers were successively placed in the positions (all perpen
dicular to the electrodes) shown in the annexed diagram, exhibiting
a horizontal section drawn to about one-fifth the scale.
   The analysers a,        b, c, d, 2    millims. from electrodes, recorded parallel
•distributions.
   The analysers e, /, g,       millims. from diaphragm, recorded not
                                   li,   2
absolutely but very nearly parallel distributions. This slight non-
parallelism was not noticed in the analogous experiment with the
parchment diaphragms, and      am disposed to attribute
                                        1                to a greater
                                                                    it
diffusion in this case occasioning a less sharp line of demarcation
between the media.
  The analyser  ?',midway between the diaphragms, recorded a non-
parallel distribution of a most pronounced character.   The degree of
curvature showed that the energy had been refracted through some 30°,
while the position of the ions proved that the bending was towards a
perpendicular to the refracting surface.    Furthermore, the symmetry
¦of the curve showed that the plane of refraction was the same as that
of the incident energy.
   The analysersj,    indicated a result almost identical with
                       h,                                                 i.
   The analysers      m, showed a much smaller deviation from the
                      I,
•original course of the energy.
   The positions of the relatively good and bad conducting media were
now reversed. The      per cent, solution was placed in the transmitting
                           1
cell, and the concentrated in the refracting cell.     An analyser at            i
recorded a non-parallel distribution, and the curvature and position of
the ions showed that the course of the energy had been bent about
15°.   But in this case the refraction was from a perpendicular to the
refracting surface.
   It was now natural to anticipate that the refraction, with a given

1881.]                On  the   Refraction   of Electricity.                 439
incidence,   would decrease or increase as the media in the refracting
and transmitting cells approached or receded in conducting power.
This was proved to be the case, first, by replacing the 1 per cent.
Bolution of copper sulphate in the refracting cell by a 2, 3, 5, and 10 per
cent, solution respectively, when analysers at i recorded respectively a
decreasing refraction as the media in the cells approached equality.
And, secondly, by placing a 5 per cent, solution of copper sulphate in
the refracting cell, and successively a concentrated solution of copper
sulphate, a concentrated solution of sodium chloride, and a dilute
solution (1 — 11) of oil of vitriol in the transmitting cell. Analysers
at i showed, in the case of the copper sulphate, a refraction of about
15°, in the case of the sodium chloride, 30°, and in that of the dilute
sulphuric acid, 40°. The order of the increase in refraction is here
the same as that of the conductivities of the liquids.
    Again, it was anticipated that the refraction would decrease as the
incidence decreased.       This was proved to be true by setting the
diaphragms so that the angle of incidence should be 45°, 30°, and 15°
respectively.     With a 5 per cent, solution of copper sulphate in the
refracting cell, and dilute sulphuric acid in the transmitting cell, a
refraction of about 35° was obtained when the incidence was 45°,
about 22° when at 30°, and about 7° when at 15°.
            Relation  between,   Electric Incidence and Refraction.
    That part of the electro-chemical method which has been already
described supplies three means of determining the bending of the
course of the energy on its passage into the refracting cell.          First, by
the curvature of the ions on an analyser with the shorter edges of the
plate upright, and its length perpendicular to the electrodes.           But the
practical impossibility of obtaining accurate measurements of these
curves, renders this plan only roughly quantitative.               Secondly, by
placing an analyser at     various   angles to  a   right line joining the elec
 trodes, until it records a parallel distribution.        This is the case when
the course of the energy       is  parallel with   the  sides of the analysing
plate, and the angle enclosed between the plate and the right line
referred to consequently expresses the amount of refraction.                 The
objections to this plan are twofold. It is very tedious, and it is also
 difficult to determine with sufficient accuracy the angle of the plate as
it stands in the cell. The refraction numbers given above were
obtained by this second method, and for the last of the reasons just
mentioned I regard them only as approximately correct.                The third
plan, based on the fact that the course of the influence, when parallel
to the sides of an analyser, is perpendicular to the boundary lines
 of the ions set free, is the one I have employed for the more
 accurate determination of the relation between electric incidence and
 refraction.

440                          Mr. A. Tribe.                     [June   16,
  I  employed for this purpose four similar electrolytic cells of the
shape and dimensions given in p. 436.       Pairs of porous plates were
set across each of these cells, as before described, so as to give in one
case an incident angle of 45° ; in the second, 37£° ; in the third, 30° ;
and in the fourth, 15°. Dilute sulphuric acid (1 to 11) was used in
the transmitting cell, and a 5 per cent, solution of copper sulphate in
the refracting cell.   The current generally used was three Webers,
though variations in this respect were found not to affect the refraction.
The time of each determination was five minutes.           The analysers
employed were squares (24 millims. the side) of sheet silver, and disks
of the same material 24 millims. in diameter.      These were immersed
horizontally in the centre of the refracting cell, the squares in such a
way that their edges were parallel with the respective sides and ends
of the rectangular electrolytic cell ; the disks, so that a line passing
through their centres was coincident with a line joining the electrodes.
   As it has been already shown that the course of the energy in the
transmitting and refracting cells was in the same horizontal plane, it
was to be anticipated that the boundary lines of the ions on the
analysers placed in the positions just described would be straight.
Such is the case with the boundary of the negative ion, which conse
quently is taken for purposes of measurement.
   Were the course of the energy in the inner cell identical with that in
the transmitting cell, the boundary lines, in accordance with the rule
in /3,would be perpendicular to a right line joining the electrodes, and
this might be named the zero line, or line of no refraction. And were
the analysers in the position described, the zero line would be perpen
dicular to the central line on the disks and to the edges of the squares,
which are parallel with the sides of the cell. It follows that, were the
course of the energy diverted from a right line joining the electrodes
(its original course), the boundary line of the ion would deviate pari
passu from the line of no refraction.      The numbers expressing this
obliquity or amount of refraction in five series of trials are given in
the annexed table.  In Series     II, III, square analysers were used,
                                    I,
and for IV and V the disks already described.
                                         Deviation.
          Angle of
         incidence.
                      I.      II.           III.      IV.     v.
            15        9        !)            9        10      9
            30        19                    19        19      20
            37*       27      26            25        2(5     25
            •15       31      31            33        33      32

 1881.]                  On  the   Refraction   of Electricity.                441
    These data give the following ratios between the angles of incidence
and refraction —
                                             /
                 I.            II.         III.         IV.          V.
                2 5           2-5          2-6         3 0          2-5
                2-7           3 0          2-7         2-7          3 0
                3 5           3 3          3 0         3 3          3 0
                3 2           8 2          8-7         8-7         3 4
 and the following ratios between the sines of the angles of incidence
.and refraction —
                                         sini
                                         sinr
                 I.           II.          III.        IV.          V.
                2-5          2-5           2-5         2-9         2-5
                2-6          2 8           2 6         2-6         2 8
                3-8          3 0           2-8         3 0         2-8
                2-9          2-9           3 4         3-4         SI
    Taking the results      as they thus appear,    I think  they justify the con-
-clusion    that the more probable        relation between electrical incidence
and refraction is      as the sines of their respective angles.       And further,
as the experimental difficulties are overcome and the inherent sources
of error appreciated, this relation may be still more rigidly found to
 obtain.
    This electro-chemical       method being new, it would be well to supple
 ment,   if  possible,  the evidence   it has furnished of the laws of electric
 refraction by one based on more familiar principles.            I am engaged in
perfecting a method founded on those employed by De la Rive in
 1825, and by Professor Adams in 1875, for investigating the laws of
electric distribution in electrolytes, which           I  have reason to believe
will demonstrate in another way the main facts set forth in this
communication.
                                      Conclusions.
    I. Electricity   passes  without alteration of direction from one electro
lytic medium to another differing from it in conductivity, when the
course is perpendicular to the surfaces of contact.
    II. Electricity, on passing obliquely from one medium to the other,

442                         On    the   Refraction       of Electricity.                [June   16,
suffers refraction, and in the same plane ; towards the perpendicular,
when from a better to a worse conductor, and from the perpendicular
when from a worse to a better conductor.
     III.The refraction increases or decreases as the media recede from
or approach one another in conductivity.
   IV. The refraction increases as the incidence increases.
           —
   [Note. It is known that the flow of electricity in an electrolyte
follows the same laws as the flow of heat in a conductor when the con
dition has become permanent.         It readily follows, that when two
electrolytes of different specific resistance, suppose a strong' and a
weaker solution of sulphate of copper, are in contact, a change in the
direction of the flow takes place in passing out of the one into the
other.
     Let                 in the first medium, i the angle of incidence, or
             v be the potential
in other words, the inclination of the tangent plane at any point in
the surface of separation to the tangent plane to the equipotential sur
face in the first medium which passes through the same point, c the
specific conducting power, ds an element of a section of the common
surface by the plane of incidence, dn an element of a normal to
the equipotential surface,              /
                              the flux of electricity, and let v', i, c, dn',
f, be for the second medium what v, i, c, dn,                    f
                                                    are for the first. Then
we have
                       ,  dv           .dv                  j,   ,         .,dv'
                       /=c—  =c cosec t— ,                 f=c       cosec t   —    •
                          dn            ds                                     ds
But if we take an elementary closed curve in the surface of separation,
and make it the base of elementary tubes in the two media bounded
by lines of flow, since the same quantity of electricity must flow
through the two tubes, and the areas of their sections are as cos i to
cos    i',   we have
                                            /cos i=f cost',
and eliminating            fjf between          these two equations, we get, since          v=vr
and therefore dvlds^dv'/ds,                 —
                                            tant'=— tant,
                                                     c
so that according to theory the tangents, not sines, of the angles of
incidence and refraction are in a given ratio.
   If the potentials in the two media, instead of being equal at the
surface of separation, differ by a constant quantity, as may con
ceivably be the case when the two electrolytes are different in nature,
so that different chemical actions go on in them, the above relation
would not be disturbed.
   The results obtained by Mr. Tribe agree rather better with the law
of sines than with the law of tangents.    But several circumstances

1881.]        Capt. Abney.      On the Spectrum     of Sodium.           443
tend to introduce greater or less errors.    For example, the flow in the
second medium must have been somewhat disturbed by the circum
stance that the non-conducting walls of the intermediate cell were
parallel to the direction of the incident, not refracted flow, which may
possibly have disturbed the course even as far as the middle of the
cell. Again, there would have been a much larger resistance in the
porous wall than in a stratum of equal thickness of one of the electro
lytes, and the thickness or porosity of the wall, or the proportion of
the two electrolytes imbibed by it, may have varied somewhat in a
lateral direction.   The numbers obtained cannot therefore be deemed
sufficient to decide between two such laws as that of sines and that of
tangents.    In case of the second medium being the better conductor,
it is evident that the law of sines would lead to extravagant results, as
there can be no such thing as total internal reflection.     The alteration
in the direction of the equipotential surfaces, and, therefore, of the lines
of flow, in passing from one metal into another of different conducting
power, has already been investigated experimentally by Quincke, and
the results of experiment compared with theory.           (" Pogg. Ann.,"
toI. xcvii [1856], p. 382.)— G. G. S., 14 June, 1881.]
 XX. " Note     on the Spectrum       of Sodium."      By Captain W.      de
          W. Abney, R.E., F.R.S.        Received June 14, 1881.
   On examining the spectra of different metals, there is one point
which is striking in the extreme, viz., the absence of any very marked
lines in the region between     \  7000 and  \  7600, which latter number
 we may take as the visible limit of the spectrum.      With the exception
of the well-known pair of lines of potassium, I am not aware that any
lines in metallic spectra, which have been carefully studied, have been
found below this limit, though recently, in the spectra of some of the
rarer earths, I believe some few lines have been recorded.
   Having photographed the emission spectra produced in the arc of
several metals, it appears, so far as examination has been made, that
only those which can be volatilised at a low temperature have any
lines in the infra-red region.    Sodium is an example of this.       It has
a pair of lines at wave-length of about 8187 and 8199 of an intensity
of about 3, taking the intensity of D lines as 10. It will be noted
that the difference in wave-length between this pair is greater than
that of the D lines. They do not seem to have any corresponding
dark lines in the solar spectrum, though there are three faint lines
which lie close to these wave-lengths.
   In the calcium spectrum there is a pair of very faint lines which
lie between X 8500 and 8000.       Their exact wave-lengths have not at
present been determined.
   vol. xxxu.                                                 2 H

                                                                             1
 444                      Mr.   J.   W. L. Glaisher.              [June  16.
    Iron, cobalt, nickel, copper, magnesium, and potassium have, up to
 the present, given negative results, but will be examined again.
 XXI.    " Formulae for sn 8m, cn 8m, dn 8m, in terms of sn u." By
       Ernest H. Glaisher, B.A., Trinity College, Cambridge.
       Communicated by J. W. L. Glaisher, M.A., F.R.S.                  Re
       ceived  June   16, 1881.
                                    (Abstract.)
    In Grunert's " Archiv der Mathematik und Physik," vol. xxxvi
 (1861), pp. 125-176, Baehr has given the formulae for sn «», cn nu,
 dn nu in terms of sn u for the cases n=2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. These expres
 sions are reproduced     in  a   tabular form in Cayley's    " Treatise on
 Elliptic Functions," Art.   109.
    The present paper contains the corresponding formula? for the case
of n=8.       Denoting the numerators and common denominator of
sn 4u, cn 4it, dn 4m by P, Q, R, S respectively, then the numerators
and common denominator of sn 8u, cn 8tt, dn 8u are respectively
2PQRS, S*-2P3S3+7i;3P* S*-2fc3P3S2 + ifc3P* S*-fc*P+; and the
paper contains the values of these quantities and also of P3, S3, P*,
S4 in terms of sn it, arranged in a tabular form.
XXII.     " On Riccati's Equation and its Transformations, and on
       some Definite Integrals which satisfy them."           By J. W. L.
       Glaisher, M.A., F.R.S., Fellow of Trinity College, Cam
       bridge. Received June 16, 1881.
                                   (Abstract.)
    The memoir relates chiefly to the different     forms of the particular
integrals of the differential equation
and to the evaluation    of certain definite integrals which are connected
with this equation.
    Transforming (1) by assuming u=z~Pv and putting 2p=n— 1, it
becomes
                           TT~           j—aPv^O                        (2),
                           ax*        z  ax
and this may be transformed        into Riccati's equation,

  1881.]      On Riccatis Equation arid its Transformations.            445
                               ™-<Afir*v=0                               (3),
 by the substitution   x=-zi   where  g=-.
                           q              n
    It is well known that these equations admit of integration in a
 finite form if p= an integer, n= an uneven integer, and q= the
 reciprocal of an uneven integer.
    The memoir consists of an introduction and eight sections, the head
ings of which are : (1) Direct integration of the differential equation
in series and connexion between the particular integrals ; (2) New
integration of the differential equation when p= an integer; (3)
 Transformations of the original differential          equation ; Biccati's
 equation ; (4) Special forms of the particular integrals in the cases
 in which the differential equations admit of integration in a finite
form ; (5) Evaluation of definite integrals satisfying the differential
 equations ; (6) Symbolic forms of the particular integrals in the cases
 in which the differential equations admit of integration in a finite
 form ; (7) Connexion with Bessel's Functions ; (8) Writings con
 nected with the contents of the memoir.
    In the first section six particular integrals of the equation (1) are
 obtained and the relations between them are examined.          When p is
 not an integer all the six particular integrals extend to infinity and
 the relations between them present no special peculiarity. When p is
 an integer two of the series terminate, and we thus obtain two par
 ticular integrals of (1), whioh oontain a finite number of terms. The
series terminate in consequence of the occurrence of aero factors in
the coefficients of the terms, but if they be continued, zero factors
occur also in the denominators, so that, after a finite number of terms,
the series may be regarded as recommencing and extending to in
finity. If the terminating series are supposed to recommence in this
manner, so that all the series extend to infinity, then the relations
between the particular integrals are the same as when p is not an
integer ; but if the series are supposed to terminate absolutely when
the zero terms occur, the relations are quite different.       As the finite
portions of the particular integrals satisfy the differential equation, it
is more natural to regard the series as terminating absolutely, and on
this supposition the relations between the particular integrals exhibit
a remarkable diversity of form, according as p is or is not an integer.
    The second section contains what is believed to be a new form of
the solution of (1) in the case of p= an integer.        It is shown that
this equation is satisfied by the coefficient of /tP+l in the expansion of
gu^ix'+t*) in ascending powers of h.         The six particular integrals
given in the first section and the relations connecting them are also
obtained by different expansions of this expression.

446       On    Riccatis Equation and its Transformations.         [June   16,
   The third section contains the six particular integrals of (2) and
(3), corresponding to those of (1), from which they are deduced.
   The fourth section relates to the particular cases in which the
differential equations admit of integration in a finite form.            If a
differential equation is satisfied by an infinite series, and if for certain
values of a quantity involved in it the series terminates, then in this
case we may present the integral in a different form by commencing
the finite series at the other end and writing the terms in the reverse
order.    These reverse forms in the case of (1), (2), (3) are given in
this section.
   The fifth section contains the evaluations of the definite integrals —
                   f1                        f " cos&x
where    m denotes any       real quantity and    n any   positive   quantity.
These integrals
             6      have been evaluated   when     m is of the form
                                                                        2»±1
and when       n is a positive integer, but the general formulae are, the
author believes, now. Tho results exhibit changes of form similar to
those referred to in the account of the contents of the first section.
Certain formula? of Cauchy'e       and Boole's  are also considered    in this
section.
   The sixth section, which is the longest in the memoir, relates to the
different symbolic solutions of (1), (2), (3) in the cases in which they
are integrable in finite terms. In this section these symbolic solutions
are derived from the definite integrals considered in the fifth section ;
and the various symbolic theorems to which they lead, by comparing
different forms of the results, are examined.        A great many symbolic
solutions of these differential equations have been given by Gaskin,
R. L. Ellis, Boole, Lebesgue, Hargreave, Williamson, Donkin, and
others, and these are briefly noticed and connected with one another.
   The seventh section relates to the connexion between the results
contained in this memoir and the formula? of Bessel's Fnnctions. The
equation    (1) may,    as is  well known,  be   transformed    into Bessel's
equation
by the substitutions u=xho, p+^=v, a3=— 1, so that the theorems
relating to the solutions of (1) have analogues in the solutions of
Bessel's equation.
   The eighth section contains a list of writings which are closely con
nected with the subject of the memoir, with short accounts of their
contents.

1881.]        A. Mannheim.           Sur la Surface de F Onde, tyc.           447
XXIII. "Sur        la Surface de l'Onde, et Théorèmes relatifs aux
        Lignes de Courbure des Surfaces du Second Ordre." Par
        A. Mannheim.         Communicated by The President.                   Re
        ceived  June     16, 1881.
    Après avoir présenté quelques remarques sur la surface de l'onde,
je montrerai dans cette courte note, comment l'emploi d'une simple
proposition de géométrie cinématique permet de trouver des résultats
nouveaux et intéressants à propos d'un sujet déjà bien étudié.
                                         II.
    A un ellipsoïde    donné   de centre o, on circonscrit des cônes dont      une
section principale     est un angle droit : les sommets de ces cônes sont sur
une surface de l'onde [c].
    Cette génération de la surface de l'onde, que j'ai communiquée à
l'Académie des Sciences (26 Avril, 1880), va me servir de point de
départ.
    Appelons   c le sommet d'un de ces cônes, ca,    cb,  les deux génératrices
perpendiculaires l'une à l'autre dont le plan est une section principale
de ce cône ; a et b les points de contact de ces génératrices et de
l'ellipsoïde donné.
    Considérons les trois surfaces du second degré homofoeales à l'ellip
soïde donné qui passent par le sommet c.
     On sait que ces surfaces sont respectivement tangentes en c aux
plans principaux du cône ou, ce qui revient au même, les normales à
ces surfaces en ce point sont les axes principaux de ce cône.
    Parmi ces surfaces il y a un ellipsoïde.     Nous le désignerons par (E) ;
il coupe la surface de l'onde, suivant une courbe E. La normale en c
à cet ellipsoïde est la bissectrice c ft de l'angle droit a cb.
    La normale en c à la surface de l'onde est, comme je l'ai démontré,
la droite c /*, qui joint le point c au milieu fi de la corde de contact
a  b.
    Le plan a c b est alors le plan normal en c à la courbe E ; par suite
la droite G élevée du point c perpendiculairement au plan a c b est la
tangente en c à cette courbe; et l'on sait que la droite G, l'un des axes
principaux du cône circonscrit, est aussi l'un des axes de l'indicatrice
de l'ellipsoïde (E) an point c.
    Ceci est vrai pour un point quelconque de E ; nous voyons alors
que :
    La surface   de l'onde  [c]  est  coupée par un ellipsoïde (E)     homofocal à
l'ellipsoïde qui entre dans la définition précédente,      suivant une ligne de
courbure de cet ellipsoïde (E).
    Comme cette ligne de courbure est l'intersection          de l'ellipsoïde  (E)

                                                                                                                \
448           A. Mannheim.                   Sur la Sur/ace       de      l'Onde,     $rc.        [June   16,
et d'un hyperboloïde               homofocal,         ce théorème          s'applique aussi à cet
hyperboloïde.
  Considérons maintenant       l'autre hyperboloïde homofocal, celui qui est
tangent                 acb
             en c au plan    on,  co qui revient au même, dont la normale
en c est la droite G. Appelons (c) l'intersection de cet hyperboloïde et
de la surface de l'onde.     Projetons l'ellipsoïde donné sur le plan acb.
Nous obtenons ainsi une ellipse de contour apparent, tangente en a et
b aux côtés de l'angle droit a c b.       Le centre de cette ellipse est un
point de c/i, mais ce centre est la projection du centre o de l'ellipsoïde
donné donc le plan (G, c        contient
                                       fi)  centre  de l'ellipsoïde donné.
                                                        le        o
   La droite      est la normale
                    G                  l'hyperboloïde, et la droite eu est la
                                                 à
normale     la surface de l'onde.
            à                         Le plan de ces deux droites est alors
normal en       l'intersection de (c) de ces deux surfaces. Mais, comme
                c   à
nous venons de le voir, ce plan contient             donc co est normale
                                                                  o,                                       à
cette courbe d'intersection.       Ainsi, les droites partant de o, et qui
s'appuient sur (c), rencontrent cette courbe         angle droit; doncà                              :
  La    courbe      (c)   est une
                          ligne sphérique.
  Les droites eu et     étant perpendiculaires
                               G                 l'une    l'autre, l'hyper      à
boloïde et la surface de l'onde se coupent en       angle droit et comme
                                                                  c    à                      ;
ceci est vrai pour un point quelconque de (c) nous voyons que                                       :
  Le long de la ligne sphérique (c), la surface de l'onde et hyperboloïde                 V
se coupent angle droit.
              à
  Cette courbe sphériqne                    (c) est du quatrième              ordre  elle n'est pas
                                                                                      ;
alors     l'intersection       complète         de    l'hyperboloïde          et de la surface de
l'onde.   La partie restante de cette intersection est une courbe du
quatrième ordre, lieu du sommet d'angles droits tels que acb, mais
dont le plan est normal      l'hyperboloïde cette courbe est alors une
                                       à                      :
ligne de courbure de cette hyperboloïde.
   Ce que nous disons pour cet hyperboloïde est applicable        l'autre, et                à
l'on voit que       :
   Les hyperboloïdes homofocaux    l'ellipsoïde, qui entre dans la définition
                                                 à
de la surface de l'onde, coupent chacun cette surface, suivant une ligne
sphérique    une de leurs lignes de courbure.
              et
   La tangente en       la courbe sphérique (c) est perpendiculaire an
                           c   à
plan (G, Cfi), elle est alors perpendiculaire      qui est la tangente
                                                                  à    G                                  à
E. On voit donc que                :
   Les courbes telles que (c) et   se rencontrent
                                               E  angle droit.         à
  On peut dire aussi           :
  Les courbes sphériques               (c) suivant la surface de l'onde [c]
                                                         lesquelles
est coupée par des sphères concentriques ont, pour trajectoires orthogonales
les courbes E,    suivant lesquelles cette surface est coupée par des ellip
                    *
soïdes homofocaux     celui qui entre dans la définition précédente.
                          à
   Le cône du second ordre, qui pour sommet et pour directrice (c),
                                                  a                       o
                *   Les courbes        E   sont les courbes ellipsoïdales de Luuiô.

1881.]           A. Mannheim.              Sur la Surface                de F Onde, fyc.                449
a pour plan tangent le long de                      oc        un plan perpendiculaire au plan
(G, Cfi).  Mais ce plan (G, c/i)                        est   tangent au cône du second ordre
dont la directrice est E.
  Donc :
    Les cônes du second ordre             de somm-et o, et              qui    ont   pour directrices    des
courbes telles que  (c)       et   E,    se coupent           à angle droit.
    On peut dire que la droite G est la projection de oc snr le plan
tangent en c à la surface de l'onde, et qu'alors, an moyen de la pro
jection de oc, on obtient la tangente en c à la ligne de courbure E.
Appliquons cette remarque :
   Le cône de sommet o, dont la directrice est (c), a pour plan tangent
le long de oc, un plan perpendiculaire au plan (o, Cft) normal en c à
la surface de l'onde. Ce plan tangent, en vertu d'un théorème connu,
est alors le plan normal à la surface de l'onde au point 7, où le rayon
oc rencontre cette surface.       Il coupe le plan tangent en 7 à la
surface de l'onde, d'après   la remarque précédente, suivant la tangente
en ce point à une ligne de conrbure de l'ellipsoïde homofocal à
l'ellipsoïde donné, et qui contient 7. On voit ainsi que :
   Le cône de sommet o, et dont la directrice est (c), rencontre de nouveau
la surface de l'onde, suivant une courbe telle que E.
    On démontre facilement la proposition inverse.
 En rapprochant les résultats précédents de ceux trouvés par MM.
W. Roberts et Massieu, au moyen de l'équation de la surface de l'onde
en co-ordonnées elliptiques, on voit que l'ellipsoïde, qui entre dans ma
définition de la surface de l'onde, fait partie des surfaces homofocales
qui interviennent          dans cette équation.
                                                    §     n.
   Jusqu'à présent j'ai considéré une surface de l'onde et des ellipsoïdes
homofocanx.    Nous allons maintenant prendre un ellipsoïde fixe et
nue série de surfaces         analognes à la surface de l'onde.      Nous
verrons que ces surfaces coupent aussi cet ellipsoïde snivant des lignes
de courbure; nous obtiendrons alors une nouvelle génération des
lignes de courbure des surfaces du second ordre. Les surfaces [c']
sont le lieu des sommets de cônes circonscrits à un ellipsoïde donné, et dont
une section principale est égale à un angle donné arbitrairement.
   Appelons c a', c' b' les deux génératrices, qui forment une section
principale du cône circonscrit de sommet            comprenant entr'ellesc',
l'angle donné     les points
                  :                et     étant les points de contact de ces
                                         a'         6'
génératrices  et de  l'ellipsoïde  donné.    On peut dire que la surface [c']
est    lieu du sommet
        le                 d'un  angle de  grandeur constante       b', circon
                                                                                          a'
                                                                                          c'
scrit   à    ellipsoïde donné,
             V                      et    dont      le    plan    est   normal       à   cet   ellipsoïde en
chacun des points de contact              a'   et   b'.
    En partant        de    cette définition et en faisant                       usage d'une simple

  450                        Mr. W. H. L. Russell on                    [June     16,
 proposition      de géométrie cinématique, cherchons d'abord la normale en
  c' à  la surface [c'J.
      Pour un déplacement de l'angle de grandenr constante a c b', le
 foyer du plan de cet angle est à la rencontre          / des normales élevées des
  points a' et b' à l'ellipsoïde   donné.     Comme la position de ce foyer est
 indépendante du déplacement de l'angle mobile, nous en concluons que
 la droite c' f est la normale en c' à la surface [c'].
      La bissectrice de l'angle a' c' b' est toujours la normale en c à un el
 lipsoïde (E) homofocal à l'ellipsoïde donné et qui contient c'. Le plan de ces
deux normales, c'est-à-dire le plan de l'angle mobile, est alors le plan
normal en c' à la ligne d'intersection de (E) et de [c']. La tangente
à cette courbe      d'intersection est alors, comme précédemment, l'un des
axes principaux dn cône de sommet circonscrit à l'ellipsoïde donné et
aussi l'un des axes de l'indicatrice de (E) en c. Ceci est vrai pour un
autre point tel que c ; nous avons alors ce théorème curieux :
      Un angle de grandeur       constante,  circonscrit à un ellipsoïde donné et
dont le plan est normal à        cette surface en chacun des points de contact
des côtés de cet angle, se déplace de façon que son sommet reste        sur l'ellip-
soïde(E) homofocal à l'ellipsoïde donné         : ce sommet    décrit une ligne de
courbure de (E).*
      Ce théorème subsiste si les côtés de l'angle mobile touchent respec
tivement des ellipsoïdes homo focaux, le plan de cet angle restant
toujours normal à ces ellipsoïdes.
     Ou peut encore dire inversement        :
     Par une   tangente à une ligne de courbure d'un ellipsoïde on mène deux
plans qui touchent        respectivement    un ellipsoïde homofocal à celui-ci:
l'angle compris entre ces plans est de grandeur constante, quelle que soit
cette tangente.
XXIV. "On            certain Definite Integrals." No. 9. By             W. H. L.
                 Russell, F.R.S. Received June 16, 1881.
     Continuing the investigations given in the last paper, we have           : —
                 É»iÉ>{62i9/(cosecie)-6-2'e/"(cos0t-»)}=W^.           .  .  (176),
               u
when      0(z) =fdxf (x) .
                 £*»{•»/(•«•+»>)
                                      -t-ff («-"•+*>)}    =2*10(1)    .  .   (177),
when <j>(x)=fdxf(x) as before.
    *  On peut remarquer que la ligne de courbure ainsi décrite rencontre
                                                                           toujour*
a angle droit le plan de l'angle mobile.

   1881.]                          certain Definite Integrals.                                 451
   f" d&j„sin2 nO
                       =wr                                                                     H_.
                . .
  Jo          sin20                                                                         (178).
                                                                                            v     '
   f'dgC2"-1) 8inog-sin ^n-^9=n{n-\),
                                                                                            (179).
                 ^ sit? 0— sin5 n0_n{n- — Y)ir
   f*(M                                                                                      QRO'i
                    —
  Jo0sin0             T
   Kg(2n-1)              smO-mn (2n-l)e=
                                                         n_ '
 Jo                        0sin20                      v                                    v    '
       d&        CT2s'n2g~s^n3ng—      w(w2—    l)a-
              "
                                                                                            H831
 Jo                    0sin30                3
                 1— cosre0cos»0_njr
                                                                                            Q84)
       From integrals          (178), (181),       (184), we obtain the three follow
 ing :—
  f-j, (/CD-/.               W) + (/(!)-/ (^))=4,/-(l)
 J  n                             sin3 0
                                                                            .    .      .
                                                                                           (185).
  f^(/(l)-/(^))
 Jo
                                 +
                                    (/(D-/(^>))=2a./(1)
                                0sin0                           J w      ....               (186).
                                                                                            v    '
 FrfP      .
                V<y)-f(<**° '*) +         (/(!)-/ (cobO«-»))                           .
                                                                                           (187).
Jo                                     sin2 0
 [r«ie{s"/(cosa!eij:)-e-2ij-/'(cos*6-ij;)}=2t0(l)                                          (188).
^o
  .IT
 Is d0{                 sin 0)— 6-2i«/(6-<,i8in0)}=;{€T06"-|-6-Ir0eT}
           <¦**/(<•"                                                                   .
                                                                                           (189).
Jo
 -t                                                        tir iv     Mr  iv
   2
      d6{           (sin 0e*) + e~™f (sin g«-»)       }
                                                        =fl£l     + 6"T^~T
                                                                               .     .    (190).
Jo
     In the three last integrals 0(*) has the same signification as before.
      Let    ^)=a + &co80+ccos20+             .  .  .   +cos"0 —
      vol. xxxn.                                                              2    I

452                               Mr. W. H. L. Russell on                 [June   16,
YM{f(j*^+fO»r*»)}=rfL                                                         (191),
if p=a + bahi0+             . .   .   sin"0, where   «= 4m + 1.
                                                                              (192).
|^{/(/,£-«)-/(^-«)}=tV/l.
   Let a,   fi,   be the roots         of xz+2x   +  2=0, then we have the following
integrals   —
            :
                                                                              (193),
^dx{e"f(e")+t#*f(J*)}=<t>(l)
                                        = t#(l)                               (194).
j"<k{e«/(e«)-«^/(e*)}
   We shall also he able to find —          :
                                                                              <195)-
£ffi£e<»«™                                                                    <196)-
   het<pr(.x)     = fff     .
                                ¦
                                ¦     f(x)dxr, then—
f§"^{6«y(cos^«')-6-4<»/(cosee-i»)}=2i35r^3(i)                      ....       (197).
[f^{£6i»/(cose€i,')-6-«i«/(co8
Jo
                                              0e-<<)}=8t6j^)8(i)   ....       (198).
     MBf (sin *)=£(* <Wf (sin0)                                               (199).
JoI"                   2Jo
jr?{/^r^}-*{/iJrW-                                                             (200)-
where AqAj         . . .   are the coefficients of the expansion of /(%)¦

1881.]                                    certain Definite Integrals.                                                         453
 [" do sin re{
Jo              1
                          1
                           / L_- -       f—l—\
                    .=-«•-« €-«-« e"9'-*-'
                                                                1
                              =2,1^^.^+...}^                                                                          .   (202).
i;^{/^-/^}-{/^-/o}                                                                                  •        •   •    ¦   (-)¦
 P"-*L(/-^i
Jotan0lp— tcotantf
                   -/—   ^
                     |j + cotan
                                            ^
                                                      »              6   W{/J_-/0)
                                                                         J I \p l J             +
                                                                                                                      .   (204).
 r^-Z- ( / 1 .-/— 1 =tr (/—
]oq^ + xiV p-xi Jp + xil I J p + q -/0
                                    J 1J                                                            ....                  (205).
 f-^j/J^-/
Jo z I          «e            p+
                                     1
                                         ix))=<{/l-/0)
                                               I p    )
                                                                                                                          (206).
     Formula (199) leads to some results,                                        which may well                      be noticed
separately.
\*      dB.e        _            *          j             _2                                6           "1
Jo a+ b sine            2Vtf=b*Y~ -/a*-&
                                                                                      1
                                                                                          v^CT&l        j        "    "   ^7)'
     This may   be      written (for              a   particular case) : —
 f"    *L°                                                          J_tan-i-2fL_\                                .
                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                          (208).
                                                                a?-l
                                                                                                             .        .
Jol + 2asine        +    a3          2(^-1)1                                              a?-l i                          v
                    **»                                                          de
f*                                                        Z['                                                .   .    .   (209).
Jo v/a+&sin0+                 • ••       esin"0       2Jo                .   .   .    +esin"0
                                                (V          0<W
Hence                                                 ,     -p-.=                                                         (210),
can    be expressed as an                  elliptic function.
     The integral                                    (stated         to      be       due to Cauchy) which                     is
                        j"    ^an^g-=^
proved in Gregory's examples, gives us
                     r^f/lcotanA-
                     Jo   2" eI2"
                                  cotan
                                                                             J
                                                                                 <A
                                                                                      =^(1-1")
                                                                                       2\ 2"/
                                                                                                                 •   •
                                                                                                                          (211).
                                                                                                                          v   '
     Let (n) increase without limit, then this integral becomes —

454                          Mr. W. Galloway.                         On the Influence                                   [June 16,
                   [*
                                       *                     =if" (^» + e-"-»)d0                                 .        .       (213).
     Since, in the equation of differences
the ratio           ^±1       can always           be expressed                     by continued                fraction, and
                        Ua
since     if
                                                                          as"
                                                    fs
                                                                  + bx+cx**'
where       /3     and a are the roots a+bx + cx-=0,
                                           2n— 1                           ji— 1 a
                                       ,
                                   «>. +   —        .
                                                        6
                                                        -Mn-jH
                                                                      ,
                                                                                         «»-2=0,
                                                                                                    A
                                            _/i         c                       »    c
                                                            ("a           aT1"1                 fa               af
it   is   evident that the ratio of                               ,                        to   I       /                —           can
                                                                  J*Va + b-x + cx-
                                                        I
                                                   V a + bx cx-
                                                    J       «¦                      +
be expressed by                a   continued fraction. Similar treatment will apply                                                   to-
the integrals —
i"        dx   .   x"                                                 f                  xrdx
f,                  Z"
                                           (216),                     [-            —                   ....                      (217),
W^7»                           ¦   ¦
                                           (218)'                 j                      —«                 •        •        •   (219)'
J(a+&sin0)                                                            •,(l-c»8ina0)~»~
                                                                  t
and many other integrals.
 XXV. "On the Influence of Coal-dust in Colliery                                                                 Explosions.
    No. III." By W. Galloway.      Communicated                                                                   by R. H.
          SCOTT,             F.R.S.        Received May 30, 1881.
                                                        (Abstract.)
     The information that can be gleaned from a study of the three great
  colliery explosions of the past year, namely, Risca, Seabam, and
  Penygraig, appears to throw more light upon the question than any
  thing that has been elicited experimentally either by myself or others
  since   Ilast had the honour of addressing the Society on the same
¦
  subject.   These explosions took place on the 15th of July, the 8th of

  1881.]             of Coal-dust in Collieiy Explosions.                       455
  September, and the 10th of December             respectively, and they cost the
  lives of no fewer than     385 persons      in all — Risca, 120   ; Seaham, 164 ;
  and Penygraig, 101.
      For the purposes of the present paper           I visited  Risca Colliery on
  the 24th of October, and Seaham Colliery on the 24th of November,
  and I have had the rare opportunity of becoming thoroughly conver
  sant with every circumstance connected with the Penygraig explosion ,
  and with the events which immediately preceded and accompanied its
  occurrence.
      A careful consideration of all the preceding details has irresistibly
 convinced me that, whatever may be the results of experiments with
 coal-dust made on a small scale, this is not a mere question of " adding
 fuel to the flame," of " aggravating the consequences of an explosion,"
 of " spreading an explosion," or of " lengthening out the flame of
 firedamp," or that of a blown-out shot.            Expressions of that kind not
 only    fail to convey a true   idea   of  the actual  state of matters, but they
 are apt to be misleading.         I  might describe the impression upon my
 own mind to be somewhat as follows : — Given a well-ventilated or
 badly-ventilated dry mine, with moderately clean fine dry coal-dust
 lying everywhere all over the workings, and of any quality varying
 from a long-flaming house coal, like that of Blantyre, on the one hand,
 to a semi-bituminous      steam coal, like that of Penygraig, on the other
 hand.       Then if an explosion be begun at any point in one of the only
 three possible ways (1. By the coal-dust being raised and ignited by a
 blown-out or other shot ; 2. By an explosive accumulation of fire
 damp and air being ignited by a blown-out or other shot ; 3. By an
explosive accumulation being ignited accidentally by a defective or
other safety lamp, or in any other manner), and if it accumulates a
certain degree of force without dying ont, that force will go on increas
ing, and the explosion will inevitably extend to every open space in
the workings, whatever may be their extent or ramifications.               I make
no mention of firedamp as necessary to the attainment of this result,
with the exception of the comparatively small quantity required to
create the first disturbance.        It must not be imagined, however, that
I   lose sight of the latent firedamp contained in the air of every mine
of this class. On the contrary,         I  am satisfied that that firedamp plays
a   most   important part  in                                 I
                              every great explosion, and have endeavoured
strongly to urge this view in both of my previous papers.
XXVI. "The           Molecular Volume of Solids." By E. WILSON.
       Communicated by Professor G. G. STOKES, Sec. U.S. Re
       ceived May 19, 1881.
                              [Publication deferred.]
    VOL.  XXXII.                                                     2 K

 45fi
 XXVII.      " The Effects of certain
                                                modifying Influences on the
       Latent Period of Muscle Contraction." By Dr. G. F. Yeo
       and Dr. Cash.       Communicated by Dr. J. B. Sanderson.
       F.R.S. Received June 15, 1881.
                              [Publication   deferred.]
 XXVIII.     " On the
                        Absorption of Gas by the Intestines and the
       Action   of Carminatives upon it." By T. Lauder Bruxtox.
       M.D., F.R.S., and Theodore Cash, M.D. Received June
       15, 1881.
                              [Publication   deferred.]
XXIX.      " On the Action of Alkali
                                                and Acid on Muscle : Frog
      and Rabbit." By T. Lauder Brunton, M.D., F.R.S., and
       Theodore Cash, M.D. Received June 15, 1881.
                             [Publication   deferred.]
XXX. "      On a New Form of Febrile Disease associated with
      the presence of an Organism distributed with Milk from
      the Oldmill      Reformatory School, Aberdeen."               By J. C.
      Ewart, M.D., Professor of Natural History in the University
      of Aberdeen.        Communicated            by Dr. J. B. Sanderson,
      F.R.S. Received June 16, 1881.
                            [Publication    deferred.]
  The Society      adjourned    over     the   Long     Vacation to Thursday,
November 17th.

                           CONTENTS           (continued).
                                                                                    PAGE
     X.   Noto on the Existence    in the King Crab (Limulus polyphemus) of
           Stigmata corresponding to the Respiratory Stigmata of the Pulmo-
           nate Arachnida, and on the Morphological Agreements between
           Limulus and Scorpio. By E. Rat Laskesteb, MA., P.R.S.,
            Jodrell Professor of Zoology in University College, London .          .  391
    XI.  Effects of Stress on the Thermoelectric Quality of Metals. Part I.
           By   J. A. Ewing, B.Sc, F.R.S.E., Professor of Mechanical Engi
           neering in the University of Tokio, Japan                                 399
                                                                 ....
   XII.  On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours. No. VIII. (Iron,
            Titanium, Chromium, and Aluminium.) By Or. D. Liyeing, M.A.,
           F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, and 3. Dewae, M.A., F.R.S.,
           Jacksonian Professor, University of Cambridge                             402
 XIII.   Note on a Comparison of the Diurnal Ranges of Magnetic Declina
           tion at Toronto and Kew.      By Balfoub Stewabt, LL.D., F.R.S.,
           and William Dodgson                                                       406
  XIV.   On the Absorption of Oases by Solids.       By J. B. Hannay, F.R.S.E.,
           F.C.S                                                                     407
   XV.   On the States of Matter.    By   J. B. Hannay, F.R.S.E., F.C.S.          .  408
 XVI.    The Relation of the White Blood Corpuscles to the Coagulation of
           the Blood.    By L. C. Wooldeidge, B.Sc. Lond., Physiol ogische
           Anstalt, Leipzig                                                          413
 X VII. A    New Lino of Research hearing on the         Physiology  of Sugar in
           the Animal System.     By F. W. Pavt, M.D., F.R.S.          .     .    .418
XVHI.   On the Stresses caused in the Interior of the Earth by the Weight
           of Continents and Mountains.        By Or. H. Dabwin, F.R.S. .         .  432
 XIX.   On    the Befraction    of Electricity.     By Alfeed      Teibe,   F.l.C,
           Lecturer on Chemistry in Dulwich College                                  435
  XX.   Note on the Spectrum of Sodium.          By Captain W.        W. Abney,
                                                                 ....
                                                                  do
           R.E., F.R.S                                                               443
 XXI.   Formulifi for sn 8«, cn 8«, dn 8u, in terms of sn «.      By Ebnest H.
           Glaisheb, B.A., Trinity College, Cambridge                                444
XXII.   On    Rieeati'g Equation   and its Transformations,        and on some
           Definite Integrals which satisfy them.        By J. W. L. Glaisheb,
           M.A., F.R.S., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge         .      .    .444
XXIII.  Sur la Surface do l'Ondo, et TheoremeB relatifs aux Lignes de
           Courbure des Surfaces du Second Ordre.        Par A. Mankheim          .  447
XXIV.   On certain Definite    Integrals.    No. 9.     By W. H. L. Russell,
           F.R.S                                                                     450
XXV. On     the Influence of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions.      No.  III.   By
         •
           W. Galloway                                                               454

                              CONTENTS          (continued).
   XXVI.    The Molecular Volume of Solids.         By E. Wilson           .            .   455
  XXVII.   Tho Effects of certain Modifying Influences on the latent Period            of
               Muscle Contraction.      By Dr. G-. F. Yeo and Dr. Cash            .     .   456
XXVIII.    On the Absorption of Gas by the Intestines and tho Action of Car
               minatives upon it. By T. Lauder Brpnton, M.D., F.B.S.,
               and Theodore Cash, M.D                                                       456
   XXIX.    On the Action     of Alkali and Acid on Muscle : Frog and Babbit.
               By T. Lauder Brunton, M.D., F.R.S., and Theodore Cash,
                                                                                             t56
               M.D
    XXX.    On a New Form of Febrile Disease associated with the presence of
               an Organism distributed with Milk from the Oldmill
                                                                               Reforma
                tory  School, Aberdeen.    By  J.   C.  Ewabt,     M.D.,  Professor    of
                Natural   History  in the University   of  Aberdeen.         .      .     .456
                                  Now published.     Price 4s.
    CATALOGUE OF THE SCIENTIFIC BOOKS IN THE                              LIBRARY OF
                                 THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
   FrBST Section : — Containing Transactions, Journals,         Observations and Reports,
                                      Surveys, Museums.
    Fellows of the Royal Society desiring to have direct information, by Post card, of
 the Papers to be read at the Ordinary Meetings of the Society, may obtain it
 by sending their names to Messrs. Harrison           and  Sons, Printers,     45, St. Martin's
 Lane, W.C.
   CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC PAPERS, COMPILED BY THE ROYAL
                                          SOCIETY.
                       Published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office.
         8 vols., 4to.   1800 — 1873.    Per vol. : 20*., cloth  ; 28*., half-morocco.
       On Sale by Murray, Albemarle Street, and Triibner and Co., Ludgate              Hill.
         HARRISON AND            SONS,   45 & 46, ST.     MARTIN'S LANE, W.C,
                                    AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.

                                                                       Gray Herbarium
                                                                                 University
                                                                      Harvard
                         PROCEEDINGS OF
              THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
vol. xxxn.                                                                  No. 215.
                                   CONTENTS.
                                                                                 PAGB
The Molecular Volume of Solids.      By Edwakd Wilson', M.A.        .          .  457
On   a New Form of Febrile Disease associated with the presence of an
     Organism distributed with Milk from the Oldmill Reformatory School,
     Aberdeen.     By J.  C. Ewart, M.D., Professor of Natural History in the
     University of Aberdeen                                                        492
List of Presents                                                                  498
 On Gravimeters ; with special reference to a Torsion Gravimeter, designed by
     the late J. Allan Broun, F.R.S.    By Major J. Hehschel, R.E., F.E.S.,
     Deputy Superintendent of the Survey of India.    (Plates 8, 9)       .    .   507
On the Coefficients of Expansion of the Di-iodide of Lead, Pbl2, and of an
     Alloy of Iodide of Lead with Iodide of Silver, PbLAgl. By O. F. Rod-
     well, F.K.A.S., F.C.S., Science Master in Marlborough College             .  540
Index                                                                             553
Title and Contents.
            HARVARD UNIVERSITY                     HERBARIUM.
                               THE GIFT OF
                              Price four Shillings.

         PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.
                             CONTENTS       Of PABT I,      1881.
On    the Structure   and   Development of the Skull in the Batrachia             — Part  III.
                               By W. K. Pabkbr, F.R.S.
                            Contents       op   Pabt    II,  1881.
    II. The Cochlea of the Ornithorhynchus platypus compared with that of ordinary
          Mammals and of Birds.        By Ubban Pbitchabd, M.D., F.R.C.S.
  III.  On the Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures.             — Part XI.
          By W. C. Williamson, F.R.S.
  IV.   On the Induction of Electric Currents in Infinite Plates and Spherical Shell*.
          By C. Nivkn, M.A.
    V. Electrostatic Oi pacify of Glass,        II,  and of Liquids.     By   J.  Hopkixsos,
          M.A., D.Sc, F.B.S.
 VI.    On the Forty-eight   Coordinates of a Cubic Curve in Space.              By William
          Spottiswoode, Pres. R.S.
 VII.   On the Viscosity of Gases     at.   High Exhaustions.        By  William Cbookes.
          F.R.S.
        Note on the Reduction of Mr. Crookes's Experiments on the Decrement of the
          Arc of Vibration of a Mica Plate oscillating within a Bulb containing
          more or less Rarefied Gas.          By Professor G. G. Stokes, Sec.R.S.
VIII.   On the Electrical Resistance of Thin Liquid Films, with a revision of
          Newton's Table of Colours. By A. W. Reinold, M.A., and W. Ruckeb,
          M.A.
   IX.  On the Tidal Friction of a Planet attended by several Satellites, and on the
          Evolution of the Solar System.          By G. H. Dabwin, F.R.S.
     X. On the Thermal Conductivity of Water.             By  J. T. Bottomlby.
   XI.  Description of some Remains of the Gigantic Land-Lizard (Megalania prisea,
          Owen), from Australia. — Part III. By Professor Owen, C.B., F.R.S., kc.
                                       Price £1 10*.
                       PHILOSOPHICAL                TRANSACTIONS.
                             Part  III,     1880,    price £1 It.
                              Part  1, 1881, price £2 10».
                                  Part    II,  price £1 10*.
Extra volume (vol.    168) containing    the Reports of the Naturalists       attached to the
                       Transit of Venus Expeditions.           Price £3.
                              Sold by Harrison and Sons.
Separate   copies of Papers in the Philosophical Transactions, commencing with 187?,
                   may be had of Triibner and Co., 57, Ludgate Hill.

                       The Molecular Volume        of Solids.              457
"  The Molecular Volume of Solide."               By Edward Wilson, M.A.
       Communicated        by Professor       Stokes, Sec. R.S.      Received
       May 19.      Read June 16, 1881.
    The object of the present paper is to trace the relation between the
molecular volume of any solid substance and its chemical constitution.
This subject has engaged the attention of several previous inquirers,
notably of Kopp, Schroder, and Hermann, but a review of their
labours will be postponed till an exposition of the principles of this
paper has been given.           Such an arrangement, it is thought, will
very much facilitate a comparison between the views and results of
the present writer, and those of his predecessors in the same field of
inquiry.
    The molecular volume of any solid substance may be defined to be
the weight of the molecule divided by the specific gravity of the
substance.     The weight is known in terms of the standard unit, if the
                             iii
chemical composition be known. The specific gravity may be deter
mined by experiment.         Then we may form either of the equations —
                 ir  ,                      weight of molecule
                 Volume of     molecule =       £— :        :   .
                                              specific gravity
                       o             .,     weight of molecule
                       bpecific gravity = — =-5                r•
                                            volume of molecule
    Another definition     might   be    given as follows : — Every solid and
 liquid substance may be conceived as made up of molecules separated
 from one another by intervals of space, and kept apart by the repul
 sive forces which each molecule exerts on the molecules adjacent to it.
 At   a certain distance the molecules cease to repel, and beyond that
 distance they attract one another ; consequently, any molecule may be
 regarded as situate at the centre of a sphere within which any similar
 molecule would be repelled.        This sphere may be called the sphere of
 repulsion, and the volume of the molecule may be defined as the
 volume of its sphere of repulsion.          This definition is more suitable to
 the gaseous forms of matter, where the molecular volume is determined
 by observations on the interdiffusion of gases according to the plan
 adopted by Professor Loschmidt of Vienna. It is easy to show that
 according to this definition the molecular volume of any solid sub
 stance is equal to its molecular weight divided by its specific
 gravity.*
     Each atom which enters into the composition of a molecule has a
 known and invariable atomic weight, and the weight of the molecule
 is the sum of the weights of the component atoms. In like manner
                                        • Vide note.
     VOL. XXXII.                                                   2 L

458                            Mr. E. Wilson.
the simple monatomic molecule of any element must have a determinate
and invariable volume if the element could be reduced to the moiiatomie
condition, and this volume may be defined as its atomic volume.        But
an element does not carry its atomic volume unchanged into its com
pounds in the same way that it carries its atomic weight ; indeed, it is
not probable that an atom of a compound molecule has any volume at
all (except, of course, in so far as the mere matter of the atom may
have a volume) in the sense of occupying exclusively of other atoms
a discrete portion of space.      The whole volume of the molecule is
shared by its constituent atoms in common, and no separate portion
of its space can be assigned exclusively to any one particular atom ;
nevertheless, each atom of the molecule must play its part in the
formation of the common volume, and therefore a certain propor
tion of that volume may be attributed to each atom in it.
   The invariable and all-important atomic volumes defined in the
preceding   paragraph cannot be the subject of direct experimental
investigation, except perhaps in the case of the few elements, such as
mercury, cadmium, and zinc, which are known to be monatomic in the
gaseous state at terrestrial temperatures, though all the elements may
be conceived   as capable    of thus existing under suitable conditions.
The atomic volumes must in the case of each element be deduced from
a comparison of the specific gravities of the various compounds in
which that element figures       as a constituent.   The first point to be
aimed at is to discover, by means of comparisons, the values of these
atomic volumes, because they of necessity form the only sound and
rational basis of all speculations on the volumes of compound molecules.
There exists no other firm ground or secure starting point; atomic
volumes are to molecular volumes what atomic weights are to mole
cular weights.
   When two or more atoms combine to form a chemical compound, a
very intimate union of some sort takes place between the atoms, of the
real nature   of which we are, in the present state of science, pro
foundly ignorant ; but at any rate, a new molecule is formed with a
new volume, and the question arises as to what relations subsist
between this new volume and the atomic volumes of the components
of the molecule.     This is the problem which it is sought to solve, and
the answer, perhaps, may best be given by the enunciation of the two
following propositions :—
   (1.) When any number of similar atoms combine, the volume of
the resulting molecule is equal to that of the uncombined atom.
   (2.) When dissimilar atoms combine, the volume to be attributed to
each atom is some submultiple or simple aliquot part of its atomic
volume, and the resulting molecular volume is the sum of these.
   The somewhat speculative character of the above views will not
escape the notice of any one, but before entering upon an explanation

                      The Molecular Volume      of Solids.              459
 of the tables which follow, the author thought it right to state the
 physical conceptions by which he was guided in his work.           It must,
 however, be premised, as will appear more fully in the sequel, that
 these conceptions are provisional only, and should they hereafter prove
 erroneous, their invalidity would not affect the truth of the main
 result arrived at, which it is now proper to formulate in the shape of
 a general proposition as follows : —
     (3.) Every element is capable of assuming different volumes in its
 various   compounds,    but these diverse volumes always      bear to each
other a simple numerical proportion, such as 1 : 2, 1 : 3, 2 : 3, &c, &c.
    Attention must now be directed to the tables which follow, and
 which contain the evidence for the principles put forward in this paper.
    Table I contains a list of the molecular or atomic volumes. The
 expression
              " molecular or atomic " is used as implying that the two
 values are identical, as indeed they must be by virtue of the principle
 enunciated in proposition (1).    It will be observed that by virtue of the
 same principle equal molecular volumes are attributed to each of the
allotropic forms of an element, the allotropism being supposed to consist
 in the different number of atoms contained in their respective mole
 cules.   With regard to the third column of the same table, it should
 be pointed out that, since chemists are possessed of no means of
 determining the number of atoms in the molecule of an element in
 the solid state, the molecular weights here assigned to the elements
have been chiefly derived from a consideration of the volumes which
the element is found to assume in the various substances of which it
is a constituent.    The atomic volumes of the elements whose specific
gravities in the solid form are known, have been deduced from the
specific gravities of such elements and their compounds conjointly, but
the atomic volumes of such elements as hydrogen, oxygen, and ni
trogen, whose specific gravities in the solid form are unknown, have
been deduced from the specific gravities of their compounds alone,
without the assistance to be derived from the specific gravity of the
element    itself.  These last-mentioned      compounds, however, are so
numerous that their atomic volumes may be considered to be deter
mined with greater accuracy than those of any of the other elements,
with the exception of carbon.
    It would be impossible to present the evidence in favour of the pre
ceding propositions without an adequate notation, and, therefore, it is
necessary to explain the system of notation that has been adopted.
The atomic volume of each element is represented in the tables by the
ordinary symbol used to denote that element, accented ; whilst the
submultiple of its atomic volume which the element assumes in a
particular molecule is indicated by a suffix. Thus the atomic volume
of potassium (1)0) is represented by K' ; whilst K'3 in an expression
for the molecular volume of any substance containing potassium
                                                             2 h -l

460                           Mr. E. Wilson.
•would mean     that the volume to be ascribed to potassium in that
particular    molecule  is found by dividing the number 90 by 3, and
then multiplying the quotient by the number of atoms of potassium
in the molecule. Let us take an illustration from Table (IX). The
molecular weight of potassium sulphate is expressed by KeS04 ; the
expression for its molecular volume is K'6S'60'.t, which means that the
number K' (=90) has to be divided by 6 and the quotient multiplied
by 2; the number S' (=96) has to be divided by 6 ; the number
 O'(=20) has to be divided by 4, and the quotient multiplied by 4,
and that the sum of the resulting numbers               (30 + 16 + 20=66)
is the molecular volume of potassium sulphate.        The specific gravity
is then obtained by dividing the molecular weight by the molecular
 volume : thus the specific gravity of potassium sulphate=L2s* = 2-636,
 which agrees very well with its observed value =2-G40.
      Another method of notation might have been adopted which has
 the advantage of getting rid of the accent and exhibiting both the
 molecular weight and volume in one and the same formula.              Thus
 both the molecular weight and volume of potassium sulphate might
 be expressed by KiSiOj, if the numerators of the fractions are under
 stood to represent the number of atoms and the denominators the sub-
 multiples of the atomic volumes.
     It is now necessary to explain more in detail, how the fundamental
 numbers of column IV, Table I, have been obtained.       In the first place
 it may be observed that these numbers are always some multiple of
 the atomic weight of the element divided by its specific gravity ; but
 that it requires an examination of the compounds of the element to
 determine what this multiple ought to be.         Let us take one or two
 illustrations.    The atomic weight of sodium divided by its specific
  gravity is 24, and an examination of the compounds of sodium dis
  closes the fact that this element assumes in its compounds most fre
  quently the volumes 8 and 12, and occasionally 24 : the number 2,
  therefore, is the proper multiple in this case, and the fundamental
  number     to be assigned to sodium is 48.           Again, the atomic
  weight of iodine divided by its specific gravity is 25'6, but the most
  frequent volume of iodine in its compounds is 32 and, less fre
  quently 21-^ : the number 5 therefore is its proper multiple, and
  the fundamental number to be assigned to iodine is 128.                For
  2.V6 x   5=128,  whilst 32 and 21^ are respectively one-fourth and one-
  sixth of the same number.      One more instance, perhaps, will suffice.
  The atomic weight of boron divided by its specific gravity is about
   =4, whilst its compound volumes are 7 and 14 : whence 7 is the proper
  multiple and 28 its fundamental number.
      Ammonium (NH() and cyanogen (CN) may be treated as simple
  elements, having as fundamental numbers the sum of the fundamental
  numbers of their constituents,        viz., N' + 4H'=24+32=56 and

                             The Molecular Volume         of Solids.                   461
C' + N'=32 + 24=56 respectively.        The meaning of this is that the
components of these radicles always undergo a like condensation.
Water of crystallisation has a volume H'40'a=14, whilst that of
ammonia in ammonia-compounds is N'2H'4=18.
    The tables which accompany this paper will be found to contain
pretty strong evidence of the truth of a conjecture first made by
Kopp with regard to oxygen, viz., that an element in one and the same
compound may undergo different condensations if it enters into the
composition of two distinct radicles.     Hydrated ammonium sulphate,
(NH4).,S04.H30, affords a good illustration of this, for its molecular
volume is (NrJ4)'3S'60'4H'40'2, and it will be observed that the
hydrogen in the ammonium radicle is condensed to one-third, whilst
in the water of crystallisation it is condensed to one-fourth, and again
the oxygen in the acid radicle is condensed to one-fourth, whilst in
the water it is only one-half.
    The following circumstance is well worth consideration.        Many
 substances, having the same chemical composition, appear to possess
 two distinct specific gravities, and therefore different molecular
 volumes ; a good instance of this is to be found in mercuric sulphide,
 (HgS), which, as cinnabar, has a specific gravity of about 9'0, but in
 its amorphous state, a specific gravity of about 7-6, corresponding to
molecular  volumes Hg'6S'g and Hg'4S'6 respectively : (HgS) has also
sometimes a specific gravity intermediate between these limits, indi
cating an admixture of the two states. These mixtures are rather
puzzling to any theory of molecular volumes, just as the densities of
gases at temperatures when they are undergoing dissociation appear to
be anomalous according to Avogadro's law.   Perhaps these substances
might not inappropriately be called bivolumetric or disteric bodies ; a
few examples of such compounds are given in the following table : —
                                      Molecular   Molecular    Calculated      Observed
           Substance.
                                       weight.     volume.       sp. gr.         sp. gr.
   Silicic      dioxide    (erys-
                                        SiOj        SiW           2 688          2-690
   Silicic dioxide (amor
      phous)                              „         Si'40'4       2 200          2-200
   Zirconium dioxide ....               ZrOa        ZrV)',        6-H55         5-624
           >i         )>     ....         »»        Zr'40'4       4-588       4 35—4 -90
   Titanium        dioxide (ru-
      tile)                             Ti02        T'sO's        4-256          4-250
   Titanium        dioxide (an-
                                                    Ti'40'6       3 875          3-890
   Cobalt scsquioxide.        . . .     C0jO,       Co'40'4       5-627          5 600
      >i              n      ....         II        Co'40'3       4-811          4-814
   There is       one more circumstance           deserving mention,       and that   is,   the

462                                Mr. E. Wilson.
invariability of the volume of the constituents of the acid radicle
in salts of the acid ; for instance, in upwards of 60 sulphates, the
radicle S04 has the same volume S'60'4=36.        It is true, the carbo
nates appear to form an exception to this rule, the radicle C03 having
in some cases the volume C'40'4=23, and sometimes the volume
C'80'4=19, and curiously enough, the oxalates follow suit in indi
cating two volumes       for       the   radicle   CaOt,    viz.,    C'40'4=36,   and
C'80'4=28.
   The observed specific gravities, with a few exceptions, have been
taken from Clarke's "Constants of Nature," being No. 255 of the
Smithsonian  Miscellaneous   Collections, a very compact and useful
volume, which contains almost all the determinations                  that have   been
made by observers in all parts of the world.
   We may now proceed to point out the very fair agreement between
results obtained on the present theory and those reached by Professor
Loschmidt by quite a different method, namely, by observations on the
interdiffusion of gases. A simple inspection of the following table
will show that the molecular volumes obtained on the principles of
this theory agree very well with those arrived at by Loscbmidt.
Compaiison  of the results of the present theory with those obtained
  by Professor Loschmidt from his experiments on the inter-diffusion
  of gases.
                    Molecular            Present
       Substance.
                     volume.             theory.
                                                           I.           II.
          H3         H'2                   8            7                7
          CO         C'sO',               26           25               25
          N3         N'j                  24           26               24
          NO         N',0',               22           24               23
          Oj         °'j                  20           22               21
          HC1        H \C\     a          26 -5        26-3             26-3
          CI,        CI',                 45           45-6             45   6
          H.O        H>°,'s
                                          18           18               18
          H"2S'      H ,S'4               32           33               33
          COa        C',0',               36           36               85
          N20        N'20'3               34           37               35
          SOa        S'40',               44           48               48
          NHS        K'jH'j               24           23       -5      22-5
          CH4        C   2H'2             32           35               28
          C,N,       C',N'S               56           54               66
  Kopp's labours on molecular volumes were devoted chiefly to liquid
substances, which are beyond the scope of this inquiry.  The follow
ing brief account of his views on the molecular volumes of solids                    is
derived from Miller's "Chemistry."    Kopp supposes that, in the case

                      The Afolecular Volume        of Solids.               4(33
of the   oxides, oxygen    has three distinct volumes, 16, 32, and 64 (his
numbers are adapted to the atomic weight of oxygen = 100), which
are in the simple numerical proportion 1, 2, and 4, but he never
extends this principle to the other elements, unless it be, perhaps, to
chlorine and the lighter metals ; for, in the chlorides, the two values
which he assigns to chlorine, 196 and 245, are in the ratio of 4:5;
but then it is necessary to assume new volumes for the metals, which,
like potassium, sodium, calcium, and magnesium, undergo condensa
tion in the act of combining ; and the volumes thus assumed for them
exhibit no simple relation to the metals in an uncombined state. To the
acid radicle S0.4 in the sulphates two volumes are likewise assigned,
186 and 236, which bear no simple relation to each other, and are not
derived from the constituents of the radicle.           To the radicles CrO,,
 C03, and N03, in the chromates, carbonates, and nitrates, are assigned
 the volumes 228, 151, and 179, but then it does not appear that any
 connexion is traced between these numbers and the components of the
 respective radicles.
    Schroder propounds       the  following    principle : — " In every solid
 compound the volume measure (volume-maas) or the stere, of one
 of its elements, which, through the forces acting during crystallisation,
 determines all the other components and respective constituents,
 causes equal volume measures to take up equal steres.                 In other
 words, one of the elements assimilates all the others."
    The number of atoms of each element in a compound is indicated
 in the ordinary manner by a whole number placed to the right of the
 under side of the symbol, and the number of its steres by a whole
 number to the right of the upper side.        The stere is distinguished by
 an  overstroke,  and  the  observed  and   calculated    volumes by a similar
 understroke.    The element in a compound which determines the stere
 is also indicated   by an overstroke; thus metallic silver is        AgJ=2x
 5-14=10-28,    observed volume=10-28.        Again, the chloride, bromide,
 and iodide of silver are represented thus     : —
                 Ag?Ci;=5x5714=257Q         obs. vol. =2570.
                 1^6^=6x504=30-81                „      =30-81.
                 Agfl«=8x 514=41-12              „      =41-12.
    From this it is   seen  that in all these compounds        the silver stere
 dominates.
    Mercury has   a stere=5'52.     Thus : —
 Mercurous    oxide=Hg]0;=7 x      5~T52 = 38-64   obs. vol. 38 64.
  Mercuric oxide=Hg50|=7       x 5'52=38-64=2 x        19 38 obs. vol. 19 32.

464                            Mr. E. Wilson.
Amorphous black       cinnabar=HgS;=ll X5752=6072=2                 X 3Q-36  obs.
   vol. o036.
Red rhombohedrio cinnabar=Hg£SS=ll            x"5r30=58-30=2 x 2910 obs.
   vol. 29-10.
   The black cinnabar is distinguished from the red by the fact that,
in the former, the mercury stere dominates, whilst in the latter it is
the sulphur =530.
   The mercury in its chlorides and bromides, and also in the cyanide
is present as HgJ, and not as Hg5, thus : —
    Mercurous chloride =HgjCi;=       6 x 5752=33"12     obs.  vol. =33-12.
                 bromide =Hg?Br}=     7 X 5-52=38-64       „    „   =38-64.
    Mercuric chloride    = Hg7Cllj =9 x 5T52=49-68         „    „   =49-68.
         „      bromide=Hg;Br5=llx5T52 = 6072              „    „   =6072.
                cyanide=HglCy;=12       x 5T52=66-24       „    „   =66 24.
   Manganese oxides and silicates. — Metalic manganese has, according
to John, the volume 6-9=| magnesium.
                Mn5=5xiWi2=27-6=4x6-9           obs. vol.  =6-9.
Pyrolusite=Mn5102=13       x5:52=71-76=4      x!794     obs.  vol.-17-8-18-0.
   Manganite is isomorphous with gothite and diaspore.
   The molecular volumes of these bodies are as follows : —
      Diaspore=Al^HSOt=7x 514=35-98 obs. vol.=35-98.
      Manganite=Mn5HJOS=15 x 5r40=81=2 x 40J5                obs.  vol.=40'5.
      G6thite=FeJHP2=15 x 5:40=81 =2 x 4£5             obs.   vol.=40"5.
   In  diaspore, therefore, the aluminium stere dominates, but in man
ganese    and gothite the oxygen stere =5 -40.
   All  the other oxides of manganese contain       the manganese as Mn|,
thus : —
Manganous      oxide=Mn|0|=5 x 5-52=2 x        13 80 obs. vol.    =13-80.
Braunite         „  =Mn»OJ=6 x5T52=33jl2 obs. vol. = 3312.
Hausmannite,,       =MngO^=17 X 5T52=93'82 =         2 x  46 91    obs. vol.  =
   47-10.
   In  the manganese     silicates, the manganese has the condensation

                        The Molecular Volume of Solids.                   465
Mn|, and    the  silicic acid the same volume   constitution   as quartz, viz.,
Si?01, thus   :—
           Tephroite=MnfSiJOJ=9        x!T4=48J3    obs. vol.=4EK>.
     Faisbergite=Mn»CaiSil0Olg=32x5:52=176-64            obs. vol.=176j64.
    In the first of these minerals the oxygen stere dominates, whilst in
the latter it is the manganese stere.
    Hermann, examining a series of oxides having the form RO, finds
that the volume of the oxygen in them=5, which he designates as its
normal value. The volume (5) is probably correct, but why this par
ticular volume should be dignified by the term normal, it is not so
easy to see. The volume of a monatomic molecule of oxygen is the
only one entitled to be called normal if it could be got at, and is
probably=20.          He then infers that the specific gravity of solid
oxygen is -^ = 3'2. It is unnecessary to speculate on what is the
specific gravity of solid oxygen, but it may be remarked, in passing,
that solid oxygen cannot have less than two atoms in its molecule,
 and that its molecular volume is probably 20, which would give
 f f=l" 6 as its probable specific gravity. Hermann then proceeds to
assign this volume (5) to the oxygen of water, H30, the molecular
volume of which=18, and then deducting (5) from (18) he obtains
 13 for the volumes of the two hydrogen and 6'5 for a single atom of
 hydrogen.      It is submitted that the tables which accompany this paper
 contain abundant evidence that oxygen contributes ( 10) to the molecular
 volume of water, and the hydrogen atoms (4) each.             For in nearly a
 hundred compounds containing hydrogen, the hydrogen atom is never
 found with a volume greater than (4), but in a great number of cases
 with that volume.         The next step is to determine the volume of
 nitrogen from a consideration of the density of fluid ammonia which is
 taken as "629.       Dividing the molecular weight of ammonia (17) by
 •629 gives (27) as its molecular volume.         Then deducting from (27)
 3 X 6"5 for the three hydrogen        atoms,  leaves 7'5 for the volume of
 nitrogen.     The same observation may be applied to this determination
 as to the previous one, that hydrogen never has so great a volume
 as 6'5.   According to the system of this paper, the molecular volume
 of ammonia is 24 — Loschmidt makes it 23 5 — the nitrogen contri
 buting 12 and the three atoms of hydrogen (4) each, and therefore,
 though the density of liquid ammonia may be -629 at a certain tem
 perature, the probable specific gravity of solid ammonia is -J-£='708.
 The density of liquid ammonia at — 10o,7 C. has been found to be as
 high as '650. By such methods as the above, and others, Hermann
  determines the normal volumes of the elements, but he supposes the
  non-metallic elements and the lighter metals capable of assuming
  other volumes than the normal ones in their compounds, though not so

466                               Mr. E. Wilson.
the heavy metals.        For instance, taking unity to represent the normal
volume, oxygen may assume the following volumes : — a, 1,                li,  1 J, If,
2 and 3 ; sulphur,               |, 1 and l£ ; and the halogens, |,              |, |,
    In conclusion, it may be remarked that the tables lend their chief
support to proposition (3).          Propositions (1) and (2) must be con
sidered more hypothetical, but the writer wished to place them on
record, because,    if true, they would afford a physical interpretation to
the fundamental numbers of column (IV) Table I. In proposition (1)
also is to be found an explanation of the allotropism of the elements,
carbon, silicon and phosphorus, based as it is upon the supposition that
these allotropic forms contain a different number of atoms in the nucleus
of their molecules with the same molecular volumes, and there are
independent physical reasons, which render it not improbable that the
accumulation of similar atoms in the nucleus of a molecule would not
alter its volume, whatever be the law of force in action. The question
is perhaps     not altogether      beyond the reach     of   direct   experimental
investigation.      For if experiments on interdiffusion could be carried
on at the temperature         of gaseous mercury, the determination of the
molecular volume of monatomic mercury, by the method of Loschmidt,
would shed a very great deal of light on the subject.
    Note. — Let V be the volume of any solid or liquid substance, W its
weight, S its specific gravity, then
The unit of volume being the volume of the unit of weight of the
standard substance.
    For distinctness we       will take the hydrogen atoms          as the   unit of
weight, and water at its greatest density as the standard substance.
Then
      ,           ,     ,   ,              weight of molecule           H,0 , a
  1,-        •
  Volume of molecule of water=              —2        :    -         =• —— =18,
                                        specific gravity of water        1
or the unit of volume         is -fa part of the volume       of the molecule of
water.
     Suppose the substance to contain n molecules, then —
                                            W
                                        8-f
                                             n
        W  .
Now — is the weight of one molecule, and we may define
                                                                          V
                                                                          —   as the
        n                                                                  n
volume of one molecule.

                    The Molecular Volume       of Solids.               4(37
                  V    volume of molecule of substance
                  n    T'a   volume of molecule of water
Consequently,  the numerical value of      — would not     be altered if we
                                            n
took for onr definition of molecular volume any volume bearing a fixed
proportion to the volume first taken as such definition.         The nume
rator and denominator of the fraction (1) would both be increased or
diminished in the same proportion. Now, inasmuch           as the molecules
of any substance will pack themselves as closely           as  their mutual
                                                                       V
                                                                       —
repulsions will allcw, it follows from geometry that the         space     is
                                                                        n
proportional to the sphere of repulsion       of the molecule of the sub
stance.
   Hence we may define the volume of          a molecule  as the volume of
its sphere of repulsion without affecting the equation.
           c              .,     . , .       weight of molecule
           opecitic gravily of substance=        ^                .
                                             volume of molecule

                   ¦jaainoju   oimoiy                     jB[tiao[on                               paijasqo          ds   •i3
                                              •JHHio.iv                  ¦11(813.11
H                                       T
O                                       91
K                                       ft
J
10
                                        6T
                                        98    9-
->a                                     08
""I                                LZl
                                                                                      f  196-                 0S6-
                                        SI                       'I «0                SA8-8                   058
      (puouiwp)       •
oo                    ¦ •                                                             OSSZ                    092
                      • ¦               14                         •o
      (aiiqdmii)      • •                                                             1  9A8-
••(>|otiiq-diuB|)o                      It
g                                       II                        '0 %                OSA-Z                   089
      (eiiiiuvmnpv)      •                                                                                         i
                                              9-                                      StfZ                    at
ig (]Bpioiii[dBa8)                      HZ                         »!8
                                                                                      Z  9E0-                 000
;g (stioi[daouiB)        •               (1                        •T8
a                                       18                                             AZt-Z                  0*1
                                                                  :d9i                   8Z8-                 OfiK
      (*°n°i')
                                                                                         619-                 919
      (<>w«)                             "                         'J                 T1Z
                                                                  98                     000-                 090.
jJe                                     28
                                        68                                               998-                 C9R
x                                                                  'X
                                        8Z                                               8SC-                 0A6
«M
«a                                  A8I
JS                                      A8    9-                                       OOS-Z            s     009
                                                                   '*B
                                        Ot                                               009-                  00!
«0                                                                 ••3
%                                       *Z                         <8W
                                                                                      IT  AAA-
                                                                                                         7,
                                                                                                               o<:l
                                        A3                                             RAS-i!                 009
IV                                                                 "IV                                 iI i f
                                        08       -
                                              9- 9                                     CAO*                   on
*Z                                                                 «JZ
                                    8or                                               01 AM)-           III HZV
                                                                                       619-8            H     009
                                    7,11                           *P0
                                        99
                                                                                      A   1,7,0-              ¦A-tJ

                                                                       JBpiD0[OJ[        JO DUUOJB
            •S}U9tU0{2                                                                               p»}«[nofBg           -ds   ¦jS   pOAjasqo          ds        •jS
                                                                               •ovcm\ox
                                                                                                                                          8     •008
  '¦0                              9-89                                             OS                        •8 094
  -II                               Z     00-                                       S5                      81       864                  ST     069
  Hd                              403                       fq<i                    M                       •IT      00Z                  ¦It   f   El
  ].L                              09                                               89                       ¦9 841                              008
                                                                                                                                          94    •oss
  »s                              8TT                                               &9                       •4 191
  qs                              SSI                                               Si                       •9 444                        ¦9 004
   ;a                             WIS                   Ma                          IS                          t0(!                       ¦6 (ICS
  !X                                                                                OS                             • 881                   ¦8 009
                                    69
                                                                                    OS
                                                                                                             688   ¦ 881                   ¦8   (11
 °0                                69
                                                                                                                                                19 •
 BV                                94                   ••v                         94                        •9 ISO                      9      006
 J0                                9S9                                              E1-                      .4 000                        •4 no
  ¦VI                              99                                               !:t                      ¦4     18    f                ¦I 008
  "K                               EE                   '"If                        81                        ¦4 469                       ¦U8—0             0-
  Id                              *-46l                 9U                          9E                      •IS 091                       ¦13 091
                                                      'II    •wpixQ—
                    •aoottjsqng                                                                      po)B[nojti3          ds    ¦j9   paAjosqo          ds    ¦aS
uinutsg     opixo                                                                                           S                             9     9ST--
                                                ojs                                                         1-     009.                    IT9f
tnniJ|HQ      "     •                                                                                       8      oos-                   8      081
                                                                                                                    \m                     Z-8 8—
ou;Z         "      •                                                     f,o'/uZ                                  189-                   9     fH'J-
nimiuptig    "                                  OPO                                                                III-                    0EG-9
                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                            8E49
oiJtlnf)     "                                  O"0                                                                06t-                   9      005

470                             Mr. E. Wilson.
                                     c
       POOOOOOOOOO-*
       C     a Mft >o X O CS OJ *l i!3 O»O^fl0»53^^OOW'-rt(
                                      I
                                       C «    n N O O h H » >: N M ^ ¦;
       hO. : 9 x ji                        aN                                               J:
                    ^a ^    n x p n io o !S 9 n n 9 x x x o3 n h ^
                                                                     •
       N C IS N     C2
                  if!  CD O CO CO W W 00 N   C tC O « ill O N ^ -J   «   ^ H O 15 C ^
                                                                           * X Ci X N
       N X X iO   CD ^          MB
                          C X i!5     X ft   O N Z1 « N -i1 N H h
       HaNNNiflONN^WiO^OHOCONeOiflKO^^HCO^HOaca
       i—I        I
                 1—
       ^°.o>0.°»%oooob b c Ho o b b b                      oibv: >b b - c
  to
  5         ,   cco   ^
                                                                         -
                                                                             9hzx^
                                                                             15   r"S   £J'S'

  The Molecular     Volume      of Solulx.           471
   —
    •-
   —
   Z
   —
    I.
   —
       a   ip m ^  eno      m s     9S    10  ah
                     ^1 »~ *2&  - '
       -   ^ -
              fa
                                      ^ Wo
c
5
                                                 o
                                              a-"
-
                                          _J
                                         - t-  i   w
                              —
                                      'C "j —      •
         §                  1  - -   -§J      = -c
                      g.|   g         |    £ 5   =
            9      = 5 ~      2     §  3 s        «
                   Si J.;I
         §•3   = = ¦= o'K     5 B-S    3 »     ." S
       .2                           5  S   !      &.
         o "o 'a s — .i**"? 5 = 5 o    = o        o"

472                Mr. E. Wilson.
                                                               c.
                                                               x  'p
        Ci -* <£>   00 50 CO iM -* W b» »0 t- iQ « X "N
                                                            8   I Ti
                                                                  CO ¦
                                                            CM N  X CO
    o
        cr
        c.
           ih nionn C
                    C)
                       NT
                       s n 05      CC X) « W) C M
                             ^ » o h p n oo oj
                                                   ^ ffl
                                                           «  3D  «  ©
         "                       P        " "
        ^       "v   nN            5                   „
                                                         X
    5
                                                         5
      a                                                  c
        o   V. V..o 5oo9        ^.?To    o 05 505        c    4
                                                           "3 ~
                                                           n:
                                                           *1        as

                                                 ajq^j^
                                                             •(panmpioo)
                       •eouBjeqrig
                                                                     JO[tlOO[OJJ       »lU!l[OA   poinino(B3             -ds   'i3   paAaosqo         ds
uiruo|iv)               •opuojijo
mni4uai|g                                 o5n9cio«o
                                                                                                                 9.19-                   1    mo-
                                          0!II9s[0-iS                                                        6-
                                                                           c<<y,Hc,ioVs                             It
                                                                           r/Ot,Hs,l0V!a                         TEO-                   e     sco-
                                          O'H9'slf>°0
oudng
                                                                                                      IIgI       298-                    OtS-I
                                         OsHZ'sIono                                                              819-
tnnissuSujij                                                                                                                                  989-
enonn»}g                                                                                                     269-
                                                                                                       ZT 2                                   Z99-
                                                                                                             Z18-                             691-
lanisswjoj     uoji                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                        ZTZZ
                                                                                                        UfZ                                     I£f
                                       'lo^'a:        o'hz
                                                                                                             Oil-                        Z91Z
mmuomray                               Bonn's         05HS                                                   lit-
                                                                      '"of,iic,io5,"o9,T:                                                oitz
iunts8K|oj
mniuommy
               u;i
                 U15
                                                                                                            86-
                                                                                                            9- 9t
                                                                                                                    J                   1  ue-
                                                                      5Ot,!lt<IOt/us»/X                                                 niz
                                     0"Ijs>[o«sThk)
                                                                                                      Z 31 Z Z
                                                                                                            691-                        z  fOI-

                                                                        Table      V.
                                                                      Bromides.
                                                                                                             volume.   Calculated                 gr.   Observed          sp.   gr.
                                                Molccular                                 Molecular                                         sp.
                                                                     weight.
                          Substance.
                                                        a.                        Bromides.
                                                                  Simple
                                                                                                                                    029                     3      Oil
                                                        NaBr                                       Na'4Br'4
Sodium             bromide                                                                                                           674                     2-672
                                                            KBr                                      K'4Br'4
Potassium                ,,      ....                                                                                                409                     2- 379
                                                      (N'HJBr                                    (XH4)'3Br'4
                                                                                                                                                                -800
                                                                                                                             322 5
Ammonium                 „       ....                                                                                                7-W
                                                            Aglir                                   Ag'4Br'4
Silver                   „                                                                                                    6-445                             '425
                                                            AgBr                                    Ag'f,Br'4
                                                                                                                              4-025                             -962
                                                        SrBr3                                       Sr'4B.-'4
                                                                                                                                                             5636
Strontium                ,,      ....                                                                                         6-514                                 611
                                                        PbBr2                                       Pb'6Br'4
Lead                     „       ....                                                                                        3   -600                        3- 643
                                                        ZnBr2                                       Zu'.Br'4
Zinc                     „                                                                                                    4-771                          4- 712
                                                            CdBr2                                    Cd'4Br4
Cadmium                  „       ....                                                                                        2       571                           540
                                                        ALBr,                                        Al'oBr',                                                24
Aluminium                „       ....                                                                                         4-693                                -680
                                                       K.,PtBr6                                   K'4Pt'2B/6
Potassium         platinobromide
                                                                                                                              2      -508                     2-625
                                                    (NH4).,ZnBr4                               (NH4)'.,Zn'2Br'4                                              3
AmmoTiium           zinc bromide                                                                                               3-787                               783
                                                      K^SuBro                                     K'6Sn'4Br'4
Potassium        stannobromide
                                                       I.           Hydrated
                                                                                     Bromides.
                                                                                                                               3-721                                -690
                                                     BftBr..3iraO                               Bii'4Br'„H'40',
Barium         bromide                                                                                                                724                           -713
                                            .     Bal't.Br„l()UaO                             UuM't'.Br'.IL'/'a                                              382
                                        .                                                                                     32     771                            '793
               plutiuoliromidu
                                                      PSliralIa<>                               P'48'8Br,H'40's
Pliosuliorun        siilphobromide

The Molecular Volume
                         of Solids.       47
          T97'1:?99N^noccrHX
    ~5
    rr
              —
             •¦                      M  &
         « M — j'i s ja if 6C m 3 ~ 3h 3

Mr. E. Wilson.
 -
t£
ft
      ci C> ifs r-» m o ** c5 C5 OS « :M
T3    rH -3 CS      ift <D    X c£- i.t
          3 O CS        30 3C Oi CJ O 00
      H'j'NCOHHHHiNHH
5
      ?1 SCO         V.""   S»   :?r?n        -1 f>
                                                    M
        ::::::: i
                                      ¦        -
                                  :       ;         3
 c
Z-i                                           ".§
                                              I
s       ::::<=               3        g-=     P:i
a.
      1      *g       «&     r|j S|.|
      .3 a
                 B        Is
                          g.g
                               we.S
         |                                E.2
                     5>           -   Isl     ~
                                                    :
                      g1
      1      1
             1              1
       o — c ~        o
                                       nh
                                       *
      Ph 75 Ph TO 72 f4

                      Substance.   Molecular       weight.   Molecular   volume.   Calculated   sp.   gr.   Observed   sp.    gr.
                                                                                                                                     The Molecular
Copper        „
                                                                                                                                      Volume
Tin           „
                                                                                                                                    of Solids.
                                                                                                                             to
Arsenic    trisulphide
                                                                                          mnmmmmm
                                          'USSSi
Antimony          „

                                                                  8iq*x    •xi                                                                                      i—
                                                                                                                                                                    00
                                                                                                         p&jBjnojsQ          -ds •o3   pdijasqo           da   j3
                                                                                                              6    9S0-                     (mz
tnmssujo,!        -.'|i:i|il[ns                       Wx
mn;pos                                                                                                         084-2                              08i-
                       "                                                                                                                    Z 1
                                                                                                                   893-                           06S-
                                                                                         \o9,s9,«a
|S- 'j in.   i
             um                                                                                                    099-                     006-6
                        "                                                                 *,o9,sVs            f88
ran;.i|«3                                                                                                          890-                           001-
                        "                                                                                                                   89
ij^ u. .'i.m.                                                                                                  T8t-9                              99*-
                        "                             *OS8H
praa^j                                                 'osqa                             ',o9,s9,qa
                                                                                                              9    69?-                     iSZ-9
                        "
eiioJnoaoj<(            "
                                                                                                             t
                                                                                                               9St-9
                                                                                                                      089                 i SZf-9
                                                                                                                                                  09S-
                                                                                                               889-8                        189-8
aaddo^                  "                             'OS1':)
                                                                                                               88S-8                        8     TBS-
                                                      *os°o                              ',o',sV>o
mniaocuuiy                                                                             >,o',s[,('Hii)              008-                     lii-I
                        "
ou|2                                                                                     *,o9,se,«z                   188                   00f-8
                        "                             'osuz
                                                                                                             I82Z  999-
uinmiiuniy                                                                                                         991-                     OflZ
                        "
                                                               ajqnoQ     ¦B*}«qd[ng
                                  [118   (1   ¦I      'oSIIX                           '<09,8S,H'J,X
                                                                                                              1   Wt'-                     i7,
                                                                                                                                               ¦    aii
                                                                                                                                                  IN-   9
                  0UX1                             t(>0S)uZsX                                                  Ofii-S
                  aaddoo                           t(,08)n08X                          >".M ',<>">',".             Z'M-                     Z     LU-
                                                                                                                 9-     61                          Si'J
                  nintMantn                                                            VoWlV^X                Z Z k
                                                                                                                  ne-                               ir.s
                                                   '"CosXVM                            WsVk'.X
                  umipna                                                                                          wo.                               HIMt
                                                   ri'os')«KcH                                                                             z Z 7. B
                                                                                                              .*   sue-                             HI HI
                                                                                       \oV,»W",M

                                                jnp»oo[Ofl[       •}q3ion                        pa^spupjj       'de ¦i3   paijasqo          'ds   •jS
aniiuouiaiy            mnraiam[U    8)oi[dpi8    VosMvChv)                  ',09,S*,lYs,lffIN)         9E0-S                    S     6E0-
                "       ouyz            11       H'os^z'Chx)                ^SV'Z^Chk)                   S6S-                   sss-s
ramopjj             uimpos
                                                                                                      SS 99i-                   8     494-
                                        "
       "            nmuoq               "                                                              OEC-8                    t-E-S-8
mnipog                  0)«qdp-|9                                            s,(/,Hf,09,S5,BiI                                        9ft-
uiniuouiuiy                                                                                              6U-
                                                                                                                                11    Si- 1—       SZ-
                                                 o'h'os'Cftn:)
                                                   0!HS*OSn3                 tlot.u',ot.st,'ao           80S-                   s     oos-
                                                                                                      TZS
                                                                                                         090-                    iso-s
mrusau3iij4                                                                                            OSi-T                    T      TCi
                                                   *osnz         o5iu                                    196-                         £S6-
                                                    05Hi''OS!ii                                          QSfi-                        1E6-
ipiqoj                                              05Hi'fOS°D                                       I11Isee-                         fZ6-
UOJJ                                               0!HivOS-\{                !,0',Hv,09,sV.*             ti8-                  I1ITS  W8-
                                                    CTH^OSPO                ^O'/H^sSPO                 BZ6-S                          GEIS-
           ii                                    o'hs^os^po                  5,(/,H',09,e',Pa
                                                                                                      8  ODD-                         OS0-
ucuj                                                                                                   6S0-S
                                                                                                                                E S   2—0-     I
                                                 Tos)5-1.*        o!n6
mniiiiumiv                                                                                            I  S04-                  I      U9-

                                                                         9IfltlX      XI      (p»nut)uoo)
                                                                                                            JspiaajOK      -auinioA   p.>Ji^iiax«0      'ds   'j3   poAjasqo             ds   j3
                                  •oouiqsqnp
                                                                                                                                               TE9-                           089-
uinuioiuuiy           mmpoe                  9qt!qdpis          0IHS>OS«ll('HN)                      5,<y,H>,09,S^Kc,CHKJ
                                                                                                                                               Oti-                          \ZL-
      "               umisauSsin                    "        0*H9tCOS)3W,(>HN)                                                              TTT
                                                                                                                                               1-S6-                          I86-
      "               aaddoa                        "        OtH9s(*OS)nOt(tHK)                      5,0t,Hf/O9,W!;,n0',CH\)
                                                                                                                                               868-                           ¦i68-
      "               amz                           "        (*RH)    '^OSjnz5             0*H9      r-,Of,H',Os.PE,"Zc(fH.«J)
                       uiniinpiu                                                                     s,OfJIf,09,S5/P3!(*HN)                    HO.
      "                                             "         OtH9t(tOS)P05(*HN)
                                                                                                                                               306-                           SI6-
      "                pjpm                         "         OlH9r(tOS')L>i,"'('lI\-)               E,0*,H*/0,.S!,iii'i/(*HN)
                       qpiqoa                                                                                                                  S06-                            8i8
      "                                             "                                                t,0',H',0,.St,°Os,(>HK)
                                                                                                                                                                       II11 IIT
                                                                                                                                               568-                           OSS-
      "                uoji                         "        O^UVCosR^CHN)                           !,0*,H*,0,,SE,8.Ic,(tHK)
                                                                                                                                               T90-                      9i03
lunis^Bjoj           mmsouSmn                       "           OtH9,(*OS)*W,X
                                                                                                        S,0*/H*,09,8>09,X                      99Z-                     z     IfZ-
      "              laddoa                         "            OtH9,(fOB)nO,X
                                                                                                                                               WIS-                      (X-ZZ
      "              DtllZ                          "           OsH9*(*OS).nZ*X                         5,(y,Ht,09,BVz',3I
                                                                                                                                               Oil-                     Z      1ST
      "              q[«qoa                         "            0!H9s(fOP)°OcH                         '/O'-H'/O'^oo'/H
                                                                                                                                           IZII1S3Z2S
                                                                                                                                               E9t-                      setz
      "              nintnipao                      "           (VII9!(V)S)PDSX
                                                                                                                                            SOSZ                         ZOZZ
      "              uosi                           "            OiH9,CGS)9J,H
                                                                                                                                               i89-                           TI9-
uinipog                ninpj                                    O'HBT'POSJ'NIY                          5,0*,Ht,09/S!7BN',lY
             tnnii                                                                                    r',()t,H>A)9Sc(,'HK)MV                   39-    1                        899
                                                             (/•HZTCOSHHNMV
                                                                                                        ¦VO^OV/HMV                              t94.                          894-
                                                                OfH2l6(*OS)atV
                       oiuojqo       uinfB                                                                                                     058-                           8*8-
innitiotuuiy                                                                                                                                   8K.                            88Z-
                                                                                                     !<O»<HtX),,S,,(tHN)V0
                              "         "
                                                                                                                                                   I
     *.               uiMg                                                                                                                     Ti-    T                       eu-
                                       '                      oriisr(,os')(tHN)9.'i
                                                                                                                                               08i-                           884>
uinisaiiSoK            noj;            8)nti<I[n«       •
                                                        •       pWl'(*08)»i*H
                                                                                                                                               SE8-                            818
      •«*             j.xldoo                  *'       ¦
                                                        •      O'Htr'CosJnC^W
                      ouii                                                                                                                     TS-                            IIS-
      "                                        "               OeU1'It(t08)llZaW
                                                                                                                                           TITITIttI1
                                                                                                                                                                       II1 I 1 1 I III
                       lumuipna                          "                                                                                      Oi«                           TO6<
  Wfll                                         "

The Molecular     Volume      of Solids.                     481
                        ; —  tO CC 5
                                           hI « g o n       to
                    :                         HHCOXCO
           ri h  u: o» : n oo   in n
                                           oo
fc                                         *> tN rH i-H i-H M
s          h h   ip n«    ^ oo w co
                                           H  CN H  HH      (
o
                                            CI CS«,C> -N -N ?>
                                           bbobbb
                                           b b"b b b b
                                                 K
                                            « !s<a^* n Isn 55is
                                        ca
                                           >  X   c o
      to
       o
       5
                                       w
          ^3
I                —<       U :» ffl Ah
                                           o £ s 3 i"'85
                                                        £
0j
           e
          'a
                                                  i
          Ijl
              2 3                             a
                          si    a
                                              5 »>
                      Ml Hi                       Pal
           § '3 5
           2 ?J
          CD 3n -"1
                                           31

                                                              Table      XI.
                                                            Chromates.
                               Substance.   Molecular       weight.             Molecular       volume.   Calculated                    Observed
                                                                                                                            sp.   gr.                   sp.
                                                  a.      Simple      Chromates.
Potassium        chromate         . .   .         K2Cr04                               K'6Cr',0'4                    f.82                    2-682
Silver                „
                                                                                                                25   850                    5     770
                                                  AgCrO,                              Ag'dCr'jO'j
Barium                „                           BaCr04                              Ba'4CV20'4                3-870
Lead                  ,,                          PbCr04                              Pb'BCr'»0'4               5-900                        5-950
Potassium         dichromote                      K2Cr„07                             K'6Cr'„b'4                2-682                       2  -680
Ammonium                  ,,                   (NH4)2Cr307                         (NH4)'4Cr'30'4               2-343                        2-367
Potassium        trichromate                                                          K'6Cr'.,0'4                                           2     655
Phoenicochroit                                   PbaCr20„                                                       5-980                        6-000
                                                                                      Pb'6Cr'20'4
                                                b.                       Chromates.
                                                        Hydrated
Copper            chromnte          .                                                                           2-254
                                              CuCr045H20                        Cu'4Cr'20'4H'40'2                                                 262
Zinc                      ,,                  ZnCr047IlaO                       Zn'4Cr'20'4IT'40'2                  053                           096
Magnesium              „                      Mg0047H20
                                                                                                               21   730
                                                                                                                                            221
                                                                                 Mg/.,Cr'5()'4H'<0'3                                              750

The Molecular         Volume           of Solids.                                 483
&
s           pp
            ©
              00 CD CD go
                 O S *»                             «J100-?hOQ
                                                    (M CC!0 5 >!3l~ iO ^
red                                                 COX'OOincOCOCO
Q           t» t» tO             1-1                r-ti-ti-HCNrHT-ti-ICM
9
O
e.
QQ
            CO CO O «5 "5
            CO 0 — 0 X                              »f5kO t* ir.        if5 to 04
¦»                                                  C!»w50if5COCOCD
                                                    rti-lrHCqi-lp-|p-l«
0
"3
O
                                                                    O «k"
                          CO
            COO           ^-T.
                                          -2
                                                    .-.'00PH«*V.''
                                           cs
       0>   oc_3      at)                 r=l
                                           e<
                                           y.
       CO
        o
                                           C
                                           c<
                                           o
                                                        J£          ^        m"*'
       -a                                                          5         c-
       PM
       CD                                 O
                                          is
                  «
                                           o        00o„«o20
       cc                 6*6*
       =
            282^5                         w
                                                            ^
                                                                    n   -*
                                                            3
                            a,
                                                            ¦
                                                            0
                                                       S
                                                       43
                      2     o o                                     0   .6
            o         os
                          t> B
                                 B
                      = •3-3
            2         Q.                        I-     8    o   1  5
            A     -   8
                           —
            g
            ¦a        ps
            H    M 02
                                                    iJfff .11
                                                    f5iofiflH                S5S

                                                                                          "IIIX
                                                                   sajiugsjy           puis     ¦sa^BUDsay
                        •9.>UBt}8qTig                jBpaao[Oj\[      •Jil8ta.iv                    JBpioo[ojj         ¦attrnpA   pa^Bpiaroj                    pa.uasqo
                                                                                                                                                     ds   •j3                    ds   i3
                                                      -v     ajdung        sajinosjy              pura    'SO}uuos.iy
poai     9-}iuaejB                                         5(;osv)4ci                                                                  S     £86-                   S    OSS-
                                                           *(*0»V)*!JI                                                                  6T6f                         ZHG-f
ranii9B}o,j                  "                             >0«Y!HX                                                                     Z i-     8f                  2    889-
tuniuotnray                  "                         '(VYWhk)                                      'oW/H'/CHK)                        OfZZ                        ?.     GfZ
uimpog                           8jBua9.ro                                                                                                6f-   %                    98SS
               uagojpjfuip                   •        05]IfOsV5HBJi                               r',0',Ht/Of,6Vr',n'/"K
mmpostg
                                                                                                                                       Z TT6K-
                  naSojpXq            "             OtJU"l'OsVH*BJJ                               !,0*,lI*,OV!Yt/Hl',«'>I
                                                   Ori12T','OsVII!'-"V                            S/0',H',Ot,8Y!:,HV,M                  TUT                              OKI-
miiiposuj,        'DiMiLiaan     •
                                 •
                                 •                   osnsi'*o»vtM}i                                                                       £88.                           we-
                                 I'
                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                    T11
°FUX         a?"uo*"     '°K                     OsHt''0«V]P!N(,lI.V)                   5,o,,ii*,oViYt,iit,«.\[l!,(tii<i)                    9IS                         8C8-
                         °N      II                                                           ,,0>,H\0,,,rV>,H,,',K>,>r
                                                                                                                                      II1    OG8-                        \m-
niisoiuooy                                          o'iis'Ccy^w                                                                         m-z                              Vlf-
9)U!||.Cl3                                                                                          e,o',n',oV,y,,°o                    wz                         izzs    816
ojjpruony                                           0"Hf*(rO»V)"-,d                                                                     sue                              on-

    The Molecular         Volume    of Solids.                                48.3
                                          u
b» \G><?100   t»
CO ^ O) CJ CO 00
                 o                        —      t; CO Cl ^ 01 00 05
                                                    m     x
                                                          ic rt    co     h
eo oc <p ia cmos                                 "* CO Oi
                                                          t- CO 91 91
                                                 CI OJ CO O CO CO CM
                                          C
                                          a,
MC WOMX
W i!) 05 00 O M
n oo <p iij f i o                         1
fl H H lO lO M                                   CN CN CO ».0CO CO CM
    CO           v-   ^
 **   * *
CQ
             ^23 •»
    b O 05 ^"rPQ                                 n—v           <-.
e5 -Q -n _o       a
                                   -
                                                                              5
                                   c
    CO                             x
                           En      ii            oo                  o c J2
d fx-            05 sa
                                _=
                                o                         •°   a              if
                                          s-
             3
            -O
c                                                2    :
                                                 Q                    8
                                                 2                   J2
                                                      I         fc.
                                                 11-3
                                                 o o      «     Mo
                                                               >S
                                                 32 pH h-3p«5CO

            Mr. E. Wilson.
   ©  « —<cc
                                 © ©      «n««       r*
                                 9 ?
                                   CO
                                          M *1 ^ *1 OD
                                          '? ¥ 9 ?' ?
                                              —  *  m
                                          b_c,~.?-b
   boboobbobbboo
O  -/ •/ /. V. ^ / •/ /. /. / /. - r<
                                          -i "<,S  s  3
2  0^^i,N^<lNOZ                        v.
                                      -S
H
                                      _o
C
4
                                       —
                                       -
|  o-o"o-o"2ddo'o-2"o'oo"             P
                                           2 3 if*    —
 S
5

            The Molecular           Volume     of Solids.                        487
 ¦i. 1                          T1
                             ee oi oa © t»                          r- CO X © >0
                             co l
                             -*
                                       ->i —¦
                                  I X ¦* ©
                                                                     ; x © i.o ©
                              • co  • • •                          iO • • • •
                             OJ © CO       CO    CO CO M CO CO
—        CO CM     CO 01                                           — © © — »o
         X  «•*— CO ©                                    cr- —<    eo © z -* c:
                                       ?§
                                                 <c ©
            '-p X     ">!    52     ?'                             w:  xcoo
         *  09 04 CO CO                          CO CO M CO CO     HHHn         W
 5
                                                o b bob            pb^Ec-
"3
         qoo^qo              b ob b b           q      ^ ^^     r.
-2
         bb qqb              qb boo,
                                                    ^>
                                                                3  p.b.-Jb
 3
 ¦_
         %3 X   "a i> "to    "a rT~o -a
         pq s& O p, -n
                                                VlS^aV^s
                                                 O  CJ O fa     ^  "a  sSB^S
                                              s
       5                  o
                          --                                    —
                          Q                   o                 s
                                                                c
                                                                Q
       —                                      —                    qqS'==       q
       s                   s oc~oo                                 E        .il'S
         pccfc'8
         o -->o ^ -i                          3 8 ii,qqa
                                                                0) ps  — *» _^
                                                                       —.
         R  «3  o  Pi ¦»)
                                                 r9 S C ? S
 :
                                                                          Ma    a

                                                                               m*i   iiiax
                           ¦*>aBj6qng                                                            juiiioajoj^       •oiunjOi   paiBjnoiBg         -da   j3
innisstnoj                      a>«[t!XO       ' "                                                                                       UT                     S
                                               • *            o'h'o'o'h                            c,Of,Ilh,Ok,Of,:S                                              101-
uinmouiaiy                                     •
                                               '
                                               ¦ '                                                                                 Z 1
                                   "                        0.-,n>0J05(tjJN)                                                             oet-                     191--
naSojpAjj        uinipoe           "           •
                                               '
                                               '
                                               •                                                                                    IZ8-S                         SIS-
umisbuioj         a;«|mojputib                                                                                                     T     eos-
                                                           ofn25,t(V">)Ena                      ,,Ot,HtX),,!),,H,,J                                               418-
uoSojpXjj        omniomare             ^npixo                                                                                            Z9C-                     89S-
                                                   ¦      o'h^o'ohChn)                       r',Ot,Hf,Ot,0*,Hi!,(tHN)
        "        uitiissfljod              "                                                                                             080-                     880-
                                                                                                     *X)*/0*,H*/H
uinissBjoj         aaddoa                                                                                                                98"-                   8bs-z
uiniuouiuiy            "                   "                                                                                             806-                     VZC-
                                                       O'ig*(*O,0)nO,('Hll)              [/O\H*/O*/0*,b0*,(*HH)
oi!IP-«;>iIAY                                                                                    1*0 JO* JO*           *
                                                                                                                                  IZ21Z  999-
                                                                                                                                                            IZ1TZ Iz
                                                                                                                                                            |     oe- —
uinipog       .>)«)oaB                                                                                                              »I                          1 IE*-
                                                                                                                                  I   -                     I
                                                            O5H9cOEIIJ0Bi[                    s,Ot/HI,Ot,H*,D",«JI                        OOt                     OOt-
¦>aAl!S                                                                                                                             020-8                       8?T-8
                                                                5OEH!0sV
pusfj                                                                                                                               I4f>Z                       z W»-
tanuug;                                                    0<"Hs(rOEHV>)vg                     rvof/n!,oi:,ii,/of,«a                t8I-Z                       oeiz
                                                          ()'IIi:r(50EHsO)nZ                   J,(y,II5,Os,Hf,0V'Z
                                                                                                                                   1     104-                   ai\
unupog                             0)tU}JW|                                                                                         844-1                             tC4-
uimssu.10,1                                                                                                                              £90.
                                                                                                                                                                11    sue-
na8ojp.(j{        luiiignuiod                                  "o'n'yjix                                                                 816-                         81(i-
        "        uituuouiuiti                               Vh'oiiChm)                                                                   049-                         OKI)-
                                                                                                                                                                1
mmpog          aroimjod
                                                                                                                                  ITt1   tu-                      lot-
                                                                                                                                   X
              uimnoiiimn                                                                                                                 7.LU-
                                                                                                                                                                II I
                                                                                                                                                                  943-

                1 he Molecular  Volume      of Solids.            489
                             Wt^O   I NC0    5DOCCONO
                             hhOOpihCi-ihhhh
                             ¦<fi>.N'*>ONXCC---C
                             m h «    i _o o r. iff c 01
                                                         9 «
                                                          « M
                c
                c
            i—i Oh
                 £
                 c
                O
                 c
                 d               .-s3rrQ.o 0.doA«q
                 bt     -
                        -
                                    3 s
                                ¦ . o a
                                  O-S-2     > c        o
                                  g g'8 §     qji g/Sl;
                                              Oh-5
                                                            g
                             ^-"SPHOoDWOccaQAnHP
VOL. XXXII.                                                   2 N

490              Mr. E. Wilson.
                                                                                         1
                  &
                  BO
                  V
                                       rtocot — ^'¦£!:"!J
                  Ji
                  O
                    gr.
                    sp.
                   Calculated
                                                            X"        . oo
                    volume.
                                        sb   ss   >b   v.   ta   ^~
                                                       «*ijoo        o               o
                      Moleeidar
                                                  »
           Cfl                                                            o^b
           a
           0
                                       r
           O
      X    2
           o
           u                                                                   °°
                                                             o           -
                            weight.                - ^ e- w
      •S
                                       £
                                        > - ^M jss
                                               b - .C, ?Cj                           B
                                        o ooo ^<!» o •/)
                           Molecular
                                         ••;---:-:^.-V.
                                                            »   3
                                           .S o                      a    "
                                                                 .
                                                                     S
                                                                     a.
                                                                              3 5.
                                             S    ±3        3
                                             §1
                                                       | ! -i
                                                                 E    5
                                           i|     is
                                           1                     :s

The.   Molecular Volume    of Solids.               491
          XOOHH9^ipN?JHHeOt*CO(C
   -C
   C
    St
          OCC'fOiatOttlOlQO^iSCOH'NOOO
                   °
                 2 3* *r ^ >rac-i *i m co co
          00OOOHQ^ipt*NHHHN0D9               © ^
          HCO^NNMHHHNNlNOO^NH
               -  „b ciob a b a a      q b a"o
          ^k-
   3
   'S
                         °-q q0            _o
          o        « « 3.0*0  ^q0       ace  oa
   .0
   02
                                                2x2

402                          Frof. J. C. Ewart.
" On    a  New Form of Febrile Disease associated with the
      presence of an Organism distributed with Milk from the
       Oldmill Reformatory School, Aberdeen."              By J. Cossar
      Ewart, M.D., Professor of Natural History in the University
      of Aberdeen.        Communicated by Professor BCJRDON SAN
      DERSON, F.R.S.        Received and Read June 10, 1881.
   History of the Outbreak. — On the 1st of April one of my servants
was prostrated with a peculiar fever, which at first seemed to be a
severe attack of influenza.       No special treatment was indicated, and
it did not appear necessary to call in a medical attendant. When,
however, on the following day a child of nine months was attacked in
the same way, I felt alarmed, and at once proceeded to inquire as to
the nature of the disease, and as to its probable origin.
   I soon heard of about twenty other cases, all suffering    in the same
way,  and  all living under similar conditions and in the same neigh
bourhood, using the same water, and, without exception, all obtaining
their milk from the same dairy.
   Knowing how often milk has been a means of disseminating fever
organisms, I secured the milk on delivery the next morning (April 3),
that I might examine it microscopically, and subject it to other tests,
should such soem necessary.
   Further inquiry carried on by Dr. Beveridge, Chairman of the
Aberdeen Town Council Health Committee, showed that the same
fever followed fast in the track of the milk-cart from the Oldmill
Reformatory School.       Out of 110 families supplied with Oldmill milk,
nt least 89 suffered from this peculiar fever; there being 220 cases in
C6 of these families ; in all, about 320 individuals are known to have
suffered.
   Careful inquiry   failed to discover a single case where the Oldmill
milk had not been     in use in one form or another.
   The fever seems    to have made its appearance on the 25th of March,
but to have mado     but slow progress until the 1st of April, when 13
cases were reported.      On the 2nd of April     22 cases were reported;
there were 21 more on the 3rd of April, 31 on the 4th of April, 27 on
the 5th April, 50 on the 6th April, and 16 on the 7th April. By the
0th April many families had ceased to use the Oldmill milk, and on
the 7th April the Directors of the Reformatory stopped the supply.
On the day the supply was stopped, 16 fresh cases were reported. On
the 8th April 6 were reported, another was reported on the 9th April,
and the only other known case was reported on the 13th April.
   From the evidence given before the Commissioners, appointed
under the Public Health (Scotland) Act to investigate the nature and

                    On a New Form     of Febrile  Disease.             49:5
cause of the epidemic, it appeared that some of the families which
escaped had heen supplied with milk of a very superior quality ;
whereas many of those who suffered from the disease deponed that
the milk delivered to them looked and tasted as if it had either
been adulterated    with water or with skimmed milk. In other families
which escaped it was only used for cooking purposes, or the chief
supply of milk was obtained from other sources, or only a very small
quantity of cream was used. In many cases the individual members
of affected families who escaped were in the habit of using the milk
only after it had been cooked or boiled. In my own household of
eight, two escaped who were in the habit of using boiled milk only.
    Symptoms. — In the cases which came under my observation, I
 noticed the following symptoms : —
    1. A well-marked rigor, with a feeling of chilliness, lasting from
ten to fifteen hours ; headache, pain in the back and limbs, and often
nausea and vomiting.
    2. Sudden rise of temperature varying from 103° to 104°, and even
reaching sometimes 105° F.
    3. Hot dry skin, and a pulse of 120 to 125.
    4. A feeling of uneasiness in the neck, accompanied in some cases
with congestion of the fauces and tonsils.
    5. Enlargement of the cervical glands lying between the angle of
the jaw and the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle — the
glands of one side were usually more affected than those on the
other.
    6. Complete remission of the febrile symptoms for twenty-four to
thirty-six hours, but marked prostration during the remission.
    7. This period was followed by a return, in nearly all the cases, of
the high temperature, which lasted from twenty to thirty-six hours.
In many cases, after the second remission, there was a third relapse,
and in not a few cases a fourth relapse.       In those cases in which a
relapse   took  place, the  glands least affected  during the first attack
were most affected during the second attack.
   8. In all cases there was a very slow recovery from the prostration.
Although the outbreak began on the 25th of March, some of those
attacked are still (13th June) suffering from sequela?, to be afterwards
referred to.
   Perhaps the most characteristic and constant feature of the disease
was the swelling of the cervical glands at the angle of the jaw.
   Further, there was an indurated condition apparently of the fibrous
structures in front of the sterno-mastoid,       extending as far as the
clavicle,  and sometimes upwards, so as to appear to involve the
parotid gland.    In most cases this induration slowly disappeared, but
in at least three cases it has ended in suppuration.
   In many cases, after convalescence had fairly set in, there were

494                            Prof.  J.  C. Ewart.
frequent relapses characterised          chiefly by great prostration, -which
lasted from two to three days, and not a few suffered from attacks of
a condition closely resembling muscular and articular rheumatism.
     There were three fatal cases. It is to be remarked, however, that
these patients were elderly people (over seventy years of age), and
that they seem to have succumbed to the prostration produced by the
disease.
                           Arrangements at the Dairy.
    The microscopic examination of the milk of the 3rd April showed
that it contained numerous organisms ; hence            I visited the dairy in
order if possible to learn how these organisms could have found their
way into the milk.       The cows, as far as I could judge, were perfectly
healthy,   their udders   clean, and no abrasion about the muzzles such as
exist in cattle affected with foot-and-mouth disease.           The food at the
time of my visit consisted of hay, straw, grains (" draff "), bran, oil
cake, and turnips. The drinking water came from a cistern which was
placed in a corner of the large open byre immediately over the heads
of several cows.
     The cistern was made of concrete and only loosely covered with a
thin wooden lid, consisting of at least two separate pieces, which had
at one time been connected by a leather lunge.               This cistern was
capable   of  containing  about   300  gallons  of water.  On   further inquiry
I found that all the water used about the dairy for washing the cans,
for dissolving the nitrate of potash added to the milk, came from this
cistern, and that somewhere about 600 gallons of water were used
daily ; hence the level of the water would be constantly falling and
rising in the cistern, and the air from the byre constantly passing in
and out of the cistern.       Two days previous to my visit the use of the
 cistern had been discontinued.          On going into the cistern I found a
 small quantity of water at the bottom, and secured a sample of it for
 future examination.       I noticed also that fungi flourished on the inside
 of the wooden lid, and that some parts of the sides of the cistern,
 notwithstanding the scrubbing the cistern had just undergone, were
 coated with a thin layer of what might at one time have been a scum
 on the surface— a scum formed during the winter or during February,
 when the water supply was cut off for several days.
     The hay used for feeding the cows was cut into small pieces and
 steamed in a large tank before it was used. After being steamed it was
  allowed to cool and then conveyed to the byre in wooden troughs.
  Enough was steamed at a time to last for two or three days. The day
  after the steaming the bottom of the tank was found to be filled with a
  strong infusion of hay. Some of this infusion I carried off for examina
  tion. On the same level as this tank, and only separated from it by a
  narrow partition, was a tank of about the same size, which was used

                       On a New   Form of Febrile Disease.                     495
for keeping the grains used.             The manager informed me that
lie considered the grains of the previous week to be of very inferior
quality. The turnips, considering the season of the year and the
severity of the winter, looked well.
    The general impression produced on me by my visit was that the
water was at fault. This impression was strengthened by the follow
ing circumstances: — (1.) The dairymaid had recently complained that
the water had a very bad smell ; (2.) The manager gave it as his
decided opinion that the water had been the cause of the epidemic ;
and (3.) On chemical analysis by Mr. Jamieson, the city analyst, it was
found to contain a large quantity of "albuminoid ammonia."                     Mr.
                               "
Jamieson reported that the contamination which the water as sup
                                                                       '
plied to Aberdeen has suffered takes it from the ' excellent into the
 '              '
   dangerous       class ; while the harmless ingredients remain at nearly
the same point, the injurious ingredients have been trebled."
    The following is the result of the chemical analysis by Mr.
 Jamieson : —
                                        Grains per gallon.  Parts per million.
                                               4-7               67  143
                                                                 10  143
                                                                  0  029
                                                                  0  212
                                                                  3  857
       Sulphate of lime and carbona-
                                                                 52 -902
                                                                 67-143
                       Results of Microscopic Investigations.
    1. The  Milk. — Professor Brazier reported of a sample of milk sent
him for examination on 5th April as follows : —
    " The sample of milk, chemically considered, appeared to be one of
 fair average quality.        The proportion of water and of saline matter
 was by no means abnormal and gave no reason for suspecting any
 admixture or adulteration therewith.          The only thing that attracted
 my attention was the somewhat rank odour possessed by the milk,
 which manifested itself the more by allowing the milk to rest for a
 time in a vessel half-full and loosely covered."
    On microscopic examination of the milk delivered on Sunday,
 3rd April,   I   found — (1.) Numerous micrococci.        Some of them were
 free and not readily recognised, but many were united so as to form the
 characteristic
                    " micrococci chains," while others were grouped together,
 forming   zoogloea.

496                         Prof. J. C.  Ewart.
   (2.) Numerous spores of fungi and cells of the yeast plant.
   (3.) Spores similar to the spores of B. anthracis.
   On examining milk purchased from another dairy and milk sent
from the Oldmill Dairy on Wednesday, 6th April, after the alarm had
been raised about the milk, and the use of the cistern discontinued, it
was impossible to detect with the microscope either micrococci or the
spores of bacteria or fungi.
   2. Water from the cistern in the byre contained numerous yeast
cells, fungus spores, and a few micrococci,    but I was unable to detect
any spores of bacteria.
   3.  The infusion from the hay tank teemed with bacilli, ordinary
bacteria, micrococci, and " micrococci chains," and there were also
numerous filaments in process of development, and numerous yeast-
cells.
   4.  Hay infusion recently made contained bacilli, bacteria, and micro
cocci, but only a small number of yeast cells.
   5. The grains contained      bacilli, bacteria, and micrococci, bni
especially the cells of Torula.
   6. The soft centre of a turnip presented a few ordinary bacteria and
a few bacilli.
                          Results of Cultivations.
   1. 3rd of April.   Oldmill Milk. — On cultivating the milk referred
to above in aqueous humour the micrococci became very active, and
many of them assumed a dumb-bell shape, which indicated that they
were in process of multiplication.       The spores previously observed
began to germinate and in a few hours fully developed rods made
their appearance.       The bacilli, as is usually the case with B.
anthracis, remained motionless, any apparent oscillation resulting from
the active movements of the micrococci around them. In from fourteen
to twenty hours the bacilli began to lengthen, but, probably owing to
the abundant presence of micrococci, their development was arrested
in this and in all subsequent cultivations of the milk before they
reached the spore-bearing stage.
   On cultivating in the same way — (1) Milk sent from Oldmill on
the 6th April ; (2) Milk collected directly from two Oldmill cows in
clean stoppered bottles on the 27th April ; and ^3) Milk from another
dairy (Cowie), no bacilli made their appearance ; there were, how
ever, in (1) and (3) a few ordinary bacteria (B. termo T) and
numerous micrococci.
   On cultivating the Oldmill hay infusion, the fresh hay infusion,
the grains and turnips, there was a considerable increase in the
number of bacilli, bacteria, and micrococci, and in the case of the
grains and Oldmill hay infusion a great increase of the Torula cells,
and many of the fungus spores germinated into branching filaments.

                   On a New Form      of Febrile Disease.              497
                          Pathological Results.
                        First Series of Experiments.
   a. Inoculated rat with distilled water.     No result.
   b.  Inoculated rat with milk from Cowie Dairy. No result.
   c. Inoculated rat with cultivated milk from Cowie           Dairy.   No
result.
   d. Inoculated rat with milk from Oldmill Dairy, taken on 27th
April. No result.
    e. Inoculated rat with milk, 27th April, after cultivation. No result.
   /. Inoculated rat with Oldmill milk of 3rd April, containing
spores, micrococci,   and Torulae.
   g.  Inoculated rat with milk of 3rd April, after cultivation, contain
ing bacilli, short filaments, micrococci, and Torulae.
   Death followed in both cases from fifteen to twenty hours after in
oculation.     After several failures, I succeeded in obtaining a cultiva
tion from near the seat of inoculation, containing bacilli only, or
at least very few micrococci.      In due time the bacilli developed into
Bpore- bearing filaments.
   Inoculation with the spores from this cultivation prodnced the same
result as the milk and the milk cultivations       /  and g, but the spores
were slower in their action, and now (. th June) the fatal result does
not follow until four days after inoculation with cultivated spores.
                       Second Series  of Experiments.
    Other rats were inoculated with the fresh hny infusion, with the
turnip infusion, with an infusion of grains, with the Oldmill hay
infusion, and with distilled water. No result followed except in one
instance.     A rat, twenty-five hours after inoculation with the Old-
mill hay infusion, was found dead.       I have not had time to complete
this series of experiments.
                        Third Series of Experiments.
   From one of the cases in which the induration in the neck ended in
suppuration, I obtained a small quantity of pus, antiseptically
collected and sealed in vaccine tubes.        Qu examination the pus was
seen to contain a number         of bacilli and spores, which exactly
resembled the spores previously found in the 3rd April Oldmill milk.
On placing a very small drop of this pus in a cell and introducing
the cell into a warm chamber, the spores germinated and some of the
rods lengthened into filaments, but the filaments have not yet (13th
June) developed spores.
    Pus collected in the same way, but apparently containing neither
bacilli nor their spores, has not, under cultivation, undergone any
change.

498                                 PretenU.
   With an absolutely new syringe,         I  inoculated — (1)  a  rat with    a
very small quantity of the pus containing the bacilli and spores ; the
pus was taken from the capillary vaccine tube, and dissolved in a few
drops of distilled water ; (2) another rat was inoculated with the pus
in which there were no bacilli ; and (3) a rat was inoculated with
distilled water.
   The rat inoculated with the pus containing the bacilli was found
dead the third day after the inoculation, the other rats are still alive.
   In the tissues of the rat which died are numerous bacilli, which, on
cultivation, lengthen into spore-bearing filaments.
   I have not been able to detect any special lesions in the rats which
succumbed to the several inoculations.          The right side of the heart is
engorged, and the subcutaneous tissue, especially around the seat of
inoculation and in the cervical region, is infiltrated with colour less
blood-corpuscles, but the alimentary           tract and spleen retain their
normal appearances.
    My investigations have led me to conclude — (1.) That this disease
(which is considered by all the medical men in the district to be a
new disease) has been set up by an organism morphologically not
unlike B. anthracis and having the same life history.
    (2.) That the organism was introduced into the milk after it left
the udder of the cow.
    (3.) That the conditions       in and around      the dairy were such as
would     give special organisms, conveyed to the      dairy in the grains or
hay, every opportunity of developing and finding their way into the
water cisterns.      In fact, the conditions were such that an innocuous
organism might easily have assumed noxious properties.
    Whether the washing of the milk cans with the infected water is
sufficient to account for the outbreak,      I  am not prepared to say ; but
judging     from  the  immense    number   of  organisms   in the milk of the
 3rd April, compared with the milk of 6th April, in which there were
 few if any organisms,     I  am inclined to believe that there must have
 been   other  channels  through which the milk was infected.
    Note. I am indebted to Professor Stephenson for the opportunity
          —
 of experimenting with pus from one of the affected patients.
                             Presents, June 16, 1881.
Transactions.
    Amsterdam     : — K. Zoologisch Genootschap (Natura Artis Magistra).
          Catalogus der Bibliotheek.      Royal 8vo. Amsterdam 1881.
                                                                  The Society.
    Baltimore : — Peabody Institute.       Thirteenth Annual Report. 8vo.
          Baltimore 1880.                                        The Institute.

                                    Presents.                                   499
Transactions (continued).
   Barnsley : — Midland Institute        of   Mining, Civil, and Mechanical
        Engineers.      Transactions.     Vol. VII. Part 51. 8vo. Barnsley
        1880.                                                       The Institute.
   Berlin : — K. Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaf ten. Monats-
        bericht, Jan., 1881. 8vo. Berlin 1881.           Circular zum Astrono-
        mischen Jahrbuch. Nos. 138-60. 8vo. Berlin.                The Academy.
   Bremen : — Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein.             Abhandlungen.         Bd.
        VII. Hefte 1, 2. 8vo. Bremen 1880-81. Beilage No. 8 zu den
        Abhandlungen. 8vo. Bremen 1880.                          The Association.
              —
   Brussels : Académie Royale de Medicine.                 Bulletin.      3e Série.
        Tome XV. No. 4. 8vo. Bruxelles 1881.                       The Academy.
   Calcutta : — Asiatic Society of Bengal.          Journal.      Vol. L. Part 1.
        No. 1.       Part 2, No. 1. Proceedings.           1881. No. 3. 8vo.
        Calcutta    1881.                                             The Society.
                             —
   Cambridge (Mass.) : Museum of Comp. Zool. at Harvard Coll.
        Bulletin.     Vol. VIII. Pp. 95 to 284.        8vo. Cambridge 1881.
                                                                    The Museum.
   Copenhagen     : —  K.    Danske   Videnskabernes        Selskab.      Oversigt.
        1880. No. 3.       1881.  No. 1.    8vo. Kjobenhavn.          The Society.
   Erlangen : — Physikalisch-Medicinische Societat.            Sitzungsberichte.
        Heft 12. 8vo. Erlangen 1880.                                  The Society.
   Falmouth:   —   Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society.             Report. 1880.
        8vo. Falmouth.                                                The Society.
   Florence:  — R. Istituto di Studi Superiori Pratici e di Perfeziona-
        mento.       Pubblicazioni.     Sezione di Medicina e Chirurgia.
        Memoria del Dott. F. Pacini.           Sezione di Filosofia e Filologia.
        Vol. II. Disp. 6. 8vo. Firenze 1880.                        The Institute.
                    —
   Huddersfield : Yorkshire Naturalists' Union.                  The Naturalist.
        Vol. VI. Nos. 68-71. 8vo. Huddersfield.                         The Union.
   Kolozsvár:  —    Erdélyi Muzeum.       Évfolyam     VIII.  Sz.   5.   8vo. 1881-
                                                                     The Museum.
            —
   Lisbon : Academia          Real  das     Sciencias.   Memorias.       Classe de
        Sciencias Math., Phys., e Naturaes.             Nova Serie.       Tomo V.
        Parte 2. 4to. Lisboa 1878.           Classe de Sciencias Moraes, &c.
        Nova Serie.         Tomo V. Parte 1. 4to. Lisboa 1879.               Jornal
        de Sciencias Math., Phys., e Nat.           Num. 24-29. 8vo. Lisboa
        1878-80.      Sessão Publica.      9 Junho, 1880.      8vo. Lisboa 1880.
        Conferencias      .... acerca dos Descobrimentos       e  Colonisações dos
        Portuguezes na Africa.           Quarta    Conferencia.        8vo. Lisboa
        1880.    Historia dos Estabelecimentos Scientificos, <Scc, de Por
        tugal. Tomo VIII, IX. Por J. S. Ribiero. 8vo. Lisboa 1879-
        81.   Flora dos Lusíadas pelo Conde de Ficalho. 8vo. Lisboa
        1880.    Vida e Viagens de Fernão de Magalhães.                 8vo. Lisboa
        1881.   Elementos de Histologia Geral e Histophysiologia. Por

.TOO                               Presents.
Transactions (continued).
        Ednardo Augusto Motta.            8vo. Lisboa 1880.          Documentos
        retnettidos da India.      Tomo I. 4to. Lisboa 1880.              William
        Shakespeare.     Hamlet.       Traduccao     de  Bulhao      Pato.     8to.
        Lisboa 1879.    Demosthenes.        A Oracao da Coroa Versao do
        Original Grego.     Por J. M. Latino Coelho. Segunda Edicao.
        8vo. Lisboa 1880. A Tabula de Bronze de Aljustrel. Memoria.
        Por S. P. M. Estacio da Veiga. 4to. Lisboa 1880. Don Pedro
        Calderon de la Barca. Por J. S. Ribeiro.             8vo. Lisboa 1881.
        Noticias Ultramarinas. Tomo IV. 4to. Lisboa 1826.
                                                                  The Academy.
             —
   London : British Museum. Lepidoptera Heterocera. Part V. 4to.
        London 1881.      Catalogue of Birds.          Vol. V.      870.   London
        18-51.                                                     The   Museum
     Chemical Society. Journal. Nos. 218-223.             And Supplementary
        Number.     8vo. London 1880-81.                            The Society.
     Institution of Mechanical Engineers. Proceedings.              1881. No. 1.
        Library Catalogue, May 1881.         Subject Index of Papers in the
        Proceedings. 1847-80. 8vo. London 1881.                The Institution.
     Linnean Society. Journal. Botany. Vol. XVIII. No. 112. 8vo.
       London 1881.                                                 The Society.
     London Mathematical Society.          Proceedings.     Nos. 167-9. 8vo.
                                                                    The Society.
     National Association for the Promotion of Social Science.
        Sessional Proceedings.       Vol. XIV. No. 4. 8vo. Westminster
        1881.                                                 The Association.
     Pharmaceutical Society.        Journal.    Third Series. Nos. 550-72.
       8vo. London 1881.      Calendar 1881.       8vo.   London 1881.
                                                                    The Society.
     Photographic    Society.    Journal    and   Transactions.      New Series.
       Vol. V. Nos. 4-8. 8vo. London 1881. List of Members, 1881.
       8vo.                                                         The Society.
     Physical Society.     Proceedings.      Vol.   IV. Part   2.  8vo.    London
        1881.                                                       The Society.
     Royal Asiatic Society.         Journal.     Vol.   XIII.    Part    II.  8vo.
       London 1881.                                                 The Society.
     Royal     Astronomical    Society.      Monthly"   Notices.      Vol.   XLI.
       Nos. 6, 7. 8vo. London 1881.                                 The Society.
     Royal Geographical     Society.     Proceedings.     Vol.   III.   Nos. 1-6.
       8vo. London 1881.                                            The Society.
     Royal Institute of British Architects. Transactions.            Nos. 11-13.
       Proceedings.     Nos. 1-18. 4to. London 1879-81.
                                                                  The Institute.
     Royal Institution.      Reports of Evening Meetings, Jan. 28.
       March 4, 18. April 1, 29. 8vo. London 1881. The Institution.

                                    Presents.                               501
Transactions {continued).
      Royal United Service Institution. Journal. Vol.        XXIV.      Appen
        dix. Vol. XXV. No. 109. 8vo. London 1881.
                                                             The Institution.
      Society of Arts.      Journal.     Vol.  XXIX.    Nos. 1468-90. 8vo.
        London 1881.                                              The Society.
      Zoological  Society.    Transactions.    Vol.  XI, Part  5. 4to. London
        1881.   Proceedings.    1881,  Parti.  8vo. London.    List of Fellows.
        1881. 8vo. London.                                        The Society.
   Mauritius : — Meteorological Society.        Synoptic Weather Charts of
        the Indian Ocean for February, 1861. Oblong.              The Society.
   Munich : — K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften Sitzungsberichte.
        Phil.-Hist. Classe. 1880, Heft. 6. 1881, Heft 1. Math.-Phys.
        Classe.     1881, Heft. 2. 8vo. Munchen 1830-81.
                                                               The Academy.
   Naples : Zoòlogische Station. Mittheilungen. Band II. Heft 4.
             —
        Dritter Nachtrag zum Bibliothekskatalog. 8vo. Leipzig 1881.
                                                                  The Station.
   Pivris: — Académie des Sciences.          Comptes   Rendus.     Tome XCI.
        Nos. 25, 26. XCII. Nos. 1-22. 4to. Paris 1881.
                                                               The Academy.
      Ecole des Mines. Annales. 7e Serie. Tome XIX. Livr. 1. 8vo.
        Paris 1881.                                                The School.
      Ecole Normale Supérieure.         Annales. 2e Serie. Tome X. No. 6.
        4to. Paris 1881.                                           The School.
      Société d'Encouragement pour l'Industrie Nationale. Bulletin.
         79e Année.     Nos. 76-84. 80e Année. Nos. 85-88. 4to. Paris
        1880-81.      Compte-rendu     bi mensuel. 1880. Nos. 8-18.       1881.
        Nos. 1-10. 8vo.                                           The Society.
      Société de Géographie.        Bulletin. Février, 1881. 8vo. Paris.
                                                                  The Society.
   Philadelphia   : — Academy    of   Natural   Sciences.   Journal.    Second
         Series. Vol. VIII. Part 4. 4to. Philadelphia 1874-81.             Pro
        ceedings. 1880. Parts 1-3. 8vo. Philadelphia 1880.
                                                                The Academy.
      Franklin Institute. Journal. Vol. CXI. No. 665. 8vo. Phila
        delphia 1881.                                           The Institute.
          —
   Pisa : Società Toscana di Scienze Naturali.             Processi Verbali.
        Gennaio 9. Marzo 13, 1881. 8vo.                           The Society.
             —                                        Transactions, 1880-81.
   Quebec : Literary and Historical Society.
        8vo. Quebec 1881.                                         The Society.
   Ilio de Janeiro : Museu Nacional. Archivos. Vol. III. 3° e 4°
                       —
        Trimestres. 4to. Rio de Janeiro 1878.                    The Museum.
           —
   Rome : R. Accademia          dei   Lincei.   Memorie.     Scienze Fisiche.
         Seo. 3*. Vols. V-VIII.       Scienze Morali. Ser. 3*. Vols. IV, V.

502                              Presents.
Transactions (continued),
       4to.   Roma 1880.     Transunti.    Ser. 3*.  Vol. V. Fasc. 11, 12.
       4to. Roma 1881.                                        The Academy.
     E. Comitate Geologico.      Bollettino, 1881. No. 3 e 4. 8vo. Roma
        1881.                                                   The Society.
  St. Petersburg : — Academie Imperiale des Sciences.              Memoires.
       Tome    XXVIII.    Nos. 1, 2. 4to. St. Petersbourg 1880.
                                                              The Academy.
  Stockholm: — K. Vetenskaps        Akademie.       Ofversigt. 1880. Nos.
        8-10. 8vo. Stockholm 1881.                            The Academy.
          —
  Turin : R. Accademia delle Scienze. Atti. Vol. XVI. Disp. 4.
        8vo. Torino.                                          The Academy.
   Venice : Ateneo Veneto. Atti. Serie 3. Vol. III. Pnntata 3. 8vo.
            —
        Venezia 1880.                                        The Institution.
     R. Istitnto Veneto. Memorie. Vol. VI, XV (Parte 2), XVI
        (Parte   2), XVII (Parte 3). 4to. Venezia 1857-72.               Atti.
        Serie 4. Tomo II. Disp. 3-10. 8vo. Venezia 1872-3.
                                                             The Institution.
  Vienna : — Anthropologische Gesellschaft.         Mittheilnngen. Band     X
        Nr. 10-12. 8vo. Wien 1881.                              The Society.
     K. K. Geographische Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen. Band XXIII.
        8vo. Wien 1880.                                         The Society.
     K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt. Jahrbuch. Band XXXI. No. 1.
        8vo. Wien 1881.      Verhandlungen. Nos. 1-7. 8vo. Wien 1881.
                                                             The Institution.
     Osterreichische Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie.       Zeitechrift. Juni,
        1881. 8vo. Wien.                                        The Society.
   Washington    : — Smithsonian  Institution.   Report,  1879.  8vo. Wash
        ington 1880.                                         The Institution.
   Wiirzburg : — Physikalisch-Medicinische        Gesellschaft.     Verhand
        lungen. Neue Folge. Bd. XV. Heft 3, 4. 8vo. Wurzburg 1881.
                                                                The Society.
Observations and Reports.
   Brussels : — Commission de la Carte Geologique.          Leve de la Plan-
        chette de Kermpt (Bolderberg).          Carte et Texte Explicatif.
        Bnixelles 1881.                                     The Commission.
     Observatoire Royal.      Annales Astronomiques. Nouvelle Serie.
        Tome III. Annales Meteorologiques.         2me Serie. Tome I. 4to.
        Bruxelles   1880-81.   Annuaire.    1880, 1881.      12mo.   Bruxelles
        1879-80.                                           The Observatory.
   Christiania : — Den Norske Nordhavs-Expedition 1876-78. General
        Report. Zoologi. Fiske ved Robert Collett. Chemi, — III. afI
        Hercules Tornoe. 4to. Christiania 1880.
                                                The Publishing Committee.

                                    Presents.                               503
Observations, &c. {continued).
  Dublin : — General Register Office. Weekly Return of Rirths and
        Deaths in Dnblin, &e. Vol. XVITI. Nos. 1-23. Quarterly Re
       turn. No. 69. 8vo. Dublin 1881.
                                         The Registrar-General for Ireland.
  Greenwich : — Royal Observatory.          Report of the Astronomer Royal
       to the Board of Visitors. 1881. 4to.                  The Observatory.
  London: — Local Government Board.              London Water Supply.       Re
       ports   Nos.   3-5.   4to.  London   1881.      Report   on  the Recent
       Progress of Levantine Plague". 8vo. London 1881.             The Board.
     Meteorological Office. Hourly Readings. Jan. to March, 1880.
       folio.     Weekly Weather Reports. June, 1880, to June, 1881.
       folio.                                                        The Office.
     Royal Mint. Annual Report of the Deputy- Master, 1880. 8vo.
       London 1881.                                       The Deputy-Master.
  Melbourne     : — Observatory.    Monthly    Record,   March to Sept., 1880.
       8vo. Melbourne.        Report of the Board of Visitors, 1880-81.
       folio. Melbourne.                                     The Observatory.
     Office of the Government Statist. Report on Vital Statistics of
       Melbourne and Suburbs. 1880. folio.
                                                    The Government Statist.
     Department      of  Mines.    Reports    of the   Mining Surveyors and
       Registrars. Dec. 31, 1880. folio. Melbourne. The Department.
  Paris : — Bureau International des Poids et Mesures. Travaux et
        Memoires.       Tome I. 4to. Paris 1881.                   The Bureau.
     Secretariat General.       Bulletin Recapitulatif de Statistique Muni-
       cipalo.     Annee 1879. 4to. Paris.            M. le Preset de la Seine.
  Prague: — K. K. Sternwarte.          Beobachtungen, 1880. 4to Prag.
                                                             The Observatory.
          —
  Rome : Pontificia Universita Gregoriana.               Bulletino Meteorolo-
       gico.   Vol.  XIX.   Nos.  1-9,  11, 12.  4to.  Roma   1879.
                                                               The University.
  St. Louis : — Magnetic Variation in Missouri. 1880. 1881.                Two
       small charts.                                              F. E. Nipher.
  San Fernando : — Institute y Observatorio             de Marina.      Anales.
       Section 2*. 1877-78. 4to. San Fernando. 1878-79. 4to. San
       Fernando 1878-79.                                      The Observatory.
                  —
  Stockholm : Observatorium.           Astronomiska Iattagelser och TJn-
       dersokningar.       Bandet la. Haftet 2. 4to. Stockholm 1880.
                                                             The Observatory.
  Vienna : K. K. Sternwarte. Annalen. Folge 3. Band XXIX.
            —
       8vo. Wien 1880.                                        The Observatory.
                   —
  Washington : U. S. Entomological Commission.                 Report relating
       to the Rocky Mountain Locust, &c. 8vo. Washington 1880.
                                                              The Commission.

504                                 Present*.
Reports, Observations,     &c.
   Wiltshire :— Wiltshire Rainfall. 1580. 4to. Marlborough 1881.
                                                     The Rev. T. A. Preston.
               —
   Zi-ka-wei : Observatoire.        Bulletin Mensuel. Tome VII. Nos. 75.
         76. 4to. Zi-ka-wei 1880.                            The Observatory.
            —
   Zürich: Meteorologische Centraianstalt der Schweizerischen Natur-
        forschenden Gesellschaft.      Schweizerische   Meteorologische    Beo
        bachtungen.     Jahrg. XV. Titel u. Beilagen.           Jahrg.    XVI.
        Lief. 5-7. Jahrg. XVII. Lief. 1-4. 4to.                   The Society.
Journals.
   American Journal of Otology."         Vol. III.   No. 2.   8vo.   New   Tori
        1881.                                                     The Editors.
   American Journal of Science. Vol.        XXI.   Nos. 121-126.     8vo.  New
        Haven, Conn. 1881.                                         The Editors.
   Analyst. Vol. VI. Nos. 58-63. 8vo. London 1881.                The Editors.
   Annalen der Physik und Chemie. Neue Folge. Band X, Heft 2, to
        Band XII, Heft 5, 8vo. Leipzig 1880-81. u. Beiblätter.
                                                                    The Editor.
  Athenamm.       Jan. to June, 1881. 4to. London.                  The Editor.
   Builder. January to June, 1881. Folio. London.                   The Editor.
   Bulletino di Bibliografia e di Storia. Tomo XIII. April to July,
        1880. 4to. Borna 1880.                     The Prince Boncompagni.
   Canadian Naturalist.       New Series. Vol. IX. Nos. 5-8. Vol. X
        No. 1. 8vo. Montreal.                                       The Editor.
   Chemical   News.    Nos.   1100-1124.    8vo. London   1881.     The Editor.
  Educational Times. Vol. XXXIV. Nos. 237-242. 4to. London
        1881.                                                       The Editor.
  Electrician. Vol. VI. Nos. 1-17, 19-26. Vol. VII. Nos. 1-4. 4to.
        London.                                                     The Editor.
  Electricien. Tome I. Nos. 1-3. 8vo. Paris 1881.
                                                   W. Spottiswoode,      P.R.S.
  Horological    Journal.   Vol.   XXIII.     Nos. 269-274.      8vo.   London
        1881.                                                       The Editor.
  Indian Antiquary.       Vol. X.     Parts 114-119. 4to. Bombay 1880-81.
                                                                    The Editor.
  Journal of Science. Vol.     III.  Nos. 85-90.    8vo.    London 1881.
                                                                   The Editor.
  Mondes (Les). Tome        LIV.    Nos. 1-17. Tome      LV.   Nos.   1-4. 8vo.
       Paris 1881.                                       M. L'Abbe Moigno.
  Nature. January to June, 1831. 8vo. London 1881.                 The Editor
  New    York   Medical Journal.       January' to June,    1881.    8vo. New
        York.                                                      The Editor.

                                      Presents.                               505
Journals (continued).
   Notes and Queries.        January to June, 1881. 4to. London 1881.
                                                                     The Editor.
   Observatory. January          to June.  8vo.  Londonl88l.         The  Editor.
   Revue Politique et Litteraire. January to June 1881. 4to.
                                                                M. Le Directeur.
   Revue Scientifique.        January to June, 1881. 4to.           M. Breguet.
   Scientific Roll. Part I. No. 3. 8vo. London 1881.
                                                             A. Ramsay, F.G.S.
   Symons's      Monthly'    Meteorological Magazine.
                                                   "          January to May,
          1881.                                                      The Editor.
   Telegraphic Journal. January to June, 1681. 8vo.            London.  1881.
                                                                     The Editor.
   Van Nostrand's Engineering Magazine,              Nos.  145-150.    8vo.   New
          York 1881.                                                 The Editor.
 Bellesme     (Jousset de)       Recherches     Experimentales sur la Phos
      phorescence du Lampyre. 8vo. Paris 1880.                      The Author.
 Bevan (G. Phillips) Statistical Atlas. Parts 2-5. folio. London
       1881.                                                     The Publishers.
Blanford (H. F.), F.R.S.               On the Diurnal Variation of the
       Barometer at Indian Stations. Part 1. 4to.           Erlauterung einiger
       Pnnkte einer friiheren Abhandlung iiber die Variationen des
       Lnftdruckes, &c. Royal 8vo. The Indian Monsoon Rains. 8vo.
       Allahabad.      And three papers from the Journal of the Asiatic
       Society   of  Bengal.                                        The Author.
Broeck (E. Van Den) Memoire sur les Phenomenes d'alteration des
       Depots Superficiels par l'infiltration des Eaux Meteoriques etudies
       dans leurs rapports avec la Geologie              Stratigraphique. 4to.
       Bruxelles 1881.                                              The Author.
 Brown (J. T.) Apparatus, Past and Present. Sheet 3. Regulators.
                                                                  The Compiler.
 Carruthers (Rev. G. T.) A Theory Concerning Sun Spots. 8vo.
      Boorkee. The Inverse Distances of the Planets. 8vo. Boorkee.
                                                                    The Author.
 Cunningham (Captain Allan), R.E.                Roorkee Hydraulic Experi
       ments. 3 vols. 8ro. Boorkee 1880-81.                     The India Office.
 Daubree (A.)          Examen Mineralogique et Chimique de Materiaux
      provenant     de  quelques forts Vitrifies de la France. Conclusions
      qui en resultent. 8vo. Paris 1881.                            The Author.
 Delaurier (E.) De l'Unite de la Matiere. 8vo. Paris 1881.
                                                                    The Author.
 Dewalque (G.) Sur l'Uniformite de la Langue Geologique. 8vo.
       Liege 1880.                                                  The Author.
   VOL. XXXII.                                                      2 0

506                                Presents.
Dorna (A.) Applicazione dei Principii della Meccanica Analitica a
     Problemi. V. 4to. Torino 1879.                                 The Author.
Him (G. A.) Explication d'un Paradoxe d'Hydrodynamique. 8vo.
     Paris 1881.                                                    The Author.
Hopkinson (John) Twenty-nine papers, 1870-80.                       The Author.
Massey (Gerald)        A  Preface   to,   with  Extracts  from,  a  Book  of the
     Beginnings. 8vo. London.                                       The Author.
Mensbrugghe       (M.   Van    der)     Voyages    et  Metamorphoses       d'une
     Gouttelette d'Eau. 8vo. Bruxelles 1880.             Sur l'Application du
     Second Principe de Thermodynamique aux Variations d'Energie
     Potentielle des Surfaces Liquides. 8vo. Bruxelles 1880.                  Du
     Rôle de la Surface Libre de l'Eau dans l'Économie de la Nature.
     8vo. Paris.                                                    The Author.
Mueller (Baron F. von) Plants of North- Western Australia, folio.
     Perth  1881.                                                   The Author.
Pettersen   (Karl)     Lofoten og Vesteraalen.      8vo. Kristiania.
                                                                    The Author.
Plateau (F.) and V. Liénard.               Observations sur l'Anatomie de
     l'Elephant d'Afrique (Loxodon Africanus) Adulte. 8vo. Bruxelles
     1881.                                                          The Author.
Russell (J. Scott), F.R.S. On the trne nature of the Wave of
     Translation. 4to. London. (2 copies.)            On Storm-Stability as
     distinguished from Smooth- Water Stiffness. 8vo. London. (2
     copies.)                                                       The Author.
Saporta (G. de), and A. F. Marion.            L'Evolution du Règne Végétal.
     Les Cryptogames. 8vo. Paris 1881.                              The Author.
Schmidt (Carl)        Boden-     und Wasser-Untersuchungen aus dem
     Ferghana- und Ssyr-Darja-Gebiete. 4to. St. Petersburg 1881.
                                                                    The Author.
Scully (Dr. J.) Meteorological and Hypsometrical Observations in
     Western Tibet; with a Discussion by' H. F. Blanford. 4to.
     {Calcutta 1876.]                                  H. F. Blanford, F.R.S.
Stone (E. J.), F.R.S.         Cape Catalogue of 12,441 Stars for 1880.
     4to. London 1881.                                          The Admiralty.
Trois (E. Filippo) Contribuzione alio Studio            del  Sistema Linfatico
     dei Teleostei.   Part  III. Nos.   1  and 2. 8vo.   Venezia   1881.
                                                                    The Author.
Wagener (G.) On a new Seismometer, with Summary of Observa
     tions, by E. Knipping. folio.                                 E. Knipping.
Wolf (Rudolf) Astronomische Mittheilungen. No. 52. 12mo.
                                                                    The Author.
Woolhouse (W. S. B.)          On the Adjustment of Mortality Tables. A
     Sequel. 8vo. London.         Measures, Weights, and Moneys of all
     Nations. Sixth Edition. 12mo. London 1881.                     The Author.

                                On Gravimeters.                             507
" On Gravimeters        ;   with special reference to a Torsion Gravi-
       meter, designed       by the late J. Allan Broun, F.R.S." By
       Major J. Herschel, R.E., F.R.S., Deputy Superintendent of
       the Survey of India. Received October 31, 1880.                     Read
       January    20, 1881.
                                 [Plates 8, 9.]
    The present paper consists mainly of two parts, of which the second
is the earlier, the first having been afterwards prepared       as a historical
introduction.
    In August last a letter was addressed by Major-General J. T. Walker,
R.E., C.B., F.R.S. , Surveyor-General of India, to the Director-General
of Stores for the Indian Government, enclosing copy of a letter from
 the late Mr. Broun on the subject of his gravimeter.            The object of
 General Walker's letter was to trace, if possible, the instrument in
 questiou, and to secure it for the Indian Government.              It was also
                  I
 suggested that might be able to judge of its efficiency.       I also received
 a communication to the same effect, and in consequence offered my
 services.
    On enquiry it appeared that the gravimeter had become the property
 of the Royal Society. The loan of it was obtained and I was requested
 to call and see it. It was then arranged that I shonld take the instru
 ment and report upon its capabilities          at greater leisure    than  was
 possible at the India Office.
    The gravimeter    is an instrument obviously requiring very careful
 manipulation, and as     I was not for some time after it came into my
 hands in possession of any description of its intended use, the exami
 nation was attended with anxiety as well as difficulty. It occupied
                                             I
 me for three weeks, during which time was in constant fear lest some
 awkwardness should prevent my returning it uninjured.             I purposely,
 therefore, wrote what I learnt about it from day to day ; and this will
 perhaps excuse the length of my report, which was eventually sub
 mitted to the authority from whom       I  received the instrument.
    The course of the examination necessarily led to my becoming
 acquainted with the subject in several ways, but the narrative form
 and the immediate object of the report precluded any discussion.
 There appeared nevertheless to be sufficient in the study of the instru
 ment itself, and especially of its dimensions and the weights of its
 parts, to justify a desire for publication.      I accordingly solicited per
 mission to communicate the report to the Royal Society, the owner of
 the instrument.    This having been granted, it then seemed permissible
 to preface the report by a sketch of some of the circumstances bearing
  on the question of priority of invention, and other matters in con
                                                               2 0 2

508                                       Major    J.   Herschel.
nexion with the theory of the torsion gravimeter, together with remarks
upon other forms of gravimeter.      This now appears as Part of the                   I
present paper.
   So far as I was aware, the theory of the torsion gravimeter had not
been published.     In considering                   it,
                                         was led to think that in some
                                                        I
respects    involved peculiarities which might be taken advantage of
               it
to simplify the design.     In anticipation of the present publication,
therefore,   communicated to the Society a notice of
                I                                     design to that          a
effect, which was read on the 9th December, 1880, and appears in the
"                        "
     Proceedings            (vol. 31, pp. 141-146).
     Although, therefore,           it precedes the present communication in that
respect,       it   will   be understood to have grown out of the examination of
Broun's instrument,             to which       I   am indebted for the means of judging
of its feasibility.
          I.   Historical    Review       of   Proposals or Designs    for   a Gravimeter.
     Tt  hardly necessary to describe at much length the object of
          is
instruments   of this class. They aim at determining s'atiatlly that
which the differential pendulum has been hud recourse to, ever since
the days of Graham and of Bouguer, to determine dynamically, the
variation of gravity at different times or places. The principle indeed
is so obvious that when we recognise the fact that hitherto nothing
has been effected which can be regarded as establishing a rivalry in
practice, we also perceive that the interest of any historical review
must centre in what     can teach as to the causes of the absence of any
                               it
practical competition.   For this we must first learn what forms have
been proposed.
    It would be hard to say to whom should be ascribed the credit of
first suggesting the statical method. It would seem as     its theoretical    if
possibility must have long been perceived.       But probably no clearer
enunciation of the principle     to be found than that which appeared in
                                           is
the first, as in all later, editions of the " Outlines of Astronomy "
(Art. 234), first published in 1833.*                      So far as
                                                                  I    know, what was there
proposed, divested as      purposely was of everything which could
                                    it
confuse the principle to be illustrated, had never been experimentally
tried.  To understand it, a single glance at the drawing, representing
a  weight suspended by a coiled spring, its lower surface grazing the
base of the  supporting frame, should suffice. The supposed variation
of gravity     intended to be balanced by the addition or removal of
                    is
small subsidiary weights, the proportion of which to the principal
weight will measure the relative variation.    The only doubts which
arise at once in considering such an instrument have reference to the
means of exactly determining the contact and to the constancy of the
                               •   Art.   189 in the first four editions.

                                  On Gravimeters.                                509
spring. These evidently are the points towards which later improve
ments may be expected to be directed.
     The elasticity of such a coiled spring partakes, I believe, of two
characters.       It  would depend very much upon the pitch of the coil
whether the elasticity would be chiefly that of bending or of torsion.
If,   as  I suppose, these are not the same,          there is to some     extent    a
change of principle in leaving the coil, and adopting the straight sus
 pending wire, the resistance to torsion of which is substituted (in the
 next form) for the resistance to extension of the coil as above. With
 a view to meeting one of the two difficulties mentioned, it might
 become a question whether the required constancy would be more
 attainable in the one direction or in the other. The modifications of
 design which actually occurred, however, do not appear to have arisen
 from considerations of this nature ; but were aimed at securing greater
 facility, constancy of resistance being assumed.
     About the year 1860 two inventors devoted their attention indepen
 dently to methods of statical gravimetry.                 In each case we have
 means of perceiving the growth and modification of their ideas, and
 it must be regarded as a curious coincidence that they arrived at a
 nearly identical result.       One of them eventually designed, and caused
  to be constructed, an instrument which is the occasion of this paper.
  The other, so far as I have been able to learn, did not give practical
  effect to his conceptions in the shape of a finished instrument ; at
  least he has not published any account of observations.
      The remarkable similarity which undoubtedly exists               between the
  gravimeter as made under Mr. Broun's instructions and that which
  was proposed by M. Babinet, has naturally raised the question of
  priority.    In a letter written by the former to General Walker,
  Mr. Broun expresses himself in a way to show that he can with diffi
  culty divest himself of the idea that M. Babinet had been led to his
  design by more or less indirect cognizance of what Mr. Broun had
  published or communicated orally to mutual acquaintances.                    As it
   happens   that  I have access   to correspondence bearing       on  the  subject,
   1 have looked into it somewhat        closely, and think it not undesirable
   to publish some of the letters written by M. Babinet to my father at
   the time when he was busied about it.
      The earliest publication on the subject occurs in the          " Proceedings
   of the  Royal Society of Edinburgh" lor 1861, in which (pp. 411-412,
   February 4) Broun describes a machine, in course of construction,
   for the purpose of measuring small changes of gravity by the
   balancing of a bifilar disturbance by a hair spring placed below the
   suspended   weight.
      In February, 1863, appeared Babinet's design,*          in which    a  similar
    * " Comptts Rcndus," lvi, 18G3, pp. 244-248  ; and " Cosmos," 1863, pp. 177-181.

 510                               Major   J.  Herschel.
 disturbance      is balanced by the torsion of a single wire. This was
 followed immediately by a reclamation by Principal Forbes, on behalf
 of Bronn (absent in India), drawing attention to the prior publication,
 and saying that the new design is practically identical witb that
 already published.         In May of the same year appeared a letter from
 Broun to the Editors of the " Philosophical Magazine," enclosing
 translation of a letter from himself to the Perpetual Secretary of the
 Paris Academy of Sciences, the object of which is likewise to claim
 priority of invention.           He refers to his paper in the Edinburgh
 "                  " in              The whole question turns, I think, on this
    Proceedings            proof.
 sentence :  —  "  We found, however, that the spring, like the balance-
 spring   of  a   watch,     employed under the weight, acted badly, and I
substituted a simple gold wire in the same year" [1861].                   Compare
this with the statement in the letter of 1871), where he says
" Babinet's
               proposal was for the same instrument exactly, and it was
published more than two years after mine, and after, indeed,                  I had
described the instrument to different persons in Paris."                 It is clear
that Broun did not perceive that there was a real difference between
the two forms         in which the elasticity of metal was opposed to the
force of gravity, and that he had published nothing regarding his use
of the torsion wire at the time of Babinet's design.                   It was only
towards the clo^e of 18G1, at the earliest, that Broun introduced the
gold wire in place of the spring, and as the letters which I shall give
prove Babinet to have been working out the same idea early in 1862,
there is no doubt some show of reason in Broun's complaint, when he
says (as he does in his letter of 1863) that not only was his instru
ment seen by many persons in Adie's shop in 1861, but that the gold
wire which he substituted was actually recommended and supplied by
a Parisian artist.        Still I think it impossible to read the following
letter, and retain any suspicion that Babinet was conscious of having
borrowed the principal part of his design from another.                The letter is
interesting enough        in  itself, apart  from  this question.
                                                    " Paris, ce 3 Fevrier, 1862.
                     " Sur la Mesure slatique de la Pesanteur.
"Monsieur et illustbk Confrere,
    " Cost une des plus importantes idees qui aient ete emises pour la
conuaissance       de   notre globe que celle de la mesure statique de la
pesanteur.      Je    crois  avoir resolu le probleme pratique apres d'innom-
brablcs essais et bien des annees de reflexion.                   Ce qui distingue
surtout    ma     methode,      c'est   le fraetionnmnent    de   la pesanteur, de
nianiere a eqniiibrer l'effet d'un poids considerable par la torsion d'un
til mutallique de force moyenue et restant dans les limites de l'elas-
ticite parfaite.       En eflet je reduis le poids a               de sa valeur uu
moyen du pendule bitilairc.

                                  On Gravimeter8.                            511
     "Ayez la bonté d'examiner          l'instrument que je propose, de m'in-
 diquer    des   corrections,   et je le ferai construire de suite.      Dès que
 j'aurai votre réponse, je communiquerai ce travail à l'Institut en y
 mettant pour introduction un précis de ce qui est au No. 23 des
 '
   Outlines of Astronomy.'
     " Il n'y a dans mon appareil,      ni point de départ obligé, ni mesure
 d'angles,    ni  loi supposée pour l'élasticité, ni permanence exigée, ni
 mesures de longueur, ni inertie de départ à vaincre, ni difficulté
 d'établissement ou de transport,            ni mesures de temps — ' it is not
                                           '
 laborious, tedious, and expensive ; la température n'a pas le temps
 de changer pendant la courte durée de l'expérience, ce qui répond à
 votre condition d'expédition.
    " L'effet de la température
                                     (if any) peut être facilement étudié au
 préalable   et  pris en  compte.
    " be  et ad sont deux fils métalliques       très fins et sensiblement  sans
torsion (d'ailleurs leur torsion pour un angle constant s'ajouterait sans
inconvénient à la force directrice du bifilaire),         bc et ad ont un mètre
de longueur ou 1,000 millims., ab et de ont 10 millims. : en sorte que
la distance de a et de b au point milieu i où s'attache le fil de torsion
fi  est de 5 millims.      Soit ia=ib=a=b millims.

512                                   Major       J.   Herschel.
     " La tige horizontale inférieure  dn bifilaire porte au poids
                                                        ab
d'environ 1 kilo. =1,000 grms., en y comprenant le poid additionel
p qu'on doit ajouter au poids P dans un petit plateau attaché au
dessous de P.
  " Si P est le poids que porte un pendule bifilaire, on sait qu'étant
écarté de sa position de repos d'un angle «, il tend à y revenir avec
une force —
                                  Pj sin a /y/l—             4jL
                                                               sin2      ia
(Si     a et
           l    sont du même métal, la chaleur                         ne trouble   point la      force
directrice       du bifilaire, puisqu'elle dépend unique                      de        a étant    égal
à   5   millims., et     l   à   1,000 millims., la force directrice du bifilaire n'est
qu'une fraction,             savoir         ou -^fa de sa grandeur naturelle.       Du
reste on verra tout-à-l'heure qu'il n'est besoin de mesurer ni a ni                            l.
   " Supposons la tige supérieure de du bifilaire déviée de 90°. Alors,
le poids     étant de 1,000 grms., la force directrice du bifilaire pour
               P
a= 90°, sera      peu près j-J-y 1,000 grs. =
                     à                           grms.
                                                  .      On équilibre   5
cette force directrice horizontale par une torsion de 180° que l'on
donne au fil métallique    attaché en haut la pièce tournante R et en
                                  fi                               à
bas au point   milieu de ab. La tringle supérieure de du bifilaire tient
                  i
aussi   une autre pièce rotative faisant partie de R et qui permet de
          à
tourner           Ces deux pièces de R tournent l'une dans l'autre,
               cd de 90°.                                                                             à
l'ordinaire.
    " La lunette inférieure, N, a des fils micrométriques qui vont se
mirer en m sur un petit miroir vertical fixé au poids P. En ramenant
l'image de ces fils      la coïncidence avec les fils eux-mêmes, comme
                              à
dans      lepointé nadiral, on ramène la direction ab de la partie
inférieure du bifilaire     sa position primitive.
                                  à                   De même, des miroirs
attachés aux parties tournantes en R, et réglés sur la lunette
assurent des rotations connues pour          haut du bifilaire de et pour
                                                        le                                           le Q,
fil de torsion fi. Voici maintenant l'opération complète —                          :
    " L'appareil étant calé par ses niveaux, et bien stable, j'amène                                 le
bifilaire dans la position où l'image des fils de la lunette N coïncide
exactement avec ses fils.      A ce moment un petit miroir vertical fixé
latéralement      la pièce qui en R donne le mouvement de rotation au
                     à
bifilaire, ce petit miroir, dis-je, renvoie la partie inférieure des fils de
la lunette      sur eux-mêmes
                 Q                 et de plus un autre petit miroir pareil,
                                          ;
fixé au-dessus du précédent          la pièce qui donne la rotation au fil
                                              à
métallique fi, renvoie dans la partie supérieure du champ de la lunette
Q   l'image de la moitié supérieure des fils de cette lunette sur ses fils
eux-mêmes.
  " Tout étant ainsi réglé —          :
  "Je fais tourner de 90° la pièce qui guide la tige supérieure                              de du

                                  On Gravimeters.                                513
bifilaire, ce que l'on obtient au moyen d'un second petit miroir vertical
fixé latéralement sur cette pièce et à 90° azimuthalement du premier.
Ce miroir est amené à remplacer le premier miroir de la même pièce
pour le renvoi des rayons dans la lunette Q, et la rotation de de est
alors de     90°.
     " La pièce tournante    à laquelle est fixée l'extrémité supérieure     / du fil
de torsion a aussi un second petit miroir vertical qui fait azimuthale
 ment avec le premier miroir de cette pièce un angle égal à trois fois
 90°, et en tordant par son moyen le fil fi de trois fois 90° en sens con
 traire du mouvement donné à de du bifilaire, la torsion de               fi restera
 en définitive une torsion de 180° quand sa direction ab du bifilaire
 aura repris sa position primitive.
      " Soit Pie poids fixe du bifilaire (y compris a, b,
                                                              &c). On ramènera
 ab à sa position primitive au moyen d'un petit poids additionnel p.
  Alors la pesanteur locale, agissant sur une masse P+p, par l'inter
  médiaire du bifilaire équilibre la torsion de 180° du fil métallique/;'.
  Si dans une autre latitude il faut P +p' pour équilibrer la même tor
          #####***
  sion, les intensités de la pesanteur dans les deux localités          seront entre
  elles comme P+p est à P+_p'.
      " Pour                                                  '
               tttÔôô (qui cst réclamé dans l'article     des   Outlines ') voyons
  l'effet produit par    un  poids de  0'1 gr., ajouté  à  un poids de 1,000 grs.
  Ce poids de 1,000 grs. équivaut dans le bifilaire à 5 grs., et un poids
  de   0-l gr. équivaudra   à                        gr.
                              ^_l=T5,(nj=0"0005
      "Mais   5  grms. sont équilibrés par une torsion de 90° [ÎSO^] du fil fi.
  Donc 1 gr. correspondrait à une torsion de 36°, ou bien de 129,600".
  Alors 0"001 répond à une torsion de 129"'6, et îa\,0 gr. correspond
  à la moitié de ce nombre ; mais comme le mouvement du miroir double
  le déplacement de l'image, il restera un déplacement de 129" '6 (un peu
  plus de 2') pour Tôioo de variation dans la pesanteur.             Si la lunette
  N   a un peu plus de 30centims.,     le déplacement de l'image des fils sera
  de   \ millim.
      "Nota. — Il faudra prendre la position de ab ramené à sa position
  primitive en faisant osciller ab pour éviter les adhérences de départ.
      "
        Voyez, jugez, et surtout conseillez ; votre avis sera suivi. Je finis
                       '             '
  par ces mots des Outlines ': The great advantages               .   .   .  render
  the attempt well worth making.'
                                                 " J'ai l'honneur, &c,
                                                                 " BABINET.
   "À    Sie John Herschel.
      " P.S. — Il faut
                        que je me hâte de publier ce que j'ai trouvé, car à 69
   ans ce serait vraiment être trop exigeant envers la bonne providence
  que de lui demander encore indéfiniment du temps pour remplir la

514                               Major    J.  Herschel.
tâche qu'il lui a plu de m'assigner.             Vous avez été plus sage, pour le
grand bien de la science.           Moi, je puis malheureusement me dire,
                " ' Cras vives ! hodiè jam vivere, Posthume, serum est.
                    Ille sapit quisquis, Posthume, vixit heri.' Martial."
                                                               —
    I have also seen      a copy of the reply to this letter. It is needless
                                                                                    to
                                                           made some suggestions,
say that it was full of approval, and only
which were at once adopted or accepted.                   There was no mention of
                                                                      in England.     I
any other form of gravimeter having been proposed
need not transcribe from the subsequent                 letters;  until,  on  the 15th
                                                           —
February, a year later, Babinet again writes :
    " M. Le Verrier       me presse de     terminer notre balance gravimétrique.
          veux pas commencer imprudemment avant d'avoir votre
                                                                                  ulti
Je   ne
matum d'approbation."
    Here follows a résumé of the principles involved in the design, as to
which I need only remark that the elasticity of the suspending wires
is not taken into account, nor is the necessary effect of this elasticity
 upon the balance in any way referred to.
      "L'appareil sera établi et essayé         à l'Observatoire Impérial de Paris,
 puis essayé dans les latitudes voisines.                Je serai heureux si cette
 mesure de la gravité et les déplacements nécessaires qu'elles entraînera
 me fournissent l'occasion de vous voir en Angleterre."
                                                           — a new plan for
    The letter then       passes on to other matters
       aberration
 measuring           by means      of gratings — and only returns to the gravi
 meter     at the close.
     " J'aurais encore attendu       à vous parler de ceci sans     la circonstance de
 notre balance gravimétrique.               En cas     de   succès de cette balance
 pourriez-vous, vous ou quelqu'un des vôtres, vous charger des stations
 du Royaume Uni ? Il faudrait au moins une mesure de gravité ponr
 chaque degré carré de surface.
     "Nota. — Sitôt après votre réponse on                se mettra    à l'oeuvre pour
 l'appareil gravimétrique.
                                                             " Recevez, &c,
                                                                     " BABINET."
     The paper in the " Comptes Rendus " (lvi, pp. 244 — 248) was read
 on February 9, 1863, or a week earlier than the date of this last letter,
 which therefore appears to have resulted from the approval with which
 the paper was received at the reading.                The published account adds
 little to what the letters tell — on the contrary — which is partly my
 reason for transcribing them.              It is noticeable that there is from first
 to last no mention of
                               any prior attempt in the same field.

                              On Gravimeters.                             515
   I have endeavoured to ascertain, by enquiry from a gentleman who
 was associated with Babinet in physical researches of this nature,
whether the instrument was ever constructed ; but              I
                                                       do not gather
from the reply that snch was the case.   It would seem as if there was
too much uncertainty as to the constancy of the force relied upou in
torsion.
   The original paper communicated by Broun to the Royal Society of
Edinburgh follows immediately upon two others by the same author,
in one of which the theory of the bifilar magnetometer is considered,
and mention is there made       of the elasticity of the suspending wires.
Their effect is considered     to be of little importance.   The effect of
temperature in modifying the elasticity is also alluded to. We cannot
therefore suppose Mr. Broun to have disregarded these considerations
altogether.   It is perhaps the more remarkable that he has left no
indication of being alive to the really interesting balance which
occurs in his instrument, and which must equally have occurred, and
can hardly have escaped his notice, in the former one.
   In   his letter, above referred       to, he speaks of his gravimeter as   if
 the instrument ultimately perfected was substantially the same as the
one described in 1861.      But, as      I
                                        have had occasion to point out, it
differs in one respect which         I
                                     cannot but consider important — the
difference between a spiral balance spring and a twisted wire. It is
to be regretted that we are not in possession of any information as to
the reasons which induced him to discard the one in favour of the
other. In any case, the change is distinctly a part of the history of
the invention. The next step was the construction of the instrument
as mentioned in his letter ; and then its exhibition and description by
himself in the Catalogue of the Loan Collection of Scientific Instru
ments at the South Kensington Museum, where, he tells us sugges
tively, it was shown alongside of Mr. Siemens' bathometer.              We
may    now  turn our attention  to this last.
   My knowledge of the bathometer designed by Dr. C. W. Siemens
is confined to the account given of it in the " Philosophical Trans
actions
         " for 1876, and I should not presume to examine it were it
not necessary to do 60 for the purpose of this review.       Dr. Siemens,
it is true, regards  it, in the introductory passages   of that paper, as
having a different sphere of action but, on a careful consideration of
                                             ;
the principles — so far as I     understand them — of its construction,       it
appears to me to belong decidedly to the class of instrument, whatever
we may call them, typified by the one already mentioned as described
in the " Outlines of Astronomy." The special purposes for which               it
has been designated, and the actual uses to which    has been put, do
                                                          it
not of themselves preclude    itfrom being set to the more general pur
poses and uses of a gravimeter.
   Reference   made in the cited paper to another form of instrument
              is

516                         Major   J. Herschel.
constructed by the author in (or about) the year 1859, which, bow-
ever, was abandoned, although it enabled him " to predict approxi
mately the depth that would be found on the use of the sounding
line."   In this instrument   the specific gravity of mercury would seem
to have been measured         by determining the column necessary to
balance the pressure of a fixed quantity of confined air.        The rise of
the surface under a change of gravity was magnified by a lighter
supernatant liquid being forced up a narrow tube.         The principle, in
this case, is analogous  to the former typical one only if we regard the
compressed     air as  acting the part of a spring.        It is obviously
dependent on the possibility of guarding against, or exactly allowing
for, the change of elasticity with temperature — in this, too, being
analogous to the typical form.         It was sought to meet this very
serious difficulty by keeping the air at the temperature of melting ice.
There is another method — perhaps not less difficult to practise
successfully ; that, namely, of selecting three (or preferably four)
more accessible temperatures, and so experimenting at these that in
the long run the actual observations shall supply a constantly accu
mulating body of evidence as to the requisite factor, as well as two or
more actual data in each case from which to infer what is required.
But it might turn out after all that the uncertainty must remain
greater than the variation to be measured.        The possibility of such a
result militates strongly against methods involving large corrections.
But, perhaps, least of all in cases such as this where the whole
instrument may be immersed without injury.               It then becomes
chiefly a thermometric question.
   In the bathometer, on the contrary, which superseded the one just
mentioned, " changes of temperature are entirely eliminated from the
result," at least in theory.    In practice such a thing would perhaps
be  hardly possible ; but in any case residual effects may be regarded
as subjects for ultimate consideration.       I will now endeavour to con
dense a description of this instrument, so as to assign it a place in the
present category.
   There are two spiral steel springs which, in the drawing of the
smaller of two instruments, are about 16 inches long and rather more
than one in diameter.      The lower ends are attached to a cross-bar
which is to bear the intended weight.           This weight is that of a
column of mercury resting upon a certain surface to be presently
described.    There is an arrangement for maintaining the height of
the column constant.        I  am not sure that     I understand how this
works ; but supposing it effective, the weight upon the cross-bar must
 depend upon the area pressed by the mercury; and if this also is
 constant we have in effect the same principle as in the gravimeter
 depicted in the " Outlines."
    The mercury is contained in a vertical steel tube having cup-shaped

                            On Gravimeters.                          517
enlargements above and below. The lower end is closed by a flexible
corrugated steel plate, which has a solid central disk, by which the
pressure on the plate is transferred to the cross-bar.        When this
plate is horizontal, the mercury presses equally on every part ; but it
is clear that the whole of the pressure is not borne by the cross-bar.
In fact, it would only by trial be possible to ascertain what weight is
borne by the springs.     Any change in the position of the disk must
alter the curvature of the plate, and with it the proportion of the
weight borne by the springs and by the rim of the cup — irrespective
of any change in the height of the column.          The diameter of the
steel tube would seem to be adjusted so as to cause a proper change in
the level of the upper surface, when the bulk of the mercury is
affected by change of temperature.        I am not quite sure that, in
presence of these several causes of variation, the principle of con
stancy of weight on the springs can be said to be retained.
    Alterations of position of the disk are read by means of a micro
meter below the cross-bar.    It seems clear that the desired indications
must be obtained from the readings of this contact micrometer, and
some curiosity may be experienced as to the manner of interpreting
its readings.   On this point the author says : — "It would be difficult
to determine the actual scale of the instrument d priori ; and I there
fore adopted the easier and safer method of relying for its final
 adjustment upon the result of actual working."
    If it were possible to ascertain, with some approach to certainty,
 the weight borne by the springs in some particular position of the
diaphragm and cross-bar (to be called the zero position) the instru
ment might be used, on the principle of the simple gravimeter, by
ascertaining what weight upon the cross-bar would be necessary, under
a diminished gravity, to bring it again to this zero position — tempera
ture being the same.   This, however, is not what is intended in this
form of instrument.
   The subject of compensation for temperature receives considerable
attention.   This, indeed, is very necessary, when we remember the
sensitiveness of springs to heat. The author gives, as the result of
experiment upon these springs, a factor of variation which appears to
be 46'o6 for each degree Centigrade.   The importance of temperature
in such case will be better understood if we consider that at this rate
it would need but     21°  C. to effect as great a change in the elastic
force, as transference from equator to pole would effect in gravity.
Change of temperature has here, it would seem, an effect twelve
times as great as it has in the case of the pendulum.    Certainly there
is room for compensation ; and Dr. Siemens obtains    it,to some extent,
by apportioning the diameter of the vertical tube to the cups.      Itis
not necessary, for the present purpose, to consider closely how this
exercises a compensating effect. It   estimated, by experiment, that
                                      is

 518                         Major  J. HorscheL
the factor is reduced to f^Vo^.           It seems highly probable, how
ever, that the residual effect would    no  longer be a simple function of
the change of temperature, and might be quite incalculable.
    It is also necessary to consider that the masses of metal concerned
would probably, except under controlling conditions, cause consider
able uncertainty in this effect.
    Enough has been said to show that the bathometer, although a
gravimeter in principle, cannot be regarded as likely to prove of ser
vice in measuring small changes of gravity under different climates.
Its efficacy as an instrument for measuring sea-depths need not be
considered here. It may have peculiar properties in that connexion
which I have not understood ; for indeed I may confess a certain
hesitation in believing that any instrument can do that, by deter
 mining the change of attraction, except under conditions favouring an
empirically deduced scale.
    There are rumours of other designs for measuring small changes of
gravity, of quite recent invention, of which      I can only say at present
that it is very much to be hoped that they will serve their intended
purpose, and that we shall soon be in possession of experimental
evidence to that effect.
 II.  On the Torsion    Gravimeter,  constructed  on the Design   of the late
              J. Allan Broun, by Dr. C. S. Milller, of Stuttgart.
    Before entering upon any description of this instrument it may be
well to explain that the title of this paper is intended to take cogni
zance of the fact that the designer did not experiment with it or
improve upon it after it left the maker's hands, and that consequently
some portion of the merit, whatever it may prove to be, is due to the
appreciation of the design by the latter. Conversely, it is due to the
 designer to recognise that failure of any kind may to some extent be
attributable to misapprehension on the part of the maker.             At the
same time, it must be said that the workmanship is of a high order,
and betokens a more than ordinary attention as well as great skill
and delicacy.       Should the instrument justify its existence by its
ultimate utility, it cannot be denied that it will owe its success, in a
high degree, to the intelligence of the constructor as well as to the
genius of the inventor.
    There are two ways of describing a new form of instrument. We
may either approach it from outside, and learn its functions by con
sidering its parts, or we may study it with a prior knowledge of its
intention. The latter method is, perhaps, the best for one to adopt
who wishes to describe an instrument of his own designing ; for he
cannot fail to indicate truly what design he had.        But for one whose
only knowledge of the functions of an instrument are inferred from
what he sees, it might be dangerous to presume a full knowledge of

                                  On Gravimeters.                                  519
 the design.      I shall, therefore,     describe the instrument as        I  see  it,
with direct reference to what        I conceive to be the intention.*
    The gravimeter stands, when set np for use, on a tripod ; but it
might equally be stood upon a table with a bay cnt out of the side
two or three inches deep.         In either case it would stand on three ad
justing foot-screws carrying a thick brass foundation plate. Below this
plate projects what       I  will call the well and a catketometer.         Above it
stands the chamber, consisting of two brass plate sides and glass
plate front and back, besides various clamping and manipulating
appliances.      On the top of the chamber are two cross levels, and from
the centre rises a hollow shaft.
    Measuring from the surface of the foundation plate, the depth of
the well is about 8^ inches (26 centime.), and the height of the chamber
5^ inches (16 centims.).           The shaft stands about 18£ inches (47
centims.)    above  the  plate, or  13 inches above the roof of the chamber.
The latter is abont 2j inches wide and 2-| inches deep (say 6 centims.
each way). This general description will suffice to give an idea of the
framework.        More minute descriptions will follow as they become
necessary.
    Within the chamber are suspended by wires, one below the other,
two weights, which for distinction I will call the major weight and the
minor weight. The major weight consists of a brass cubical block,
from which rise two lateral rectangular pillars, crossed at top by a
 somewhat slighter bar. The block is perforated vertically by a large
cylindrical hollow. This major weight is suspended by two parallel
wires which traverse the shaft          ; being just visible      at its lower end,
where they enter two        small screws on the cross-bar.         There are means
of adjusting both their length and distance apart, above and below.
    The principle here is that of the bifilar torsion balance : if the block
be turned through any angle less than 180°, its tendency to return is
(mainly) due to the weight of the mass suspended. This, however, is
not that of the major weight only ; for from the under side of the
cross-bar hangs a single wire, which, descending through the hollow
in the block, is attached to and supports the minor weight ; hence the
mass suspended by the double wire is the sum of the masses of the
two weights.
    The minor weight consists of a light frame, which I will call the
head, and a long thin glass rod or plunger, which descends into the
well.
    Suppose the major weight turned through an angle 0.                   When the
disturbance has subsided and oscillations have been quelled, it will, of
course, be found that the minor weight has turned through a like
   • Since this report was written, two plates have been drawn to illustrate the
description which follows.   Necessarily there is no direct reference to thein in the
text.

520                                Major   J.   Herschel.
angle.    The donble -wires are in a state of torsion, but the single -wire
hangs freely, helping by its tension to increase the tension on the
double wires caused by the major weight, but not itself in a state of
torsion.    Now, suppose the minor weight turned round : it will imme
diately begin to exert through the resistance to torsion, or elasticity,
of the single wire, a force which will tend to relieve or oppose, accord
ing to the direction of the new application, the external force which
keeps the major weight detorted.      Suppose the new force applied in
the same direction, so as to relieve the former.     As the torsion of the
single thread increases —  with the increase  of the  angle through which
the lower weight is turned — a point is at length reached when it
exactly relieves the whole of the external force applied to the upper.
Suppose this to occur when it has turned through an angle 0, i.e.,
through an angle 0 + 0, from the initial position.         Then it is clear
that the force which turned the upper end of the single wire through
an angle 0, has been found equal to that which turns its lower end
through an angle 0, relatively, and 0+0, absolutely.       We have now to
consider what these forces are.
   Before doing so, it would be advisable to recognise the means pro
vided for observing these angles.
   In some way, which there are no means of exactly discovering, the
designer or constructor has ascertained that by a certain apportion
ment of lengths, weights, and thicknesses, the proportion of 0 to 0
(which of course is a variable one) can be made 1 : 3 when 0=90°.
The result of this        is,
                      that when 0+0 amounts to one complete revolu
tion, 0  alone   one quarter of a revolution.
                    is
                                                   [In this position the re
sistance of a bifilar suspension     a maximum.
                                           is          do not know that
                                                            I              it
has any strong advantage except what may turn on that.             It is only
necessary to allude to the fact, to take occasion to add that it     is  cer
tainly of no importance, either practically or theoretically, whether     f
is  exactly or only approximately, equal to 90°. We shall see even
tually that another consideration (perhaps not considered by the in
ventor) entirely overrides the one mentioned.             This by way of
parenthesis.]
   The head of the minor weight carries    small flat mirror, which faces
                                                    a
in the position of rest, as also after one revolution, a horizontal colli
mator. The block of the major weight carries three similar mirrors, of
which one       parallel to the former (or may be made so) when in
                   is                                                      a
state of ease, and the others become so (under proper conditions) when
the major weight has been turned to the right or left through one
quarter       of             These mirrors face the upper half of the
                   a revolution.
object-glass                      A fiducial mark in the focus of the
                   of the collimator.
latter   seen by reflection from the mirrors when they are
         is
                                                               perpen
dicular, or nearly so, to the line of sight.   It will be necessary to
return to this in describing the intended observation.

                                   On Gravhneters.                                521
     To understand thoroughly the conditions of equilibrium we must
 now study in detail the counteracting forces. We have seen that the
 weight supported by the double wire is the sum of the two weights
 described as the major and the minor weights.             One-half of this sum
 is, of course, borne by each of the wires, which are further twisted in
 dividually through a quarter of a circle. Let R be the length of these
 wires, and 2r their distance apart. Consider one only : the upper end
 being fixed, the lower will describe a curve which will be the inter
 section of a sphere by a vertical cylinder, the ordinate from which to
 a plane drawn horizontally through the lowest point may be shown
 to be equal to
                    . r . versin 0 /   1 + J—   . versin 0 —  Ac. "I .
                 R                   1       R"                    J
 As r : R is  a small fraction, less than -j-^, it will be a question whether
 the second and farther terms may not be neglected ; for the present
 we may be content with the first, as an approximation only is wanted
 here.    This ordinate is the height through which the weights rise               as
 they are turned round.         Let this   be called  h.   A little   consideration
 of the meaning of             — =— ,     a constant, shows that in this case the
                      r versin:  0    R
 restriction to the first term makes the path of the lower end of the
 wire a circle lying in an inclined plane,* and the force tending to
 cause rotation (irrespective of the torsion of the parallel wires) is that
 of a body having the joint weight of the two, whose path of descent
 is to be along this circle. The gradient along this path (which is the
 tangent of the inclination) is              = — sin  0,  which is zero at   0° and
                                       r .d0    a,
 180°, and a maximum at 90°.              Let A + B=P be the weights, which
are augmented for adjustment by a small weight, p. Then the force,
depending on gravity, which tends to turn the system, resolved hori
zontally, is (P-Hp) tan £ inclination        =(P+p) — sin 0.
                                                         R
    Neglecting for the present the torsion of the parallel wires, we see
that this force is resisted by the torsion of the single wire, as to which
we must have regard to two propositions : —
    (1.) Torsion is independent of tension;
    (2.) Torsion varies directly as the angle of twist.
    We may, therefore, express the torsion by />,0 (at the distance unity),
remarking that 0 is mechanically increased until it balances the force
tending to turn the system as above described.
    Now, since   (P+p)^ sinfl         attains a maximum when 0=90°,            if  at
                       * This demands an elliptical cylinder.
    VOL. XXXII.                                                        2 P

522                                Major          J.   Herschel.
this point it were balanced by />j0, any increase of torsion caused by
increase of 0, however small, would be answered by no corresponding
augmentation of the opposing force.     The upper system wonld obey,
0 would increase, but the resistance would diminish instead of increas
ing.   In short, 90° would represent a position of unstable equilibrium.
   This state of things is prevented by the torsion of the parallel wires,
which act in aid of the weight and defer the condition of unstable
equilibrium to a point some degrees beyond 90°. The perception of
this may or may not have been present to the designer ; but it may
obviously be made use of advantageously as follows : — Let 2p^0 denote
the torsion of the two parallel wires when turned                       through an angle           0.
Then the forces which balance are                      (P-fp)— . siu0
                                                             R
                                                                        f 2^0, and ^0 ; and
the utility of the instrument, depending in the first place on the abso
lute constancy of ^0, depends also on the possibility of exactly equali
sing to this the other force by varying either 0 or P+p.    It is in this
respect exactly analogous to a balance, the desired relation of 0 to 0
being equivalent to the demand for horizontality in the latter.     The
sensibility of such an equipoise will be measured  by the  small ness of
the change in P+p requisite to produce, or to correspond to, a given
small change of       0.
  Let                       (P +p)            .   sin 0 + 2p20= F,
tUen
           f=iT8in"'                                             i
and
                                        .0^(P+p)^-.cos0 + 2/)^W.
                            cosec
                 «p=^
When 0=0°,       Bp    is infinite;      i.e., no change           of weight will affect           0.
Similarly when 0=180°.                  But when 0=90°, Sp=2Pi—                   £0.   At    this
                                                                             T
point no relation would subsist between Bp and Z0 but for p2 ; i.e., if the
equilibrium were independent of the torsion of the parallel wires. As
it is,the equilibrium   a compound one, and
                            is                  disturbed by a change
                                                                   is
of weight, the   effect    of   which   is   inversely proportional      to the   torsion    of   Die
parallel wires, in apparent contradiction to the first of the above pro
positions regarding torsion.   If the torsion of these wires be doubled,
the addition of the same small weight         will cause a change of to
                                                            Bp                               0
one-half the amount.     The sensibility of the instrument      therefore          is
proportional (within limits) to the fineness of these wires; but this
must not be carried so far as to bring the position of unstable equili
brium too near to 90°, or else the stability of the balance will become
too delicate and observation too difficult.

                                    Oh Gravimeters.
   To determine the position of unstable                   equilibrium, consider              the
general statical equation
When the left-hand side is a maximum its differential with respect to
0 equals zero, therefore
                                                 0o   + 2,»a=O,
                             (P+i>)^co8
¦whence                        cos 0..=   ——      .         .
                                    0
                                             r        P+p
  Now,      as   in the intended position of rest,        0=-,      0>=— , we have
                                                                2      2
                  CP+^-fc-W^^d .A-l);,
Combining this with the former, it appears that
The double wires and the single wire are no doubt of the same material,
but the former are thinner. • Their lengths are as 4 : 1. Suppose their
thicknesses as 2 : 3. Then pl : p2 : : 4 X 33 : 22 : : 9 : 1, which gives
                            sec 0O=   -12-5 ^=-1964,
and   .-.                             0O=92° 55'.
That is to say, the position of unstable equilibrium lies less than 3°
beyond the intended position of rest.     [This is closer than I should
have thought, but it is borne out by the fact that I have not been able
(with the existing adjustments)           to reach the intended            position   of rest
both ways, i.e.,  turning both to the right hand and to the left hand,
before reaching the point of unstable equilibrium.          This is easily ac
counted for by supposing the primary position to be a balanced one, a
slight deviation from parallelism of the mirrors being induced by a
slight initial torsion of the parallel wires.]    To return : —
   The angle through which the      lower  end of  the single torsion wire is
turned, by the stop acting on the minor weight, is 0+0.               As this
angle approaches     360°, 0, which is the  angle through which the upper
end and the major weight are turned, approaches, or should approach,
W. As this stage is approached a very small increase of 0 + in                          <f>
duces   alarger and larger increase of       according to the proximity to
                                                  0,
the value 60. And the above expression for sec               shows that this
                                                                      60
depends on the ratio of px p.z. By varying the strength of the double
                                :
                                                                           2
                                                                           p
                                                                           2

.524                              Major   J.  Herechel.
wires the position        of unstable equilibrium may be placed anywhere
from 0O=9O°       to  0O=18O° ; and the nearer it is to 90°, i.e., the weaker
they are, the more sensitive will the instrument be at the position
0=90°. This suggests,             I   think, that the double wires should be
coarse and inelastic rather than the reverse.
      The ratio r : R is as nearly as I can judge by measurement 1 : 138.
and     (P+p) would       be, at the equator, 3,725      grs.;      so   that (P+p)— =
                                                                                         a
27 grs. very nearly.         Now,
                                     2          r         »
                                                     1-f fi .
                                                         3      />!
 This is the force, exerted at a distance r=-09 inch, which is requisite
 to turn the single wire, of length 3 inches, through the angle »-.                         If
 f^-   be taken    as  above, equal to       \, p\r=l§\       grs., at '09 inch        ;  and
  /"i                                        9
/>37r=2-f    grs. nearly.
      We can now form some estimate of the effect of a small change of
                                                R
weight.       We have   seen  that Bp=2p3. —       . S0.    Substituting numerical
                                                T
values, as above, we find £p=138 x 4} x             — =591— nearly.
                                                     7T          IT
      The collimator contains a scale, exactly ^th of an inch long, divided
 into 30 parts. The focal distance being 8"5 inches, the angular valne
of the scale is tan            or 1° 41' ; and of each part, 3' 22", or s,Vo r
approximately.         Putting one of these parts equal to 210 (doubling on
 account of the reflection) we find ^p=/^tf=-092 gr., the change of
 weight which will deflect the mirrors relatively one division. It follows
 that the 30 divisions of the scale correspond to a change of weight of
 about 2-76 grs.
      But we must remember that this relation depends on an assumption,
 viz., that pi : p% : : 9 : 1. To provide for a more accurate estimate being
                                                                 ^                       fp=
 hereafter     obtainable,    let   ~^=k.      Then    p^v=
                                                                 —h
                                                                       ,  Ptr=-= — p
                                    '3p-[                      1                1    k
  7452     -   —   ; and in the case of the scale-division             fp=l'lG
                                                                                    ^
                                                                                    —k
                                                                                         grs.,
         1 —k v                                                                   1
                          k
 or very nearly 35            for the whole scale.
                       1 —  k
      Let us now consider what may              be   expected as the actual conse
  quence of a change of gravity.            The most practical evidence of this is
  the effect on the rate of a pendulum.            A pendulum which would beat
  seconds at the equator would gain 225 seconds, or beats rather, at the

                                     On Gravimeters.                                 525
poles.     The corresponding  increase of gravity is in double this pro
portion, i.e., 450 oa 86,400, or 1 on 192, nearly.   Weights, as mea
sured by a constant force such as the torsion of a wire is supposed to
be, are affected in like proportion but inversely.  Now the weight of
the mass suspended by the double wires is 3,725 grs. ; and the change
of weight, if one may so express          it,
                                    from pole to equator, will be Vr,5,
or 19'4 grs.
  We have seen that the rangeof the scale in the collimator will measure
a deflection due to a change of weight of   76 grs., or thereabouts.
                                                       2"            It
follows that the extreme change of gravity which can be looked for
would cause    deflection about seven times as great as what the scale
                a
will measure.
   This    provided for by the auxiliary weights, of which there are
           is
five, weighing 4-4 grs. each, and by the contrivance of the glycerine
well, whieh will now be described.   Before quitting this part of the
subject,    however,   I   should point out that one division of the scale
                                                                      -092
seems to correspond to       a   change of pendulum rate of                    X 225= 107
                                                                      19   4
second per diem.
   The buoyancy of the glycerine in the well depends on the volume of
liquid displaced by the plunger, and therefore on the diameter of the
latter, which can only be got at awkwardly, in one place. To ascer
tain this diameter  I  cut a slit in a piece of cine plate, rather wider at
the mouth than at the inner end, and used             as    gauge, marking the
                                                            it   a
place   where   the narrowing     width   fitted   the   plunger. A piece of
copper wire, -05 in diameter, was found to fit               at the same spot
                                                                 it                      ;
perhaps    '048 would  be  more  correct.
    The specific gravity of glycerine       1'26; hence a cubic inch weighs
                                                is
 349"4 grs.    With these data we find that one inch rise of glycerine
 will buoy 0'628 gr. The cathetometer scale being divided metrically,
 this corresponds to 0"0247 gr. per millimetre. The micrometer reads
 to hundredths of     millimetre.
                       a
    The riders weigh, as nearly as           can determine, 4'40 grs. each.
                                                I
 Hence one rider has      the same    effect  as 178 raillims. of rise but the   ;
 scale only runs up to 150 millims., so that additional riders will be
 requisite.
 I   found by trial that 100 millims. rise of the glycerine buoyed about
2  grs.    It was not a careful observation, but agrees fairly with the
 above calculation   so that
                       ;       seems pretty certain that the riders are
                                     it
 too heavy.
    The total weight being 3,725 grs., the variation of gravity from pole
 to equator (being as 193 192 nearly) will require an augmentation of
                                 :
 19'4 grs.   This corresponds to 225 seconds, therefore     second corre
                                                                       1
 sponds to 0'0867 gr.,        or 3'5 millims. of glycerine,           if     the above   is
 correct.

52fi                             Major      J.   Herschel.
  We must look for accuracy which may be represented by +0-l
second, or the instrument is not worth testing severely.     This corre
sponds to 0-35 millim. of glycerine, or 35 divisions of the micrometer.
   The foregoing description            and investigation represent what        I
                                                                              had
iearnt about the gravimeter             by inspection,  measurement, calculation,
and reflection, before meeting with any instruction from the designer.
]n his letter to General Walker, Mr. Broun mentions having seen and
corrected the proof of the description which was to appear in a new
edition of the Catalogue of Instruments exhibited in the Special
Loan Collection.    Not expecting that a catalogue description would
be otherwise than brief, and confined to principal features such as I
could not fail to perceive unaided, I did not wait until I conld procure
it,  to study the instrument.     Some delay also occurred before                   I
received, through the courtesy of the Secretary of the Science and
Art Department, the extract in question. It seems right to mention
this, in explanation of the independence which will be remarked in
what have said. Whereas, in what follows,
       I                                        acknowledge the said
                                                                I
description        as   an additional       source of information.       Mr. Broun's
description accordingly inserted here and
                  is                                   ;     I   shall then add some
comments upon points which seem to need                         further elucidation or
notice.
            " 421d. Gravimeter.             An instrument for the measurement of
       the variations of the earth's attractive force, invented by J. A.
       Broun, P.R.S., and constructed from his drawings by Dr. C.
       Muller, of Stuttgart.                      J. Allan Broun, F.B.S.
            " The instrument consists of          suspended by two gold
                                                     a weight
       wires  a single wire fixed to the top of the weight and passing
              ;
       through its centre carries a cylindrical lever; when the lever               is
       turned through 360° at the normal (say southern) station, the
       torsion of the single wire thus produced carries the weight round
       through an angle of 90°. The forces then in equilibrium are,
       the torsion force of the single wire and the attraction of the
       earth on the weight, which, as the two wires are no longer vertical,
       has been slightly raised and seeks to attain its lowest point.
          " On proceeding from a southern to a more northerly station
       the earth's attraction increases          ;   the amount of this increase may
       be measured in two ways —        :
         "1st. The lever will require to   be turned through more than
       360°  in order to carry the weight to  the height due to turning
       it through 90°. (Had the station been more southerly the lever
       would be turned through less than 360°.)       The difference of
       the angle from 360° measures the increase (or diminution) of
       weight.

                        On Gravimeters.                           527
   " 2nd. By removing a small portion of the weight, equal to that
due to the increased attraction of the earth, the weight can be
turned through exactly 90° by rotating the lever through 360°,
as at the normal station.    (On proceeding south weight has to bo
added.)
   " The following are the instrumental
                                              arrangements in order
to make these observations :   —
   " The weight has on each of three sides, at its base, a vertical
mirror (silvered,   not quicksilvered) ; the middle mirror makes
an angle of exactly 90° with the other two.            The lever also
carries a vertical mirror, which, when there is no torsion in tho
suspension wire is immediately below and in the same vertical
plane with the middle mirror of the weight.       A telescope, having
a glass scalo at the focus of the eye-piece, is adjusted so that
images of the scale can be seen (one higher than the other)
reflected from the    middle mirror of the weight and the lever
mirror.    When both of these mirrors are exactly in the same
plane, the middle division on the scale seen directly with the
eye-piece, coincides with the same division in the two reflected
images.
   " By a wheel and pinion
                                (with endless screw and clamp for
delicate movement) placed below the instrument, a polished agate
point can be made to act on a similar agate point fixed to the
lever, so as to turn the latter through any angle.       When turned
through 360° the middle scale division again agrees with tho
image from the lever mirror.       If the image reflected from one of
the side mirrors   of the weight     does not agree also, the lever is
turned through a greater (or lesser) angle than 360°, till this
agreement is obtained ; the difference of the angle through which
the lever has been turned from 360° is obtained from the scale
reading, as seen on the lever mirror.
   " The following apparatus is employed for very small increases
or diminutions of the weight.      Suspended to and vertically below
the lever is a carefully calibrated glass wire (1 millim. diameter),
which enters a glass tube fixed below the instrument. At the
lower end of this tube is a cistern containing a liquid (distilled
water, or as at present, chemically pure glycerine). This liquid
can be forced into the glass tube by a screw and piston (as in
some barometer cisterns). The liquid is then raised till such a
diminution of weight is produced by the immersion of the glass
 wire as to bring the mirror of the weight through exactly 90°,
when the lever is turned through 360°. The length of glass
 wire immersed is read, by a micrometer microscope and scale,
to a thousandth of a millimeter.
   " Though finely polished agate points have been employed for

528                           Major    J.  Herechel.
      turning the lever so as to diminish the friction, there is an
      additional apparatus to ensure that vertical friction has no effect
      on the observation at last.        The lever contains a magnet ; and
      two bar magnets, with rack-work adjustments                 for height, are
      placed    one   on each  side  of  the instrument,    so  that  by a pinion
      and rack movement they can be approached to the lever magnet
      till their force is exactly equal to the torsion force of the single
      wire, and the agate points are no longer in contact.
          " The instrument is made to serve for latitudes differing about
       10° or 15°, but an auxiliary apparatus carries five platinum rings,
      which can be lowered upon the weight, so as to make the in
      strument serve from the equator to the poles, and to any height
      in the atmosphere.
          " There are special appliances for portability, by one of which
      the weight is fixed ; another fixes the lever ; so that strain is
      removed from the suspension wires, and the suspended parts can
      not be shaken from their places. Levels, a thermometer,                 and
      other details fit the instrument for the most accurate observations.
      The suspension wires are fixed at their ends in a special manner,
      so that the fixed points cannot vary.       All  the suspended apparatus
      is electro-gilt."
   (1.) We learn from this that the suspending wires are of gold, and
that suspended parts are electro-gilt.            I  observe that there is a
tendency     to spottiness, resembling    mould,  on  some parts of the gilded
surface.
   (2.) The part which I have called the "minor weight" is here
designated as a "cylindrical      lever."    The latter term is but remotely
descriptive.
   (3.) The torsion of the double wires is not alluded to in describing
the forces which balance each other.                This confirms my doubt
whether the very important part played by this torsion was recog
nised.     It is an essential feature, without which the position of
maximum gravity-action could not be chosen ; and in making the
adjustments it is impossible to disregard it.
   (4.) There is no necessity for the two side mirrors on the major
weight to be inclined at " exactly 90°
                                             " to the middle
                                                                 one. Indeed, it
is scarcely possible to tell exactly what their inclination is. It is about
90° ; and that is all that can be said or desired.
                                "            " and " collimator," the latter
   (5.) Of the two terms          telescope
describes more correctly the function of the appliance by which the
angular positions of the mirrors are observed. The scale is in the
focus of the object-glass of this collimator, rather than in that of its
eye-piece, though, of course, the latter is also true.         The divisions and
 value of this scale are not mentioned.         If my estimate is right, which

                                   On Gravimeters.                                 529
 makes one division correspond to l"-07 per diem, it is clear that this is
 a weak point, especially as the collimator is optically indifferent.
                 " telescope " or collimator is said to be "                   " so as
     (6.) This                                                       adjusted
to perform certain functions.                Unfortunately it has no means of
adjustment except in a vertical plane. There is no horizontal motion ;
nor has the object-glass a power of focal adjustment by rack and
pinion. It is very difficnlt to get a good sight of the reflected scale.
     (7.) The only dimension stated in the whole description is the
diameter of the "plunger" (1 naillim.).                Neither are the weights of
the suspended masses stated.                 A precise knowledge of the joint
weight is necessary for the calculation, even of differential results.
              I
By precise mean to within 4 or & grs.
    (8.) The plunger is described as a
                                                      " calibrated glass wire."      I
imagine this to mean that the glass rod was specially made, and
tested at every point.         I   do not see any advantage in its being of
glass.
                                                     ....
          " The length of glass wire immersed " — that is to
    (9.)                                                                      say, the
length of liquid displaced        —  -¦"is read                   to a thousandth of
a millimeter."        The graduation of the micrometer head enables
hundredths of a millimeter to be read. The thousandths are by
estimation.      But this probably far exceeds the power of observation
of the surface of a liquid, such as glycerine, in a glass tube.
    (10.) "The finely polished agate points'" appear to be of ruby-
coloured glass — if ready fusion be any test.
    (11.) The magnetic holder.            I  imagine this is better removed.        It
would be nearly impossible to guarantee its action being entirely
horizontal.    And the presence of a magnet as part of a mass, the
weight of which is under examination, is inadmissible.
    Should these comments give the impression that I wish to cavil at
the description, I must reply that it is necessary for the present pur
pose.     The question before us is not whether the instrument is
ingenious ; but whether it can be used for the intended purpose, in
preference to other existing instruments whose use and powers are
well known.
    It may be said that that question can best be answered by trying it.
Unfortunately thi« is not the case.                 It will already have become
apparent    that  it is one of   a  class   of instruments    in which the observa
tion is nothing but the last of a series of elaborate and difficult
adjustments — adjustments which require patience and skill and no
little time, all of which would be thrown away if the ultimate obser
vation should prove abortive.            I will now proceed to indicate more
exactly what these adjustments seem to be.
    The principle on which the instrument is designed involves, as a
primary consideration, the angular rotation and ultimate angular
position of two bodies.           The angles 0 and 0 of the theory above

530                            Major   J. Herschel.
explained,    although unimportant in absolute magnitude, are all-
important relatively.      The prime defect of the instrument is to be
seen in the insufficient optical means of noting and recording this
relation.    This might be remedied without altering the instrument in
any way, by changing the collimator ; so I will not dwell further on
that, but pass on to the means of controlling and adjusting this
angular position.       Inasmuch as torsion of wires is in question, it is
obvious that the way in which their ends are held and turned is a detail
of extreme importance.          Mr. Broun has alluded to this. He says
they
       "  are fixed at their ends in a special manner, so that the fixed
points cannot vary."         It is unfortunate that one cannot learn cer
tainly by inspection, what the attachment is. It is probably by the
pinch of a split screw, for the wires appear to pass through the axes
of the holding screws. Whatever the method is, it ought to be un
impeachable.       But not only should the holding be secure, it should
also be easily manageable.        It is of little avail to attach a fine wire to
a delicate screw which can only be manipulated with caution by a
steady hand, for the adjustments depend mainly on these ends of
wires being turned accurately through very small angles.               I regard it
as a capital error of construction that the grasp of the ends of these
suspension wires is made as small instead of as large as possible.
This is an opinion based on wearisome experience no less than on
common sense, for      I have spent many hours in endeavouring to obtain
the adjustment in question, with no other result than this experience
and the discovery of the cause of repeated failure — as              I   will now
explain.
   The first adjustment required would seem to be to make the minor
weight hang so that its mirror shall be parallel to the middle mirror
of the major weight.        To secure this the holding of the single sus
pending wire must be turned, either above or below.             It is difficult, if
not impossible, to get at the lower holding. But the upper one offers
no difficulty except what is to be expected from the smallness of
the parts.      The necessary adjustment was at length made, approxi
mately.
   The second adjustment consists in so managing the torsion of the
double wires, that when the minor weight (with its mirror) is turned
through 360° either way, the major weight shall present its right or
its left hand mirror equally short of or beyond the ultimate position.
The observation in that case will consist in ascertaining what alteration
of weight will bring about exact conjunction, tn either case.
                             I
   The difficulty, which have already commented on, of giving any
precise amount of rotation to the holding screws, is in this matter
also so great as to make exact adjustment quite fortuitous.              This will
explain why I made the same adjustment several times in succession
 (on each occasion with sorely tried temper and patience)                    before

                                   On Gravimeters.                                  531
becoming aware that there was something wrong.                        I    traced this at
last distinctly to a want of permanence of the first adjustment.                    I had
spent     from   first to   last  not  less  than   ten   hours  on   these adjustments
alone, which may give some idea of their uncertainty.
     It was now necessary to ascertain what was the source of the
instability. It must be clearly understood that there is not any part
 of the whole design which is of greater importance than the attain
 ment of permanence in this part. If, after disturbance, the lower
 weight does not return to the same position, relatively to the upper,
 with absolute exactness, I see no chance of obtaining anything which
 can be called a result.           It is literally a sine qua non.
     The instability might be due to one of two causes — I see no third
 alternative.        Either the holding was insecure ; or the wire was
 strained beyond what its elasticity would bear. I tried various plans
 to test this. At first it seemed clear that the holding was in fault.
 Then    I  fancied that the wire was strained.              I mention this vacillation
 purposely, because my final conclusion, which condemns the holding
 after all, though more hopeful, might be wrong, and as it challenges
 the " special manner " noticed in Mr. Broun's description, it will be
 best not to be too certain.                The following test, however, seems con
 clusive.
    I   prepared two needles of deal, about 2 inches long and as thin and
 light as seemed necessary. These were split at one end, and thrust
  upon the taut wire, so as to stand out from it horizontally.                   One was
  placed    close   to  the    upper holding,       but free  from   contact  ; the  other
  about 0'3 inch lower.           The upper weight was clamped, and the lower
  then turned through two entire revolutions.                    [I did not scruple to
  overdo     it,having ascertained from collateral experiments with other
  wire that a wire will bear being turned twenty or thirty times to
  every inch, without any other ill effect than a permanent twist.]
  The result was that the upper index turned through                a      few(8    or 10)
  degrees, and the lower through 70° or 80°                 —  the latter being sensibly
  in due proportion to its distance as to the former,
                                         :                        I        could not say
  exactly where the holding point might be.                  Now,   the test would be in
  the positions to which they would return.                 If the wire was strained,
  the lower index would           not   return   to  conjunction with the upper      :   if
  the holding had failed, the two would not return to the starting point.
  The event proved the latter alternative.                The lower index returned to
  conjunction with the upper       ;      but both failed to return to the original
  position.   I    repeated     the  experiment, giving the weight only a single
  turn.     The result was the same, in less degree the holding had again
                                                           :
   failed, i.e., had allowed the wire to turn in its socket still further.
   The screws were all firm, on trial.
      The above test    is    so easy, and useful, that a description of       it    needs
   no apology.       Still,
                         it   is   rather by way of proof that     I          it
                                                                           give ;    for a

532                            Major     J.   Herschel.
bare assertion of belief in the insecurity of the holding might fairly
be challenged.
   The above result could in no way be passed by. It was necessary
to run any needful risk to ascertain further whether the evil was
accidental and capable of being remedied without some decisive altera
tion.  I therefore loosened the fastening and drew out the wire. The
only result of this was       to show  that the wire was held solely by the
                              This is the " special manner
                                                                  "
pinch of a split screw.                                              alluded to in
the description, and I have no hesitation in saying that it is bad,
because it relies on the almost microscopic accuracy of cutting of the
parts.   Assuming that uo play is required in respect of length, there
can be no objection to doubling back the wire before clamping it — and
that in a large screw, split boldly for half an inch or more. No slip
could possibly happen in that case, even with very slight clamping.
This is the hold I have used (in the experiments alluded to), the
clamp being a cleft in wood, pinched ad libitum.
   Under the circumstances I replaced the wire, and screwed the hold
ing nut nearly to tho utmost the screw would boar; and then repeated
the test — with the same result.        The hold by friction (of brass upon
gold)       is,
           at  any  rate  in  this  particular case, insecure.      Nor do    I   see
any means of remedy short of partial reconstruction, which should,
of course, extend also to the other five holding points.
   Should any doubt remain as to the slipping                 add the followiug.
                                                              I
Wishing     to  see  whether    it  was    due  to the split being too coarse,    I
decided on extricating the holder and examining                   under a micro
                                                                  it
scope   ;as  also to  seeif  the   wire   showed   any  abrasion    or destruction.
To get the holder out involves a great deal of dismemberment                  ;  bat
the choice lay between this and leaving the question in some doubt.
I succeeded in doing —  it    it    needless to describe how. The first result
                                   is
was the possibility of recognising clearly the nature of the holder, of
which give here an enlarged view.
      I                                        It a screw about
                                                   is                  i  inch long,
with capstan head, aud three capstan nuts of which two hold
                                                     ;                        it   on
the beam, and the third pinches the split point. The split                quite flat-
                                                                         is
sided. The shank       is hollow, as far as to the end of the slit, where
there   is  a cross tunnel.        By way of trial        I pinched a piece of
silver wire in the way the suspension wire              pinched, and twisted it.
                                                        is
It was thinner than the latter.         I  think the pinch held         for it soon
                                                                       it,
broke.    This was against the theory of slipping. Fortunately,               I  had
saved   a  fragment of the gold wire (about               inch)
                                                          ^      which      had pro
jected at the free end and had been broken off by the insertion of the
pin   (Isuppose).       This piece   I  inserted and pinched firmly, as firmlv
as  I  dared without spoiling the screw.             The projecting end       I bent
into a crook, which     I     grasped with tweezers.          I then turned the
screw.    Would the wire strain, or break, or slip                ? That was the
question.     The event justified previous experience. It slipped freely.

                                    On Gravimeters.                                    533
I  could not pinch it tight enough to hold.                  Subsequent examination
showed no sign upon the gold wire.
    This proves conclusively that, under these circumstances, the pinch
of a round wire is an insecure hold against torsion.*
     I cannot but regret this result, for the sake of the exquisite work
manship ; but there is no help for it, the wires must be held in some
other way before anything can be done to test the instrument as a
gravimeter.        I find, for instance, that a slight flattening of the wire
meets the slipping difficulty perfectly ; but a flattened wire strains
 (i.e., takes up a twisted or strained condition) very readily, and it is
 doubtful whether any alteration of the cylindrical form, even for a
very small part of the length, can be permitted without risk.
    My examination having reached this stage, I found it necessary to
decide whether to stop here or run some risk of injuring the apparent
 perfection of the instrument, in the endeavour to obtain the first
 requisite, a firm hold of the ends of the torsion wire. I defer, for the
    *  I bare since tried a steel wire pinched between   lead sheets in a vice.   No pinch
 seems sufficient to prevent the slipping,   if tho wire   is straight, but a slight crook
 suffices.

534                             Major   J. Herachel.
present, all reflections in order to proceed with my narrative.               I
decided to flatten the wire slightly at the place where it passes the
split.    Whether     I did so insufficiently or not at the right place it is
impossible now        to  say.   The result was slipping, as before.    I  then
determined to have recourse to the loop — by which          I mean giving to
the wire at the place where it is pinched a sharp bend back upon
itself. To do this the whole instrument had again to be dismembered.
1 cannot give au adequate idea of the anxiety attending a step of this
kind, in the case of an unfamiliar instrument of delicate construction.
My anxiety would have          been greater perhaps,  but hardly my care, had
I  known, what I now learnt, that the gold wires were nearly as brittle
as untempered steel.           In dismounting the major weight (without
which     the  lower  attachment    of the single wire could not be reached)
one of the double suspending wires snapped off short at the fastening.
 I did not recognise the cause until on attempting to double back the
 single wire to give it the crook it also snapped short.        These mishaps
 were experienced without much cost, for the new plan demanded but a
fifth of an inch of wire ; which the other end, in each case, could
 easily spare. But before trying to bend it again I took the precaution
 to anneal the end. At length, after a deal of trouble,       I  had succeeded
 in fastening in this way both ends of the single wire, and of the
 broken one of the pair.          I  ought to have done the same with the
 other as well, but courage was wanting to go further in this direction
 than accident had rendered necessary. The torsion on so long and
 thin a wire (the pair are much thinner than the single one) turned
 through only one quarter of a revolution, would probably be so slight
 as not to exceed the holding power of the existing attachment.
    I   should say here, that before putting the parts together again,
 I  weighed them, and measured the wire-lengths. The weighing is
 elsewhere recounted.        The lengths are 12'6 and 3-08 inches respec
 tively. I also took the opportunity to measure exactly the diameter
 of the glass plunger, having reason to doubt the correctness of the
 measurement assigned in Mr. Broun's description. The result justified
 my suspicion.
    The end of all this is now at hand.          In  due time the instrument
 was     once more in a condition to recommence the adjustments.
 Warned by previous experience I wasted no time over perfecting the
 first ; but, noting the actual position of the lower mirror when at rest,
 I turned it through two revolutions and allowed it to return. It
failed    to reach its firmer place.
    I  tightened the holding nuts to the utmost which the metal would
 bear ; with no better result than to reduce the slipping, but not to
 prevent it. The index test seemed to exonerate the upper holding,
 but there was either slipping or straining — and that to a variable
 extent — on every trial, whichever way the lower weight was turned.

                                   On Gravimeters.                                 535
  At   this point,   I    decided   on abandoning        the investigation,   until     I
should receive further instructions. Considering that the instrumeut
has been entrusted to me to experiment with rather than upon, I have
already dared more perhaps than I ought to have — certainly more
than most persons would have felt justified in doing. I presume, per
haps, in thinking that a rather long experience of instruments of
precision will be accepted as my excuse for having gone so far ; in the
earnest endeavour to ascertain whether an instrument of such exceed
ing beauty (as to workmanship) would prove as valuable as it looked,
and as, I must say, the principle of its construction leads one to
expect. In pursuing this endeavour I have done some slight injury
to it— which can be easily remedied if necessary. This                    I
                                                                    admit : but
per contra I have ascertained a good deal without which it would be
useless, besides gaining some experience which should avail in per
fecting  it,  and making    it  (or another similar in principle) useful for
its intended purpose. Finally,        ifany further apology           is
                                                                   necessary,       I
                —
will add this that in no case could the instrument have been actually
and efficiently employed for that purpose without material alterations.
 I     cannot too often repeat, that both as regards the design and its
 execution, the instrument deserves high praise.         Nevertheless         it
                                                                              a    is
 failure.I     have felt this all along, and I    ought not to conclude this
 paper   without  pointing   out   what I   conceive  to be its chief defects.
 Of the defect which has brought this trial to           premature conclusion
                                                          a
 — the insufficient hold of the ends of the wires —             only necessary
                                                               it   is
 to say that some plan should be discovered of putting this beyond
 question.     This  is the first consideration. I   do not regard this as an
 error either of design or of construction such as can be complained of.
 But do regard as such that which gives the instrument, as actually
   I
 constructed, its beauty, viz., the minuteness and delicacy of its parts.
 There   is   a wealth of adjustment      which      not necessary, and their
                                                    is
 details are all on far too small a scale.       I   suppose that the major
 weight consists of not less than 100 parts.            Of these probably 80
  could be set apart whose total weight would not reach 200 grs. out
 of the 3,100 which the whole weighs.          It    clear that, supposing the
                                                    is
  total to be restricted to that,      a more generous distribution to the
  smaller parts might have been made, without any disadvantage              but;
  on the contrary, a great gain in handiness.        I fear      useless to add
                                                                it   is
  that
     a    large proportion of these smaller parts are of the kind which
  instrument makers delight to show their wonderful skill in producing
  — as nature does flowers. Of course, one cannot tell how far these
  multifarious adjustments may not owe their presence to conscientious
                                                                     a
  endeavour on the part of the maker to give effect to his instructions                 :'
  but that must not prevent my saying that they are, to a large extent,
  redundant, unnecessary,     if  not useless.
 I     regard  itas a mistake that the whole instrument           on so small a
                                                                     is

 536                         Major   J. Herechel.
scale. We should not be far -wrong in estimating the power of such
an instrument, not in proportion to its size, but in an even higher ratio.
Even in scale-balances there is an advantage in size; though there it
is the absolute weight put into the scale which is measured, whereas
in the gravimeter we have a balance whose delicacy is measured by
the relative minuteness of the weight added.         The torsion gravimeter
relies on the perfect obedience of the bifilar suspension, due to the
absence of friction.     Until it can be practically shown that this obedi-
ence is, in practice, not perfect, it is an abuse of the leading principle
to refrain from drawing upon the resource it offers.             This is what
is done when high constructive art and skill are exerted to keep down
the weight and size of parts instead of the contrary.
   The minor weight is turned as one turns the hand of a clock with
the finger.    I  cannot imagine why this one-sided action is preferred —
for I suppose it is preferred — to the obvious two-fingered action, which
comes into play in so many common practices where one wishes to
avoid displacing the central axis of motion.          The effect is to give a
wobbling swing to the whole hanging system, increasing the risk of
jar and strain, besides displacing the centre, and thereby altering the
normal direction of the pull of the lower weight as well as the verti
cally of the mirrors. [It is true that magnets are provided to relieve
           I
this, but hardly suppose any one desiring to make accurate observa
tions would allow them to remain as preferable to the two-fingered
stop.]    I  have already remarked on the so-called
                                                            " finely-polished
agate points," which      I have been obliged to replace by steel ones,
because being very thin and of glass they soon got broken off.            I do
not recognise any objection to their being of metal.
   A tripod stand is furnished with the instrument, and I always used
it; but it is very unsuitable, for the following reason. A portable
tripod almost necessarily requires a large splay ; this involves risk —
even in the hands of a surveyor habituated to three-legged stands —
and risk of a kind which, in my opinion, is fatal in the case of 6nch
an instrument as this.       This is why    I  notice the stand.   I doubt if
anything like    the necessary permanence     of condition  could   be looked
for in a fine wire which, when supporting such a weight as 600 grs.,
had to sustain a jdlt, or such a shock as would be caused by a slight
kick to one of the legs of the stand.         I have no proof of this.    It is
one of the tests I intended to inflict on the instrument. In the absence
of anything but a strong doubt, I can do no better than set it down
here for future trial.
   The last point which I shall dwell upon is one which has already
been noticed, the effect of torsion of the double wires in deferring the
position of unstable equilibrium beyond that of maximum gravity
resistance.    As already pointed out, the possibility of choosing 90° as
the place of rest turns on the alliance of this torsion with the force of

                                      On Gravimetevs.                                   537
gravity in opposing the torsion of the single wire.                  If Mr. Broun was
aware of this, it is strange that he gives no                hint  of   it in mentioning
the forces in equilibrium ; anyhow, the third force is there, and might,
I  think, be taken advantage of. I found by trial that the torsion of
the single wire might be increased so cautiously as to cause the major
-weight to stand nearly stationary at the position of unstable equili
brium.       If the angle of position of the lower weight were read off (by
vernier or otherwise) when this happened, both right hand and left
hand, I imagine a delicate measure of the variation of gravity would
be obtained, without the need of any appliances for varying the
•weight, or of a collimator.            It would be foreign to the purpose of this
paper to pursue this design further here ; it is enough to have indi
cated it in connexion with the principle involved in Broun's design.                        I
will only add that the two principles here indicated, viz., the balancing
of gravity by torsion, and the determination of the condition of equili
brium when unstable, are both involved in a simple bifilar suspension ;
and     I  see reason to think that this form of gravimeter, from its ex
treme simplicity and great adaptability, is worth consideration.*
    It now only remains to offer some apology for the length of this
report, and for its discursiveness.             It will have been quite apparent to
any    one   who   has   had    the  patience  to  read it, that it has been written
from day to day, as the examination proceeded ; and now that the
latter has to be closed without anything of the nature of an " observa
tion " having been possible, it may be that there is a certain advan
tage in letting the facts, so brought forward, tell their own tale.
Much, no donbt, could well be spared, but at the risk of laming the
narrative                                                                 I
                                                At the same time, may say that
 I am quite willing to renew the attack, and do what can be done to
reach a more promising conclusion, and to make the instrument
efficient ; provided       I    am so instructed. In that case, however, the
sanction of the Royal Society, to whom it belongs, will be also
   *  If (P + p)^-sin   0 = 2pp    be  the general statical equation of a simple bifilar
                 R
system, the equilibrium       is unstable when sec 0 = — — lt£   . —,     in which position
                                                            2p      Rr
$0
   = — tan ffj.   From this it is at once apparent, since <p must be positive, that 9t
must lie between 90° and 180°. It must also be greater than 90*, or <p0would be in
finite ; but beyond this    I   do not sec any theoretical restriction.     I think it would
be advisable to make 0O as large — several revolutions —as the wires will bear without
injury. All that is necessary is that they be provided with means of turning their
upper ends, until the weight reaches its position of unstable equilibrium (which
should happen when 6 is little more than 90°), and with means of recording the
angle through which they have been turned so as to reach this condition.             The ap
plicability  of such an  arrangement, as a sensitive gravimeter,   will   depend entirely on
the adaptation ; which,       I  believe, would be found quite feasible.        The equations
here given are sufficient to determine suitable proportions.
    VOL. XXXII.                                                               2  <J

   538                            Major   J.  Herschel.
  necessary ; as alterations      may be necessary which one would otherwise
  have no right to make.
      I append a separate account of the weighings of the major and
  minor weights.         Supposing the instrument ultimately brought into
  use, it would become necessary to know the total weight of the
  suspended parts with some accuracy.              This need should be kept in
  view,   if alterations are made.
                               Account of the Weighing.
      I  have weighed        the   suspended     parts on three occasions, the
  circumstances differing        in each    case   somewhat.    In the first two
  weighings, the cross piece at the             top of the shaft having been
  removed, the whole of the swinging parts were suspended from one
  arm of a balance — with exception of three mirrors absent for repair
 at the time. This suspension involved certain additions and sub
 tractions     by way of allowance for parts not present or redundant.
 These were either determined or estimated for.               I  have since been
 able to correct all the estimations, and the first weighing makes the
 sum of the two parts A and B equal to 3,721 + 69 + 14—35 — 18—22
  =3,729 grs.
     In the second weighing —being uncertain of the accuracy- of the
 weights used — I prepared two lead blocks representing approxi
 mately the masses A and B ; and, by more directly counterpoising the
 redundant parts, and reducing to             a  minimum all corrections,  I ob
 tained a mass A equal to 3,109 grs.            and   a mass B equal to 615 grs.,
 the sum of which or 3,724 grs. balanced, or would have balanced
 (for   I could not eliminate two small pieces which had to be allowed
 for) the whole of the suspended parts. The separation into two
 parts provided for the removal of the lesser when the minor weight
 was supported.         I  was quite aware that this was a doubtful partition,
owing to the impossibility of exactly supporting the lower weight
 without imparting a thrust through the single wire. But there was
 no way of obviating this without a separation of the two parts of the
mechanism.         The total weight was free from suspicion.
    When later events led me to take the whole apparatus to pieces, I
took care before building           it up again to weigh the two principal
parts separately      —  as well as to take some measurements which seemed
important. The result showed that this thrust had been much
stronger than        I  supposed, having transferred 9 or 10 grs. from the
lower to the upper estimate.            I now found, directly and without any
allowances or reductions         — the large mass being in one scale, and the
major weight as it would hang in the other, that the former required
paring down.          The parings weighed 9 grs.         Conversely the smaller
mass required an addition of 10 grs. to balance the minor weight.
Having made this transfer,           I now have the two leaden masses, repre

                                     On Gravimeters.                                53i>
senting (each, within        1 gr.,   I  think) the major and minor weights, as
they actnally hang:           they    weigh    (according to my scale weights)
3,100 and 624 grs. respectively.               The sum agrees with the second
weighing to a grain — the exact agreement being unintentional.
    These weighings do not include the platinum wire riders.
    I  may add here an account of the measurement of the glass
plunger — described by Mr. Broun as
                                                       " calibrated " to 1 millim.
My rough (?) measurement had indicated, as above said, "048 inch as
its diameter.      The cathetometer microscope seemed to show it about
120 divisions, or T2 millims.= -049 inch, but               I did not trust this.      I
hung    a  small  weight by       a fibre   of raw  silk  and  wound up 100 turns
of it on the glass rod. The length absorbed was 14-9 inches.                    I  esti
mate the diameter of the silk, which was coarse, at "001 ; but it is
                                             0*149 —
very uneven.        This would give                  -001='046     inch.   Not satis-
fied,   I  repeated     this with some fine silver wire, annealing            it first.
This gave similarly                     •0036=-0454     inch.   The diameter of the
                               IT
wire was got by measuring the length covered by the close coil of
100 turns. The true diameter of the glass rod is rather larger than
this last, as the outer part of the wire would stretch more than the
inner would compress. It may be taken as '046 inch at the place
chosen, which was unfortuuately near the top.                  As 1 millim. is "0394
inch, Mr. Broun's statement on this point must be rejected.
    I cannot imagine on what ground this plunger has been made of
 glass.    Surely it cannot be contended that a metal wire would be of
uneven diameter, in a way that a glass one would not be ? On the
 other hand the risk of injury is considerable, and such a rod would be
 impossible to replace in foreign parts.
                       DESCRIPTION          OF PLATES     8  AND  9.
   As lias  been mentioned in the note to p. 519 the plates were prepared subsequent
to the submission of the Report, which they are intended to illustrate.
   Plate 8 is a general oblique view of the gravimeter on its tripod stand. The chief
parts seen are — the shaft through which the parallel wires descend : — the chamber
through the glass front of which is seen obscurely what is represented very faithfully
in Plate 9 : — the collimator, or observing telescope, to which a somewhat undue pro
 minence is given in the drawing, by the effect of foreshortening :— the table and
foot-screws :— the tripod stand : — the well and glycerine reservoir, with the cathe
tometer on the left.
   There is hardly any part of this plate which requires more special explanation than
will be found in the foregoing pages, if we except perhaps the arrangement of nuts
and screws on the outside of the chamber ; and these will be readily understood by
 consulting the other plate, where it is seen that they serve to govern the positions of
the two stages inside by which the hanging part (the major woight of the Report) is
held so as to maintain a fixed position, with slackened supporting wires, when
                                                                      2  Q 2

540                            Mr. G. F. Rodwell.
packed. There is a different arrangement for holding the minor weight, which the
engraver has failed in representing so well as the rest.
   Plate 9 shows also a variety of milled screw-heads, each of which has of course a
purpose ; but as neither of them, except one by which the lower weight is turned
round, has any part in the observations such as they are described above, but only in
ultimate manipulations which it is unnecessary to dwell upon here, they may be
regarded as ornaments. It will be noticed that the collimator is removed, and one
of the side supports is supposed broken off, to discover the minor weight ; which
last, | with its mirror and magnet bar, is seen turned through 30° or 40° into an
oblique position. At the same level and outside the chamber are seen arms, one
of which resembles a cross.      These are the guides for two magnets which have
been removed. Their intended purpose is mentioned by Broun in his description.
   The pillar alongside the shaft is a case for a thermometer, the bulb of which is
within the chamber.
"  On the Coefficients of Expansion of the Di-iodide of Lead.
        PbL, and of an Alloy of Iodide of Lead with Iodide of
         Silver, PbL.Agl."         By G. F. Rodwell, F.R.A.S., F.C.S.,
         Science Master in Marlborough College.                   Communicated
        by Professor A. W. Williamson, For. Sec. R.S. Received
        March 10.       Read March 31, 1881.
   In former communications which              I  have had the honour of sub
mitting to the Royal Society,           I  have given determinations         of the
coefficients of expansion by heat of the chloride and bromide of silver
and the iodide of mercury between 0° C. and the fusing point ; also
determinations of the coefficients of expansion and contraction of the
iodide of silver, and of certain chlorobromiodides of silver. (" Proc.
Roy. Soc," vol. 25, pp. 280-303, and vol. 28, p. 284.)
   The iodide of lead, and an alloy of iodide of lead with iodide of
silver, were thought to be very suitable substances for a continuation
of these experiments.           The following pages describe the results
obtained.
    The experimental        method was precisely similar to that before
described, but the expansion apparatus was rendered more delicate by
several notable changes suggested during the course of the former
experiments.        It is unnecessary to describe this apparatus         again (for
                      " Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 25,
description     vide                                     p. 281-2), but it may be
remembered that a homogeneous rod of the substance under examina
tion is connected with a series of levers which multiply 5,382 times,
while the value of the movements is estimated by a micrometer screw
reading to sr<ooo oi an inch.           The following alterations were made
mainly with a view of reducing the resistance by diminishing fric
tion, and thus adding to the sensibility of the apparatus : —
    1. The wooden base N (fig. 1) was replaced by a massive stone

Prcc. Roy Soc. Vol 3 2 PI. 8

Sersoheh. B-oc. Roy Soc. Vol 32.F1.9.

                     On the Coefficients        of Expansion, §c.                    541
block, to which, the box containing the levers and the upright carrying
the micrometer head were firmly bolted.
  This block with figs. 1, 2, 3 is a reprint from
                                                    " Proceedings," vol. 2o, p. 280-282,
                                  where till are described.
   2. The levers S,     U (fig. 2) were reduced in weight.
   3. The spring T (fig. 2) was removed, as it was found that the
 recoil of the helical spring Z was quite sufficient to bring the index
 back to zero, and the presence of Y served only to increase the resist
 ance and general strain.
   4. The vertical axis X (figs. 1 and 3) was no longer allowed to
 work in the upper confining plate of the framework b, but it was
 caused to turn lightly on a bent arm above, while below it rested upon
 a slightly hollowed ruby.
   5. The steel chain W communicating                motion from the lever U to the
 vertical axis X, which carries the index, was shortened and caused to
 wind upon the barrel in such a manner that when unwound to the

542                           Mr. G. F. Rodwell.
extent of half a single coil, it moved the index through its entire
range, viz., from 0° to 180° of arc.         By this means any possibility of
the chain doubling upon itself was obviated.
   6.  But perhaps the most important changes were the removal of
stuffing boxes I and the rods H from the trough F, and the substitu
tion of levers working over the rim of the trough ; and the suspension
of the rod of substance under examination in a cradle between the
levers.    This was effected in the following manner : —
                                           mat size
 Section through the trough longitudinally, showing the mode of suspension of the
                         bar, and the position of the levers.
   A horizontal  bar  LL  (fig. 4) was supported by rods N, N, strengthened
by cross bars (not shown) let into the stone base of the instrument ;
it carried Y-shaped brass levers B, B, moving about axes at C, C (figs. 4
and 5), attached at the points A, A. F is the trough in which hot
ceresine is used for heating the bar under examination,              H, supported
by the cradle G.       Two rods I, I, which slide in holes          K, K, and are
capable of being held at any height by screws, support the cradle G.
D is the rod (figs. 1 and 2) which bears upon the lever S, and M the
point of the micrometer screw.
   The apparatus was standardised at frequent              intervals by the use of
a rod of fine homogeneous silver.            Ceresine boiling at 430° C. was
used to heat the rods in F, and it was heated to any desired tempera
ture by means of a Bunsen burner placed beneath, and near the centre
of the trough.

                    On the Coefficient*     of Expansion, $c.                   543
       Hud section of the trough, showing one of the levers, and the bar which
                                     carries it.
    Iodide of Lead. — Pnre iodide of load was cast into rods one-third of
an inch in diameter and 6 inches long. The ends were made plane by
a fine steel saw, and they were furnished with copper caps.                   Great
 difficulty was experienced in casting the rods, owing to the brittleness
of the iodide.     Slightly greased tubes of very thin German glass were
nsed as the moulds, and as the rods would rarely slip out of the tubes
the glass had usually to be chipped away along the whole length of
the rod by the point of a knife.             The iodide underwent the same
changes    of colour   as were   observed   in   the iodide of silver ; that is to
say, it fused to a bromine-red liquid, which, when solidified, became
red-brown, and, while cooling, brick-red, reddish-yellow, and, when
completely cool, orange-yellow.          Harsh noises, like those produced by
bending tin, were heard during the cooling of the mass, and the frac
ture was highly crystalline.
    Differences of opinion appear to exist as to the effect of fusing
iodide of lead in the air. In the same volume of a standard work I
find two exactly contrary opinions : for it is stated, on the one hand,
that the iodide if fused in contact with air gives off a part of its
iodine, becoming oxyiodide of lead ; while elsewhere the iodide is
classed among those which may be fused in an open vessel without
change.
   In order to set this matter        at rest, 5C"1690     grms. of iodide were
fused    in a covered porcelain        crucible.     The fusion was continued

544                         Mr. G. F. Rodwell.
for eight minutes, during which the cover was three times
momentarily removed.          Violet fumes of iodine escaped on each
occasion, but on weighing the loss was found to amount to only
                               •11036  per cent.
Again, the mass was kept fused for four minutes, and the crucible
cover was twice removed, but the loss had only increased to
                                •1584 per cent.
After a third fusion the total loss only amounted to
                                   •1718 per cent.
Hence    it is manifest that iodide of lead may safely      be fused out of
contact with air, with scarcely appreciable loss. When, however, the
crucible cover was permanently removed, the iodide rapidly decom
posed.
   When the iodide was heated in a current of carbonic anhydride,
it sublimed unchanged in crystals ; while if it was heated in a
current of dry oxygen it rapidly decomposed, fine crystals of iodine
collecting in the fore part of the tube.
    The specific gravity of iodide of lead, in common with the iodides
of copper, silver, and potassium, is less than the mean specific gravity
of its constituents.     Karsten found it to be 6-0282, Boullay 6*11, and
my    own   determinations  gave 6"12.    The calculated specific gravity is-
6-629.
    The fusing point as determined by Mr. Carnelley is 383° C.
    The coefficient of cubical expansion for 1° C. was found to be
                                   •00007614
for temperatures between      0° C. and 205° C.    It increased to
                                   •00008317
between 205° C. and 253° C.
    Between 253° C. and 265° C. the mass expanded rapidly, with a co
 efficient nearly eight times greater than the previous, viz. : —
                                   •0006378.
 After the subsidence of this rapid expansion it no longer retained the
original coefficient, but assumed one of more than double the amount,
viz. :—
                                    •000180.
 At  temperatures some distance from the melting point the rod began
 to bend, and it became necessary to assume that this last coefficient
 continues to the melting point.        The expansion in passing from the
 solid to the liquid condition was determined by the method described
 in my previous paper.

                   On  the Coefficients   of Expansion,   fyc.           545
    It will be observed that the iodide of lead, as in the case of the
iodide of mercury (" Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 28, p. 284), has three
coefficients of expansion, viz. : — (a) a coefficient somewhat less than
that of chloride of silver up to 253° C. ; (6) a coefficient during
12° C, nearly eight times greater than the preceding ; and (c) finally
a coefficient somewhat more than twice as great as that between 0°
and 253° C, at temperatures above 265° C. Undoubtedly the iodide
of lead, as in the case of the iodide of mercury, undergoes a molecular
change while rapidly expanding between 253° and 265° C, and before
assuming the higher coefficient.          This is supported by the fact that
the highly brittle and crystalline rod showed itself capable of bending
after having undergone the rapid expansion.          It will be remembered
that the iodide of silver, which is very crystalline and brittle below
145° C, becomes amorphous and plastic above that temperature.
The familiar example of sulphur will also recur to the mind.
    If we suppose a mass of iodide of lead to be heated from 0° C. to
the melting point (383° C.) the following will be the volumes at the
 respective temperatures.
                    Volume at      0° C.        =1-000000.
                                205°            =1015608.
                                253°            =1019595.
                         „      265°            =1-027248.
                                383° (solid)    =1048488.
                                383=   (liquid) =1-078080.
    The curve is shown in Table A.
    The specific gravity of the iodide in the molten condition is 5-6247.
    The fact that a substance may possess two or three different co
 efficients of expansion has apparently only been observed hitherto in
 the case of such substances as fusible alloy, because in determining
 the coefficients of solid bodies temperatures exceeding 100° C. have
 rarely been employed. Paraffine or ceresine used as a heating medium
 will allow the determination        of coefficients to a temperature of
 300° C, and, undoubtedly, many bodies when thus examined would
 be found to present anomalies similar to those remarked in the case of
 the iodides of lead and merenry.
                        The Lead-Silver Iodide Alloy.
    Bearing in mind the peculiar nature of the coefficients of certain
 alloys of iodide of silver with the chloride and bromide (" Proc. Roy.
  Soc." vol. 25, p. 292), it was thought to be advisable to determine
  the coefficients of an alloy of iodide of lead with iodide of silver.
      These bodies were accordingly fused together in the proportion of
 one molecule of each, viz., PbI3.AgI.        This contains in 100 parte

546                          Mr. G.   F. Rodwell.
Table A.— Table showing the Relationship between the Temperature and Volume
                                                                                of
  Iodide of Lead, Iodide of Silver, and of the Lead-Silver Iodide Alloy, PbI>AgL

                    On the Coefficient*  of Expansion, $c.             547
    Iodide of lead           66-206          Lead                29 7449
    Iodide of silver   ....  33794           Silver        "...  155642
                                             Iodine              54 6909
                            100-000                             100-0000
    The substances were fnsed together in a porcelain crucible, and
cast in thin glass tubes 9 inches long by one-third of an inch in
diameter.     The molten mass underwent the same changes of colour in
cooling as either one of its constituents, and ultimately became a dull
orange-coloured compact mass.           Although composed of two sub
stances which are highly crystalline and brittle, the alloy was found
to be hard and tenacious.         Although the constituents are coarsely
crystalline in structure, the alloy is finely granular.         During the
cooling of the mass it expanded with sufficient force to break the
glass tube.    Harsh noises were emitted during cooling; and the whole
mass was sometimes jerked from its position ; while, if held in the
hand,   it was felt to  be agitated  by strong tremors.
   Mr. T. Carnelley has determined for me the melting point of the
alloy, which he finds to be 350° C.
   The specific gravity is 5-923.
   By repeated digestion with large volumes of boiling water the
alloy is decomposed, the iodide of lead being dissolved, while the
iodide of silver remains as a dull green powder.
   On examination in the expansion apparatus the alloy was found
to undergo slow expansion to a temperature of 118° C, then, for
6° C, it simply absorbed heat without either contracting or expand
ing. At 124° C. contraction commenced, and continued at unequal
rates till a temperature of 139° C. was attained.        Then, again, the
mass underwent neither contraction nor expansion during heating
through 5° C, and then it commenced to expand somewhat rapidly.
The most rapid contraction on heating took place between 130° and
133° C. Thus, in all, for the temperatures during which the mass con
tracted, the index moved through fifteen revolutions of 180° to 0° of arc,
and these were related to the temperatures in the following manner : —
   1  revolution of index took place during heating from 124 — 128° C.
   2                 „                „              „      128-130° C.
   4                 „                „              „      130—131° C.
   6                 „                „              „      131—133°    C.
   £                                  „              ,,          —
                                                            133 139 C.
   The details of these contractions are shown in Table B.
   The heating, especially at these temperatures, was excessively slow,
and so moderated that a complete observation of the behaviour of the
substance in the expansion apparatus lasted from three to four hours.
Above 144° C. the alloy expanded with a coefficient about three
times greater than that which it possessed between 0° and 118° C.

   Mr. G.    p. Rodwell.
Contraction by Heat of Iodide of SiiTeti and of the t^j.

                                                                             549
                   On Hie Coefficients     of Expansion, $c.
                                                                           1° C.
Coefficients  of Cubical Expansion and Contraction of the Alloy for
                  Between
                                                     -
                                 0° and 118° C.= +"0000306
                              124     ,. 128° C.=
                                                     -  -0003240
                                                C= -
                              128     „ 130° C.=         0012990
                                               C.= -
                              130     „   131°           0017330
                                               C.= -
                              131     „   133°          -0039000
                              133     „   139°           0004329
                              144     „   350° C.= + -0001150
Plus has been placed before the coefficients of expansion on heating             ;
 minus before the coefficients of contraction.           The expansion in   pass
ing from the solid    to  the  liquid   condition was  determined   as before.
    The coefficient between 144° C. and the fusing point increased
rapidly with the temperature.
    If  we take the volume at 0° C. as unity, we have the following
                                                            —
volumes corresponding to the temperatures given :
                     Volume at        0° C.       =TOOO0OO
                                    118             1-003610
                                    124             1-003610
                                    128              1-002314
                                    130               -999716
                                    131               -994517
                                    133               -986717
                                    139               -984120
                                    144               -984120
                                    150               -984810
                                    300              1-006500
                                    350 (solid)      1-013790
                                    350 (liquid)     1-024370
                                                                       —
     In  regard to this alloy the following points may be noted :
     1. It possesses a similar density at three different temperatures.
 Thus, it is obvious that the density is the same at 0° C, at just below
 130°    C,  and at 282° C.
                                                               cent, of iodide of
     2. Although the alloy contains only 33-794 per
 silver, it contracts as considerably during heating as the iodide itself.
     3. While the iodide of silver commences its contraction at 142°
                                                                               C,
 and finishes it at 145°-5, the alloy commences to contract 18° C. lower
 (viz., at 124° C.) and finishes 6°- 5 C. lower (viz., at 139° F.).
     4. The chlorobromiodides        of silver also began to contract on heat
 ing (an effect    which,  of  course,   we must attribute solely to the pre
 sence of iodide of silver) at       124°  C, but they finished at 133° C.
      5. The harsh sounds emitted by the alloy during cooling, and the
  tremors simultaneously propagated through the mass, prove that
  violent molecular agitation is going on at such time as the iodide of

 550                          Mr. G. F. Rodwcll.
silver is passing from the amorphous plastic condition to the brittle
crystalline condition, within the mass of the iodide of lead.
    6. The fusing point of the alloy is 177° C. lower than that of the
iodide of silver, which constitutes one-third of its weight, and 33° C.
lower than that of the iodide of lead, which constitutes two-thirds of
its weight.
    7. If the lowering of the fusing point (also markedly apparent in
the case of the chlorobromiodides           of silver) is due to the fact that
similar particles of matter attract each other more powerfully than
dissimilar, and hence, when the particles of two bodies are mutually
diffused, the attraction becomes less, and the molecular motion is
consequently more readily assimilated ; the same cause may serve to
explain the commencement of the phase of contraction on heating the
alloy at a temperature 18° C. lower than the substance to which it
owes this property.
   8. It is interesting to compare one of the chlorobromiodides of
silver with the lead-silver iodide alloy.         For this purpose we will take
the chlorobromiodide which contains the nearest approach to the same
quantity of iodide of silver as the alloy. The second of the chloro
bromiodides before described (" Proc. Roy. Soc," vol. 25, p. 295)
contains 41-484 per cent, of iodide of silver, and 58-5160 per cent, of
the chloride and bromide of silver, which latter, from the heat point
of view, may be regarded as the same substance, because their co
efficients of expansion are practically the same. It may be noted
(vide below) that while the expansion of the bromide                  (which is
slightly greater than that of the chloride) scarcely exceeds that of
the iodide of lead, and while, moreover, the chlorobromiodide contains
8 per cent, more iodide of silver than the lead-silver iodide alloy, the
amount of contraction by heat of the latter is more than twenty times
greater than that of the former, although we must believe this effect
to be solely due to the iodide of silver in each case.
Comparison      of the Coefficients of the Iodide of Lead and the Bromide
   of Silver, used in conjunction with Iodide of Silver in the forma
   tion of the two Alloys given below.
                                      Iodide of lead.       Bromide of silver.
         Melting point                     383°  C               427° C.
         Volume at      0° C             1 -000000              1-000000
                      205                1-015608               1021945
                      253                1019594                1027369
                      265                1-027248               1-028725
              „       383 (solid)   . .  1048488                1-042531
              „       383 (liquid)  . .  1-078080
                      427 (solid)                               1047855
                      427 (liquid)                              1 107225

On    the Coefficients   of Expansion,        <!jv.               551
                                     go «o
                                                           O r
                                     8S3       W V* -rf «J      \
                                               ac x  ao ~ 'M
                                                              ia
   's
3"a«o
¦3                                                   OS 55 55   .
.2 5 ^
                                                     § o 8* S09
 p p o           M  ^
363
    • s
 a ¦* '8
•OhO
*3 22,2
.2 «" 12
 «• •"''2
 » .2 .2
                                                         2.=
                                                         S 9
                                                         2
                    d
                    & 00                                3  3
                  c       Ir-tr-trHi— IrHrHrH*— lr-*C3 »—
                                                               a
                 II
                                                        •s
                                                         v     be
                                                      =1    =1

552             On tlie Coefficients   of Expansion,   Sfc.
   The accompanying tables show the curves of contraction and ex
pansion of the lead-silver iodide alloy, and of its constituents.             In
Table B the scale has been enlarged in order to show the details of
the contraction of the alloy on being heated from 124° C. to 139° C.
                  (Addendum.          Received April 8, 1881.)
   Other alloys of iodide of lead with iodide of silver have since been
made, having the following composition : —
(1.)     2AgI.PbIt)) containing       50'517 per cent, of iodide of silver.
(2.)     3AgI.2PbI2           „       43-360
(3.)     4AgI.3PbI2           „       40-497
(4.)     5AgI.4PbI2           „       38-950
(5.)    10AgI.9PbI3           „       36-190
   These    all possessed      the same     general appearance as the allov
Agl.Pblj      described above, which contains 33- 794 per cent, of iodide
of silver.     But with the exception of No. 5 they were all so brittle
that they could not be cast into rods suitable for use with the expan
sion apparatus.        During cooling large rifts appeared in the rod at
right angles to     its length, at the time when the iodide of silver com
menced to expand.         In the case of No. 1 the rod was violently broken
during    its  cooling by the expanding iodide of silver ; even when
slowly annealed in hot paraffine.         It may be noted that no such effect
was produced in the case of the chlorobromiodides of silver, having
the composition       respectively  :  Ag.iL,. AgBr. AgCl  ; Ag3I3. AgBr.AgCl   ;
Ag4I4.AgBr.AgCl ; and containing in each case a larger percentage of
iodide of silver (viz., 58-6404 ; 68 0171; and 73 9285) than the
silver-lead iodide alloy No. 1. The chlorobromiodides,              although, of
course, their brittleness increased         with  the percentage of iodide of
silver, formed less brittle rods than the iodide of silver, and than the
first of the silver-lead iodide alloys, although the latter contains
23 per cent, less iodide of silver than                 the chlorobromiodide
Ag^.AgBr.AgCl.

                            INDEX to VOL. XXXIL
ABXEY (W.      de W.), uote on the spec              Brunton (T. L.) and T. Cash on the action
  trum of sodium, 443.                                  of alkali and acid on muscle:  frog and
Absorption of gas by the intestines and                rabbit. 456.
  action of carminatives upon it (Brunton                ¦
                                                                  on the action of ammonia and
  and Cash), 456.                                      its salts, and of hydrocyanic acid upon
     of gases by solids (Hannav), 407.                 muscle and nerve, 384.
     spectra of cobalt salts (Russell),                            on the effect of electrical
  258.                                                 stimulation of the frog's heart, and its
Acipenser ruthenus and A. Siurio, struc                modification by cold, heat, and the
  ture and development of the skull in                 action of drugs, 383.
   (Parker), 142.
Ammonia and its salts, on the action of,
  upon muscle and nerve (Brunton and
  Cash), 384.                                        Candidates, list of, 104.
Amylolytic and proteolytic activity of               Capillary electroscope, phenomena of the
  pancreatic extracts, on the estimation               (Gore), 85.
  of the (Roberts), 145.                             Carbonic acid, note on the spectrum of
Anemometers, discussion of the results                 (Wesendonck), 380.
  of some experiments with whirled                   Cash (T.) and G. F. Yeo, the effects of
  (Stokes), 170.                                       certain modifying influences on the
Annual meeting for election of Fellows,                latent period of muscle contraction,
  June     3, 1881, 332.                               456.
Atkinson     (R. W.)       on   the diastase   of         and T. L. Brunton on the absorp
  KSji, 299.                                           tion of gas by the intestines and
Ayrton (W. E.)      elected,    332 ; admitted,        the action of carminatives upon        it,
  333.                                                 456.
                                                                  on the action of alkali and
                                                       acid on muscle t  frog and rabbit, 456.
Bates (H. W.) elected,          332 ; admitted,      Chasles (Michel), obituary notice of,   i.
  333.                                               Christie (W. H. M.) elected, 332    j   ad
Blood corpuscles, the relation of the white,           mitted, 333.
   to the coagulation of the blood (VVool-           Coagulation of the blood, the relation of
   dridge), 413.                                       the white blood corpuscles       to the
Brachial and lumbo-sacral plexuses, func               (Wooldridge), 413.
   tional relations of the motor roots of            Coal-dust, on the influence of, in colliery
  the (Ferrier and Yco), 12.                           explosions, No.  Ill  (Galloway), 454.
Bristowe (J. S.) elected, 332 ; admitted,            Cobalt salts, on the absorption spectra of
  333.                                                  (Russell), 258. ,
Brooks (W. K.), Lucifer: a study in                  Coefficients of expansion of the di-iodide
  morphology, 46.                                      of lend, Pbl2, and of an alloy of iodide
Broun (J. A.), torsion gravimeter de                   of lead with iodide of silver, PbljAgl
  signed by the late (Herschel), 507.                  (Rodwell). 23, 540.
Brunton (T. L.) and T. Cash on the                   Crook es (W.) on discontinuous phos
  absorption of gas by the intestines and              phorescent  spectra in high vacua,
  the action of carminatives upon              it,     206.
  456.                                               Croonian lecture. — Observations on the
   VOL. XXXII.                                                                 2   E

5M                                        INDEX.
    locomotor system of Eelunodermata         Ewart (J. C.)      on a new form of febrile
    (Romanes and Ewart), 1.                       disease associated with the presence of
                                                  an organism distributed       with milk
                                                 from the Oldmill Reformatory School,
Darwin (G. H.) on the stresses caused             Aberdeen, 456, 492.
    in the interior of the earth by the               and G. J. Romanes, observations
    weight of continents and mountains,          on the locomotor system of Echino
   432.                                          dermata (Croonian lecture). 1.
Daubree (G. A.) elected, 162.                 Ewing (J. A.), effects of stress on the
Definite integrals, on certain, No. 9            thermoelectric      quality   of metals.
    (Russell), 450.                              Part I,   399.
             on some, which satisfy Riccati's
     equation    and its transformations      Febrile disease, on a new form of, asso
    (Glaisher), 414.                             ciated with the presence of an organism
Determination of the ohm in absolute             distributed with milk from the Old-
   measure (Rayleigh and Schuster), 104.
                                                 mill Reformatory School, Aberdeen
Dewar (J.) and G. D. Liveing, inves              (Ewart),    456.
   tigations on the spectrum of magne         Female organs and placentation of the
   sium, 189.                                    racoon (Procyolt       lotor)   (Watson),
               on the identity of spectral
                                                 272.
   lines of different elements, 225.          Ferrier (D.) and G. F. Yeo, the functional
              on the reversal of the lines
                                                 relations of the motor roots of the
   of metallic vapours, No. VIII, 402.           brachial and lumbo-sacral plexuses,
Diastase of Kdji (Atkinson), 299.
                                                 12.
Dickie (G.) elected, 332.                     Forbes (G.) and J. Young, experimental
Diffusion of liquids, influence of voltaic       determination of the velocity of white
   currents on the (Gore), 56.                   and of coloured light, 247-
Digastric, on the tendinous intersection      Foreign members elected, 162.
   of the (Dobson), 29.                       Formuhe for sn Su, cn 8k, dn 8u, in terms
Di-iodide of lead, Pbl;, coefficients of         of  sn « (C41aisher),  444.
   expansion of, and of an alloy of iodide    Functional    relations of the motor roots
   of lead with iodide of silver, PbI2AgI        of the     brachial and lumbo-sacral
    (Rodwell),23, 540.                           plexuses   (Ferrier and Yeo), 12.
Discontinuous phosphorescent spectra in
   high vacua (Crookes), 206.
Dobson (G. E.) on the tendinous inter         Galloway (W.) on the influence of coal-
   section of the digastric, 29.                 dust in colliery explosions : No.    Ill,
Dodgson (W.) and B. Stewart, note on             454.
   a comparison of the diurnal ranges of      Gladstone (W. E.) admitted, 206.
    magnetic declination at Toronto and       Glaisher (E. H.), formula' for sn Sir, cn
    Kew, 406.                                    8m, dn 8«, in terms of sn a, 441.
                                                      (J. W. L.) on Riccati's equation
                                                 and its transformations, and on some
Echinodermata,       locomotor system of         definite integrals which satisfy them,
                                                 444.
    (Romanes and Ewart), 1.
Election of Fellows, annual meeting for,      Gore (G.), influence of voltaic currents
   332.                                          on the diffusion of liquids, 56.
Election of foreign members, 162.                     phenomena     of the capilliary elec
Electric current, permanent molecular            troscope,   85.
    torsion of conducting wires produced      Gravimeters, on, with special reference
   by the passage of an (Hughes), 25.            to a torsion graviuieter designed by
Electrical stimulation of the frog's heart,      the late J. A. Broun (Hersehel), 507.
   on the effect of, and its modification
   by cold, heat, and the action of drugs     DTannay (J. B.) on the absorption of
    (Brunton and Cash), 383.                     gases by solids, 407.
Electricity, on the refraction of (Tribe),           on the states of matter, 408.
   435.                                       Heart, on the effect of electrical stimula
Electrodvnamic balance, on an (Helm-             tion of the frog's, and its modification
   holtz), 39.                                   by cold, heat, and the action of drugs
Ellis (A. J.), postscript to the chronolo        (Brunton and Cash), 383.
   gical summary of methods of comput         Helmholtz (H.) on an electrodvnamic
   ing logarithms in my paper on the             balance, 39.
   potential radix, 377.                      —   — on the internal forces of magnetized

                                             INDEX.                                          555
   and     dielectrically    polarized  bodies,  Logarithms, postscript to the chrono
   40.                                              logical summary of methods of com
Herschel      (Major     J.)   on  gravimeters,     puting, in my paper on the potential
   with     special reference to a torsion          radix (Ellis), 377.
   gravimeter designed by the late        J. A.  Lucifer, a study in morphology (Brooks),
   Broun, 507.                                      46.
Histology and physiology of the pepsin-           Lung of      the newt, on the minute
   forming glands (Langley), 20.                    structure of the, with special refe
Hughes       (D. E.), molecular magnetism,          rence to its nervous apparatus (Stir
   213.                                             ling), 37.
         permanent molecular torsion of
   conducting wires produced by the               Macalister (A.) elected, 332.
   passage of an electric current, 25.            Macewen (W.), observations concerning
Hydrocyanic        acid, on the action of,          transplantation of bone.         Illustrated
    upon muscle and uorTe (Brunton and              by a case of inter-human osseous
   Cash), 384.                                      transplantation, whereby over two-
                                                    thirds of the shaft of a humerus was
Identity of       spectral   lines of different     restored,   232.
    elements (Liveing and Dewar), 225.            McLeod      (H.)   elected,   332;   admitted,
Internal forces of magnetized and dielee-           333.
    trically polarized bodies, on the (Helin-     Magnesium, investigations on the spec
   holtz), 40.                                      trum of (Liveing and Dewar), 189.
Intestines, on the absorption of gas by           Magnetic declination, note on a com
    the, and the action of carminatives              parison of the diurnal ranges of, at
    upon it (Bruuton and Cash), 456.                Toronto and Kow (Stewart and Dodg-
                                                    son), 406.
 Kempe (A. B.) elected, 332.                      Magnetism, molecular (Hughes), 213.
King     crab, note on the existence of stig      Magnetized and dielectrically polarized
    mata in the (Lankester), 391.                    bodies,   on the internal         forces of
K6ji, on the diastase of (Atkinson), 299.            (Helmholtz), 40.
                                                  Mannheim (A.) sur la surface de l'onde,
Langley (J. N.) on the histology and                 ct theoremes rclatifs aux lignes de
    physiology of          the pepsin-forming        courbure des surfaces du second
    glands,   20.                                    ordre, 447.
 Lankester (E. Ray), note on the exis             Marignac (J. C.) elected, 162.
    tence in the king crab (Limulus poly-         Matter, on the states of (Hannay), 408.
    phemus) of stigmata corresponding to          Metallic vapours, on the reversal of the
    the respiratory stigmata of the pulnio-          lines of, No.VIII (Liveing and Dewar),
    nate Arachnida, and on the morpho                402.
    logical agreements between Limulus            Metals, effects of stress on the thermo
    and Scorpio, 391.                                electric quality of (Ewing), 399.
 Light, experimental determination of tho         Milk, on a new form of febrile disease
    Telocity of white and of coloured                associated with the presence of an
     IYoung and Forbes), 247.                        organism distributed with (Ewart),
 Limulu* polyphemus, note on the exis                456.
    tence of stigmata in (Lankester), 391.        Molecular magnetism (Hughes), 213.
 Liquids, influence of voltaic currents on               torsion, permanent, of conducting
    the diffusion of (Gore), 56.                     wires produced by the passage of an
 Liveing (G. D.) and J. Dewar, investiga             electric current (Hughes), 25.
    tions on the spectrum of magnesium,                  volume of solids (Wilson), 455.
    189.                                          Morphological agreements between Limu
                on the identity of spectral          lus and Scorpio (Lankester), 391.
    lines of different elements, 225.             Motor roots of the brachial and lumbo
               on the reversal of the lines of       sacral plexuses, functional relations of
   metallic vapours.         No. VIII. (Iron,        (Ferrier and Yeo), 12.
   titanium, chromium, and aluminium),            Moulton (J. F.) and W. Spottiswoode
   402.                                             on stratified discharges.      VI. Shadows
Lockyer (J. N.), note on the reduction              of stria;, 385.
   of the observations of the spectra of                         on     stratified   discharges.
   100 sun-spots observed at Kensington,            VII. Multiple radiations from the
   203.                                             negative terminal, 388.
Locomotor system of E^hinodermata                Muscle, on the action of alkali and acid
   (Romanes and Ewnrt), 1.                          on, 456.

556                                        INDEX.
Muscle and nerve, on the action of am           Reversal of the lines of metallic vapour*.
   monia and its salts, and of hydro               No.  VIII    (Liveing and Dewar), 402.
   cyanic acid upon (Brunton and Cash) ,        Riccati's equation and its transforma
   384.                                            tions (Glaisher), 444.
        contraction, the effects of certain     Roberts (W.) on the estimation of the
   modifying influences on the latent              amylolytic and proteolytic activity of
   period of ( Yeo and Cash) , 456.                pancreatic extracts, 145.
                                                Rodwell (G. F.) on the coefficients of
Nageli (C.) elected, 162.                          expansion of the di-iodide         of lead,
Nervous apparatus, on the minute                   Pbl2l and of an alloy of iodide of lead
    structure of the lung of the newt,             with iodide of silver, PbI«AgI, 23,
    with especial reference to its, 37.            540.
Newt, on the minute structure of the            Romanes (G.       J.) and   J. C. Ewart, ob
   lung of the (Stirling), 37.                     servations   on the locomotor system of
                                                   Echinodermata. (Croonian lecture) 1.
                                                Roscoe (H. E.), note on protagon, 35.
Obituary notice of Michel Chasles, i.           Russell (J. S.), the wave of translation
Osseous transplantation, a case of in-
                                                   and the work it does as the carrier
   terhuman (Macewcn), 232.
                                                   wave of sound, 382.
                                               Russell (W. H. L.) on certain definite
Pancreatic extracts, on the estimation of
                                                  integrals. No. 9, 450.
   the amylolytic and proteolytic activity
                                               Russell (W. J.) on the absorption
   of (Roberts), 145.
                                                  spectra of cobalt salts, 258.
Parker (W. K.) on the structure and
   development of the skull in sturgeons
   (Acipenser rutkenus and A. tturio),
   142.
                                               Samuelson      (B.) elected, 332.
                                               Schuster (A.) and Lord Rayleigh, de
Pavy     (F. W.),   a new line of research
                                                  termination of the ohm in absolute
   bearing   on the physiology of sugar in
                                                  measure,    104.
   the animal system, 418.
                                               Skull in sturgeons, structure and develop -
Pendent drops (Worthington), 362.
                                                  ment of t he (Parker) , 142.
Pepsin-forming glands,       histology and
                                               Snakes, on the differences in the physi
   physiology of the (Langley) , 20.
                                                  ological effects produced by the poisons
Permanent molecular torsion of con
                                                  of certain species of Indian venomous,
   ducting wires produced by the passage          333.
  of an electric current (Hughes), 25.         Sodium, note on the                          of
                                                                                 spectrum
Phillips (J. A.) elected, 332 ; admitted,
                                                  (Abney), 443.
   333.
                                               Solids, molecular volume           of (Wilson),
Physiological      action of j3 lutidine
                                                  455, 457.
   (Williams and Waters), 162.                 Sound, the wave of translation and the
Placentation of the racoon (Procyon
                                                  work it does as the carrier wave of
   fotor), (Watson), 272.
                                                  (Russell), 382.
Poisons, on the differences in the physio
                                               Spectra,    on discontinuous phosphores
   logical effects produced by the, of
                                                  cent, in high vacua (Crookes), 206.
   certain species of Indian venomous
                                               Spectra of 100 sun-spots observed at
   snakes,  (Wall),  333.
                                                  Kensington, note on the reduction of
Potential radix, postscript to the chro
                                                  the observations        of the (Lockver),
  nological summary of methods of com             203.
  puting logarithms in my paper on
                                               Spectra, on the absorption, of cobalt
   the (Ellis), 377.
                                                  salts (Russell), 258.
Preece (W. H.) elected, 332 ; admitted,
                                               Spec tral lines of different elements, on
   333.
                                                  the identity of (Liveing and Dewar),
Presents, lists of, 48, 249, 498.
                                                  225.
Procyon lotor, on the female          organs
                                               Spectrum of carbonic acid, note on the
   and placentation of, 272.
                                                   (Wesendonck), 380.
Protagon, note on (Koscoe), 35.
                                                       of magnesium, investigations on
                                                   the (Liveing and Dewar), 1S9.
Racoon, female organs      and  placentation           of sodium, note on the (Abney),
   of  the, 272.                                  443.
Rayleigh (Lord) and A. Schuster, on            Spottiswoode (W.) and          J.   F. Moulton
   the determination       of the ohm in          on stratified discharges.      VI. Shadows
   absolute measure, 104.                         of striff, 385.
Refraction of electricity (Tribe), 435.                       on stratified discharges.   VII.

                                              INDEX.                                          557
   Multiple radiations from the negative            Traquair (R. II.) elected, 332.
   terminal, 388.                                   Tribe (A.) on the refraction          of  elec
Stewart (B.) and W. Dodgson, note on                   tricity, 435.
   a comparison of the diurnal ranges of
   magnetic declination at Toronto and              Velocity of white and of coloured light,
   Kew,    406.                                        experimental determination of the
Stigmata, note on the existence in tho                 (Young and Forbes), 247.
   king crab of, corresponding to the re            Voltaic currents, influence of, on the
   spiratory stigmata of the pulmonale                 diffusion of liquids (Gore), 56.
   Arachnida (Lankester) , 391.
Stirling (W.) on the minute structure               Wall (A.     J.) on the differences in the
   of the lung of the newt with especial               physiological effects produced by the
   reference to its nervous apparatus, 37.             poisons of certain species of Indian
Stokes (G. O.) , discussion of the results             venomous     snakes, 333.
   of some experiments with whirled                 Waters (W. H.) and C. G. Williams, on
   anemometers,      170.                              the physiological action of (3 lutidine,
Stoney (B. B.) elected, 332.                           162.
Stratified discharges.       VI. Shadows of         Watson (H. W.) elected, 332       ; admitted,
   strue (Spottiswoodeand Moulton), 385.               333.
——    ¦          VII. Multiple radiations           Watson (M.) on the female organs and
   from the negative terminal, 388.                    placentation of the racoon (Procyon
Stress, effects of, on the thermoelectric              lotor), 272.
   qualitv of metals.        Part   I   (Ewing),    Wave of translation, the, and the work
   399.                                                it does as the carrier wave of sound
       and strain, the influence of, on the            (Russell), 382.
   acticn of physical forces (Tomlinson),           Wcierstrass (C.) elected, 162.
   41.                                              Wesendonck (C.) note on the spectrum
Stresses    caused in the interior of the              of carbonic acid, 380.
   earth by the weight of continents and            Whirled anemometers, discussion of the
   mountains (Darwin), 432.                            results of some experiments with
Sturgeons, structure and development of                (Stokes), 170.
   the skull in (Parker), 142.                      Williams (C. G.) and W. H. Waters on
Sugar, a new line of research bearing on               the physiological action of S lutidine,
   the physiology of, in the animal                    162.
                                     '              Wilson      (E.), the molecular volume of
   system (Pavy)', 418.
Sun-spots, note on the reduction of the                solids, 455.
   observations of the spectra of 1U0,              Wooldridge (L. C), the relation of the
   observed      at Kensington        (Lockyer),       white blood corpuscles to the coagula
   203.                                                tion of the blood, 413.
Surface de l'onde, sur la, ct theoremes             Worthington (A. M.) on pendent drops,
   relatifs aux lignesdecourbure des sur               362.
   faces du second ordrc (Mannheim), 447.           Wright (C. R. A.)        elected,   332 j  ad
                                                       mitted, 333.
Tendinous intersection of the digastric,
   on the (Dobson), 29.                             Yeo (G. F.) and Dr. Cash, the effects of
Thermoelectric quality of metals, effects             certain modifying influences on the
   of stress on the (Ewing), 39'j.                    latent period of muscle contraction,
Tomlinson (II.), the influence of stress               456.
   and strain on the action of physical                      and D. Ferrier, the functional
   forces, 41.                                         relations of the motor roots of the
Torsion gravimcter, on gravimeters,         with       brachial and lumbo-sucral plexuses,
   special   reference   to a, designed by the        12.
   late J.  A. Broun (Hcrschel), 507.               Young (J.) and G. Forbes, experimental
Transplantation        of bone, observations          determination of the velocity of white
   concerning (Maccwen), 232.                         and of coloured light, 247.
                          KXP OK THE       THIRTY-iSKCOND        VOLUME.
    VOL.   XXXII.

                          LONDON :
I1ARRISON AND SONS, PRINTE11S IN ORDINARY TO HBR MAJESTY,
                    ST. MARTIN'S LANE.


                   GOVERNMENT                 GRA.NT OF £1000.
A Meeting       of the Government-Grant Committee will be held in February, 1882.
It  is requested   that applications to be considered at that Meeting be forwarded to
the Secretaries of the Royal Society, Burlington House, before the 31st December.
1881.
   Fellows of the Royal Society desiring to have direct information, by Post card, of
the Papers to be read          at the Ordinary   Meetings of the Society, may obtain          it
by sending their names to Messrs. Harrison            and   Sons,   Printers,  45, St. Martin's
Lane, W.C.
                                   Now published.     Price  4«.
    CATALOGUE OF THE SCIENTIFIC BOOKS IN THE                                LIBRARY OF
                                   THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
   Fikst Section      : — Containing  Transactions, Journals,    Observations and Reports-,
                                       Surveys, Museums.
   CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC PAPERS, COMPILED BY THE ROYAL
                                           SOCIETY.
                         Published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office.
          8 vols., 4to.    1800—1873.     Per vol. : 20*., cloth  j 28»., half-morocco.
        On Sale by Murray, Albemarle Street, and Triibner and Co., Ludgate             Hill.
          HARRISON AND SONS,             46 & 46, ST.      MARTIN'S LANE, W.C,
                                     AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.




I


