

             PROCEEDINGS
ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
                                                      <'
     From April   20, 1882, to    January   25, 1883.
                  VOL. XXXIV.
                      LONDON:
 HARRISON    AND SONS, ST. MARTIN'S LANE.
          JJrinirrs in ©rbinaij io $tr gtajesiB.
                      MDCCCLXXXIII.

at                'y
                    V      ''-
                           LONDON .
   HARbISON AND SONS, PRINTERS IN ORDINARY TO HbR MAJESTY,
                      ST. martin's LANK.

                          CONTENTS,
                             VOL. XXXIV.
                            No. 220.— April   20, 1882.
On the Formation of Ripplemark.       By Arthur    R   Hunt, M.A., F.G.S       1
Note on General Duane's Soundless Zones.         By Dr. John Tyndall, F.RS.   18
                                 April  27, 1882.
On the Attitudes of Animals in Motion.         By Eadweard Muybridge, of
   Palo Alto, California                                          ,           20
Preliminary   Account of the Structure of the Cells of the liver, and the
   Changes which    take place in them under Various Conditions.       By J.
   N. Langley, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge                     20
                                  May 4,   1882.
List of Candidates for Election                                               27
On the Specific Resistance of Mercury.      By Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Pro
  fessor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge, and
  Mrs. H. Sidgwick                                                           27
                                 May   11, 1882.
Sur l'lnversion Génerale.    Par T. S. Vanecek
On the Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures.    Part XII.
  By Professor W. C. Williamson, F.RS                                        31
                                 May 25, 1882.
On certain Geometrical Theorems.      No.  2.  By W. H. L. Russell, F.RS.    35
Note on Mr. Russell's paper " On certain Geometrical Theorems.       No. 2."
  By William Spottiswoode Pres. R.S                                          37

                                          iv
                                                                                Page
On Effects of Eetentiveness in the Magnetisation of Iron and Steel.
   (Preliminary Notice.) By J. A. Ewing, B.Sc., F.RS.E., Professor of
   Mechanical Engineering in the University of Tokio                              39
On Actinometrical Observations made in India at Mussooree in Autumn
   of 1880, and Summer and Autumn of 1881. By J. B. N. Hennessey,
   F.RS., Deputy Superintendent Great Trigonometrical Survey of India
   (Plate 1)                                                                      45
On the Causes of the Light Border frequently noticed in Photographs
   just outside the Outline of a Dark Body seen against the Sky ; with
   some Introductory Remarks on Phosphorescence.             By Professor G. G.
   Stokes, Sec.  RS                                                               63
                                    June   8, 1882.
Annual Meeting for the Election of Fellows                                        69
List of Presents                                                                  69
                             No. 221.— June     15, 1882.
Researches     on Spectrum Photography        in relation to New Methods of
   Quantitative    Chemical  Analysis.     By   W. N. Hartley, F.R.S.E., &c.,
   Professor of Chemistry, Royal College of Science, Dubfin                       81
On the Reversal of the Metallic Lines as seen in Over-exposed Photo
   graphs of Spectra.      By W. N. Hartley, F.R.S.E., &c., Professor of
   Chemistry, Royal College of Science, Dublin                                    84
Experiments on the Value of the Ohm.             Part I. By R T. Glazebrook,
    M.A., F.RS., Fellow and Assistant Lecturer of Trinity College, De
    monstrator at the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge, and J. M. Dodds,
    B.A., Fellow of St. Peter's College. Part II. By R. T. Glazebrook, and
    E. B. Sargant, M.A., Trinity College                                          86
On a Deep Sea Electrical         Thermometer.         By  C.  William  Siemens,
    D.C.L., F.R.S                                                                 89
On the Coxal Glands of Scorpio hitherto undescribed and corresponding
    to the Brick-red Glands of Limulus.           Bv E. Ray Lankester, M.A.,
    F. R.S., Jodrell Professor of Zoology in University College, London ....      95
Note on the Differences in the Position of the Ganglia of the Ventral
    Nerve-cord in three Species of Scorpio.         By E. Ray Lankester, M.A.,
   F.RS., Jodrell Professor of Zoology in University College, London ....        101
On the Specific Heat and Heat of Transformation of the Iodide of Silver,
   Agl, and of the Alloys Cu2Ij. Agl, Cu2I2.2AgI, CuaI2.3AgI, Cu2Ia.4AgI,
   Cu2l2.12AgI, PbI2.AgI. By Professor M. Bellati and Dr. R. Romanese,
   Professors in the University of Padua                                         104
(I.) On   a Tangential Property of Regular Hypocycloids and Epicycloids.
   (II.)    On Theorems relating to the Regular Polyhedra which are
   analogous to those of Dr. Matthew Stewart on the Regular Polygons.
   By Heury M. Jeffery, F.RS                                                     l0o
On the Critical   Point of Mixed   Gases.     By Gerrard Ansdell, F.C.S         113

                                        V
                                                                               Pag*
On an Arrangement of the Electric Arc for the Study of the Radiation of
  Vapoura, together with Preliminary Results. By G. D. Liveing, M.A.,
  F.RS., Professor of Chemistry, and      J. Dewar, M.A., F.R.S., Jack-
  sonian Professor, University  of Cambridge                                   119
On the Ultra-violet Spectra of the Elements. Part I. Iron.        By G. D.
  Liveing, MLA., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, and J. Dewar, M.A.,
  F.RS., Jacksonian Professor, University of Cambridge                         122
General Observations on the Spectrum of Carbon and its Compounds.         By
  Professor G. D. Liveing, M.A., F.R.S., and Professor James Dewar,
  M.A.,   F.RS                                                                  123
Further Observations upon Liquid Jets, in continuation of   those recorded
  in the Royal Society's "Proceedings" for March and May, 1879.           By
  Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Professor of Experimental Physics in the Uni
  versity of Cambridge                                                          810
On a Collection of Rock Specimens      from Socotra.    By Professor T. G.
  Bonney, M.A., F.R.S., F.G.S                                                   145
On the Photographic    Spectrum of Comet (Wells)     I, 1882.  By William
   Huggins,   D.C.L, LL.D., F.RS                                                148
On the Action of Heat upon the Contagium in the two forms of Septi-
   chaemia known respectively as " Davaine's " and " Pasteur's."       By G.
   F. Dowdeswell, M.A. (Cantab.), F.LS., F.C.S., &c                             150
On the Development of the Enamel of the Teeth of Vertebrates.             By
   Emily Nunn. (Plates 2—4)                                                     156
On an Instrument for Correcting    Gaseous Volume.      By A. Vernon Har-
   court, M.A.,  F.RS                                                            166
Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena. I. On the Variations of the Daily
   Range of Atmospheric Temperature, as recorded at the Colaba Ob
   servatory, Bombay. IL On the Variations of the Daily Range of the
   Magnetic Declination, as recorded at the Colaba Observatory, Bombay.
   By C. Chambers, F.R.S., Superintendent of the Colaba Observatory ....        168
On a Method of Tracing Periodicities in a Series of Observations when the
   Periods are unknown. By Vinayek Narayeu Nene, First Assistant at
   the Colaba Observatory, Bombay                                               168
On the Causes of Glacier- Motion.    By W. R. Browne, M.A.,     late Fellow
   of Trinity College, Cambridge                                                168
The Life History of the Ringworm Fungus (Tricophyton tonsurans).           By
   M. Morris and Dr. G. C. Henderson                                             168
On the Nerves of the Epiglottis.       By William Stirling, M.D., Sc.D.,
   Regius Professor of the Institutes of Medicine (Physiology) in the
   University of Aberdeen, and G. Duffus                                         168
 On the Action of certain Reagents on Coloured Blood Corpuscles.       Part I.
    Blood Corpuscles of the Frog and Newt. By William Stirling, M.D.,
    Sc.D., Regius Professor of the Institutes of Medicine (Physiology) in
    the University of Aberdeen                                                   169
 List  of Presents                                                               169
                                                                     b  2

                                        vi
Experimental Researches on the Propagation of Heat by Conduction in
  Bone, Brain-tissue, and Skin.       By J. S. Lombard, M.D., formerly
  Assistant Professor of Physiology in Harvaid University                 173
                                    No. 222.
On the Variation of the Electrical Resistance of Glass with Tempera
  ture, Density, and Chemical Composition. By Thomas Gray, B.Sc.,
  F.RS.E                                                                  199
On the Causes of Glacier-Motion.      By Walter R. Browne, M. Inst. C.E.,
  late-Fell. Trin. Coll., Cambridge                                       208
On Impact with a Liquid Surface.
                                    '
                                      By A. M. Worthington,   MA.         217
Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena. I. On the Variations of the
  Daily Range of Atmospheric Temperature, as recorded at the Colaba
  Observatory, Bombay. By Charles Chambers, F.RS., Superintendent 231
Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena. II. On the Variations of the
  Daily Range of the Magnetic Declination, as recorded at the Colaba
  Observatory, Bombay. By Charles Chambers, F.RS., Superintendent 247
                               November 16, 1882.
On the Nerves of the Frog's Lung.      By William Stirling, M.D., Sc.D    265
Notice of Portions of the Skeleton of the Trunk and Limbs of the Great
  Horned Saurian of Australia (Megalania pruca, Ow.).        By Professor
  Owen, C.B., F.RS., G.S., &c                                             267
On the Relation of particular Structural Features in certain Leaves to
  the Phenomena of Nyctitropism and Movements incident on Stimula
  tion by Concussion.     By D. D. Cunningham                             268
On the Continuity of the Protoplasm in the Motile Organs of Leaves.
  By Walter Gardiner, B.A., late Scholar of Clare College, Cambridge.... 272
Note on the Discovery of Bacilli in the Condensed Aqueous Vapour of
  the Breath of Persons affected with Phthisis.     By Arthur Ransome,
  M.A., M.D.                                                              274
                               November 23, 1882.
Monthly Means of    the Highest and Lowest Diurnal Temperatures of the
  Water of the Thames, and Comparison with the corresponding Tempe
  ratures of the Air at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich. By Sir
  George Biddell Airy, K.C.B., F.R.S., late Astronomer Royal              276
Experimental Determinations of Magnetic Susceptibility and of Maxi
  mum Magnetisation in Absolute Measure.          By R Shida, Thomson
  Experimental Scholar, University Glasgow                                285
On Abel's Theorem and Abelian Functions.          By A. R. Forsyth, B.A.,
  Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, Professor of Mathematics in
  University College, Liverpool                                           288

                                      VII
Note on the Recent and Coming Total Solar Eclipses.       By J.  Norman
   Lockyer, F.RS                                                          391
                              November 30, 1882.
                           Anniversary    Meeting.
Report of Auditors                                                        301
List of Fellows  deceased since last Anniversary                          301
          ,  '   elected
Address of the President                                                  302
Presentation of the Medals                                                327
Election of Council and Officers                                          330
Financial Statement                                                  331-333
Trust Funds                                                          334-337
Account of the Appropriation of the sum of £4,000 (the Government
   Grant) annually voted by Parliament to the Royal Society, to be
  employed in aiding the advancement of Science                           338
Account of Grants from the Donation Fund                                  341
Report of the Kew Committee                                               34.3
                               December 7, 1882.
On the Alterations of the Excitability of the Sensory Nerves of Man by
  the Passage of a Galvanic Current. By A. Waller, M.D., and A. de
  WattevUle, M.A., B.Sc                                                   366
Preliminary Notice of an Investigation into the Coagulation of  the Peri
  visceral Fluid of the Sea-Urchin.   By E. A. Schafer, F.RS              370
Preliminary Note on the Structure, Development, and Affinities of          .
  Phoronis.    By W. H. Caldwell, B.A., Caius College, Cambridge, De
  monstrator of Zoology                                                  371
                              December 14, 1882.
On the Development of BeruUa.      By Edmund B. Wilson, Ph.D             384
On the Morphology and the Development of the Perithecium of Meliola,
  a Genus of Tropical Epiphyllous Fungi.     By H. Marshall Ward, B.A.,
  Fellow of Owens College, Victoria University ; late Cryptogamist to
  the Ceylon Government                                                  388
Note on a Discovery, as yet unpublished, by the late Professor F. M.
  Balfour, concerning the Existence of a Blastopore, and on the Origin
  of the Meaoblast in the Embryo of Peripatus Capensis.     By Professor
  Moseley, F.R.S., and Adam Sedgwick, M. A., Fellow of Trinity College,
  Cambridge                                                              390

                                      viii
                                                                             Page
On the Refraction of Plane Polarised Light at the Surface of a Uniaxal
  Crystal. II. By R T. Glazebrook, M.A., F.RS., Fellow and Lecturer
  of Trinity College, Demonstrator in the Cavendish Laboratory, Cam
  bridge                                                                     393
List  of Presents                                                             395
                           No. 223.— December 21, 1882.
On the Normal      Paraffins.  Part  IV. By    C. Schorlemmer,   F.R.S., and
  T. E. Thorpe,   F.RS.                                                      405
On the Connexion between the State of the Sun's Surface and the Hori
   zontal Intensity of the Earth's Magnetism.         By Balfour Stewart,
   F.RS.                                                                      406
On a Method of Photographing the Solar Corona without an Eclipse.
   By William Huggins, D.C.L, LL.D., F.RS                                     409
On the Dark Plane which is formed over a Heated Wire in Dusty Air.
   By Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Professor of Experimental Physics in the
  University of Cambridge                                                     414
On the Origin of the Hydrocarbon Flame Spectrum.           By G. D. Liveing,
   M.A., F.RS., Professor of Chemistry, and J. Dewar, M.A., F.RS.,
   Jacksonian Professor, University of Cambridge                              418
On the Inversion of the Blastodermic Layers in the Rat and Mouse.         By
   Alexander Fraser, M.B., &c., Owens College, Manchester                     430
On the Electric Discharge with the Chloride of Silver Battery. By
   Warren De La Rue, M.A., D.C.L., F.RS., and Hugo W. MUller, Ph.D.,
   F.RS                                                                       437
                                January  11, 1883.
Experiments, by the Method of Lorentz, for the further Determination of
   the Absolute Value of the British Association Unit of Resistance, with
   an Appendix on the Determination of the Pitch of a Standard Tuning-
   Fork.    By Lord Rayleigh, F.RS., Professor of Experimental Physics
   in the University of Cambridge, and Mrs. H. Sidgwick                       438
On the Skeleton of the Marsipobranch Fishes. Part I. The Myxinoids.
   (Myxine and Bdelloetoma.)      By W. K. Parker, F.RS                       439
The Direct Influence of Gradual Variations of Temperature upon the
    Rate of Beat of the Dog's Heart. By H. Newell Martin, M.A., M.D.,
    D.Sc., Professor in the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, U.S.A... 444
                                January   18, 1883.
Preliminary Paper on a Uniform Rotation Machine ; and on the Theory
    of Electromagnetic Tuning Forks.     By R. H. M. Bosanquet, St John's
   College, Oxford                                                            445
On the Skeleton of the Marsipobranch Fishes.        Part  II.  The Lamprey.
   By W. K. Parker, F.RS                                                      447

                                         IX
On the Infectivity of the      Blood and other Fluids in some Forms of
  Septic Disease, and the    reputed occurrence therein of an Increase of
  Virulence in Successive     Inoculations.    By G. F. Dowdeswell, M.A.
  (Cantab.), F.L.S., F.C.S.,  &c                                          449
                                 January   25, 1883.
On certain Definite Integrals.     No. 11.   By W.   H. L. Russell, F.RS  470
Internal Reflexions in the Eye.     By H. Frank Newall, B.A.              473
Note on the Absorption Spectrum of Iodine in Solution in Carbon Disul-
  phide. By Captain Abney, R.E., F.R.S., and Lieut. -Colonel Festing,
   RE                                                                     480
List of Presents                                                          482
Index                                                                     495
Obituary Notices :—
   Dr.  George Budd                                                            i
   Joseph Decaisne                                                          iii
   Sir James Alderson                                                       vi
   Charles Ansell                                                          vii
   Decimus Burton                                                         viii
   Right Hon. Sir James Colville                                             x
    Dr. George Dickie                                                -     xii
   Ronald Campbell Gunn                                                   xiii
                        '
   John Scott Russell                                             -         xv
   Colonel  J. T. Smith                                     ....           xvi
   William Newmarch                                                       xvii

r
      OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED.
   Dr. George Budd was born in 1808. He was the third son of
Mr. Samuel Budd, surgeon, of North Tawton, in Devonshire, and
one of nine brothers, seven of whom have successfully studied and
practised medicine.        Having feeble health in early life, he was
educated at home     till he went to Cambridge in 1827.
   In his first year he was at St. John's, afterwards at Cains', and in
both colleges he lived a quiet studious life, reading hard, though often
interrupted by illness.     He was third wrangler in a good year (1831),
and was soon elected to a fellowship in his college. He studied medicine
at the Middlesex Hospital ; was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society
in 1836 ; took his degree of M.D. in 1848 ; and soon after became a
Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians.         His first publication was
an ingenious essay on the Stethoscope as an Acoustic Instrument, in
      " Medical Gazette " of 1837. It brought him good
the                                                              repute, and
in the same year he was appointed Physician to the Dreadnought "
                                                            "
hospital ship, an office which he desired chiefly because it gave better
 opportunities for thorough pathological study than could, at that
 time, be found in any but the largest hospitals in London.            It was
 here that, in association with Mr. Busk, he made his researches on
 Cholera and Scurvy, and collected the greater part of the patholo
 gical facts on which he based his later works on the Diseases of the
 Liver and of the Stomach.
    Of the papers on Cholera, the first, in the " Medico-Chirurgical
 Transactions " (vol. xxi), by himself and Mr. Busk, is a report on
 cases in the
                  " Dreadnought " during the epidemic of 1837 the
                                                                        ;
 second (in vol. xxii) a statistical account of cases collected from the
 records of the same hospital in 1832.           They are among the best
 writings on the Cholera in this country ; and the second, especially, is
 a good instance of the influence of the teaching of Louis, whose
 " numerical method," then
                                 hardly appreciated, had so great a share
 in promoting accuracy in medical research.         Their chief results are
 collected in his essay on Cholera in
                                          " Tweedie's Library of Practical
            "
 Medicine      (vol. iv),  which  also contains  (in vol. v) his admirable
 essay on Scurvy, with Mr. Busk's observations on the condition of the
 blood in that disease.
    In the same year (1837-8), and in the same Transactions, Dr. Budd
    vol. xxxiv.                                                    a

                                     11
  published papers on Concentric Hypertrophy of the Heart and on
  Emphysema of the Lnngs.       In the former he established and applied
  Cruveilheir's opinion that this condition of hearts is characteristic of
  those
        " which death has surprised in all their energy of contractility."
  In the latter, he demonstrated the effects of the lnngs' loss of elasti
 city, and, from experiments made with Mr. Busk, showed the inacti
 vity of the tracheal and bronchial muscular fibres under galvanic
 stimulus, and thence argued against the too often assumed influence
 of the muscular structure of the air-tubes in the phenomena of
 asthma.
     Each of these essays shows great habitual care in studying disease,
  not only in its own signs, but with constant reference to the best
  knowledge of the natural structure and action of the affected parts.
  The same method is evident in a paper in the forty'-second volume of
  the " Medico-Chirurgical Transactions," in which he showed that the
  inflammatory changes in the lungs, in cases of primary cancer within
  the chest, are very probably clue to the morbid growths involving the
  pulmonary nerve-plexuses, and thus producing effects similar to those
 produced by injury to the trunk or branches of the fifth cerebral
 nerve.
     The same good method of study is shown on a much larger scale,
 and with a vast amount of careful observation and research, in Dr.
 Budd's chief work, his Treatise on Diseases of the Liver, published
 in 1845.    Writing of this, Dr. Wilson Fox, who may be deemed the
                              " He
 most capable judge, says,          may fairly be said to be the first
 writer who, for nearly half a century, had systcmatised the practical
 knowledge of liver-diseases ; and he, for the first time, gave this
 knowledge the form which it has retained for nearly forty years.
 This he did through the fact that he impressed on nearly every state
 ment his own careful clinical observation, and reinvestigated the patho
 logy of the subject in the light of the then recent anatomical works
 of Kiernan and Bowman. The result has been that his book remains
 and must remain an original work of the highest value, and marking
 a period."
     Of scarcely less value was the Treatise on Diseases of the Stomach,
 published in 1855. It abounds in valuable clinical observations and
 cases carefully recorded, including those by which he showed that the
self-digestion of the stomach after death is often due to specially cor
rosive secretions, whose action during life is prevented by the alka
linity of the circulating blood. His arguments on this subject show
singularly clear and ingenious thought ; just as do those with which, in
his treatise on the liver, he proved that hepatic abscesses are very
often due, not only to phlebitis of the minutest portal veins, but
to blood-poisoning from diseased intestines, and criticised Claude
Bernard's hepatogenic theory of diabetes in the presence of this

                                          iii
disease with a degree of cirrhosis which had almost destroyed the
structure of the liver.*
    In 1848 Dr. Budd succeeded Sir Thomas Watson as Professor of
Medicine in King's College, and was appointed Physician to its Hos
pital. He held this office for more than twenty years, and was actively
engaged in teaching and with increasing private practice.                  He was a
clear, emphatic, and persuasive lecturer, and in his clinical work, in
both private and hospital practice, showed excellent examples of
patient, exacting, and complete inquiry, and of careful study.
     In 1866, with failing health, he retired from active life, and, from
that time to his death, in March, 1882, lived quietly and studiously
among his friends in Devonshire. The influence of his admirable
personal character, and of his constancy in the patient, thoughtful
striving for exact knowledge, will long survive among his many
friends and pupils. In the history of medical science he will worthily
rank with his brother, William Budd, a distinguished Fellow of the
 Society, to whom we owe, among many other good works, the first and
best observations on the transmission of the typhoid infection in the
intestinal excreta, and on the analogy between tuberculosis and
 infective fevers. — J. P.
    Joseph Decaisne, though so long a prominent figure in the French
scientific world, was by birth a Belgian, having been born in Brussels,
March 11, 1807. His brother, who survives him, is Honorary Inspector-
 General of the Belgian Army Medical Service.                Decaisue entered the
Jardin des    Plantes,   where the whole of his subsequent life was to be
 spent,  as a  gardener,  at the early age of seventeen. He made his first
contribution to botanical literature in 1831, in a paper on the characters
of the French species of Herniaria ; in 1840 he was attached to the
Herbarium as aide naturaliste, finally returning to the Garden as Pro-
fesseur de Culture and Directeur in succession to Mirbel.                 The half-
 century from Mirbel to the present day covers our whole modern know
 ledge of the histology and morphology of plants. The demonstrations
of our class-rooms already seem a little commouplace ; yet they deal
 with structures and phenomena which, when Decaisue first began to
 work, were things undreamt of.
    In 1837 he published a memoir on the anatomy and physiology of
 the madder-plant and the development of its colouring matter. This
 was an excellent piece of work, remarkable at its time as an example
 of detailed study of the structure and life-history of an individual
 plant.   At a very early period he turned his attention to the serious
 study of Algce, and it is perhaps in connexion with this group that he
    • Besides the above-named works Dr. Budd published in journals, chiefly in the
 " Medical Gazette," several short
                                   papers and lectures, including the Gulstonian and
 Croonian Lectures delivered at the College of Physicians in 1843 and 1847.
    V0L. XXXIV.                                                          b

                                        iv
  has left his most indelible mark in botanical         science.   In 1841 he
  showed once for all that the Polypiers calciferes of Lamouroux were
  not merely   Algae, but that the affinities of the diverse types which they
 comprised could be determined with some certainty.            This conclusion
 was not a happy guess, but was based on a laborious examination of
 the whole class of Algae, with the object of arranging their chaotic
 assemblage     on a basis approaching as nearly as possible to a natural
 classification. The results were given in an elaborate paper, published
 in 1842.     The divisions proposed are not essentially very different
 from those which are generally accepted at the present day ; and they
 were really more natural than the subsequent but far more artificial
 classification proposed by Harvey, which has long held its ground in
 this country.
    In this particular line Decaisue himself, owing probably to the
 distraction of his energy by official duties, did little more. Not
 withstanding this, he must always be regarded as the founder of
 the French school of Algology, the literature of which is the basis
 of our present knowledge of this branch of vegetable morphology.
 In 1839 Thuret came to Paris, and received from Decaisue instruc
tion in the rudiments of botany.        Decaisue and Thuret began to work
together on the reproduction of Fucus, which they procured from the
fish-market of Paris. They soon found it, however, necessary to visit
 the coast to carry on their observations, the results of which were
published in 1844 in a joint paper in which they first accurately
 described the antherozoids, assigning to them their true function, and
gave an account in some of the species of the beautiful process of the
 division of the primary oosphere. After Docaisne's appointment to the
 Direction of the Jardin des Plantes, Thuret carried on his algological
 work for a time alone, ultimately associating himself with Dr. Bornet,
 who is happily still living, and occupied with the gradual publication
 of their joint and classical work.
    In 1858 Decaisue began the publication of " Le Jardin Fruitier du
 Museum," which was only brought to completion within a few years
of his death. This in form is one of the most sumptuous of modern
botanical books ; in matter it is a monument of patient labour on the
cultivated forms of fruit-plants, elaborated in the thorough spirit of
the naturalist ; its value in a scientific sense will gain with time when
the races figured and described in it are supplanted and lost. Students
in the future will turn to Decaisue's minute and laborious pages to
compare the phases of variation which he has permanently recorded.
In much other work of this kind he had the collaboration of his
friend Naudin, now director of the botanical station at Thuret's
country seat at Antibes, which the heirs of the latter presented to
the French Government.
    Decaisue did not, however, by any means devote all his energy to

                                    V
the study of the forms of cultivated plants under his charge.       He
was always occupied with the elaboration of careful dissections    and
descriptions of new and interesting genera and species of plants.   He
was an admirable draughtsman, and the " Traits General de Bota-
nique, Descriptive et Analytique." which he published in conjunction
with Le Maout in 1868, is a perfect treasure-house to the student,
euriched on every page with the results of his minute and careful
observations and the work of his accurate pencil.
    Besides this elaborate review of the whole vegetable kingdom,
Decaisne published many useful contributions to detailed systematic
botany.     Among these may be mentioned his classical memoir on
the Lardizabalece (1837), that on Pomacece, and the Asclepiadece and
Plantaginece, elaborated for De Candolle's
                                            " Prodromus."
    To the period of his attachment to the herbarium of the Jardin des
Plantes belong his few but standard contributions to phytogeographic
literature. These include papers on the plants of Arabia Felix, Egypt,
Sinai, and Timor. Morphological botany owes to him, besides the
memoir on madder already mentioned, a well-known research (1841)
on the development of the pollen and ovule and the structure of the
stem of mistletoe (Viscum album), and a study on the floral organogeny
of the pear (1857), the excellence of which shows how much Decaisne
could have done in this branch of botany had his circumstances and
leisure allowed him to devote more attention to it.
    In 1842, on the death of Guillemin, he was associated with Adolphe
Brongniart in the editorship of the botanical part of the "Annales
des Sciences Naturelles," and on the death of the latter became sole
editor. In 1847 he was elected a member of the Institute, taking the
place of Dutrochet.     In 1864 he was President of the Académie des
Sciences; and in 1877 was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal
Society. He was one of the principal founders of the Botanical
Society of France in 1854, and as long as health allowed was an
assiduous attendant at ite meetings.
   The note of Decaisne's scientific work was patient and laborious
observation    of facts. He was one of those whose life was spent in
making sure the foundations of taxonomic botany, and every subse
quent worker will build the more securely for what Decaisne has
done.     That his mental character was essentially precise and matter-
of-fact is merely what we should expect from the direction of his
work. From this no doubt it followed that the doctrines of evolution,
which in England and Germany have given a new impulse to biolo
gical study, interested him little. Not that his mind was wanting in
flexibility to new ideas : he warmly supported the investigations
made by Bornet in confirmation of Schwendener's theory as to the
nature of lichens — a view which has met with much opposition from
 the older botanists who are, for the most part, unwilling to abandon
                                                             c

                                      vi
 the conception of lichens as autonomous organisms.        His method of
 work, partly no doubt cramped by the iuroads on his time of official
  duties, made him more and more disinclined to generalise from large
  series of facts.   In striving for minnte accuracy he, especially in his
 later work, somewhat        lost the gift of seeing  things in a larger
 perspective.
    He was never married, and to his friend        Bornet fell the lot of
 watching his last moments. — W. T. T. D.
    Sir James Alderson was born at Hull on the 30th December, 1794.
 He was the yonngest son of Dr. John Alderson, an eminent physician
 of Hull, who had for many years an extensive practice in the East
 Riding of Yorkshire.       Young Alderson received his early education
 at a school in his native town kept by the Rev. George Lee, a Dis
 senting clergyman, and afterwards (in the year 1818) proceeded to
 Cambridge and entered at Pembroke College, and four years after
 took the degree of B.A. with the distinction of being Sixth Wrangler
 of that year. He was soon afterwards elected a Fellow of Pembroke,
 and in dne course received the degree of M.A.       Having chosen medi
 cine as his profession, he pursued his studies in London and Edin
burgh, and subsequently went to Oxford, and being incorporated
 at Magdalen Hall, received the M.D. degree in 1829. The following
 year he became a Fellow of the College of Physicians, and for a short
 time settled in London with the object of practising his profession,
 during which period of his career he held the office of Physician to
 the Public Dispensary.        On the death of his father, however (in
 1829), he removed to Hull, where he rapidly acquired a large con
sulting practice in the town and neighbourhood.           He was much
respected by    his professional brethren and by the general public, and
took a warm interest in promoting every scheme likely to advance the
educational movement of the day.
    In 1845 Dr. Alderson returned to London, and was elected one of
the Physicians of St. Mary's Hospital, the duties of which appoint
ment he discharged with great zeal for nearly twenty years ; and on
his retirement after this long service, he still retained a connexion
with the institution by accepting the compliment paid to him by
the Governors in unanimously electing him Consulting Physician.
    Having been elected a Fellow of the College of Physicians in 1830,
and shown much interest in the changes which were gradually taking
place in the medical corporations, and more especially in the College
of Physicians, he was appointed Treasurer of the College in 1854, an
office for which, from the methodical and exact bent of his mind, he was
peculiarly fitted.    This office he resigned in 1867 on his being chosen
President   of  the College, receiving the honour of re-election in the
four following years. He was the representative of the College at the

                                      yii
 General Council of Medical Education and Registration for 1864,
 1865, and 1866. In 1869, Dr. Alderson had the honour of knight
 hood conferred on him, and in the following year the honorary degree
 of D.C.L. by the University of Oxford.
    Five years later Sir James Alderson was appointed Physician Ex
 traordinary to Her Majesty.
    Though an observant and experienced physician, he was not a
 frequent contributor to the literature of his profession.      He delivered
 the Lumleian Lectures in 1852 and 1853, and, what is unusual, was
 twice appointed to deliver the Harveian Oration, viz., in 1854 and
 1867. He pointed out and described collapse of the lung in connexion
 with whooping-cough in a paper read before the Medico-Chirurgical
 Society, and published in the Transactions of that Society.
    He was also the author of a work, published in 1847, on " Diseases
 of the Stomach and Alimentary Canal," in which he embodied the
 result of his extensive experience in a most important class of
 diseases.
    Charles Ansell,     a distinguished actuary, for many years known
 as the father of his profession, was born in December, 1794. "When
 14 years old, he entered the " Atlas
                                        "
                                          office as a junior, and two years
 later was appointed on the staff- In 1823 he was raised to the post of
Actuary of the Company, which he retained till 1864, a period of 41
years.     He then retired, but retained the office of Consulting Actuary.
 He held the same responsible post in several other societies, and
among them the National Provident, of which he completed the Bonus
investigation when in his 80th year — a notable tour de force for one of
so advanced an age.
    Mr. Ansell was often consulted by the Government on subjects
bearing on national finance, and in 1864 was warmly commended by
Mr. Gladstone.      He was also examined before several Select and
Royal Commissions, on questions involving actuarial considerations.
He was, however,       best   known for     the   services  he rendered    to
Friendly Societies, on which subject he wrote a valuable treatise in
1835, having been elected F.R.S. the previous year.            This treatise
was    issued  as one of the series published by the Society for the
Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, which body is credited with the
first successful attempt to collect facts bearing on the sickness and
mortality of the working classes of England.             The Society caused
schedules to be printed and circulated, and those returns which were
least imperfect among them Mr. Ansell used as materials for his tables
and calculations. The comprehensive and scientific character of this
work may be inferred from the fact that it treats of " The Doctrine of
Interest of Money" and "The Doctrine of Probability," contains
numerous tables, and an appendix of the Acts of Parliament relating

                                          Ylll
 to friendly societies.     A large professional practice followed naturally
 on this publication.     He died December 14, 1881, at the advanced age
 of 87.
    Decimus    Burton, born September             30,  1800,  was,   as  his name
 implies, the tenth son of James Burton, one of the most enterprising
and successful builders of his day.             He was practically educated as
 an architect   in the office of his father, who at that time was exten
sively engaged under Mr. Nash's superintendence                 in designing and
erecting the terraces which surround the Regent's              Park, and also the
 Regent Street improvements.            In consequence of this employment, he
has been credited with the design of several of those terraces, but there
seems no foundation for the report, and none of them show that
careful study of design and detail, which marked all his subsequent
works. After leaving his father's office, Mr. Barton completed his pro
fessional education in the office of Mr. George Maddox, at that time an
architect in considerable practice.            He then, without any interval
devoted to foreign travel or other preparation, entered at the early age
of twenty-one on the active duties of his profession, and owing
apparently to the excellent introduction afforded by his father's con
nexion, he commenced with an amount of employment which seems
never to have failed him daring the fifty years that he continued the
practice of an architect. One of his earliest works was the villa
which he built for Mr. Greenough in the Regent's Park, which as
originally erected was one of the most elegant and successful adapta
tions of the Grecian style to purposes of modern domestic architecture
to be found in this or any other country.
    In 1823 he erected, on the east side of the Park, the Colosseum to
contain the Panorama of London, drawn by Mr. Horner.                    This, how
ever, can hardly be said to have been a successful design, though it
was only another exemplification of the difficulty of combining the
rectilineal lines of a classical portico to the circular form of a domical
structure. The Roman architects, even with their more flexible style,
failed in producing a happy result in the Pantheon, and it is therefore
not to be wondered at that we saw the work of a modern architect
who attempted the same thing disappear without an expression of
regret.    He was far more successful in the arches which, in 1825, he
was commissioned to erect on Hyde Park Corner.* The arch leading to
Buckingham Palace, though somewhat lacking in originality of design,
is a singularly elegant adaptation to a perfectly legitimate purpose,
   • One of the minor sorrows of Mr. Burton's life was the disBgurement of this
arch by its being used as a pedestal for the Duke of Wellington's statue, a purpose
for which it was singularly ill-suited.   Ho felt this most keenly, but had he lived
a year longer, he probably might have been consoled by its removal.

                                      ix
of the Roman triumphal archway. The screen opposite leading into
Hyde Park, though showing quite as much elegance, is more original,
and like  some  of the park lodges which he erected at the same time,
evinces a  mastery of the elements of design in the classical styles that
has rarely been surpassed.
   Shortly after this (1827) the Athenaeum Club was erected from his
designs, and this, considering that it was one of the first of its class,
and that a very small sum only was placed at his disposal, may be
considered as one of his most successful works.         The entrance hall
and staircase are not surpassed for dignity of design by anything in
any club in London, and the drawing-room, both in its proportions
and details, is one of the most beautiful rooms, of its class, anywhere
to be seen.
   Before these works were completed he received a retainer from
Mr. James Ward to lay out and design the villas and buildings of
Calverley Park, Tunbridge Wells.          This occupied his time almost
entirely for the next few years, and after that he seems to have been
no longer ambitions of public employment, but to have been content
with the practice of his profession among a numerous body of con
stituents who kept hinv fully and profitably employed in a far more
agreeable manner than in the struggle for what are considered the
great prizes of the profession.       All his works consequently in which
the public feel much interest were erected during the first ten years
of his professional career. During the remaining forty, till his retire
ment in 1869, he erected and altered innumerable houses, and espe
cially horticultural edifices for the Dukes of Devonshire and Northum
berland, and other noblemen and gentlemen, by all of whom he was
treated more as a friend than as a professional adviser.      The extreme
amiability of his character, and his thoroughly gentlemanly conduct
in all his business arrangements, endeared him to all with whom he
came in contact.     He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in
1832.
   In  no instance   was   Mr. Burton ever suspected of sacrificing the
interest of a client for his own glorification, or for the indulgence of
his own individual fancies. Having placed at his client's disposal all the
resources of his long experience, and sound practical sense, and good
taste, he set at once loyally to carry out the wishes of his employer
with an amount of self-negation rare in the profession.          Few men
have consequently gone through a long professional career with a
more numerous body of friends and fewer enemies.
   Though declining to compete for any of the great works at the dis
posal of Government, Mr. Burton never ceased to be connected with
 Her Majesty's Board of Works. All the buildings in Kew Gardens
 were erected from his designs and under his superintendence.           So
 were those in the Phoenix Park, Dublin ; and the Embassy in Paris

     was for some time under his
                                      charge.     All the buildings in the Royal
     Botanic Gardens and the
                                    Zoological Gardens were designed by him.
     Curiously enough he never during his long career
                                                                was called upon to
     erect any church or
                            ecclesiastical edifice of any importance, but he
     was employed conjointly with
                                        his friend Sidney Smirke in the resto
     ration of the Temple Church.
        In 1869 Mr. Burton retired from the
                                                    active pursuit of his profes
    sional duties, having realised an
                                           ample competence by their exercise,
    and spent the remaining
                                    years of his life partly at St. Leonard's,
    where he had built himself a
                                        charming villa residence, and partly in
    London, in Gloucester Houses, where
                                                  he died.    Notwithstanding his
    failing health during these last few
                                                years, he continued to dispense
    the most genial
                      hospitality, and to enjoy the social intercourse of his
    numerous friends to the very last
                                                He died the most peaceful of
    deaths at the ripe old age of
                                     eighty-one years, December 14, 1881.
                                                                          J.  F.
       By the death of
                           the Bt. Hon. Sir James Colvile,            the Society
   lost a Fellow of the
                             Privileged Class, one whose disinterested and
   judicious labours as President of
                                           the Asiatic Society of Bengal, con
   tributed materially to the progress of
                                                 science in British India for a
   decade of years, during which time
                                             all the resources of his cultivated
   intellect, of his high official position, and
                                                    of his hospitable house, were
   as unobtrusively as
                         liberally placed at the services of the Society, and
  its members individually.
      James William Colvile, born in
                                                 1810, was the eldest son of
  Andrew Wedderburn
                            Colvile^ Esq., of Ochiltree and Crombie in Fife,
  and the Hon. Louisa
                           Mary Eden, sister of the second Lord Auckland ;
  the latter as Governor-
                              General of India, and subsequently as First
  Lord of the Admiralty, was no less
                                            distinguished than his nephew for
 his efforts in the advancement of
                                            science.    From Eton he went to
 Trinity College, Cambridge, graduating as M.A.
                                                           in 1834, after having
 attained the rank of Senior Optime the
                                              ;      late Bishop Selwyn being
 Junior Optime in the same year. At
                                                  Cambridge he formed what
 proved to be a life-long friendship with
                                                  our Fellow, Lord Houghton.
 He was called to the Bar
                               (Inner Temple) in 1835, and practised as an
 equity draftsman for ten years at chambers in
                                                        Lincoln's Inn. In 1845
 he accepted the office of
                                Advocate- General to the Hon. East India
Company ; proceeding thereupon to Calcutta. In
                                                           1848 he was raised to
the Bench as Puisne Judge of
                                     the Supreme Court of Bengal and, as is
usual in such cases, was
                                knighted. In 1855 he succeeded to the
Chief Justiceship, which he held for four
                                                  years, retiring and returning
to England in 1859.
    During his residence in India Sir James
                                                       married Frances Elinor,
daughter of Sir John Peter Grant, K.C.B., G.C.M.G.,of
                                                                Rothiemurchus,

                                      XI
formerly Lient.-Governor of Bengal, and subsequently Governor of
the Island of Jamaica.        Lady Colvile survives him, but their only
child, a son, died in early yonth.
    Immediately after his return to England Sir James was sworn in as
a Privy Councillor, and made one of the assessors to the Judicial Com
mittee of the Council on Indian Appeals ; his fellow assessor being
Sir Lawrence Peel, his predecessor in the Chief Justiceship of Bengal,
and bis most intimate friend.       In 1865 he became a member of the
Judicial Committee itself, and in 1871 (on the re-organization of the
Council) he was chosen one of the paid judges of the same.
     Sir James Colvile's legal attainments were of a very high order. It
is written of him by a competent judge,
                                                " His knowledge of Indian
systems of law, and his acquaintance with India were highly valued
by his colleagues and by suitors ; and his judgments were full and
exhaustive statements, often of cases intricate and involved in the
highest degree.      According to the custom of the Privy Council, they
embodied the opinions, which he had assisted to form, of other judges ;
the practice of a separate judgment being delivered by each judge not
having taken root."
     It was, however, as the wise, the calm, the considerate President of
 the Asiatic Society of Bengal, that Sir J. Colvile's name and memory
are esteemed by every scientific man who had the privilege of know
ing him in India.         He occupied the chair from the date of the
 resignation of his genial predecessor, Governor- Genoral Lord Hardinge,
 in December, 1847, till that of his own departure from England in 1848.
 During not a few years of that interval, when the Society's affairs
 were troubled, and itself not exempt from internal dissensions, it was
 Rteered through its difficulties by the inexhaustible patience, sound
 judgment, firmness, and conciliatory measures and manners of its
 watchful chief.     It need hardly be added, that when he left India, the
 Council of the Society placed on record its feelings of regret at the
 loss of his valuable services, and its thanks for the zeal and ability
 with which he had for ten years discharged the office of President,
  and had promoted     the objects and interests of the Society.
     After his return, Sir James resided during the autumn vacation at
  his seat, Craigflower in Fife, on the banks of the Forth, a few miles
  west  of Dunfermline,   a property which he inherited and to which he
  was devotedly   attached.    He died at his residence in London, 8, Rut
  land Gate, from a sudden cessation of the heart's action, preceded,
  however, by a gradual failure of both the digestive and circulatory
  powers.     He was elected a Fellow of this Society on April 29th,
  1875, being one of the first under the modified rules for the election
  of persons of the Privileged Class, which restricted these to members
   of the Privy Council.                                         J. D. H.

                                     XII
     Dr. George Dickie    was born in Aberdeen     on the 23rd November,
  1813, and received his education    there, graduating M.A. in Marischal
 College, in 1830.      He thereafter commenced the study of medicine
 in his native city, completing his medical education in Edinburgh,
where he gained the Medal for Pathology and Practice of Medicine
in the Brown Square Medical School, in 1833. In 1834 he became
M.R.C.S. of London, and in 1842 received the honorary degree of
M.D. from King's College, the University of old Aberdeen.
    He originally intended to enter the naval medical service, but
abandoned       that intention, and entered on medical practice in
Aberdeen. His tastes, however, lay very strongly in the direction
of natural science, especially botany, and in 1839 he was appointed
Lecturer on Botany in King's College ; and subsequently on Materia
Medica and on Zoology, and he further held the office of Librarian to
the University.        In 1849 he resigned these offices, having been
appointed to the newly created professorship of natural history in the
University of Belfast ; but in 1860, on the establishment of a professor
ship of botany in that of Aberdeen, he was appointed to it and
returned to his native city.      Soon after his return he suffered from a
severe attack of illness, which resulted in increasing deafness and
more or less chronic bronchitis ; but he continued to discharge the
duties of the professorship till 1877, when the state of his health
obliged him to resign.
    In 1838 he became a member of the Edinburgh Botanical Society
(of which he was elected a Honorary Fellow in 1877), in 1863 he was
elected F.L.S., and in 1881 F.R.S.         He was also a member of the
Société    des  Sciences  Naturelles de   Cherbourg, and of several local
Societies.
    Dr. Dickie began in early life to investigate the flora of the district
around Aberdeen, the results of which he published in 1837 ; and
from that time onwards he published numerous articles chiefly on the
morphology and physiology of plants in the Journals and Transac
tions of scientific Societies.     In 1844 appeared his first article on
Algae,  to  which  group  he devoted  more and more of his time, and to
which his published articles of late years almost exclusively relate.
He also contributed botanical appendices to the works of various
Arctic travellers and voyagers and to the reports tm the Transit of
Venus expeditions, and he worked out the Algae of the " Challenger"
expedition.     The value and care of his investigations as an observer
are attested, and the assistance rendered by him acknowledged,           in
Harvey's
              " Phycologia Britannica," Ralf's "British Desmideae,"
Smith's    " British Diatomaceae," and Macgillivray's "Natural History
of Deeside and Braemar." He was author of " A Flora of Aberdeen "
(1838),
           " The Botanist's Guide to the Counties of Aberdeen, Banff,
                   " (1860), and " A Flora of Ulster "
and Kincardine                                             (1864). In all

                                      xiii
  these works he enumerates the vascular plants of the districts treated
  of, and gives much information as to their localities and altitudinal
  range,   and   in the " Botanist's Guide," he includes the cellular
  cryptogams so far as known to himself, and of the marine Algae in
  particular he gives a very complete list.
     Dr. Dickie did not confine his studies to botany, but wrote also
 on zoology, treating chiefly of morphology.       In conjunction with Dr.
 McCosh he was author of " Typical Forms and Special Ends in
 Creation," to which he contributed those parts that relate to botany,
 zoology, physiology, geology, and physical geography.         In this work
 the authors seek to indicate the evidences of design in the universe
 discoverable alike in the general principles that prevail throughout, and
 in the special adaptations of organised beings to their environments.
     In private life Dr. Dickie was much esteemed. He was ever ready
 to aid those in need of assistance in every way in his power ; and as
 professor gained the respect and esteem of his students, not a few of
 whom owe their success in after life to his devotion to their culture
 and future careers.
     Dr. Dickie's constitution was never robust; he overtaxed his
 strength when young, and in middle life by his exertions in the field
 as an observer and collector, and he suffered from chronic deafuess.
 During an excursion in Braemar with his students, in 1861, he
 exposed himself for several days of very severe weather, which
 resulted in bronchitis and its complications, from which he never
 entirely recovered.     This and increasing deafuess latterly cut him off
 from personal communication with strangers, but his correspondence
 and his interest in scientific pursuits were never relaxed.         In the
 early part of this year he had a severe attack of bronchitis, which
 after recoveries and relapses carried him off on the 15th July, 1882.
    Dr. Dickie married, in 1856, Miss Agnes Low, of Aberdeen, who
  survives him, and by whom he had six children.
    Ronald Campbell Gunn was an ardent naturalist, and               to his
exertions far more than to those of any others we are indebted for a
knowledge of the botany and zoology of his adopted colony,
Tasmania.
    Mr. Gunn, the son of an officer in the army, was born at Cape Town
on    April 4th, 1808, and was brought thence to Bourbon, at the
capture of which place his father assisted.       Until 1816 he accom
panied his father's regiment to the Mauritius, the West Indies, and
Scotland, where he resided for eight years. His name was placed on
the Commander-in-Chiefs        list for a commission in the army ; this,
however, he never received      : but an appointment in the department
of the Royal Engineers at Barbadoes was given him, which he held
till 1829, when he emigrated to Tasmania. Here he became
                                                                d

                                     xiv
 successively assistant superintendent of convict barracks at Hobarton,
 superintendent of convicts for the northern division of the island,
 police  magistrate,  and coroner, first at Circular  Head and lastly at
 Hobarton.
    It was not till 1831 that Mr. Gunn's taste for science was developed,
and this was due to the example of a young colonial naturalist of
high promise, Mr. William Lawrence, who died within a year after
having inoculated his friend with a passion for his own pursuits. Up
to this time the natural history of Tasmania, an island as large as
 Ireland, was known only through the partially published botanical
collections of Robert Brown, made at two spots only during Flinders'
memorable voyage at the beginning of the century ; with this excep
tion it was both botanically and geologically almost a terra incognita.
 Provided with introductory letters by Mr. Lawrence to Sir W.
Hooker and Dr. Lindley, Mr. Gunn entered into an active corre
spondence with those gentlemen,         which he maintained with un
flagging zeal and interest for upwards of a quarter of a century,
travelling all over the island, transmitting to England carefully pre
served specimens accompanied with copious notes and descriptions,
and receiving in return books, instruments, and appliances whereby he
rapidly acquired a good scientific knowledge, especially of the botany
of the island, which greatly enhanced the value of his successive
collections.
    Mr. Gunn's labours were not confined to botany ; through the
above-named friends he was introduced to Dr. J. E. Gray and other
officers of the British Museum, to which and to other bodies he con
tributed     magnificent collections of mammals, birds, reptiles and
mollusca.     He further made himself so competent a geologist that he
was employed by the Government to report on various public works
and on the goldfields, and especially on alleged discoveries of the
precious metals.     Of his general ability and the confidence reposed in
him no higher testimony could be conceived than the fact of his
having been in 1864 appointed at the request of the Government of
New Zealand, one of three commissioners (the others representing
New South Wales and Victoria) for determining the most suitable
site for the capital of New Zealand, a quarter of a century after its
colonisation ; their inquiries resulted in the unanimous selection of
Wellington.
    A man of the energy, ability, and attainments of Mr. Gunn was not
likely to escape the notice of such a Governor of the Colony as
Sir John Franklin who, almost immediately after his arrival, ap
pointed him to the office of Clerk to the Executive and Legislative
Councils, to which Sir John added that of private secretary to
himself.      Government House became at once a small scientific
circle, and a close intimacy sprang up between Mr. Gunn and

                                       XV
 Sir John and Lady Franklin, which lasted through their lives.        This
coterie    was    soon  largely though only temporarily augmented by
 the arrival in Hobarton in 1840 of the Antarctic Expedition under
 Sir James Clark Ross, who together with some of his officers,
assisted Sir John and Lady Franklin and Mr. Gunn in founding
 the
        " Tasmanian Journal of Natural Science," the reading of
papers for which took place in the drawing-room of Government
House.      From this small beginning sprang the Royal Society of
Tasmania,      and the nascent periodical subsequently grew into the
" Proceedings of the Royal Society of Van Diemen's Land," of which
Mr. Gunn was the editor, as he had been of the Journal, from the
first.
    Unfortunately Mr. Gunn's health broke down under the close con
finement and long hours of office work at Hobarton ; and after ful
filling various duties in Launceston and elsewhere, including that of
member of the Legislative Council for Launceston, and of the House
of Assembly for Selby, he was compelled to retire from the public
service in 1876. He eventually succumbed, March 12, 1881, to attacks
of creeping paralysis complicated with disease of the lungs.
   Mr. Gunn's published labours are few, but the results of his collec
tions and copious observations         are embodied in various works on
Australian science, and especially in Sir J. D. Hooker's " Flora of
Tasmania," and in Mr. Gould's " Birds of Australia."       In conjunction
with the late Dr. J. E. Gray, he published notes and descriptions of
the mammals and fish of Van Diemen's Land, and he was the author
of a few other papers on the geology and some on the botany of that
island, together with one on the encroachments         of the sea on the
north coast of Tasmania ; he further contributed to
                                                        " West's
                                                                  History
of Tasmania
                "                 of its
                  a compendium           zoology.
   Mr. Gunn was elected a Fellow of the Linnean Society in January,
1850, and of the Royal Society on June 1, 1854.               J. D. H.
   John Scott Rossell, the eldest son of the Rev. David Russell, of
Clydesdale, was born in 1808, and displayed at an early age a great
predilection for mechanics and natural science.         After some pre
liminary practical training he studied at the Universities of Edin
burgh, St. Andrew's, and Glasgow, at which latter he graduated at
the early age of sixteen.     On the death of Sir John Leslie, Professor
of Natural Philosophy in Edinburgh in 1832, Mr. Russell, being then
only   twenty-four years of age, was appointed temporarily to carry on
the  work   of the chair during the session 1832-33.
   About this time he commenced his well-known researches on the
nature of waves, and the resistance of fluids to the motion of floating
bodies.    His first paper on this subject was read before the British
Association in 1835, his deductions being founded on a very large and

                                       xvi
   elaborate series of experiments.    In 1837 he read a second paper on
   the same subject, before the Royal Society of Edinburgh.     The Society
   conferred on him their Keith Prize (a gold medal and a sum of
   money)   in 1838, and elected him into their Council.
      His principles of ship construction were first carried into execution
  in   a vessel called the " -Wave," built in 1835, and, subsequently,   in
  many others, including the then new fleet of the West India Royal Mail
  Company, built by a company at Greenock, of which Mr. Russell
  was the manager.
      He was elected     in 1847 a member     of the Institution of Civil
  Engineers, where he served on the Council, and was chosen one of
  the Vice-Presidents.     In 1849 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal
  Society.
      Mr. Scott Russell removed to London in 1844, and became well-
  known as a ship-builder on the Thames.           In the capacity of con
  tractor, and also assisting by his advice, he built the Great Eastern
  steamship, under the direction of the late Mr. Brunel, and constructed
  the paddle-wheel engines of that large ship.
     His last work in naval construction was the steamer on the Lake of
  Constance, which carries railway trains between the termini of the
  German and Swiss railways.
     Besides naval construction, Mr. Russell practised in other fields of
 engineering, one of his principal works being the great dome of the
 Vienna Exhibition of 1873.
     Mr. Russell was appointed joint secretary with Sir Stafford North-
 cote of the Exhibition of 1851.
     Although not a contributor to the papers in the Royal Society, yet
 he was the author of more than forty papers read at other Societies,
 including the Royal Society of Edinburgh, the British Association,
 and the Institutions of Civil Engineers and Naval Architects.      In the
 latter Society he always took an active interest and was one of its
earliest promoters.
     Mr. Scott Russell was the author of the article on the steam-
engine in the Encyclopaedia       Britannica, also a large work called the
" Modern System of Naval Architecture for Commerce and War,"
and of a work on " Technical Education for the English People."
     He was an accomplished linguist, and     as a speaker possessed great
clearness and skill in exposition.                             W. H. B.
     The subject of this memoir, Colosel J. T. Smith, R.E., the son
of George Smith, Esq., of Edwalton, Notts, and afterwards of Foelallt,
Cardiganshire, was born in or about the year 1805.
     Destined for a military career, he was educated at Addiscombe, and
in 1825 proceeded to India as an Officer of Engineers.
     Upon being appointed to arrange a system of lights for the South

                                  xvii
Indian Coast, he entered upon a series of optical investigations, and
devised a reciprocating light, which was fixed in the lighthouse
erected at Madras in 1838, after his designs.
    Before this he had translated Vicat on
                                            " Cements," euriching that
valuable work with the results of many original experiments, and he
was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1837.
    He was next appointed to reorganise the Madras Mint, which he
did with great skill and vigour. When remodelling the machinery
he invented a machine for automatically weighing and assorting
blanks, which gained an award at the Exhibition of 1851.
    After a period of some twenty years in charge of the Madras, and
latterly of the Calcutta, Mint, Colonel Smith returned to England,
and, after acting for some time as Consulting Engineer to various
Indian Irrigation Companies, became Chairman of the Madras
Railway Company, a position which he held until the close of his
life.
    During late years his energies were directed chiefly to the con
sideration of the intricate questions of political economy connected
with currency, &c. A careful study of the subject for many years,
and a deep interest in India, led him to propose a remedy for the
evils caused by the depreciation of silver in that country.
    He brought forward his views with great earnestness and dis
interestedness, and though the question has been forced aside by more
pressing matters, his proposals have met with the approval of some of
the leading political economists of the day, and it is hoped that by
their fulfilment at some future time many millions may be saved to
the revenues of India.
    His knowledge of these and of kindred subjects led to his employ
ment by the Government to make reports in conjunction with the late
Professor Graham, P.R.S., upon questions of mintage, &c., and he
was also appointed to attend the International Monetary Conference
held at Paris in 1865.
    Colonel Smith's active mind and varied talents led him to take an
interest in many other subjects.        He was a member of several
societies, and the author of some works and several papers on various
scientific matters.
    In private life he was an humble Christian man.    His aid  as a wise
and sympathising counsellor was widely sought, and his loss is deeply
felt by a large number of friends.                               P. S.
    In William   Newmabch the city of London lost its most distinguished
 man of business, and the scientific world one of that small group of
 diligent and learned men who have most successfully brought the
 universal methods of logic and science to bear on the social life of
 man.
                                                              e

                                    xviii
    Mr. Newmarch was a Yorkshireman, born at Thirek, January 28,
1820.    He took his schooling at York, and, as a young man, held some
clerkly appointments in that city. He early showed his literary taste
and talent by publishing a Guide to the City, by frequent correspon
dence with the " Sheffield Iris," and by the delivery of lectures. Having
served as a clerk under a stamp distributor, he passed to the York
shire Fire and Life Office at York, then to the banking house of Messrs.
Leatham, Few, and Co., at Wakefield. From Wakefield he moved to
London, and served on the staff of the Agra Bank. In 1852, he was
appointed Secretary of the Globe Insurance Company, and took the
lead in conducting the negotiations which resulted in the amalgama
tion of that office with the Liverpool and London Insurance Company.
In 1862 he accepted the post of Manager in the banking house of
Messrs. Glyn, Mills, Currie, and Co., which he did not resign till he
had warnings of an attack of paralysis.
    Mr. Newmarch always found the performance of his duties as an
official consistent with an extraordinary amonnt of literary activity,
coupled with earnest work on behalf of the many societies and public
bodies to which he attached himself, and of some of which he was the
founder.     Among these we may mention the Cobden, Adam Smith,
and Political Economy clubs, the Institutes of Actuaries and Bankers,
and the Statistical Society.      He was on the staff of the "Morning
 Chronicle," an occasional contributor to the "Times" and other
leading papers, and a constant correspondent of the "Economist."
 His writings, for the most part anonymous, were devoted to questions
of currency, banking, free trade, and the laws of industrial and com
 mercial progress.    In the Statistical Society, to which he was always
 warmly   attached, he held in succession the offices of Honorary Secretary
 and Editor of its Journal, President for the usual term of two years
 (in succession to Mr. Gladstone), and Honorary Vice-President.          As
 Editor of the Journal of the Society, he planned several of its periodical
 returns and tables, and he contributed to its pages many important
 papers and presidential addresses.      To the last he continued to take a
 lively interest in the question  of providing suitable house accommoda
 tion for the Statistical and cognate Societies ; and made a strenuous
 but unsuccessful effort, by means of a company with limited liability,
 to carry this cherished object into effect.      In 1861, he presided over
 the section of Economical Science      and Statistics at the Session of the
 British Association held at Manchester.
    One of Mr. Newmarch's series of papers, that on the New Gold
 Supplies, contributed to the pages of the "Morning Chronicle" in
  1853, was afterwards printed as a separate volume.          But the work
 on which his claim to permanent distinction must rest is that in
 which he took part with Mr. Thomas Tooke (also a Fellow of this
                         "                    "
  Society), namely, the History of Prices published in 1856, but now

                                   xix
out of print. The two concluding volumes were from the pen of
Mr. Newmarch. This work was at once recognised in England as a
complete and masterly exposition of the great economic questions of
the second quarter, and early part of the third quarter, of this
century ; namely, the Introduction of Free Trade, the Bank Charter
Act, with the Development of the Banking System at home and
abroad.    The Gold Discoveries in Russia, California, and Australia,
the Irish Famine and Emigration, and the Crimean War.          Mr. New-
march is understood to have been bent on continuing this work up to
the present date ; but, unfinished as it was, it was speedily accepted as
a classic, and translated into German. It was to this work that he was
chiefly indebted for his election as Corresponding Member of the
Institute of France. He was chosen F.R.S. in 1861.
   On the death of Mr. Tooke, Mr. Newmarch showed the high estima
tion in which he held him by taking the leading part in founding
" The Tooke                                                          " at
                Professorship of Economic Science and Statistics
King's College.
   Mr. Newmarch was examined by the Select Committee on the
Bank Act, and gave evidence before several Parliamentary Com
mittees on economic questions, such as the currency and the income
tax.
   Mr. Newmarch was a fluent and effective speaker, and his writings
are all marked by clearness, directness, and vigour. He held his
own opinions with so firm a grasp that he was rather intolerant of
opposition, and in debate appeared perhaps somewhat wanting in
courtesy ; but those who knew him well found in him a generous and
warm-hearted man, an encourager of rising talent, and a firm friend.
Take him all in all, he was assuredly one of the most .remarkable
among the self-made men of this century. He died at Torquay,
March 23, 1882, after an illness of some duration, which began as an
attack of palsy in 1881, from which he partially recovered.      He had
lost his only son through a painful illness, leaving the son's widow
and his own, with one daughter, to lament his loss.          W. A. G.


                           PROCEEDINGS OF
                                     OCT! 31882.
               THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
                  "
vol. xxxiv.                                                                   No. 220.
                                       CONTENTS.
                                       April  20, 1882.
                                                                                    PA8E
   I. On the Formation      of Ripplemark.     By Abthuh R. Huxt, M.A., F.G.S.         1
 II.  Note on General Dunne's Soundless Zones.              By Dr.  John Tyndall,
        F.R.S                                                                         18
                                       April  27, 1882.
   I. On  the Attitudes of Animals in Motion. By Eadwearb Mcydkidqe,             of
        Palo Alto, California                                                         20
 II.  Preliminary Account of the Structure of the Cells of the Liver, and the
        Changes which take place in them under Various Condition2.            By J.
        N. Langley, M.A., fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge .                      20
                                        May   4, 1882.
   I. On   the Specific Resistance of Mercury.          By Lobd Rayleigh, F.R.S.,
        Professor of Experimental       Physics   in  the  University of Cambridge,
        and Mks. II. Sidgwick                                                         27
                                       May   11, 1882.
                                                     V V
   L  Sur l'lnversion   Generate.    Par T. S. Vanecek                                29
II.   On the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures. Part      XII.
       By Professor W. C. Williamson, F.R.S                                           31
                                       Mail  25, 1882.
  I.  On certain Geometrical Theorems.           No. 2.    By  VV. II. L. RrsSEii,
       F.R.S                                                                          35
                For   continuation  of Con tents see  ith page of Wrapper.
                        Price Two Shillings and Sixpence.

         PHILOSOPHICAL                               TKANSACTIONS.
                          Part  I,  1882,  will be published shortly.
                                           Contents.
   I. On the Electromotive Properties of the Leaf of Dionaea in the Excited and
        Unexeited States.      By    J.  Burdon-Sandeeson, M.D., F.R.S., Professor of
        Physiology  in  University    College,  London.
  II. Lucifer : a Study in Morphology.            By W. K. Brooks, Associate in Biology
        and Director of the Chesapeake Zoological Laboratory of the Johns Hopkins
        University, Baltimore, Md., U.S.A.
III.  On the Structure      and Development         of the Skull  in Sturgeons   (Acipenser
       ruthenus and    A.  sturio).     By William Kitchen Parker, F.R.S.
 IV.  On the Stresses caused in the Interior of the Earth by the Weight of Con
       tinents and Mountains.         By Gr. II. Daewix, FR.S.
  V. Experimental Determination of the Telocity of White and of Coloured Light.
       By James Young, LL.D., F.R.S., and Professor G. Forbes.
 VI. The Bakerian Lecture. — Action              of Free Molecules    on Radiant Heat, and
       its Conversion thereby into Sound.          By John Tvndall, F.R.S.
Index to Part I.
                                          Price £1 14*.
Extra volume (vol.    1G8)   containing the Reports of the Naturalists      attached to the
                       Transit of Venus Expeditions.         Price £3.
                                 Sold by Harrison and Sons.                                 i
Separate copies of Papers in the Philosophical Transactions, commencing with 1875,
                   may be had of Triibncr and Co., 57, Ludgatc Hill.

                      PROCEEDINGS
                                    or
           THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
                            April 20, 1882.
                   THE PRESIDENT in         the Chair.
   The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered for
them.
   The President condoled with the Meeting on the great loss which
Science and the Society had sustained through the decease of their
distinguished Fellow, Charles Darwin ; and mentioned that a proposal
for interment in Westminster Abbey had been made to the family of
the deceased and to the Dean, which he trusted would be brought to
pass.
   The following Papers were read : —
I. "On the Formation of Rippleraark." By Arthur Roope
       Hunt, M.A., F.G.S. Communicated by Lord Rayleigh,
      F.R.S. Received March 28, 1882. Read April 20.
   Fossil ripplemarks are often appealed to by geologists as evidence
 that the winds and waves that formed them cannot have differed
much in intensity from those that produce similar corrugations on the
sands of our modern beaches ; but, although considerable          value is
attached to the evidence afforded by these relics of ancient seas,
authorities differ much as to their origin.
                                                                "
   According to Sir Charles Lyell ripplemark originates in the drifting
of materials along the bottom of the water," and " is usually an in
dication of a sea beach, or of water from 6 to 10 feet in depth, though
this rule he proceeds to say is not without exception, as recent ripple
marks have been observed at the depth of 60 or 70 feet. The crossing
of two sets of ripples the distinguished author ascribes to the new
direction in which the waves are thrown on the shore consequent on a
   VOt.. XXXIV.                                               b

                            Mr. A. R. Hunt.                    [Apr. 20.
change of wind (" Elements of Geology," 6th edition, p. 19). Mr. J.
Beete Jukes, in the first edition of his "Manual of Geology," states,
that current mark or ripple " is produced on the sea beach, not in
consequence of the ripple of the wave impressing its own form on the
sand below, which would be an impossibility, but because the moving
current of water as the tide advances or recedes produces on the
surface of the sand below the same form as the moving current of air
produces on the surface of the water above.     A rippled surface, there
fore, to a rock is no proof of its having been necessarily formed in
shallow water, though rippled surfaces are perhaps more frequently
formed there, but simply a proof of a current in the water sufficient
to move the sand at its bottom gently along, at whatever depth that
bottom may be from the surface of the water."         Speaking of fossil
ripplemarks the same author states that the distanco from crest to
crest of the ridges varies from half an inch to eight or ten inches,
wi*h a proportionate variation in depth between them (Jukes' "Man.
Geol.," p. 172).    The article on ripplemark is recast in the third
edition, edited by Dr. Geikie and published in 1872, but the views
expressed therein are the same.
   Monsieur Delesse goes far beyond the authorities referred to above,
as on the authority of Commandant Cialdi, he states that the move
ment of waves can displace fine sand at a depth of 200 metres in the
ocean, and (without giving his authority for the statement) that the
undulation of the sea is evidenced by ripplemarks on muddy bottoms
down to a depth of 188 metres (" Lithologie du fonds des Mers,"
1871, pp. 110, 111).     More recently, Mr. G. H. Darwin has stated
that one of the conditions of the formation of many ripples is a great
ebb and flow of the tides (" Nature," vol. xxv, p. 214).
   It will be seen from the authorities cited above, that the pheno
menon known as ripplemark is variously ascribed to the action of
currents, and to the undulation of waves, and that whereas by some
it is considered the result of tidal action in shallow water, by others
it is attributed to the action of waves down to the great depth of
upwards of 100 fathoms.
   I shall endeavour in the present paper to prove that ripplemarks
formed under water are, as a rule, completely independent of the rise
and fall of tides, of tidal currents, and of sea beaches ; and that they
have little in common with the current mark, that- owes its origin
either to a continuous current of air or of water.
   For some years past I have neglected no opportunity of making
observations on the action of storm waves on the bottom of Torbay,
and of collecting evidence as to the action of waves and currents on
the bottom of the English Channel. To Lord Eayleigh I must express
my indebtedness for having examined my evidence of submarine wave
action from a mathematical standpoint, and for having called my

 1882.]              On   the  Formation    of Ripplemark.
attention to the fact that waves,      if they affect the bottom at all, do so
by  setting up alternate currents:* and that, though at great depths
the action is very small, theoretically it has no limit.
   Having observed that ripplemarks are commonly better preserved
in pools between tidemarks than on those parts of the tidal strand
left dry at low tide, and that the bottoms of these pools must be in
some measure protected from the continuous currents that are com
monly supposed to produce the ripplemarks, it seemed to me probable
that they were produced by the alternate action of waves described
to me by Lord Rayleigh.
   One fine and almost calm day in the summer of 1881, being at
Broadsands in Torbay, and seeing that the strand was covered with
ripplemarks, I proceeded to watch carefully the action of the water
with a view of ascertaining, if possible, the process of their formation.
Floating in my boat a few yards from the shore in about 18 inches of
water,   I narrowly scanned the effect of the very gentle swell that was
breaking on the beach. I observed that a small shell lying in one of
the furrows instead of being steadily washed shorewards by the in
coming waves, was washed backwards and forwards from one furrow
to another; sometimes it would stop on the intervening ridge, and so
for the moment help to build it up ; at others it would fall over into
the furrow towards which for the moment it was being propelled, but
in no case did it show any tendency to travel continuously in any
particular direction along the bottom.
   On a subsequent occasion, having to land on the beach at Paignton,
and seeing the ripplemarks well developed, I again carefully watched
them seawards.       At a point where the bottom was too indistinct for
me to observe its condition,        I  could distinguish fragments of sea
weed gently moving backwards and forwards in the direction of the
beach, and at right angles to the ripplemark where last visible.          This
observation was unexpected, as it proved a gentle swinging motion of
the water in the vicinity of the shore, when the surface motion was
so slight as not to interfere with my landing on a flat open beach
from a very small boat.
    On the 10th October, 1881, there was a strong south-easterly gale
 in Torbay, and the waves rolled on to the Mead foot Sands at the rate
of 7^ per minute. The distance between the southern point of an
outlying islet known as the Shag Rock and the rocks at the western
end of Meadfoot Sands (two points in line with the direction of pro
pagation of the waves), 275 yards by the chart, was covered by
exactly three waves, so that each one must have measured 275 feet
from crest to crest. In midliay this length was probably exceeded.
 As from the manifest turbidity of the water, the bottom was nnques-
                   •  " Trans. Eev. Assoc.," vol.
                                                  x, p. 191 (1878).
                                                                    B 2

4                                  Mr. A. R. Hunt.                            [Apr. 20.
tionably much disturbed, I looked forward with interest to ascer
 taining by the dredge what effect these waves of known dimensions
had had on the bottom.              On the 31st of October, nearly a fortnight
after the gale, I had an opportunity of going out for this purpose, and
 in places, in 6 fathoms (at low water spring tides), where the bottom
 is usually a soft muddy sand that clogs the dredge in a few minutes,
 the ground proved to be quite hard.             One haul of the dredge brought
 up  a  Buccinum       shell, with  the  mollusc   inside it dead, and two dead
 ascidians ; and another in midbny, though with 30 fathoms of rope,
 produced not a shell or a particle of the usual muddy sand, but only a
few red seaweeds that must have come from a distance.                     Never before
in my experience had I found the ground so hard in midbay, nor
dredged dead molluscs and ascidians.                 On the 11th November the
ground was still very hard, both the dredge and a fishing-lead tied to
a line bumping along as though over ridges.                   On the 8th December,
more than six weeks after the gale, I again tried the same spot in
midbay that proved so hard on the 31st October : it had now returned
to its normal state, and the dredge brought up the usual muddy sand.
These dredgings tended to show that the bottom had been violently
agitated by the storm, and that as the seas subsided it had become
strongly ripple marked.           Why it should change from soft to hard and
back again to soft is not very clear, but there is no doubt as to the
fact.
    It may be objected that as fossil ripplemarks have been said to be
limited to 10 inches, a dredge would scarcely detect modern ripples if
not larger than that ; but there is no doubt that modern ripplemarks
occasionally far exceed these dimensions.                I have myself seen them
formed in Brighouse Bay, on the coast of Kirkcudbright, fully 2^ feet
from crest to crest, and deep in proportion.*
   * Since writing the above my attention has been directed to the
                                                                            following im
portant, though quite incidental, descriptions of ware-marks on the Goodwin Sands
by the Rev. John Gilmore, in his book intituled
                                                        " Storm Warriors, or Lifeboat
Work on the Goodwin Sands." They ore as follows : —
   " On the Goodwins where the force of the     sea is in every way multiplied and the
waves break and the tide rushes     with tenfold power, the little sand-ripples of the
smoother shore become ridges of two or three feet high.        It is on these ridges that,
the lifeboat so continually grounds.    As the tide rises she is swept from one to the
other by the long sweeping waves ; she is swung round and round in the swirl of
the cross sens and rapid tide, thumping and jerking heavily each timo that she
strands." — Op. cit , p. 109.
   " . . The
              heavy seas have driven the sands into high ridges, and the gullies between
these are waist-deep and full of running water with the sand soft and quick at the
bottom ; through these deep gullies the men have to wade." — Op. cit., p. 215.
   "
     . . At last all arc on board, but they cannot yet leave the sands, they must wait
until the water is high enough to float the lifeboat over the ridge which surrounds
her."— Op. cit., p. 222.

   1882.]              On the Formation  of Ripplemark.                  'i
      Feeling satisfied that the bottom of Torbay in about 0' fathoms at
  low water spring tides was rippled by the swells following the October
  gales, I proceeded to construct a small tank, about 9 feet by 3 feet by
  1 foot, in order to prove experimentally whether subaqueous      ripple-
  marks could be formed at will, and to what extent their dimensions
  could be controlled.
      Working on this small scale I experienced no difficulty in forming
  good ripplemarks varying in size from £th of an inch to 4 inches
  from crest to crest.    The tank was commonly arranged as follows : —
  The sand was so piled up at one end that the waves when generated
  would quickly tear down what they wanted for a strand on which to
  break, and from that strand outwards the amount of sand used was
  regulated by the depth of water required for each experiment.       The
  further end of the tank where the waves were generated was kept free
  from sand so as to have the greatest available depth of water, gene
  rally about 9 inches. The waves were generated by a vertical dis
  placement of the water, either by means of a V-shaped trough worked
  by hand or by means of a semi-cylindrical block of wood worked by a
  small model steam-engine.
     The following five experiments will show how very rapidly ripple
 marks can be formed.
     (1.) Waves 60 per minute, height trough to crest about 1^ inches.
 Result, 1£ inch ripples in water 2 and 3 inches in depth.
     (2.) Waves 115 per minute, height not measured.       Result, £ inch
 ripples well developed in. 2 inch water, and discernible down to 3^
 inches deep.
     (3.) Waves 23 per minute, height not measured.     Result, the small
 ripplemarks now effaced and replaced by others 1^ inch in size.
     In  the above cases the experiments lasted exactly one minute each.
     (4.) Agitated the water at the centre of the tank, gradually getting
 up an even swing of 13 to the minute. The time was taken after the
 water was iu full swing, and the experiment may have lasted one
 minute and a half.        Result, ripplemarks were now more or less
 developed over the whole bottom, the largest being 3 inches in length.
    (5.) The beach was now removed and the sand levelled over the
 whole tank. The water was disturbed with an even swing as much
as possible.    It rebounded from end to end, and dashed over the two
ends, which in this experiment were 5 inches above the water-line.
The sand being completely stirred up was left a night to settle, and
the next day the water being still turbid, it was drawn off. Result,
the bottom proved to be strongly but unevenly rippled all over with
ripples varying in size from less than 1 inch to over 4 inches ; the
greatest depression being about £ inch from trough to crest.      In one
case a set of ripples had been formed exactly at right angles to a
larger set which was nearly obliterated by them.

>>                                     Mr. A. R. Hunt.                   [Apr. 20,
     In   a paper published in 1859,* Mr. H. 0. Sorby, F.R.S., showed
how currents flowing in one direction form the kind of ripplemark or
current mark termed by him " rippledrift ;" but, as the currents that
form the ripplemarks on the sea-shore 'are alternate and set up no
drifting action in the ordinary sense of the word, it seems to me
important to distinguish between the current mark that can be seen
occasionally on the bottom of running water and the marine ripple-
mark that differs from           it,
                              both as to its origin and as to its effect.        I
believe the symmetrical ripplemark of the sea-shore cannot be formed
by   acontinuous current, and that whether recent or fossil               as
                                                                           it   is
certain an indication of an alternate wave current as the "ripple
drift "    of a continuous current. Both of these current marks can
          is
be readily formed in a round tub of water with a little sand on the
bottom.     If the water be rotated constant-current ripples or " ripple
      "
drift are formed if the tub be carefully rocked symmetrical alter
                        :
nate-current ripples shortly appear.
   My experiments having satisfied my mind that ripplemark can be
formed on sandy bottoms by slight oscillation of the water,
                                         a                             took
                                                                          I
au early opportunity of visiting the shores of Torbay, between Torquay
and Livermead Point, for the purpose of ascertaining definitely
whether the size and direction of natural ripplemarks bore any rela
tion to the force and direction of the wind.      The day selected was the
21st January, 1882, after a week of calm weather, accompanied by tho
highest recorded rise of the barometer in Britain.        There had been
very little wind for days, but a slight swell on the 20th, and very low
tides promised      well-rippled beach for the 21st.
                    a
   On reaching the sands under Sulyarde Terrace, observed that they
                                                                 I
were covered with the most perfect and symmetrical ripplemarks from
the south-west, the only direction from which          swell from the sea
                                                                 a
could reach them, as the new pier protects that part of the shore from
waves coming from any point more to the southward.              Proceeding
thence along the sands in a westerly direction,       saw the ripplemarks
                                                                 I
gradually getting effaced, until at a point opposite the Belgrave Road
they were completely obliterated, excepting in pools and depressions in
the sand, where they were as perfect as before.       At this point, which
is not protected by the pier and       exposed to the open sea, the direc
                                                is
tion of the ripples was south-south-east (S.S.E.). In one of the pools
they measured       6 inches from ridge to ridge, and the ridges were
sharply   defined  and  perfectly angular. Under the Corbons, on a little
beach between the rocks, there were some very perfect ripples 13 inches
between ridges, and     inches in vertical height.
                            If                      Passing on to the
next beach, Livermead Sands,            large area of sand covered by
                                         I   found    a
perfect 6-inch ripples from the south-east, which in their turn were
      " On tho Structures
                          produced by the Currents present during    the Deposition
 *
of Stratified Rocks."       " The
                                  Geologist,"    1859, p. 817.

1882.]               On  the Formation   of Ripplemark.                   7
crossed by 2-inch ripples from the north-east. The explanation of these
cross ripples was ciear.     A portion of the sands was raised to such an
extent that on the tide retiring an island was formed for a short time.
The 6-inch ripples owed their origin to the swell from the south-east,
whilst all the sands were covered, whereas the 2-inch ripples owed
theirs to the water running in and out at the back of the emerged
sandbank at right angles to the direction of the main swell.
   On the 23rd January I went over the same ground again, with the
following results.    Under Sulyarde Terrace I again found the ripples
coming from the south-west.       Under the Belgrave Road their direc
tion was due south, well developed on flats, but obliterated on slopes
towards the sea. In the " submerged forest" clay was a round pool,
15 feet in diameter, with its bottom covered with 5-inch ripples from
the south-by-east (S.b.E.), crossed by l£-inch ripples from east-by-
uorth (E.b.N.)      This was owing to the southern side of the pool
drying   before the eastern. On a small beach between the rocks, at the
western ends of the sands, under the Great Western Hotel, the ripples,
of different sizes but averaging about 3 inches, came as nearly as pos
sible from the south-east.      Under the Corbons Head      I again found
the large ripples, the largest being 14 inches between ridges and
2 inches high ; they were composed of sand, coarser than at Torre
Abbey, and broken shells.      At the east end of Livermead Sands there
was again an extensive low bank, with pools on the landward side.
On the bank were 3-inch ripples from the S.K., gradually obliterated
towards low-water mark, where the sand was quite smooth.             One of
the back pools   was  covered  with  perfect ripples, varying in size from
2 inches   (by estimation, as they were inaccessible) to 17 inches by
measurement.      Direction of all, south-east.    The landward slope of
the sand-bank was covered with ripples from the south-east, crossed at
different places by others from the north-eastward and eastward.         At
the west end of the Livermead Sands were some large, but not per
fectly preserved,   ripples, 22 inches    long  between ridges and     over
3 inches high.
   These observations prove that ripplemarks are independent of the
direct action of wind, for on two separate occasions the Torre Abbey
and Livermead Sands could furnish at the same time ripples coming
from all points, from south-west to north-east (on the eastern side).
They also show what a complicated problem is that of the size of
ripplemarks, and how little the geologist can gather from mere size,
for on the same beach were ripples ranging from 1^ inches to 22 inches,
and in one small pool almost every size was represented between
2 inches and 17 inches.
   Having shown that the conditions requisite for the formation of
ripplemarks are alternating currents on a mobile bottom, I will pro
ceed to show that there is good evidence that alternating currents and

 8                             Mr. A: K. Hunt.                    [Apr. 20,
 therefore ripplemarks, occur at much greater depths than is commonly
 supposed.'   To do this I must prove that there is occasionally motion
 at the bottom of the sea, and that this motion does not arise from
 continuous, but from alternate, currents.
   I will commence with a simple case, one that I have studied for many
years, viz., Torbay.     This bay is an inlet rather more than 4 miles in
breadth and over 3 in depth, carved out of Devonian and Triassic
rocks of varying degrees of hardness, and open to the south-east.         In
its centre there is a level area of about 5 square miles, round which a
line can be drawn so as to include every 6-fathom sounding and to
exclude every other.       The bottom over this area consists superficially
of a very fine  sand,  of  which a sample taken at any spot will represent
the whole.     After heavy easterly gales,   as has been already stated, the
water is very turbid, and the slushy bottom occasionally becomes
harder. The level surface of the bottom, the uniformity of its mate
rial, the alteration in its character after gales, and the turbidity of the
water, all point to one conclusion, viz., that storm waves materially
affect the bed of the bay.      To the intensity of this action the fauna
also bears witness.       Shells that inhabit the 5- and 6-fathom areas,
such as Thracia convexa and Cardium aculeatum are occasionally
washed ashore from considerable distances.          A valve of a full-grown
Thracia convexa, picked up on Paignton Sands, was some 3,000 yards
distant from the only spot where, to my knowledge, that mollusc has
been taken alive in Torbay.         Specimens of Cardium aculeatum are
occasionally   washed   ashore  and  sometimes in vast numbers, but they
are invariably denuded of their spines.          Even though not washed
ashore, thousands are sometimes rolled and killed in the 6-fathom
area, whilst those that survive testify to the severity of the ordeal
passed through by the damage done to their shells, and by the repairs
effected.   The contrast between the old shell denuded of spines and
the rim of new growth with spines perfect is often very marked.           In
one specime i in the museum of the Torquay Natural History Society
half the shell is quite smooth and the other half furnished with perfect
spines.' There are very few genera of molluscs, whether bivalve or
univalve, that inhabit the 6-fathom area of Torbay, provided their
shells are not internal, whose shells do not occasionally bear upon them
the marks of a struggle for existence, more or less severe, with the
storm waves of Torbay.
   The marks of damage to which          I allude, when severe, cannot be
mistaken for lines indicating cessation of growth from change of tem
perature, lack of food, or other such cause; they do not indicate
merely a check in the formation of new shell, but in very many cases
the destruction of the old.        Nor are these marks confined to indi
vidual shells alone, for they are often common to whole colonies
together.    If a single cardium be found, with the new shell growing

   1882.]              On the Formation         of Ripplemurk.                   9
  out from under the old, owing to the edges having been too much
  damaged to admit of continuous shell formation, it may be couteuded
  that the individual mollusc had met with some special accident, but
 when hundreds of cockles are dredged together, showing the same
  marks of damage, repair, and subsequent growth, it is impossible to
  escape from the conclusion that they were all subjected together to
  some serious disturbance of their beds.
      In a paper read to the Devonshire Association, in 1S78,* showed,  I
  from the data furnished me by Lord Rayleigh, that on the 6-fathom
  area in Torbay a wave 300 feet long and three feet above mean level,
 if such ever occurred, would cause an alternating current at the bottom
 with a maximum speed of 3 feet per second. On two occasions
 (22nd October, 1880, and 4th April, 1881), since then, during easterly
 gales,   I have observed waves with a period of 8} seconds, and on one
 occasion, viz., on the 19th October, 1881, waves with a period of
 8 seconds.      On the last occasion, as has been already stated, I was
 able, by means of known marks to measure both the wave-length and
 speed.     The length where measured proved to be 27b feet and the
 speed 660 yards per minute, but as the waves, before reaching tho
 shore had to traverse about 1,000 yards of water less than 6 fathoms
 in depth, their length in midbay probably did not fall short of
 300 feet.     Their height I had no means of measuring, but at the low
 computation of one- thirtieth the wave-length, it would be 10 feet, or
 5 feet above mean level.     t
     Leaving    Torbay,    with its comparatively shallow water,          I  will
 proceed to examine the evidence of disturbance at the bottom, in the
 deeper waters of the English Channel.              The evidence at hand is of a
varied     nature, and  includes     the   testimony borne by the character of
 the bottom itself, by valves           of shells and other inanimate objects
 dredged up, by the character of the fauna, and by experienced fisher
 men.
     In April, 1880, a large earthenware jar was brought up in the
                                                 " about
trawl of the Brixham smack " Pelican                      20 miles south-east of
the Start point, where the depth, according to the chart, is about 36 or
 37 fathoms.
     Mr. Pengelly, F.R.S., has described this jar with its contents (as
received at Torquay) of half-a-pint of sand and gravel, and from the
fact that " the whole surface of the bottom, as well as about fully one-
half of the entire lateral surface " was covered with marine organisms
and that the jar was not abraded, arrived at the conclusion " that the
    * " Trans. Dev. Assoc.," vol. x, p. 192.
    t On the 25th October, when the weather had moderated, H.M.S. " Inflexible "
left Plymouth for Gibraltar. On her arrival there, Captain Fisher reported having
encountered waves 300 feet in length ani 24 feet in height. — (" Western Morning
News.")

10                                 Mr. A. R. Hunt.                               [Apr. 20,
jar underwent little or no movement after reaching the sea bottom
           that there was very little movement of the gravel there," and
that   " of storm-wave movement there could have been none, and of
tidal-wave movement very little."* This reasoning seemed to me very
difficult to turn aside, until          I
                                    was told by one of the crew of the
"Pelican" that the jar contained a quantity of gravel, and that it
could scarcely have moved, being so weighted.       This point seems to
me of so much importance that I recently requested Mr. Hayden, the
captain of the "Pelican," who did not remember the circumstance,
to make further enquiry of the second hand, who had given me the
information.      He replied as follows : —
                                        " Brixham, Feb. 16th, 1882.
   " Deae Sir, — I have been
                              speaking to Mr. Dyer about the jar that
we caught, and he says he remembers very well about         and that       it,             it
was nearly full of very dirty gravel     and    think the jar did not
                                                   ;        I
move on the bottom     when the bottom gets disturbed
                           ;                                 must have     it
washed in the jar. Please to excuse my writing to you only       thought         I
you would like to know.       have got a few shells, and
                                 I                         hope by the     I
time Mr. Baynes comes over again        shall have
                                              I       basketful. — Froma
J. Hayden, Master of smack Pelican.'   '
     "Ithink the gravel must have been in the jar a very long time,
owing to its being so dirty."
I     have ascertainedby measurement that when the jar    laid on its       is
side, the lower internal lip of the neck    inches above the surface
                                                       is   9^
on which the    jar resting. The internal diameter of the neck
                      is                                            less              is
than inches.
      2         Through this small hole the gravel that filled    must               it
have found its way; but for     to do this,
                                       it     was absolutely necessary,
                                                        it
either    by
          the motion of the empty jar, or of the gravel, or of both, to
get rid of the    inches of space that, during times of quiescence, lay
                 9£
between them.
   Then, again, when found, the jar was half buried in gravel, and
this fact also proves sufficient motion at the bottom in 86 fathoms of
water to move gravel whose character has been described by Mr.
                                              "
Pengelly, from the sample left in the jar, as sub-angular and rounded
stones, the largest of which scarcely exceeded a hazel nut in size."
The fact that the jar was half-buried is of importance, as        proves         it
motion of the bottom itself, and        not liable to the objection that
                                              is
might possibly be raised (though there       strong evidence to the con
                                                       is
trary) that the jar was full of gravel when lost.
   The evidence of motion afforded by the character of the marine
fauna,    considered in detail, would require more space than can be
          if
                      *    " Trans. Dev. Assoc.," vol. xii, p.   7G.

 1882.]             On the Formation        of Ripplemark.                 11
 afforded  in the present    paper.    A    very  cursory glance at it must
suffice.
    The character of the fauna of the littoral zone is such that it can
be seen at a glance that the chief enemy that has to be contended
against is the wash of the waves. Molluscs and crustaceans living on
rocks are specially adapted to cling tightly to those rocks, whereas
 those living on sand have the power of burrowing in the sand.
 Where the ground is solid, as in the case of rocks, the animals living
on it trust to their powers of holding on or of boring into it ; where
the ground is unstable the animals that frequent it trust to their
powers of rapidly shifting their positions. Of the former class the
limpet is a good example ; of the latter the common razor fish. But
if the mollusca of the littoral zone are specially adapted to resist the
wash of the waves that would drive them high and dry on shore, it is
equally true that many 6f those living in the laminarian and coralline
 zones are wonderfully provided against their special danger, viz., the
 alternate swing of the waves on the bottom.           Living as they do con
tinuously    under  water,   their   shells  are  free   to assume the most
elaborate sculpture and form, from which the littoral shells are pre
cluded, owing to a compulsory cessation of growth twice a day by
 retreat of the tide. In many cases the development of the lip, or of
 the sculpture in the form of spines, supplies exactly what the animal
wants, viz., a broad base for a sandy bottom.          By the kindness of the
 Rev.  A. Cook  I have been   able  to experiment     with  a few winged and
spined shells from different parts of the world.              One experiment
 with a Murez monodon     from   Australia,    a Pteroceras  lambis from the
 East Indies, a Strvmbus tricornis from the Red Sea, and four speci
 mens of Aporrhais pes pelecani from Torbay was very instructive.
 Placing them all on their backs in my tank, I succeeded on one
occasion in fifteen seconds in restoring them all to their proper posi
tions, simply by swinging the water in the tank. Owing to the
weight of the foreign shells some difficulty was experienced in getting
them in motion, and moreover, with the exception of the Aporrhais
and Pteroceras, they were not particularly suitable for the experiment,
as they had not wings or spines very largely developed.
    In the case of the extremely long spined murex, M. tenuispina,
though the spines offer great resistance to the animal being overturned,
they do not afford any assistance to the animal to recover its balance
when once it has lost it. In the best examples of winged and spinous
shells, such as Aporrhais and Pteroceras, the alternate current requisite
to upset them is very much more powerful than one sufficient to
restore them to their normal position.
    As Aporrhais pes pelecani is a beautiful instance of a gasteropod
proof against moderate wave action, so the common Pecteii maximus is
a good example of like protection among the bivalves.            Owing to one

 12                            Mr. A. R. Hunt.                     [Apr. 20,
valve    being flat and the other curved it follows that a slight dis
turbance of the water will place it in a stable position.      I find that it
is quite easy to roll over a full grown P. maximus in my small tank
if resting on the convex valve, but to dislodge it when resting on the
flat valve transcends the power of any current I can bring to bear
upon it.      Owing to the rejection by naturalists of the theory of
submarine wave-motion, the fact that certain parasitic sea anemones,
such as Adamsia palliata and Sagariia paras-ica, commonly choose a
shell tenanted by a hermit crab (pagurus) has been a matter of some
perplexity. But, given the submarine wave action, and the problem
finds its solution. The crab keeps the shell from rolling, and the
anemone from being killed.        I have taken many young specimens of
 Sagartia parasitica on living shells of Turritella terebra, but from the
 state in which I have seen shells of this mollusc damaged by rolling,
1 cannot conceive the possibility of the young anemones having much
chance of surviving the first severe storm. The protection afforded
by hermit crabs is no matter of fancy, as anyone can see by gently
rocking the water in an aquarium, tenanted by hermit crabs, on a
 sandy bottom.       If the crab happens to be in his shell, the first
impulse is to dart out his legs and claws, and hold on to the sand on
 as broad    a base  as possible.   His cousin, the swimming crab (por-
 tuuus), under similar circumstances        will burrow, or, if finally dis
lodged by     the  shifting of the  sand, will dart upwards into the water
 to escape the commotion. Many of the small fishes, crustaceans, and
molluscs that frequent the 6-fathom area of Torbay seem quite on
 their guard, and prompt in their action when disturbed by oscillating
currents in a small aquarium.
    Want of space precludes the possibility of pursuing this branch of
my subject further, and compels me to turn to the uext question, viz.,
the evidence afforded by the shells of molluscs of motion on the sea
floor.
    I  have assumed that wave        action on the bottom    of Torbay will
scarcely be denied, and have passed lightly the evidence of the Torbay
shells.    It now remains to consider the evidence of those found in
deeper waters.      Among the shells sent me by fishermen who have
taken them on the oyster ground off the mouth of Torbay, in about
15 fathoms, have been several specimens of Trochus granulatus,            an
inhabitant of the coralline     zone.   On  a  careful examination  of eight
of these shells, it appears that not one of them has escaped rough
treatment more than once in the course of its life, and that one of
them has had to repair serious damages nine times, over and above
any slight abrasion that did not suffice to interfere with the sculpture
and regular growth of the shell.           On the 10th February, 1882, I
bought three scallops (Pecten maximus)             at a fishmonger's shop,
where I was informed they had all been taken off Berry Head on the

1882.]                  On  the Formation    of Ripplemark.                       13
previous day. Two of them were nearly the same size and showed
several marks of interrupted growth ; one of the marks was quite
unmistakeable, when the shells were about 1^ inches long.                          I
measured each of the convex valves of these pectens independently,
recording the size of each when the interruptions to growth occurred.
The lengths of each were as follows, measured in inches and six
teenths  : —
                                                            No.  1.        No. 2
     Growth checked when the length of shell was 1TV                 . -
                                                                            1*
               it                ii               tt         2i$     - -    2-i|
               n                 it              tt          3*      - -
                                                                            H
                M                it              ii          3*      , '
                                                                            H
               it                tt              »           3H      - '    m
               tt                tt               M          4         .    4
               it                M               ii          4j      .
                                             Total length    4^      . -
                                                                            *A
The interest in these pectens lies in the correspondence            of their lines
of arrested       growth,  which    have clearly been  caused   by  some    external
agent common to both shells, and are not due to any idiosyncracy.
Taken separately both shells are inferior as examples of arrested
growth to the specimen of Pecten maximus figured by Mr. Jeffrej's on
Plate XXV of his " British Conchology."
   On the 3rd of March I received the parcel of shells referred to in
                        They were taken whilst the crew of the
                                                                         " Pelican "
Hayden's letter.
were pursuing their ordinary avocation of fishing, and their collection
was spread over a considerable time.           The exact locality whence came
each shell cannot of course be specified, but it so happens that with
              I
the shells received fragments of three of the Channel stones, which
the crew of the
                      "
                         Pelican " have been in the habit of sending me for
some years past.          These stones give us a clue as to the depth of
water where the vessel had been fishing. One stone was taken 18 or
20 miles S.S.E. of the Start, another 20 miles S. of the Eddystone,
and the third 15 miles S.E. of the Start.            The depth of water at the
places indicated is (according to the chart) 38, 41, and 36 fathoms
respectively, giving an average of over 38 fathoms.              The majority of
these shells bear on them marks of arrested growth, not, as a rule, so
decided as those from shallower water, but in many cases quite un
mistakeable.        Some details of the collection are given in the follow
ing table   : —

14                             Mr. A. R. Hunt.                         [Apr. 20,
                                   Showing         Not showing
                                                                   Total number
                                   arrested      arrested growth
                                                                   of specimens.
                                    growth.        or doubtful.
                                       22                 3              25
                                         6              . ,               6
                                         2                                2
                                         2                2               4
                                         2                2               4
                                         1                                1
                                       . .                1               1
                                         8                6              14
                                         2                1               3
                                         1              . .               1
                                       . .                1               1
                                                          1               1
                                         4                2               6
                                         3                5               8
                                                          2               2
                                         5                1               6
                                       58               27               85
  Without pretending to affirm that all the          cases  of arrested    growth
are due to wave action,   it seems to me a significant fact that out of a
miscellaneous parcel    of shells from the Channel fishing ground, C8
per cent, should show signs of damage caused by some agent external
to themselves.    Notes on the above shells would be out of place here,
but it may be pointed out that the oftentimes damaged state of such
a sedentary mollusc as Capulus hungaricus may be owing to the fact
that it is frequently found attached to pinna, and that pinna is one of
the shells frequently found damaged.          The frontispiece to Mr. Gwyn
           second           of his " British                  "
Jeffreys'         volume                       Conchology        depicts a pinna
that has received a decided check to its growth, but by no means a
severe one.
   Having    shown   that disturbance of the bottom is evidenced at
depths of   a few fathoms by the visible turbidity of the water, and at
greater   depths by the damage done to shells and by the special pro
vision in their habits and structure to withstand such action, I now
turn to the evidence of nautical men as to the existence of submarine
wave action, and as to the actual dangers to which vessels are exposed
owing to the effects of such action.              My first witness will be
G. Hayden, the skipper of the Brixham trawler " Pelican/' and
though his evidence amounts to little more than the expression of his
opinion, it is the opinion of a man thoroughly acquainted with the
subject under consideration.          I    submitted to him the following
queries, to which he appended his replies and attested them by his
signature : —
   (1.) Do you think the bottom on the fishing grounds off the Start

1882.]                 On the Formation       of Ripplemaik.                      15
is affected by heavy gales      ? — Yes ;  I  think the ground is very much
disturbed by heavy gales.
   (2.) Do yon find the fish act differently after gales, i.e., swim higher
                  I
or lie closer ? — think that fish are affected during the gale, but that
after the gale they resume their usual habits.
                                                                   " Celtic," writes
   Captain Kiddle, of the White Star steamer
                                       "
(" Nat.," vol. 18, p. 108) that On George's Shoals, off Nantucket,
during a heavy gale, the New York pilots and masters of coasting
vessels assert that sand is frequently, left on deck after a sea has
broken on board, although the depth of water may be 12 or 14
fathoms                      The shortness of the sea on the banks of
Newfoundland, where the soundings are from 30 to 50 fathoms, is
noticed by all the navigators of the Western Atlantic, as it reduces
the speed of an ocean steamer more than the heavier waves of deeper
water will do                     In the gulf stream north of the Straits of
Bemine, after a " norther
                                " has blown a few
                                                           hours, the surface of the
sea is covered with lanes of weed, although only a few patches might
have been seen before the commencement of the gale."
    Before passing on, it will be well to point out that the disturbance
of the bottom on the banks of Newfoundland has strong zoological
evidence in its favour. Mr. J. Gwyn Jeffreys, F.R.S., writes as
follows of the bivalve Mya truncata. " The cod on the North American
fishing banks seem to be equally fond of this mollusc ; but it is not
so easy to say how they procure it. Mifa truncata is often buried from
 8 to 10 inches below the sea-bottom ; and it does not seem to be
 capable of changing its habitation."*
    Now, I have taken this very mollusc alive in Torbay after easterly
 gales, and I have taken fiat fish that have been feeding on Cardium
 aculeatiim killed by heavy seas.          If channel seas can dislodge Mifa
 truncata from its deep burrow in Torbay, there is every probability
 that Atlantic seas will dislodge it occasionally on the banks of New
 foundland. The seaman's assertion solves the problem that has per
 plexed the naturalist, and the fact observed and recorded by the
 naturalist strongly corroborates the statement and conclusion of the
 sailor.
    The evidence hitherto adduced goes far to prove that at depths of
 about 40 fathoms in the English Channel and of 50 on the Banks o-
 Newfoundland there is not only motion at the bottom, but strong
 motion, far exceeding the gentle oscillation of the water that is sufficient
 to ripple a sandy sea- bed. According to Sir Charles Lyell, quoting from
 the "Encyclopaedia Britannica," a current of but 6 inches per second
 will suffice to raise fine sand.f This no donbt refers to constant
 currents, as it is far in excess of what is sufficient in the case of alter-
               • " British Conoholjgv,"   vol. iii, p. 69.
                 "
               t    Principles of Geology," vol. i, p. 348, 10th edition.

 Ill                          Mr. A. R. Hunt.                     [Apr. 20.
nate currents.     I found on trial with a small glass aqnarium, contain
ing tine blown sand, that an alternating current passing over a space
of 2 inches 120 times per minute strongly rippled tho sand with
ripples varying in size from one inch downwards. Thus an average
speed of 4 inches per second sufficed to form ripples so large as one
inch from ridge to ridge. It is clear that a much slower current would
still suffice to produce smaller ripples.
     It would be a matter of great interest to know at what depth an
Atlantic wave would set up an alternating current of 4 inches per
second, for, whatever the depth, it would fall short of that at which
ripplemarks might be formed.
     Although the question of the relation of current action to depth of
water, and to height and length of wave, is ono that must be left to
the mathematician, and is one with which        I cannot pretend to grapple,
the following experiments, though on a small scale, may be worth
recording : —
     Dried peas placed on a glass plate in a slight depression on a sandy
bottom in 6-inch water were rolled off by waves about 12 inches long,
and about 1 inch high.       Although the motion was due to the waves,
 the fact that the peas were ultimately rolled off the plate was due to
the difficulty of getting the glass perfectly level under water.      Shorter
waves 1£ inches high had much less effect on them.              A little sand
that had collected on the glass was beautifully rippled with J inch
ripples ; these were dried and varnished. As it was difficult to discern
slight motion of any object owing to the undulation of the water, I
proceeded to make a rough indicator, whereby a varie of thin wood
placed at the bottom at right angles to the course of the waves would
communicate a multiplied motion to a long light needle above the
surface.
     With this rongh machine    I tried the following experiments: —
      (1 .) Water, 8 inches ; to top of vane, 7 inches.      Waves, 90 per
minute; motion by indicator very marked.
      (2.) Waves, 115 per minute, half inch high ; motion doubtful.
     (3.) Waves, 80 per minute, 1 inch high; motion at bottom very
strong ; index striking both checks.
     (4.) Waves, 80 to 90 per minute § of an inch high ; motion at
bottom strong.
     This last experiment was an unintentional one. The larger waves
had made a strand for themselves, and I found that by reducing the
displacement of the wave generator, I could make smaller waves that,
 without altering the mean level of the water, rippled the lower part
of the former strand which they by their smaller reflux failed to
uncover.      Thus by a slight alteration of adjustment of the generator,
 I could, by varying the height of the waves, form or destroy ripple
marks at pleasure.       Whilst making these experiments, I chanced to

 1882.]              On  the Formation of Ripplemark-                     17
reduce the number of the low waves to between 80 and 90 per minute.
These, though barely over     J of an inch in height, immediately affected
the submerged vane, and the motion of the index attracted my eye,
though I was not attending to it. On a subsequent occasion I found
that waves between 80 and 90 per minute, and only £ of an inch high,
moved the index at a depth of 6^ inches, and moved flocculent matter
on the sandy bottom at a depth of 7\ inches.
   In this experiment motion at the bottom was obtained when the
depth was 62 times the height of the wave, though small in propor
tion to the wave-length.
   If the evidence of the existence of alternate currents on the floor of
shallow seas is strong; the evidence that the currents of power
sufficient to roll and damage shells, are not constant currents, is still
stronger.     Molluscs, such as pinna, and mya, that have little, if any,
powers   of  locomotion,   could not coexist with currents capable of
transporting in any quantity, even fine sand. They would perish,
either from the destruction of their beds by the removal of the sand,
or from fresh material being piled on top of them.               Mr. Godwin
Austen   has  well said, that a
                                "                   "
                                  drift-sand zone is wholly unfitted for
marine life.* Bnt it is the drifting sand that is fatal, not the mere
fact that the drift sand zone is the one that " comes within the range
of the tidal and wave disturbance of the water." Off Paignton Sands
in Torbay, the very zone described by Mr. Godwin Austen abounds in
Cardium tuberculatum and Donax vittatus, but owing to the fact that
the sands are open to heavy seas from one quarter only, they cannot
drift, and the shells mentioned, as a rule survive the attacks of the
waves, though many individuals succumb.
   As ripple marks are formed under water, so also they can be pre
served under water ; and they are more likely to be there preserved than
on a sea beach, where on the retreat of the tide, they are liable to be
effaced by the very swell that has formed them.
   In the case of a lake or sea, subject to slight changes of level, with
a river running into it carrying mud or sand, we have all the con
ditions necessary for the formation and preservation of ripplemark.
An occasional swell from the lake will ripple the submerged sand in
the vicinity of the accumulating deposits brought down by the stream,
and these will quietly cover up the ripples without effacing them.        A
slight rise in the level of the lake will shift the area of deposition
further up the stream, and the bed that covered the ripples will in
course of time be itself rippled, and in its turn covered up.        In this
manner a series of ripplemarks and beds of mud or sand often " false-
bedded," may be rapidly formed, and in the case of increase of current
as rapidly destroyed.
   Ripples that have been left bare by the retreating tide, or possibly
               • "Natural History of the Huropean Seas," p. 2S3.
   V0L. XIXIV.                                                     C

 18                              Dr. Tyndall.                        [Apr. 20,
 by the sinking waters of an inland lake or sea, may often be distinguished
from those that have been formed and preserved under water.                The
former are usually imperfect through loss of their sharp ridges.*
 Occasionally in addition to this they form natural channels for surface
 drainage, and whilst their ridges are levelled, their furrows are
 deepened.      This fact seems to be referred to by Dr. Geikie, in the
 third edition of his " Manual of Geology," where he points out, that
owing to the ridges of fossil ripplemarks being often broad and
equable while the intermediate furrow has a little channel ; a cast
can be distinguished from an original rippled surface, by the channel
in the original surface producing a sharp little crest on the cast
 ("Man. Geol.," Jukes and Geikie, p. 172, 3rd Ed.).
    The points that I have endeavoured to establish in the foregoing
pages may be briefly recapitulated as follows :— Marine ripplemarks
are formed by alternate currents set up by waves.           Experiments with
short high waves      on a  small  scale  prove strong action at a depth of
half the wave-length, whilst the evidence of the marine fauna, and the
testimony of nautical men go far to prove that ooean and channel
waves strongly affect the sea bottom to at least the same relative
depth.     The depth at which proof of wave action can be forthcoming
falls far short of that at which fine deposits can be rippled by currents
incapable of leaving permanent traces in the damage done to shells.
    It is scarcely necessary to point out that the subject treated of in
the present paper, namely, the formation of ripplemark, is only one
branch of a far wider and more important one, which for the sake of
brevity,   I have as much as possible kept in the hack ground, namely,
that   of submarine   denudation.
II. "Note      on General Duane's Soundless Zones."              By Dr. John
             Tyndall, F.R.S.         Received March 21, 1882.
    In reference to one of the powerful fog- whistles established on the
coast of Maine, General Duane remarks as follows : — "The most per
plexing difficulties, however, arise from the fact that the signal often
appears to be surrounded by a belt varying in radius from 1 to 1^
mile from which the sound appears to be entirely absent.              Thus, in
moving directly from a station the sound is audible for the distance of
 a mile, is then lost for about the same distance, after which it is again
distinctly heard for a long time. This action is common to all ear-
   * For an illustration of the former class see plate facing page 170 of "The
World's Foundations," by Miss Agnes Giberne ; and, for an illustration of the
latter, see page 19 of Sir Charles Lyell's " Elements of Geology," 6th Edition.
A.R.H., 4th May, 1882.

1882.J         Note on General Duane's Soundless Zones.                1<>
signals, and has been at times observed at all the stations, at one of
which the signal is situated on a bare rock 20 miles from the main
land, with no surrounding objects to affect the sound."
                          I
   For a long time past, have thought that this disappearance of the
sound was due to the interference with the direct waves, of waves
reflected from the surface of the sea. This explanation is capable of
very accurate experimental illustration.         Placing, for instance, a
sensitive flame at a distance of 3. or 4 feet from a sounding reed, the
Hame exhibits the usual agitation. Lifting a light plank between the
flame and reed, a position is easily attained where the sound, reflected
from the plank, increases the flame's agitation. Lifting the plank
cautiously still higher, a level is attained, reflection from which com
pletely stills the flame. By slightly raising or lowering the plank, or
by its entire removal, the flame is once more agitated.          In these
experiments a high pitched reed was used, so that it was easy to
produce by the motion of the plank the retardation of half a wave
length requisite for interference.
   In General Duane's case, a fairly smooth sea would be required for
the reflection ; while the position of the zone of silence would be
determined by the height of the signal on the one hand and the
height of the observer on the other above the surface of the sea. Tho
position would also, of course, depend on the pitch of the note of the
whistle.
   The preparation of some lectures on the " Resemblances of Sound,
Light, and Heat," has recently brought this subject to mind, hence
the present communication.

 20                             Mr.  J. N. Langley.                        [Apr. 27,
                                    April 27, 1882.
                         THE PRESIDENT in            the Chair.
    The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered for
 them.
    The Right Hon. Lord Bramwell and Dr. Ramsay H. Traquair were
 admitted into the Society.
    The following Papers were read : —
L " On the Attitudes of Animals in Motion."                        By Eadweard
      Mutbridge, of Palo Alto, California. Communicated by
      The President. Received April 20, 1882.
II.  " Preliminary Account of the Structure of the Cells of the
      Liver, and the Changes which take place in them under
      Various Conditions."            By J. N. Langley, M.A., Fellow of
      Trinity College, Cambridge.                   Communicated by Dr.
      Michael Foster, Sec. R.S. Received April 24, 1882.
   I have   examined      the structure of the liver-cells in the frog, toad,
newt, the common snake, the grey lizard, the roach and smelt, the
pigeon, and various mammals.            In all these the " resting " liver cells
have the following common points of structure.
   The protoplasm is arranged in the form of a network or honeycomb,
the meshes or spaces of which are in all parts of the cell of much the
same size ; the outer parts of the cell are formed of a thin layer of
slightly modified protoplasm with which, however, the network is
continuous.
   The spaces of the protoplasmic network are occupied by paraplasm
or interfibril'ar substance, consisting of (1) spherical granules, pro
bably proteid in nature ; (2) spherical globules of fat ; (3) hyaline sub
stance, tilling up the spaces not occupied by the granules or globules.
This substance consists partly of glycogen and in part probably of a
proteid.
   This description differs in several points from those given by pre
vious observers.        The account given by Klein* resembles it more
             •        '*
               Klein,    Quart. Joura. Med. Sc.," N.S., xix, p. 911, 1879.

  1882.]         On the  Structure   of   the  Cells of the Liver.         21
  nearly than any other.    Klein described the liver-cells of mammals as
 consisting of a protoplasmic network and of a hyaline interfibrillar
 substance ; any apparent granules present he considered to be nodal
 points of the network. In preparations made after Klein's methods
 the granules are in fact 'with difficulty, or not at all, to be made out.
 They are, however, very obvious in fresh teased or in osmic acid
 specimens, especially in such specimens of the liver of the mole.
    Previous to Klein's account of the mammalian liver-cells, Kupffer*
 described the liver-cells of the frog as consisting of a protoplasmic
 network and of hyaline paraplasm.            He figures the network as being
 very irregular,  with  small   granules     in its bars, as being completely
 absent from considerable portions of the cell, and as having much finer
 meshes in the outer part of the cell around the nucleus.            Kupffer's
 observations were made upon the tissue treated with osmic acid or
 with 10 per ceut. salt solution and iodine. In sections of a frog's liver
 hardened in osmic acid I find the cells to consist of a slightly stained
 mass, in which granules and fat globules are imbedded. Treatment
 with other reagents shows that this slightly stained mass really consists
 of a network, and interfibrillar substance, the latter not in a granular
form, but occupying the spaces in the network unoccupied by the
granules and globules.      If the liver is exposed for some time before it
is placed in osmic acid, the granules are no longer distinct; an irregular
network-like structure is formed out of them. This may possibly be
the network of Kupffer. Further, in the liver-cells of a healthy, hungry
 (not fasting) frog the protoplasmic network stretches fairly equally
throughout all parts of the cell ; in winter frogs which have long
fasted (cf. below, p. 22) the network has wider spaces and thinner
bars in one part of the cell than in the other; but then the wider
meshes are found in the outer, and not in the inner part of the cell
and are not absent from any cell region.                Lastly, in osmic acid
specimens of such cells the outer parts appear homogeneous, except for
fat globules, the inner zone is crowded with distinct granules.
   Hence it is obvious that the network of protoplasm and the para
plasm described by Kupffer do not in the least correspond to the net
work of protoplasm and interfibrillar substance described by myself.
Whilst the liver-cells of all classes of vertebrates which I have exa
mined have the above-mentioned common characters in the "resting"
state, they have certain minor distinguishing characters in each class,
depending chiefly upon the size of the cells and their nuclei, the posi
tion of the nuclei, and the relative amount of the various cell-
constitnents present.     Of these, however, I do not propose to give an
account here.
   Hering, in 1867, pointed out that the liver in all vertebrates except
                 • Kupffer, " Festschrift  an Carl Ludwig," 1875.

22                          Mr. J. N. Langley.                     [Apr. 27.
mammals     is an anastomosing tubular gland.            Hence we should
expect that the changes which take place during digestion in the liver
of an amphibian, reptile, fish, or bird should differ somewhat from
those which take place during digestion in the liver of a mammal.           I
have taken the liver of the frog and toad as an example of the tubular
 gland form, and have made observations on this during the last two
years and a half.    How nearly the changes which take place in other
"tubular" livers resemble those which take place in the "tubular"
livers of the frog and toad can of course only be decided by direct
 observation ; but it seems unlikely that the change should take any
very different course, since the resting state of the cells and their
arrangement in the gland is so very nearly the same.
                           The Liver of  the Frog.
   The liver of the frog and that of the newt can be observed while
the blood continues to circulate through it ; in this state nothing is
seen in the cells except the fat globules ; if a small piece be teased
out in salt solution, the faintly outlined granules are seen floating in
the fluid ; these become obvious on adding iodine. The best method
for bringing out the granules and fat globules is to place a small piece
of the liver in osmic acid, 1 per cent., for a day, to transfer it to alcohol
for several days, and then to prepare sections ; in such sections the
granules and globules appear to be imbedded in homogeneous cell
substance.    The granules are largest in the liver of the newt, so that
the liver of this animal is best adapted to show that the granules are
not the nodal points of the network. The network of the cell is
brought out most distinctly by chromic acid, 0'5 per cent. ; it can also
be seen in specimens hardened in picric acid, alcohol, mercuric
chloride, or in teased out specimens of a liver which has been treated
with neutral ammonium chromate, 5 per cent.
   When a section of the liver which contains glycogen, and which
has been hardened in acohol or osmic acid, is placed for some minutes
in iodine solution, certain parts of the interfibrillar substance of the
liver-cells stain red-brown.      The substance which is so stained         I
conclude to be glycogen.      By water, even at 30° C., it is only slowly
dissolved.    Since isolated glycogen is readily soluble in water, this
might lead us to think that the red-staining substance is not glycogen ;
but we know that glycogen is not readily extracted from the liver
by warm water, and hence it seems probable that a large part of the
glycogen of the liver exists in it in a form not very soluble in water ;
but, whatever may be the condition of glycogen in the liver, I think I
am justified in concluding that the red-staining substance in alcohol
specimens is glycogen, since glycogen can be extracted from them,
since the amount of the red-staining substance varies directly with
the amount of glycogen which can be extracted, since the coloration

 1882.]         On  the   Structure  of  the Cells  of the  Liver.
is just that produced when iodine is added to a little purified glycogen
on a glass slide, and since it is rapidly dissolved by amylolytic ferment,
such as an aqueous or glycerine extract of the parotid of a rabbit.
   During the summer months the liver of           a hungry frog has granules
scattered equally throughout the cell, and there is very little glycogen.
During the long winter fast the cells change in appearance ; the
granules become more and more confined to the inner part of the cell,
and form there    a  marked inner granular zone.         The glycogen increases
 in amount, and is stored up chiefly in the outer part of the cell, where
there are no granules.        Osmic acid specimens of glands in this condi
tion show two distinct zones, an inner granular one and an outer,
apparently homogeneous, one ; the nucleus lies at the border of the
 two, or if the outer zone is large lies in it alone.             When such a
specimen is treated with iodine, all or nearly all of the outer zone
 stains red-brown ; around the granules also a varying amount of red-
 brown stained substance is found ; the network of the inner zone, the
 granules, and the nucleus stain yellow. In these specimens the
 network of the outer part of the cell cannot at all, or only very im
perfectly be made out. It is, however, seen in sections of the gland
 which have been hardened in chromic acid.            It is continuous with the
network of the inner part of the cell, but has wider spaces, and its
bars are finer.
    We know that in the oesophageal glands of the frog and in such
gastric glands as have been investigated on the point, the changes
 which take place in the cells in fasting closely resemble the changes
which take place in them during digestion.           So here, in the liver of
the frog, the changes which take place when the animal is fed closely
resemble those gradually established            during the winter fasting
period.    The  extent     of the changes    occurring    in digestion depends
greatly upon the state of the liver cells before the animal is fed ; in
summer the changes are slight, there is only a slight decrease of
granules in the outer part of the cell and a slight increase of glycogen.
The changes are much more marked when the cells have to start with
a small outer non-granular zone; in such cases in the 6th to 8th hour
of digestion the outer zone is large, and in the 24th to 30th the cells
become granular throughout. When a frog which has already a large
outer non-granular zone is fed the decrease of granules usually lasts
a shorter time, and in the 6th to 8th hour of digestion the granules
begin to increase.       In other words, the using up and formation of
granules go    on   at  different  relative rates in different nutritive con
ditions of the body.
    The disappearance of granules and the formation of glycogen which
takes place in winter frogs is only partly brought about by the
absence of food ; it is brought about in part perhaps chiefly by the
low temperature.       If winter frog3, the liver-cells of which have few

24                           Mr.  J.  N. Langley.                  [Apr. 27,
granules and much glycogen, are kept at about 20° C. for a week to a
fortnight, the cells become granular throughout and the glycogen
largely disappears ; similarly frogs in spring or autumn, the liver-
cells of which have many granules and little glycogen, if kept at a
low temperature a week to a fortnight, present in the cells of the liver
au outer non-granular zone and an increase of glycogen ; in summer
frogs the effect is much less. Further, the changes during digestion
are slight in winter frogs 'that have been kept in the warm, greater in
spring and autumn frogs which have been kept in the cold.
    Although, generally speaking, a decrease of granules goes hand-in-
 hand with an increase of glycogen and an increase of granules with a
decrease of glycogen, yet a certain amount of variation in the one
may take place without any variation or any corresponding variation
in the other. Hence I regard the formation of granules and the
formation of glycogen as independent processes.             A comparison of
the changes which take place in the granules of the liver-cells with
the changes which take place in the granules of the salivary, gastric,
and pancreatic glands leaves me with no doubt that the granules of the
liver-cells are destined 'to give rise to some constituent or constituents
of the bile, and it seems to me more than probable that by appro
priate chemical treatment, we may obtain from them some one or
more of the constituents of the bile-salts.
    In the account I have just given I have omitted all mention of the
fat globules.      These vary so much with different conditions of the
body,   as yet  unknown,   that it is extremely difficult to determine what
changes in their number and position take place during digestion.         It
is well known that there is in winter an increase in the amount of
fat in the liver.    Generally speaking, in summer the fat globules are
small, few,    and  fairly equally scattered throughout the cell, with a
tendency to be more numerous around the lumen.               In winter frogs
the greatest variation occurs, occasionally there are very few, usually
there are a considerable        number, not ^infrequently      the cells are
 crowded with them, .this is generally the case with obviously un
 healthy frogs. Further, in the most common condition, that in which
the fat globules are fairly numerous without being crowded together
in the cells, they may occur almost entirely in the inner or almost
 entirely in the outer part of the eell. In the former case they make
a conspicuous fat globule zone about the lumen, in the latter they
occur in conspicuous clumps close to the outer cell-border ; this is
 generally the case when one has reason to suppose that fat is increasing
in the cells.    If winter frogs are kept in the warm, the fat globules
diminish in number ; if summer frogs are kept in the cold for a week
to a fortnight there is a slight, but only a slight, increase in the quan
tity of fat. The majority of frogs which are fed in the summer show
 little or no change in the number or size of fat globules in the liver.

  1882.]         On the Structure     of the Cells  of the Liver.             2.'»
 In winter  the amount of fat in the liver varies so mnch in frogs appar
                   I
 ently alike, that do not feel justified in drawing any conclusions as
to the changes occurring in digestion.
    The only other vertebrates with liver of the tubular type on which
 I  have made a series of observations, are the toad and newt.              The
changes in the liver of the toad are in all essential respects the same as
those   I have described for the liver of the frog.        In the newt's liver   I
 have not observed the formation of zones during digestion ; it appears
to me to depart largely from the tubular type of gland, and to
resemble in structure rather the mammalian than the ordinary
amphibian liver. In the snake during the winter's fast, an outer
non-granular zone makes its appearance in the liver tubules ; it is,
however, much smaller than that in the frog and toad.
    I may mention that the cells of the frog's bile-duct, where it runs
through the pancreas, are ciliated ; the pancreatic duct with con
ciliated cells joins it close to the small intestine.
                             The Mammalian Liver.
    In the mole the granules of the liver are oonspicuous, and are pre
served by osmic acid ; in the dog, cat, and rabbit the granules are
more or less altered, hence     I  have chosen the mole to make observa
tions upon as to the changes which take place in digestion. In the
hungry animal the protoplasmic network stretches throughout the
cells with nearly equally sized meshes ; in the spaces of the network is
a small amount of hyaline substance, partly glycogen, and embedded
in this are rather large granules. When the liver is examined six to
eight hours after digestion, there is a greater or less disappearance of
granules from the centre of the cell around the nucleus ; the network
here has wider spaces and thinner bars, and the spaces are for the
most part filled with glycogen.           In cases where these changes are
most marked, osmic acid speoimens treated with iodine show a diffuse
reddish stained mass surrounding the nucleus ; at the borders of the cell,
the yellow stained network is seen, and one or two rows of granules ;
between these a little red stained substance may usually be traced
continuous with the central mass of glycogen ; the peripheral network
and granules make the cell appear at first sight as if it had a very
thick cell wall. The network in the central part of the cell is brought
out by hardening a piece of the liver in chromic acid and other re
agents. In cells in which tie digestive changes are less advanced,
the glycogen may only partially surround the nucleus, or may be
accumulated more on one side of it than elsewhere.
    Histological observations on the increase of glycogen in the liver-
 cells have been made by Bock and Hofmann,* on the rabbit, and by
            i Bock u. Hofmann,  " Virchow's Archiv.," 56, s. 201, 1872.

2(5               On tlie Structure    of  the  Cells  of the    Liver.      [Apr. 27,
Kayser,*       on the dog.        Bock and Hofmann found that glycogen
accumulated in amorphous form around the nucleus, and stretching
out from this as a network towards the periphery of the cell. My
own observations confirm this in the main. I regard, however, the
glycogen as being stored up in the spaces of a protoplasmic network.
Bock and Hofmann also mention granules of the liver-cells which
stain yellow with iodine,t but they do not appear to have distinguished
between these and the protoplasmic network which likewise stains
yellow with iodine.
    Kayser (he. cit.) found that glycogen was stored up in the form of
" Schollen oder Korner ;" these
                                        lumps and granules of glycogen have       I
not seen ; an appearance simulating this occurs when the glycogen is
stored up more in some parts of the protoplasmic network around the
nucleus than in others, but these local collections never have, so far
as   I have observed, sharply marked boundaries.                The granules are not
distinguished by Kayser from the protoplasmic network ; these two
together make up,, I imagine, the thick peripheral layer of protoplasm
described by him as occurring in cells which contain much glycogen.
As in the liver of the frog, so in the mammalian liver,                    I   take the
granules to be concerned in the formation of some of the substances
found in the bile.
   * Kayser.                                " Hermann's   Hdb.," Bd.        Th.
                 Quoted by Hcidenhain.                                  v,       1, s. 221,
1880.
                                                        "
    t  Similar granules were also described. by Plosz.    Pfliiger's Archiv.," vii, s. 371,
 1873.

 1882.]           On the Specific Resistance     of Mercury.             27
                                 May  4, 1882.
                    THE PRESIDENT in            the Chair.
    The Presents received    were laid on the table, and thanks ordered
 for them.
    In pursuance of   the Statutes, the names of Candidates recommended
 for election into the Society were read from the Chair, as follows : —
 Ball, Professor Valentine, M.A.         Godman,     Frederic    Du   Cane,
 Brady, George Stewardson, M.D.,            F.L.S.
    F.L.S.                               Hutchinson,    Professor Jonathan,
 Buchanan, George, M.D.                     F.R.C.S.
 Clarke,    Charles Baron,      M.A.,    Liversidge,  Professor Archibald,
    F.L.S.                                  F.G.S.
 Darwin, Francis, M. A., F.L.S.          Malet, Professor John C, M.A.
 Dittmar, Professor William, F.C.S.      Niven, William Davidson, M.A.
 Gaskell, Walter Holbrook, M J).         Palgrave, Robert Heury Inglis,
 Glazebrook,     Richard      Tetley,       F.S.S.
    M.A.                                 Weldon, Walter, F.C.S.
    The following Paper was read r —
 I. " On   the Specific Resistance of Mercury."            By Lobd Ray-
      LEIGH, F.R.S., Professor of Experimental Physics in the
       University of Cambridge, and Mbs. H. SlDGWlCK. Received
      April 24, 1882.
                                 (Abstract.)
   The observations detailed in the paper were made with the view of
redetermining the relation between- the B.A. unit and the mercury
unit of Siemens, i.e., the resistance of a column of mercury at 0°, one
metre in length, and one square millim. in section.
   According to Siemens' experiments,
                    1  mercury nnit=-9536 B.A. unit,
and according to Matthiessen and      Hockin,
                    1  mercury unit=-9619 B.A. unit.
   The value resulting from our observations agrees pretty closely with
that of Siemens.     We find
                   1  mercury unit= '95418 B.A. unit.

28                On   the  Specific Resistance of Mercury.        [May  4,
   Four tubes were used to contain the mercury, of lengths varying
from 87 to 194 centims..         The diameter of the three first tubes was
about 1 millim. and that of the fourth about 2 millims.           The final
numbers     obtained     from the several fillings of the tubes are as
follows : —
                                         •95386
                                          95412
             Tube   I.                    95424      Mean '95416
                                          95436
                                          95421
                                          95389
                                          95414
             Tube   II.                   95437
                                                     Mean '95419
                                          95436
                                          95424
                                          95418
             Tube   III.                  95399
                                                     Mean -95416
                                          95425
                                          95440
             Tube   IV   .                           Mean  995427
                                          95415
   Combining the results of the present paper with our determination
of the B.A. unit in absolute measure, we get
                   1  mercury unit= 94130 x     10° C.G.S.

 1882.]           T. S. Vaneceb.         Sur F Inversion G9n9rale.               29
                                     May   11, 1882.
                        THE PRESIDENT in             the Chair.
   The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered
for them.
   The Right Hon. Sir Heury Bartle Edward                   Frere (elected 1877)
was admitted into the Society.
   The following Papers were read : —
I. " Sur l'Inversion Générale."                 Par T. S. Vanecek. Commu
       nicated by Dr. Hibst, F.R.S. Received April 27, 1882.
   Dans nne note " Sur l'inversion générale " qui etait publiee dans les
Comptes rendus de l'Académie Française,* j'ai exposé l'idée d'une
transformation plus générale que celle par rayons vecteurs réci
proques.      Dans la note présente je ferai l'extension de cette transfor
mation.
   1. Considérons une conique générale C et deux droites L, D.                   La
première     doit   être   transformée     par rapport   à  la  droite D,   appelée
directrice, et à la conique C, courbe fondamentale.
   A nn point a de la droite L correspond une polaire A par rapport à
C et coupe la droite D en nn point ax.           La polaire A1 de ce point coupe
la droite A en un point           qui  est le transformé  du point a.f Sa polaire
passe par les points a et a±.         Les points a, a,, a2 forment un triangle
polaire par rapport       à  la conique fondamentale C.
   Quand le point a parcourt la droite proposée L, le point Oj parcourt
la droite directrice D, et le point a2 décrit une conique («2) qui passe
par les points d'intersection des deux droites L, D avec la conique C
et par leurs pôles l, ii.J Sa polaire A2 enveloppe une autre conique (A2)
qui touche les droites données L, D et les tangentes à la conique fon
damentale dans les points d'intersection de celle-ci avec les droites
L, D.
   2.  Supposons que la droite L soit remplacée par une courbe d'ordre
m et   la droite D par une courbe d'ordre n, la courbe inverse de l'une
  • Tome xciv, p. 10 i2
                           (10 Avril, 1882).
  t   Hirst, "On    the  Quadric Inversion of    Plane Curves,"  "Roy. Soc.  Proc.,"
(18oo), vol. 14, p. 92.
  % Ibid., p. 95.

30              T.  S. Vanecek.         Sur l'Inversion Générale.       [May 11
par rapport à l'antre est d'ordre 2mn, donée de 2n points d'ordre m               -
et de 2 m points de l'ordre n.
   Nous pouvons donc énoncer les théorèmes suivants :
   Quand le sommet a d'un triangle polaire a, ai, a2 par rapport à une
conique C parcourt une courbe L de l'ordre m et at parcourt une courbe
D de l'ordre n, le troisième sommet a^ décrit une courbe d'ordre 2 mn qui
a 2m points multiples d'ordre n et 2n points multiples d'ordre m qui
sont les points d'intersection des courbas L, D avec la conique C.             Et
r éciproqu ement.
   Quand    le côté  A d'un    triangle polaire par rapport à la conique C
enveloppe   une courbe  L,  de   la classe m, et le côté A1 enveloppe une courbe
D1 de la classe n, le troisième côté A2 enveloppe une courbe (A2) de la
classe 2mn, douée de 2m tangentes multiples de la classe n et de 2n
tangentes multiples   de la classe m qui sont respectivement       tangentes com
munes des courbes L1,    C  et des courbes    Dl, C.
   Les courbes (dj) et            sont les polaires réciproques par rapport à
la conique C.
   3. La courbe (a2) est la même si nous transformons la courbe L par
rapport à la directrice D ou cette courbe D par rapport à L comme
directrice.    Considérons la courbe L comme dans le paragraphe pré
cédent, d'ordre m, et la courbe D d'ordre n. Les points d'intersection
de la courbe L ou D avec la conique fondamentale C appelons les points
fondamentaux.       Nous pouvons énoncer les théorèmes suivants.
   Un simple point fondamental de la courbe L devient un point
multiple d'ordre n de la courbe inverse (a^).
   Le point fondamental d'ordre m, de la courbe L est un point multiple
d'ordre m^ n de la courbe inverse (a2).
   Quand les deux courbes L, D ont un point fondamental simple a
commun, ce point se transforme en un point multiple d'ordre m + n — 2
de la courbe (a2) et en la tangente de la conique fondamentale                  G
en ce point a, qui fait une partie de la courbe inverse (a2) .
   Le point fondamental a étant un point multiple d'ordro m-, de la
courbe L et le point multiple d'ordre M1 de la courbe D, ce point se
transforme en un point multiple d'ordre.
                           (n—    «1)m1 +   (m— m1)mI,
et en la tangente A de la conique fondamentale en ce point ; la droite
A fait une partie de la courbe inverse (a2) et elle est une droite
multiple d'ordre ml nv
   Le point multiple a d'ordre            de la courbe L n'étant pas un point
fondamental     se transforme en n points multiples d'ordre mx qui se
trouvent sur la droite A, polaire du point a. Quand ce point a se
réunit avec un point multiple d'ordre nY de la courbe D, il se trans
forme en m points multiples d'ordre n^ de la courbe inverse (a*,), qui
sont distribués sur la même droite polaire A.

1882.]      Organisation   of Fossil Plants of   the Coal-measures.      31
    D'après cela il est toujours possible de déterminer le nombre et
l'espèce des points multiples de la courbe inverse et aussi l'ordre de la
courbe (a%) on la classe de la courbe (A2).
    Supposons que la courbe inverse (a2) d'une courbe L par rapport à
une autre courbe D comme directrice soit construite ; la courbe inverse
(aj) de la courbe (dg) par rapport à L se décompose en la courbe D et,
une autre courbe, dont l'ordre est déterminé, ou réciproquement la
courbe (c^) a pour courbe inverse par rapport à la courbe B directrice
une courbe qui se décompose en la courbe L et en une autre courbe,
dont l'ordre est connu.
    4. Le point a de la courbe proposée L a une tangente A' a cette
courbe ; cette tangente coupe la conique fondamentale G en deux points
t, ii.  La polaire A du point a coupe la courbe directrice fléau points.
La tangente B' en un de ces points b rencontre G en deux points x, y,
et la droite polaire B du point b coupe la droite A en un point a2 qui est
un point de la courbe inverse (a2). Considérons le point de contact a
comme deux points infiniment voisins ; la même chose a lieu an point b.
A ces points infiniment voisins correspondent aussi tels points dans
la courbe inverse.
     Ainsi la courbe inverse de l'une des droites A', B' par rapport à
l'autre, qui est une conique E, a avec la courbe (a2) deux points infini
ment voisins communs.         Ces deux courbes ont par conséquent une
tangente commune en ce point a2. La conique E est plus que déter
minée par les points t, u, œ, y et par dj. Quand les points t, u ou x, y
sont imaginaires, ils sont remplacés par la tangente et son point de
contact, ou respectivement par doux tangentes et leurs points de con
tact et par le point «2.
     Le point oj sur la courbe inverse       étant donné nous construisons
sa droite polaire par rapport à la conique fondamentale G et cherchons
le point a sur L et b sur D qui correspondent au point a2. La conique
E est alors déterminée et par conséquent aussi la tangente en a2.
 II.   " On the Organisation       of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-
        measures.    Part XII." By Professor W. C. WILLIAMSON,
        F.R.S.    Received May 4, 1882.
                                 (Abstract.)
    At the recent meeting of the British Association at York, Messrs.
Cash and Hick read a memoir, since published in Part IV of vol. vii
of the " Proceedings of the Yorkshire Geological and Polytechnic
 Society," in which they described a stem from the Halifax Carboniferous
 deposits characterised by a form of bark hitherto unobserved in those
 rocks.    To this plant they gave the name of Myriophylloides William

32                      Prof. W. C. Williamson.                    [May 11,
sonis.   It was characterised by having a large cellular medulla,
surrounded by a thin vascular zone composed of short radiating
lamellae.   This, in turn, was invested by a cylinder of cortical paren
chyma from which radiated a number of thin cellular laminae, like
the spokes of a wheel, separating large lacunae.               Each lamina
generally consisted of a single series of cells.         At their peripheral
end, these laminae merged in a thick, large-celled, cortical parenchyma.
The generic name, Myriophylloides, was given to the plant because of
the resemblance between sections of its cortical tissues and those of
the recent Myriophyllum.       Two reasons induced the author to object
to this name (" Nature," December 8, 1881, p. 124), and to propose
the substitution of that of Helophyton.         Such substitution, however,
was rendered unnecessary by the discovery, by Mr. Spencer, of Halifax,
of some additional specimens which indicate that the supposed new
plant was merely the corticated state of the Astromyelon, described
by the author in his Memoir, Part IX.*             These specimens showed
that the plant was more complex than had been supposed, different
ramifications of it having individual peculiarities.
   In some of the new specimens the vasculo-mednllary axes present
no differences from those of the Astromyelon already described.          The
radiating lines of cells separating the lacunae prove to be       transverse
sections of elongated vertical laminae composed of cells with a mural
arrangement, and which separate large vertical lacunae of varying
lengths ; a type of cortical tissue clearly indicating a plant of aquatic
habits. So far as this bark is concerned, all the ramifications of the plant
display similar features, but several of the specimens exhibit important
variations in the structure of the vasculo-mednllary axis.          In them
the central cellular medulla is replaced by an axial vascular bundle,
which has little, or in some examples apparently no, cellular element
intermingled with the vascular portions. In some examples this axial
bundle is invested by the thick exogenous zone seen in Astromyelon.
In others that zone is wholly wanting. Yet there appears to be no
reason for doubting that these are but varied states of the same
plant which branched freely, the differentiated branches having, doubt
less, some morphological significances,          as yet incapable   of being
explained.    That  the plant  was  a  Phanerogam    allied to Myriophyllum
is most improbable.      It has several features of resemblance to the
Cryptogamic Marsileae, from which it does not differ more widely
than the fossil Lepidodendra do from the living Lycopodiaceae.
   The author describes a new specimen of Psaronius Renaultii, found
by Mr. Wild, of Ashton-under-Lyne.              Those previously described
consisted almost entirely of fragments of the bark and its aerial rootlets.
The present specimen contains a perfect C-shaped fibro-vascular
bundle and a portion of a second one, resembling some of those
                           •  " Phil. Trans.," 1878.

  1882.]     Organisation  of Fossil Plants of  the Coal-measures.       33
'described    by Corda, and which leave no room for doubting that our
 British Coal-measures contain at least one arborescent      fern, equal in
 magnitude to those obtained from the deposits at Autun.
    In his Memoir, Parts IX and X, the author described under the
 provisional generic name of Zygosporites, some small spherical bodies
 with furcate peripheral projections. Similar bodies had been met
  with in France, and were regarded by some of the French pateontolo-
  gists as true Carboniferous representatives of the Desmidiaceai.     The
 author was unable to accept this conclusion, deeming it much more
 probable that they would prove to be spores of a different kind.
 Mr. Spencer exhibited the specimen now described at the York meet
 ing.    It is a true sporangium, containing a cluster of these Zygo
 sporites. Though they undoubtedly bear a close superficial resemblance
 to the zygospores of the Desmidiae, their enclosure within a common
 sporangium demonstrates them to be something very different. There
 is now no doubt but that they are the spores of the strobilus described
 by the author in his Memoir, Part V, under the name of Volkmannia
  Dawsoni. Hence the genus Zygosporites may be cancelled.
    Another interesting specimen found by Mr. Wild is a young
Calamite, with a more curiously differentiated bark than any that
 has hitherto been discovered.     The structure of the vascular cylinder
 and of the innermost layer of the bark differs in no essential respect
 from those previously described ; but the outermost portion displays
 an entirely new feature.    It consists of a narrow zone of small longi
 tudinal prosenchymatous bundles, each one having a triangular sec
 tion, the apex of each section being directed inwards, whilst their con
 tiguous bases are in contact with what appears to be a thin epidermal
 layer. As in every previously discovered Calamite in which the cortex
 is preserved, the peripheral surface of this specimen is perfectly smooth
'or "entire." It displays no trace of the longitudinal ridges and furrows
 seen in nearly all the traditional representations of Calamites figured
 in our text-books.
    It has long been seen that the medullary cells of the Lepidodendra,
as well as the vessels of their non-exogenous medullary sheaths, steadily
 increased in number as these two organs increased in size correlatively
 with the corresponding general growth of the plants. But the way in
 which that increase was brought about has continued to be a mystery.
The author now describes a Lepidodendron of the type of L. Harcourtii
in which nearly every medullary cell is subdivided into two or more
3'onnger cells, showing that, when originally entombed, the pith was
an extremely active form of meristem, though the branch itself had
attained to a diameter of at least two inches.       The numerous small
young     cells are  of irregular form. Their development by further
 growth into a regular parenchyma would inevitably necessitate a
 corresponding increase in the diameter of the branch as a whole ;
    V0L. xxxiv.                                                 D

34     Organisation of Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures.     [May 11,
and  it must have been from these newly-formed cells that the medul
lary cylinder obtained the elements out of which to construct the
additional vessels, the increase of which has been shown to be the
invariable accompaniment of the growth of the branch. As might be
expected, the growth of the vascular cylinder or medullary sheath
could only have been a centripetal one.
   A new form of Halonia from Arran is described. Instead of its
central portion consisting, as in previously described examples, of the
usual Lepidodendroid medulla, surrounded by a vascular cylinder, it
consists of a solid axis of vessels, resembling in this respect all the
very young Lepidodendroid twigs previously described from the same
locality.   Many recently obtained specimens of Lepidodendroid
 branches sustain the author's previous observations that all examples
from Arran having less than a certain diameter have the solid axial
bundle ; whilst all above that diameter have a cylindrical vascular
bundle enclosing a cellular medulla. The first type commences with
the smallest twigs, and is found increasing gradually up to the dia
meter referred to.   The second type begins where the other ends, and
increases in diameter until attaining the dimensions of the largest
stems, in none of which does the solid bundle reappear.         Halonial
branches have not hitherto been described attached to the branches of
any true Lepidodendron, though, in 1871 (Memoir, Part II), the
author gave reasons, based upon organisation, for insisting that Halonia
was a fruit-bearing branch of a Lepidodendroid tree.          This con
clusion was sustained by Mr. Carruthers in 1873 in his description of
a branch belonging to a Lepidophloios.       The author now figures a
magnificent example, from the museum of the Leeds Philosophical
Society, of a dichotomous branch of a true Lepidodendron of the
type of L. elegans and L. Selaginoides. In this specimen every one
of the several terminal branches bears the characteristic Halonial
tubercles. The leaf-scars of these latter branches have the rhomboid
form once deemed characteristic of the genus Bergeria, whilst those of
the lower part of the specimen are elongated as iu L. elegans, &c.
These differences are not due to their appearance in separate cortical
layers of the branch, but to the more rapid growth in length of its
 lower part compared with its transverse growth.
   The author throws some additional light upon the structure of
Sporocarpum ornatum described in Memoir, Part X, as also upon the
nature of the development of the double leaf-bundles seen in trans
verse sections of the British Dadoxylons, described in Memoir IX.
After a prolonged but vain search for a similar structure amongst the
twigs of the recent Conifers, the author has at length found them in
the young twigs of the Salisburia Adiantifolia. Sections of these twigs
made immediately below their terminal buds exhibit this gemina'
arrangement in the most exact manner. Pairs of foliar bundles are

1882.]              On certain Geometrical Theorems.                    35
given off from the thin, exogenous, Xylem zone which encloses the
medulla, whilst at the same points the continuity of the Xylem ring
is interrupted, as was also the case with the Dadoxylons, by an
extension of the medullary cells into the primitive cortex.       Sections
of the petiolar bases of the leaf-scales of the bud show that these
bundles enter each petiole in parallel pairs, subsequently subdividing
and ramifying in the Adiantiform leaf. This curious resemblance
between Salisburia and Dadoxylon, accompanied          as it is by other
resemblances in the structure of the wood, bark, and medulla, suggest
the probability that our British Dadoxylon was a Carboniferous plant
of Salisburian type, of which Trigonocarpum may well have been the
fruit. If so, the further possibility suggests itself that this plant
 may have been the ancestral form whence sprang the Baieras of the
Oolites, and, through them, the true Salisburias of Cretaceous and of
recent times.
    The Society adjourned over Ascension Day to Thursday, May 25.
                               May 25, 1882.
                    THE PRESIDENT in         the Chair.
    The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for
them.
   Mr. Bindon Blood Stoney was admitted into the Society.
   .The following Papers were read : —
 I. " On certain Geometrical Theorems. No. 2." By W. H. L.
              Russell, F.R.S. Received May 10, 1882.
    (4.) The following is a short method of determining the conic of
5 pointic-contact with a given curve. Write the conic
                        *y+Pxy=y* + fix°i + vx +p                      (1),
 then differentiating   four times and writing D for — , we have, re-
                                                         dx
membering that the four first differential coefficients of the two curves
coincide, —
                       *T>y + pT>(xy)=-Dif-+2fix + »                   (2),
                      aD^+^D=(^) = DV +        2/t                     (3),
                      *D*y+(3Di(xy) = DY                               (4),
                      *DV + /3Dl(xy) = Dy                              (5),
                                                              d 2

 36                     Oil certain Geometrical Theorems.                     [May 25,
 whence                                                           '
                                   BhjB%cy) —B*yB3(xyj
and
                                  D3(.cj)Dli/-D4(^)D3y'
 then n,  v, ii are found from (1), (2), (3), and the conic determined.
   (5.) Let us now endeavour to show how the eqnation to the cubic
 with 9-pointic contact with a given curve is to be found.
   Writing the cubic
              ag-x + bxhj + ey- + dy + vxy — if + ftitP + vx- + >ix + a,
we differentiate eight times and obtain five equations                  from which fi, v,
P, a have disappeared.
           fiD*(y*ai) + 6D*(*2y)         +cDhf + JBiy + eBi(xy)=By,
with four others obtained by substituting in this equation D5,                  D6, D7,
D8 successively for D*.            Hence we shall have —
      {D*(y**), B^xhj),             Dy,       Bhj, D*(a1y)-|
         D50/*), B>(x*y),           Dy,       Bhj, Ds(ay)
     i  B°(y*x), D3(^y).            DV,              D»(.cy) -
        B^f-x),     Bl{xhj), DV, D7y, D^*.,)
                                                             |
        B*{y*x),     B\.ty), Dy, Dy B\xy)J
                                 D»(a^),      Dy, Dy        D'(*y)   i]
                                 B6(xhj),     Dy, Dy        B*(xy)
                 =Dy
                                 W&y), Dy,            D"y, D7(xy)
                              [. D8(.-<;2//), Dy,     D8.y, D8(*2/)  j
                             rD*(*3y),         Dy, DV, D*(^)1
                  , TV,   3 !
                                 D<502.!/), 1)6.'/2.  cy    r>6(*2/)  !
                        *        B'ixhj),     Dy,
                            1                         D7?/, D7(.cy)
                                                                      j
                             {^D8(.ry,        D8./2,  D8i/, D8(.ti/) J
                                D*(afy),      Dy,     Diy, D*(xy) 1
                  ,
                 + n6Fs    "
                            i    D5W. D¥. DY,               Di(xy)    !
                                 BT(x-y), Dy, Dy            D7(»y)
                                B%x2y), D8//2, Dy                    J
                                                                      |
                                                            D8(zy)
                                D'(*2y).      Dy,     D*y,  D'(asy) 1
                                 D^afy),      Dy,     DV, D5(^)
                 +DW                                                  I
                                B6(x-y),      D6y2,   Day, D6(a;j/)
                                 B\x°-y),     Dy,     D8y, D8(.ti/)

 1882.]       W. Spottiswoode.        Geometrical Theorems.              37
                                                        *
                         D*(afy),   Bhf,  B*y, T>\xy)
                          B^y), DV,       Bh,, B*(xy)
                          D»(**y),  DV,   D»y, D3(a1y)
    In the  same way 6, c, d, e are determined, and then ft, v, /i, u are
 known from the third, second, first, and original equations.
    (6.) In the same way we may proceed to find the 14-pointic contact
 of a curve of the fourth order.     The coefficients will he expressed by
 series of determinants, each having eight rows and eight columns,
 divided by a determinant having nine rows and nine columns. And
the same method will apply to the general case.
II.   " Note   on   Mr. Russell's paper ' On certain Geometrical
       Theorems. No. 2."'         By William Spottiswoode, Pres.
       R.S. Received May       25,  1882.
   If  we apply  Mr. Russell's formulae to the determination of the sex-
tactic points of a curve, we shall have, in addition to the equations
(1)— (5), the following —
                          *B*y+fiB\xy)=Bhf         j
and by elimination of » and j3 from his equations (4) and (5), together
with this latter, we shall obtain as the condition for a sextactic point —
                         Bhj, B*xy, T>y=0                              (A).
                         DV, B*xy, DV,
                         D5>/, B'xy,  DV-
But                Bxy —   y     +xBy,
                  D2a;y=2Dy      + xB%
                  B*xy=3Bhj      +xB3y,
                   Bixy=4Bhj     +xB*y,
                  Bixy=5Biy      + xB5y,
                  By* =2yBy,
                  DV=2yD3y+ 2(Dy)2,
                  Dy=2yD«y+          6ByB*y,
                   Bh/=2yB*y+ 8ByB3y         + 6(D2y)2,
                  DV   =2(/D5j/ + 10D(/D4y + 20D2i/D3y.

38                  W. Spottiswoode.            Geometrical Theorems.                     [May 25,
     Substituting in equation            (A),   we obtain —
             Jfiy, xBhj + 3T>a-y, 2yB3y + 6%D2y                                     =0,
             Wy, xBhj + Wy, 2yB*y+                   8DyD3y+        6(D2y)2,
             D5y, a!D5j/ + 5D*y, 2yD5y + 10D!/DV + 20D2>/Dy
Whence by obvious inductions —
                              B3y, 3D2y,                    =0                                     (B).
                                  H*y, 4D*y,       3D2,,,
                                  D*y,    &B*y,   X0B3y.
Also            D{4(Dsy)2-3D2y           .   D*y}=4D3y      .   D*y-3D2y       .   D5y.
Hence the equation (B) may also be written thus —
                     (10D^-3D^.D){4(DSy)2-3D^.D^}=0                                       .   .    (C).
And in order to evaluate the expression it will consequently be
necessary, in the first instance at least, to calculate only Dy, . . . D4y.
  The main interest in the problem, however, lies in the determination
 of the degree of this equation, which has been found by Cayley and
 myself to be 12?t— 27. The difficulty lies in getting rid of the ex
traneous factors.     In order to effect this, the expression (C) must be
 transformed by the substitution of — u : v for Dy, and other expressions
 to be calculated for D2y, . . . D*y.
    If U=0 be the equation to the curve, and if we adopt a usual
 notation, and put », v for the first, and uv w', vl for the second differ
 ential coefficients of V with respect to x and y ; also if
                                                             '
                          (vcx —          '3U = V- i(1 — 2miw + w2vlt
and similarly for higher powers, i.e., if the operative factor (vSt — ufy)'
is understood to affect U only, precisely as if u, v, &c., were constant ;
then it is not difficult to show that —
 — Dy      =u   :   v,
 — B2y     = (vcz — ucy)'3U   :    v\
 -B3y=(vcz-u^)'3\J            :   v*-3(mo'—wvl)(vBz-ucy)'*XJ               :       v'°,
 —   Diy=(vcI—wc1)'iXJ        :    v°—    4(iw'— wv{)(vcz— u(y)'3XJ        :       c8
           3{2v(vBz— uSy)'2— 5(vw'— w,)2- ^(w^!— w'2)}(rcx— iity)2U
       —                                                                                           :   v7.
     These are the developments               by means of which the reduction                     would
 have to be made.

  1882.]       Effects    of Retentiveness in Magnetisation of Iron,          #c.    35)
  III.   " On Effects of Retentiveness in the Magnetisation of Iron
         and Steel.         (Preliminary Notice.)"             By J. A. EwiNG, B.Sc.,
         F.R.S.E., Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the
         University of Tokio.                 Communicated by Professor Sir
         William Thomson, F.R.S. Received May 6, 1882.
      The term Hysteresis was introduced in a paper,* recently communi-
  cated to the Royal Society, to designate a peculiar action which was
 observed in the inquiry then recorded, and which had also presented
 itself in an earlier investigation — of the effects of stress on thermo
 electric quality.t          It was found that when a stretched iron wire was
 gradually loaded and unloaded the changes of thermoelectric quality
 lagged behind the changes of stress, so that curves exhibiting the
 relation of stress to thermoelectric quality during the putting on and
 taking off of the load were far from coincident, but inclosed between
 them a wide area.         J
     In prosecuting those experiments it occurred to me that there is
 much room for investigation of hysteresis§ in the changes of mag
 netisation of iron and other substances produced by (1) change of the
 magnetic field ; (2) change of stress; (3) change of temperature.                   In
 (2)   and   (3)   two  cases   are to be  considered     : — First, when the substance
 is exposed to a constant magnetising force ; second, when the magneti
 sation which is changed is wholly residual.
     From the known character of residual magnetism we may at once
 infer that when magnetisation along any axis is changed so con
 siderably that its sign is reversed there must be hysteresis, but it is
 not clear that any such phenomenon need appear when the action is
 confined to one sign. In fact, Maxwell's extension of Weber's theory
 of induced magnetism || assumes that residual magnetism resembles
 the "permanent set" of a strained solid, and implies that any sub
 sequent application of a magnetising force in the same direction with
 and not exceeding that by which the residual magnetism has been
 produced, will give changes of a quasi-elastic character not exhibiting
 the action which I have called hysteresis.
     By the direct magnetometric method, and also by the ballistic
    * " On the Production of Transient Electric Currents in Iron and Steel Con
 ductors    by Twisting them when Magnetised, or by Magnetising them whon
 Twisted." " Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 33, p. 21.
    t " Effects of Stress on the Thermoelectric Quality of Metals. Part I." " Proc.
 Roy. Soc.," vol. 32, p. 399.
    J  Since the paper cited was laid before the Royal Society, I have learnt that M.
 Emil Cohn has anticipated me in the discovery of this peculiar feature of the effects
•of stress on thermoelectric quality.       (" Pogg. Ann.," N.F., VI, 385.)
    §  Or  effects  of retentiveness — Note   by Sir William Thomson, May 5, 1882.
       " Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism," II, chapter vi.
    ||

40                   Prof.  J. A. Ewing.     On Effects  of          [May 25,
method (as used by Rowland and others),            I have examined at great
length   the   changes    of  magnetisation  which   occur  in iron and steel
when the magnetising force is progressively increased, diminished,
again increased, reversed, and so on. The results show in the most
conclusive manner that all changes of magnetisation produced by-
slow or fast, continuous or discontinuous, changes of the magnetising
force exhibit hysteresis.       If we carry the metal through any cycle of
magnetisation,      the  curves   giving the relation of  I  (the intensity of
magnetisation) to H (the magnetising force) form loops, and it does
not appear that the loops are different in any essential respect (except
size) when the action is confined to one sign from the loops given
when the sign of the magnetisation is reversed.
    The remarkable feature of the curves is, that when the magnetisa
tion of iron is conducted in such a manner as to be uniform throughout
the piece experimented on, the initial change which occurs when we
pass from increase to decrease of the magnetising force, or vice versa,
is indefinitely small relatively to the initial change of the force.        In
 other words, say that we stop decreasing H and begin to increase it,
then        is at first zero.
    The difference between the curves for increase and decrease of the
magnetic      force is of a perfectly static character.         If it is to be
explained by internal friction, the friction is analogous to that of
solids, and does not at all resemble the viscosity of liquids.             The
 phenomenon here described is independent of the quasi- viscous resist
ance to changes of magnetisation which is due partly to the induction
 of currents in neighbouring conductors, including the magnet itself,
 and partly to the thermomagnetic properties of the metal discussed
 by Sir W. Thomson ("Phil. Mag.," vol. v, 1878, pp. 24-25). The
 influence of those causes disappears when the changes of magnetisa
 tion take place very slowly, or when a sufficient interval of time is
 left after each change of magnetic force before a reading of the
 magnetisation is taken.
    When any cyclic change of I is made to take place by varying H
 cyclically, the area of the loop so formed, or /T<ZH, is not only pro
 portional to, but actually the measure of the work done on the magnet,
 per unit of volume, in performing the cycle.         In cases where changes
 of the magnetisation take place very slowly this is wholly spent on
 the magnet itself, and its equivalent is, no doubt, to be found in the
  heating effect of the cycle. When, however, the changes of magne
 tisation take place at a finite rate, this area must of necessity be
 greater, since the work done in performing the cycle is then greater
 for two reasons ; first, because of the energy expended in inducing
 currents in neighbouring conductors ; and, second, because of the
  dissipation of energy involved in the heating and cooling effects

1882.]          Retentiveness        in  the  Magnetisation        of Iron and     Steel.       41
which Thomson has shown must occur on account of the fact that
the susceptibility to magnetic induction is a function of the tempera-
tare.
    I    have endeavoured to account for the static hysteresis by sup
posing that the rotation of Weber's magnetic molecules is opposed by
n frictional couple of constant moment, not necessarily the same for
all the molecules in a given piece. It seems not unlikely that residual
magnetism itself may be due to this frictional sticking of the molecules
rather than to the quasi-plasticity suggested by Maxwell.                                 The ex
amination of          this  theory, as well as       the   description of the experiments,
some of whose results have been briefly mentioned in this notice, will
form the subject of a more detailed communication.
    Another portion of the work has consisted in looking for hysteresis
in the changes of the longitudinal magnetism of iron wires, produced
 by pulling and relaxing pull, the wires being under the influence of
the vertical component of the earth's magnetic force, which in Tokio-
is about G'34 C.G.S. unit.                   Sir W. Thomson* has investigated very
extensively the general effects of stress on the magnetisation of iron
and other metals, in magnetic fields of various strengths, but without
special reference to this point.                    Only in the case of torsion (alter
 nately      to  opposite sides)        is  mention     made of any action of the kind
 which 1 have termed hysteresis.                      His researches were for the most
 part      conducted       by   the   ballistic   method,     f  by which the currents in
 duced in a solenoid surrounding the wire were observed when a single
    •   "  Electrodynamic      Qualities of Metals,"
                                                        " Phil. Trans.," 1856,
                                                                                  1876, 1879.
    t   [Note    by Sir William      Thomson    of  May   3,  1882.—   This is not  quite so. The
                                                        "
 experiments described in §§ 214— 244 of my Electrodynamic Qualities of Metals,"
 Part     Vll   (" Phil. Trans." for 1879, p. 55), were performed by the magnetomctrii?
 method.        My earlier experiments described in §§ 178 — 213 (" Phil. Trans." for
 1876, p. 693, and for 1879) were performed by the ballistic method.
    The following is taken from            a preliminary     statement (§ 178) : — " Early in the
                I
 year 1874, made arrangements to experiment on the magnetisation of iron and
 steel wires in two different ways — one by observing the deflections of a suspended
 magnetic needle produced by the magnetisation to be tested, the other by observing
 the throw of a galvanometer needle, due to the momentary current, induced by each
 sudden change of magnetism. The second method, which for brevity                       I shall call
 the ballistic method, was invented by Weber, and has been used with excellent
 effect by Thalen, Roland, and others. It has great advantages in respect of conve
 nience, and the care with which accurate results may be obtained by it ; but it is not
 adapted to show slow changes of magnetism, and is therefore not fit for certain im
 portant parts of the investigation.                                I
                                               On this account am continuing arrangements
 for carrying out tho first method, although hitherto I have obtained no good results
 by   it."
    The first method         was accordingly followed in all the latter part of my experi
 ments on this subject ; not only those described in §§ 214 — 244 referred to above,
 but also in further investigations which            I  have continued up to the present time,
 and of which       I hope   to  offer results to the  Koyal    Society before long.]

42                   Prof.  J.  A. Ewiug.       On Effects     of       [May 25,
weight was put on and taken off. By making several steps, instead
of only one, in the application and removal of the load, the existence
of hysteresis may easily be demonstrated by this method ; but have         I
preferred the direct magnetometric method, which has the immense
advantage of exhibiting the actual magnetic state of the stretched
wire at any time.
   Each wire was hung vertically with its upper end on a level with a
mirror magnetometer.           It was then annealed by heating to bright
redness with a spirit-lamp, and after it had become cool, weights were
progressively applied.
   During the earliest part of the first loading certain very interesting
apparently anomalous effects occur, which will be described in the
detailed account.        Apart from these, which are easily distinguished,
the following     is the  normal action : —
   If to the annealed wire any load not exceeding the elastic limit is
successively applied and removed (without shock), its application
causes a decrease and its removal an increase of magnetisation. The
" on " and "off " curves of stress and
                                               magnetism are widely different,
and afford an excellent instance of hysteresis.
   Next, let the wire be stretched beyond its limit of elasticity. The
stretching is accompanied by a decrease of magnetisation,                   which
continues so long as the wire keeps "running down."                    When the
load is removed it is found that a great diminution of magnetisation
 has taken place ; but besides this, the wire has undergone a very
remarkable change with respect to its subsequent behaviour under
stress.
   For let weights now         be  gradually applied      : they cause at first an
increase* of magnetisation, but this passes a maximum and falls off
slightly as that value of the load is approached which previously was
applied to produce the permanent set. Let the load then be gradually
removed : the magnetisation at first increases, passes a maximum (at
a considerably lower value of the load than that which gave the
maximum during application), and finally diminishes rapidly to its
 previous value with no load.
    These effects will be clearly seen by reference to fig. 1, which shows
 the results of a small part of one set of observations.            The ordinates
are    proportional to the total magnetisation, and the abscissae are
the loads   in kilogrammes. In this case the wire was of moderately
soft iron, 0"79 millim. in diameter, and had a well-defined limit of
elasticity at about 10 kilos.
    The upper part of the diagram shows the effect of gradually apply-
   * This  agrees   with Sir W. Thomson's observation that with low magnetising
forces the effect of  "on" is to increase, and "off" to diminish magnetism. The
description of the wire examined by him shows that it was in fact in the state de
                            "
scribed in the text.    (Sec Phil. Trans.," 1879, p. 56.)

1882.]      Retentiveness   in  the  Magnetisation of Iron and   Steel.     43
ing and removing       7  kilos, before the wire had been stretched at all
by any greater load.       The lower part shows the effect of applying and
removing weights nearly equal in all to 16 kilos, after the wire had
been previously stretched by the same load. The initial magnetism for
zero stress had then fallen to 104, but during application it rose to
174 with 10 kilos., and again during removal it rose to 172 with
    kilos.
   The series of experiments from which this figure is taken shows
that the maximums of magnetisation during loading and unloading
{when conducted without shaking the wire) appear only after some
permanent set has been given, and that they gradually shift out to
the right as the amount of permanent set is progressively increased.
    A number of other iron wires tested in the same way agree with
 this one in giving decrease of magnetism for " on," and increase for
" off " before stretching beyond their limits of elasticity, and after
wards increase for " on and decrease for " off." It appears that (at
                             "
least when the strain has occurred- in the circumstances in which it
occurs here) this difference of behaviour forms an unfailing criterion
 by which we may distinguish a piece which has received permanent
set from a piece in the annealed state.
    A careful examination of the initial parts of the curves which are
 formed when after loading we change (without mechanical                   dis
 turbance)    to unloading,   or  vice versd, has brought  out  the fact  that,
calling   I  the magnetisation and p the stress,      ~   is always   initially

44        Effects of Retentiveness in Magnetisation  of Iron.   [May 25,
zero.    The magnetic rigidity, as the reciprocal of this differential co
efficient might be called, is infinite at the beginning of any change
from loading to unloading, or from unloading to loading, provided
that the change takes place without agitation of the wire. In the
thermoelectric experiments described in my former paper, the beginning
of the new curve generally continued to show the same kind of change
as had been going on before.      The same peculiarity can be reproduced
here if the loading or unloading occurs with a slight vibration of the
             I
wire, and now think it almost certain that its presence in the thermo
electric curves was due to a very small amount of mechanical dis
turbance which accompanied the changes of loadi
    When the wire is vigorously tapped during the loading and un
               "    "      "    "
loading, the on and off curves so nearly approach coincidence as
to lead to the conclusion that a sufficient amount of vibration would
destroy the hysteresis altogether. As an instance of this, the full
lines in fig. 2 show the changes undergone by another wire (which

 1882.]         On Actinometrical        Observations made in India.                 45
bad      been    permanently       stretched)     when subjected       to   the    cycle
0— 8— 3 — 12^ — 0 without vibration ; while the broken line is the
position in which the
                               " on " and "off " curves very nearly coincided,
when the same main cycle 0 — 12J — 0 was passed through with tho
accompaniment of violent vibration. Its maximum lies, as regards
load, between the two previous maximums, and the whole range of
magnetic change is considerably increased.
    The hysteresis which occurs in the relation of magnetisation to
stress is absolutely static.          The value of the magnetism associated
with any condition (past and present) of stress is reached at once,
and remains unchanged for any length of time, when the load is kept
constant.
    A full account of the experiments will be given when they are more
complete. They are being conducted in the Laboratory of the Uni
versity of Tokio, with the valuable help of the senior students of
physics.
I V. " On Actinometrical Observations                    made in     India at Mus-
        sooree in Autumn of 1880, and Summer and Autumn of
        1881."     By J. B. N. Hennessey, F.R.S., Deputy Superin
        tendent Great Trigonometrical Survey of India. Received
        May 2, 1882.
                                       [PXATb    1.]
    1.  My last communication dealt with the actinometrical observa
tions made by Mr. W. H. Cole, M.A., and myself in 1879 ; I have now
the pleasure to submit the observations taken in 1880 by Mr. Cole,
and in 1881 by Mr. H. W. Peychers* and myself. The former happen
to be few in number, but the latter present the longest series I have
ever been able to take, extending as they do over thirty-two days.
The 1881 observations were moreover made under certain special con
ditions, which are not without interest. Hitherto the two actino-
meters used (belonging to the Royal Society) were botht of the kind
invented by the Rev. G. C. Hodgkinson, and marked by me A and B.
One of these was employed at Dehra, the other at Mussooree, the
observations being taken as nearly as practicable at the same moments
of time ; but, as the former of these stations cannot be considered free
from objections, which I have discussed in previous communications,
I  determined to restrict future observations to Mussooree alone. This
   * This  being the first occasion of mentioning Mr. Peychers' name,     I add, that as
he has worked under me for several years, I can vouch for him as an accurate and
painstaking observer.
   t   Both these actinometers are still identical in all respects with their condition
when received in 1868.

46                        Mr.   J.  B. X. Hennessey.                    [May 25,
change, moreover, enabled me to adopt the desirable condition that
two observers and instruments, placed side by side, should work with
one and the same chronometer between them, so that two independent
results  might be obtained simultaneously.           It was under these condi
tions that the autumn series of observations in 1881 were made ; other
wise, both the summer and autumn series of 1881, as well as the series
of 1880, were taken exactly in keeping with the observations of 1879.
The procedure followed in the last-named series is fully described in
the " Proceedings of the Royal Society," vol. 31, p. 154, to which
1 may be permitted to refer, instead of making repetitions here, espe
cially since my leisure is at present limited, so that it had perhaps
better be devoted to what follows.
   2. Returning to the autumn simultaneous observations of 1881, not
only were two actinometers employed side by side, but the two instru
ments were of different patterns.         One of them was A (Hodgkinson's),
which has been amply described in my previous communications ; the
other instrument was one * of those constructed according to designs
by Professor Balfour Stewart.            It is marked No. 2, and is supplied
with two similar tubes, or thermometers, viz.. No. 1306 and No. 1307,
both of which read from 0° to 100° F., and are graduated on the glass
to degree fifths. Tube 1306 alone was employed : it was readily
adapted to give readings for so long a time as thirty consecutive
minutes of observation, by casting off sufficient mercury into the pear-
shaped receptacle above.          This was done once for all before the series
was begun, and in fact the surplus mercury is still in the receptacle.
 Otherwise, particular attention was paid to the settings of the ther
 mometer, in rotation and depth, and to those of the lens ; the latter
was kept scrupulously clean, and was used to its full extent, i.e., no
stops were employed.         It will thus be seen that the observations were
all strictly differential. The graduations were read as usual with a
magnifying-glass ; the exposures were of sixty seconds alternately in
sun and shade, with thirty seconds' intervals between, so that the
instruments were read both at the beginning and end of each sixty
seconds' exposure, all of which is in keeping with what was done during
previous work. In point of observers, Mr. Peychers worked A and I
used No. 2.
    3. My observations before 1881 were restricted to the autumn, but
an opportunity occurred in the summer of 1881, which was utilised so
long as it lasted.     The results are of an unexpected nature.
   4. There is another point to be mentioned.              Increased experience
has suggested keener discrimination in respect to atmospheric condi
tions, and this has called for some concise mode of indication, which I
   * For the loan of this instrument   I am indebted to the kindness of H. F. Blan-
ford, Esq., F.R.S., Meteorological Reporter to the Government of India.

1882.]         On Actinometrical      Observations   made in India.         47
designate
             " day letters." These I briefly explain hereafter, first reite
rating that      I  never observe when any visible interpositions exist
between the sun and me ; and, in fact, what can be the use of
measuring solar radiation through a visible varying atmospheric
umbrella, such as is represented by cloud, mist, haze, dust, and smoke ?
I thought of using a Crookes' radiometer (happening to possess one)
as a pioneer to the actinometer, in order to see if the former would
suitably indicate when the latter may be employed to good purpose,
but the intention unavoidably fell through.
    5. Now, in respect to my day letters, the cases I had to provide
for were these : the two visible causes of interposition are cloud
 (including mist) and haze (including dust, smoke, &c.). First as to
cloud : —
    (1.) The whole visible sky may be perfectly clear, or there may be
half-a-dozen small patches here and there, but none within 50° or 60"
of the sun ; for this state my day letter is A.
    (2.) But sometimes the condition A required qualifying, because of
a peculiar cloud behaviour.          The sun being due south, small cloud
 balls, some 2° to 5° in diameter, appeared on the horizon about north
west, and gradually rolled up and eastwards to some 30° short of the
sun, where they became invisible. When the circular track, if continued
in imagination, passed well under the sun, I indicated this by B.
    (3.) But if the track passed through the sun. the day letter used
 is C.
    6. Then as regards haze :     I  stood on the outermost mountain range,
 south of which lie the plains and to the north successive hill ridges,
 ending in the perpetual suows.           No haze is generated on the hills
 apparently, but is blown up from below, the wind being southerly as
 a rule  :  hence
    (4.) For no baze south or north        I use a.
    (5.)   For  haze  to south  only,  b.
    (6.)   When    the  haze is both  south and north,  I infer that I stand in
                                                    I
 it though it is invisible overhead ; for this use c.
    Hence, by using suitable combinations of these letters, the condition
 of the sky is fairly indicated symbolically, at least for Mussooree.
     7. The present series have been reduced in exactly the same
 manner as those of 1879 were reduced.              The individual results are
 attached, viz. : —
    For 1880 Autumn, October 18th to 27th, in T. 1, by Mr. W. H.
 Cole, M.A.
    For 1881 Summer, April 25th to May 9th, in T. 2, by Mr. H. W.
 Peychers and myself.
    For 1881 Autumn, October 11th to November 11th, in T. 3, by Mr.
 H. W. Peychers and myself.
    In these tables the results of A and B are expressed in terms of A,

48                         Mr.  J.  B. N. Hennessey.                     \Nay   2*;,
glass   off;   for those of No. 2 the unit is 0°-01 F., assuming a
graduation of No. 2 to be 0°-2 F.
    8. It needs but little familiarity with the two kinds of instruments
to decide in favour of that by Professor Balfour Stewart over that by
 the Rev. G. C. Hodgkinson, a preference which may be greatly in
creased by doubling the sensitiveness of the former.              I have accord
ingly converted all my results beginning with 1869, and expressed
 them in terms of Stewart's No. 2, or 0°-01 F., which unit is to be
understood     in all that vote follows.
    9. Again,    as the average   zenith of distance of the sun during my
autumn series does not differ greatly one year with another, and as
.suitable corrections to an adopted zenith distance may be inferred
 from the long range series (i.e., three or four hours on each side of
 the meridian) taken at the same season of the year,            I   have reduced
 all my autumn results to the zenith distance of 45°.
    10. The long range series used are given in T. 4, where it will be
seen that the series with A in 1881 is inconsistent, so that                I  have
 rejected it.     It appears  a  waste of time to attempt formulating at
present the correction from one Z.D. to another ; I made several
endeavours of the kind with the long series of T. 4, but feeling that
 the expressions were more pretentious than real,            I resorted to the
 projection shown in the correction Curve C 1 : here it will be seen
 that the two curves, i.e., of 1879 and 1881, are fairly similar, and as
the series of 1881 was taken at half-hour intervals instead of the one-
 hour intervals of 1879, the correction curve        I   have adopted is made
to agree more nearly with the later series.          All the reductions to 45°
Z.D. have been made with the help of C 1.
    11. From T. 4, long scries, rejecting the results of A, 1881, we
have   —
          App. time.                            Defect from noon.
              h.                         1879.                      1881.
              8                           115
              9                            45                        39
              9. 5                                                   26
             lu                            19                         15
             10. 5                                                      0
             11                             6                           4
              1                            15                           6
               1. 5                                                   11
              2                            30                         18
              2. 5                                                    25
              3                            62                         55
              4                          127
where the 1879 series is hourly, and from 8 a.m.           to 4   p.m.,   while the

1882.J On Actinometrical Observations made in India.
 50                         Mr.   J.  B. N. Hennessey.                           [May 25,
 1881 series is /toZ/.hourly, and from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.                  Taking sums of
the defects at the common hourly points, 9h. to 3h., we have —
                                                        1879.                  1881.
          Defect before noon                             70         ....         58
             „     after      „                         107                      79
          Radiation greater      before noon   ...       37         ....         21
where the two series        agree in showing that the radiation before noon
is in    excess,  as   pointed out before.           And as respects differences
between defects from noon at corresponding hour angles, we have —
                                                 Difference of defect.
                                 Hour Z
                             ..4
          Comparing.                     •        1879.            1881.          Mean.
        8     and 4                                12                         ..    12
                             ..3
                                             . .         . .
        9      „   3      .                  ..    17    ..  . .    16    .   ..    16
        9. 5   „   2.5             2. 5                              9               9
                             ..2
                          .  . .                   - -                    . .
      10       „   2      .                    .   11    .. ..       3    ..         7
      10.5
      11      „
               „   1.5
                   1
                          .
                          -  .1
                             ..    1.5    ..
                                             ..      9   .. ..       2
                                                                      5   .   ..
                                                                          .. ..
                                                                                     5
                                                                                     5
where the valne at       I   4 alone is contradictory, but the results at so
large an hour L are difficult to observe in winter, and especially with
a Hodgkinson actinometer, which requires repeated " casts off
                                                                                     " and
hasty manipulation. Otherwise these mean results, so far as they go,
increase with the sun's progress.
    12. T. 5 presents abstracts of the observations already published of
1869 and 1879, and now expressed in terms of No. 2 (unit 0° 01 F.)
and reduced to Z.D. 45°.
    13.  T. 6, T. 7, and T. 8 present abstracts of daily results respec
tively   from   T. 1, T. 2, and T. 3, t.e., for Autumn 1880, Summer 1881,
and Autumn 1881. [The results for the four autumns are exhibited
graphically in Plate 1.]
    14. With regard to T. 7, no reduction to Z.D. 45° has been
attempted,       for circumstances       unfortunately           did not permit of
observing a long series at the time. In fact, observations in the
summer were not contemplated, for, as a rule, that season is highly
unfavourable for actinometrical work. As, however, the atmosphere
 unexpectedly became fine and clear, advantage was taken of the
opportunity to do as much work as was practicable : for this purpose
 none but highly favourable days were admitted, and it is a point to
be noticed that excepting on May 2, 6, and 9 the visible conditions were
 decidedly good.       On the dates just mentioned 'a dry (dust ?) haze
 visibly enveloped the observer, and the observations then taken are
 intended expressly to measure the effect of this haze. The results
 from T. 7 are

  1882.]         On Actinometrical      Observations  made   in India.             51
              Mean from five clear days.                             565
                   „        three hazy days.                         535
                                       Decrease.                      30
or    about  5^  per cent.     If  this may happen at a height of 6,700 feet,
 and the haze was by no means of maximum density, what may be
 expected at lower and less favoured localities ?
     15. T. 8 exhibits an abstract of the bulk of the work now pre
 sented.     The series extends over thirty- two days, in which four blanks
'occur unavoidably ; the visible atmospheric conditions were excellent,
 and the work was done with great care and with two different kinds
of instruments. Attention is called to the variable nature of the
 factor            due probably to imperfections      in A.
             A
     16.  Turning for a moment to another subject. As the photo-heliograph
 in daily work at Dehra Doon is under my charge, the negatives were
available for finding areas of sun-spots in the autumn of 1881. My
 means for making these measurements in a limited time were not very
 rigorous; notwithstanding           I believe the results obtained, of visible
areas, are sufficiently exact.           Nor was there leisure to find these
areas for any considerable period, i.e., before, after, and including that
of the actinometrical observations of autumn 1881, and a considerable
range of the kind is obviously essential for a comple te inquiry as to
connexion in time and circumstances between solar causes and terres
trial effects. Under existing pressure,            I chose the daily negatives
corresponding to the days of actinometer work, and obtained numerical
values of areas for umbra and penumbra.
     17. Looking now at curves C 2, the exhibit was intended to pre
sent curve projections of radiation and spot-areas only in autumn
 1881 ; as, however, there is space on the exhibit, the autumn radiation
curves for 1869, 1879, and 1880 have been added. The day-letters for
 1881 have also been introduced, attention being here called to those
containing a C or c.         I  repeat, that the presence of these letters by no
means implies that the results are vitiated and rejectaneous from
 oisible causes, but that merely invisible interpositions may possibly
 have prevailed. Now, as already said, the curves of 1881 are exhibits
of simultaneity between radiation and spot-areas, and that being the
argument, neither contrariety nor similarity decidedly appears between
the two curves, which, therefore, in the exhibit, yield no answer as to
spot temperature.          If we discard the argument of simultaneity as
 improbable* in presence of our own heat arresting atmosphere alone,
    *  I can only aver that my thermometer sunk in the ground 26 feet still continues
to mark a falling temperatnre, although on the surface we are now fast approach
ing maximum summer heat (April 1, 1882).
                                                                     E 2

52                         Mr.   J. B. N. Hennessey.                     [May 25,
then the question arises, for a given radiation effect how far back
 must we seek for the corresponding spot impulse (if any) ? Bnt my
present view being necessarily limited to what appears on C 2, I
advance (in imagination) the area curve by some three days, bringing,
for instance, its features of 12th under that of radiation for 15th ;
when this is done, there is more general resemblance between the two
curves, indicating increased radiation for increased spot-area.                The
middle or highest rising portions (16th to 29th) of spot-area will now
correspond fairly with 18th (or 19th) to 1st of radiation ; an interval
about the same as a semi-solar rotation.
    18. Looking at the radiation curve (autumn 1881) alone, it may be
described as consisting of three hills (of which the last, alas, is cut
short with the series and leads to nothing) and intervening valleys ;
between the apices of the first and second hills wo have eleven days,
 between the valleys six and fourteen days.
    19. This brings me to T. 9, where are tabulated the means of such
of the autumnal results as happen to be forthcoming, lying between
15th October and 16th November for each year, and also the summer
mean for 1881. Now, looking at the yearly autumn means reduced to
45° Z.D., it will be seen that they exhibit a continuous decrement of
about 2 per cent, annually from 1879 to 1881.             I think that they also
have the appearance of truth about them, so far as they go, and, in fact
in obtaining them considerable care and exactness was exercised, so that
they may claim reliance.         But when we look at the summer mean of
1881,   which    in my judgment is eqnally reliable, we find it only 565,
at a solar zenith distance of but 150-5, or nearly 30° less than the
autumn Z.D.         Unfortunately, I repeat, no long series could be taken
in the summer, but the autumn long series in the same year (1881)
gives a mean decrease of 47 radiation for an increase in Z.D. of 17°
reckoned from Z.D. 46° ; and accepting this as some approximate
basis for reduction of the summer result from 15°-5 to 45°, I can only
conjecture that this summer result, if thus reduced, would be less than
the autumn result of the same by, say, at least, 40 to 50 units, or
about half a degree ¥.*         This represents so great and unexpected a
change that one naturally looks for flaws in the summer observations,
but I can find none. The mean is obtained from five days' observa-
tions taken carefully in (visibly speaking) unimpeachable weather,
and the five results are accordant (see T. 7). Beyond this can only    I
 say that I will certainly try to obtain other daily series, and a long
series, in the approaching summer.
   * The solar negatives for the summer of 1881 are not with me now, but judging
from silver prints in my possession, it is certain that sun-spots and faculae were
very sensibly absent in summer 1881 compared with sun-spot exhibits in the suc
ceeding autumn ; if this be accepted as cause, variation of radiation with sun-spot
 area would receive very decided confirmation in the present instance.

 1882.]       On Actinometrical        Observations made in India.              53
   20.  Next,  I may    first mention that by the " black bulb " thermometer
is intended one of those unsatisfactory instruments, of which the bnlb
is blackened and enclosed in a fixed glass sphere some 3 inches in
diameter, and that the same identical instrument was exposed and
read on the same spot in 1879 to 1881.              Now, according to what has
been said, the actinometrical            summer result, if true, indicates a
sensible decrease of radiation compared with autumn, but the black
bnlb shows exactly the reverse, and reads 19° higher in the summer !
There is also a similar contradiction between 1879 and 1880, where
the black bulb gives a rise of 13 to an actinometrical fall.             I confess
my inability to account for these contradictions, which, however, I
cannot regard as of serious importance,               unless it be affirmed that
black bulb thermometers            are reliable : in this case there arises the
question why     the   actinometer     and the black bulb should be at such
utter variance ?
   21.   In concluding this paper, I venture to make            a few remarks in
respect to actinometrical observations.             It is astonishing how con
siderably one's notion of the number of days suitable for actinometrical
work undergoes         modification after careful watching.           I speak, of
coarse, only of visible vitiating causes ; of the invisible I know
nought, if ought be known.            And the presence of the former causes
I now believe may be detected by a careful observer, at any place
I am acquainted with, on several days in the year: no doubt one
locality is far more suitable than another, bat at the best a number of
days will occur annually, when observations             if made are worse than
useless, for they are misleading.          Hence in any project for continuous
actinometrical work, the stations should be selected at least in pairs,
so that the omissions at one of the two may be supplemented at the
other.
   22.   Another point is this : suppose that at a given station the sun's
meridional    zenith distance at lowest is f, and at highest is Z, then the
system of observation I suggest is as follows : —
   (1.) Observe daily from 15 minutes before to 15 minutes after
apparent local noon.
   (2.) Observe daily a series of 6 sun and 5 shade observations when
the sun on each side of the meridian is at zenith distance =            f  for the
mean    of the set.
   (3.)   Observe a series of 6 sun and 5 shade at every half hour from
9 a.m. to 3 p.m.,   if  possible, on every day corresponding to a change
of 3° declination     between    f  and Z ; thus if the sun's meridional zenith
ranged in course       of the year between zenith distances 7° and 54°
 (about), then by preference let the days of observation for long series
 be those days when        the meridional zenith distances are successively
     10°,  and 13°   ...     . 54°  (about).
     23.  By means of (1), (2), (3) a complete connexion will be estab

54                     Mr.  J. B. N. Hennessey.               ,  [May 25r
lished throughout the year's work at any one station, but as already
remarked,   I think a pair of stations essential. No doubt several pairs
are really wanted, and sooner or later      I believe this will come to be
established right round the globe, for actinometer and solar photography
and physics generally : at any rate this must happen, so soon as the
leading nations of this earth take home to themselves the fact, that
solar energy is the great force which utterly governs them, indirectly
perhaps even in matters of commerce or war. Meanwhile, even one
pair of actinometer stations will be welcome, and all the more so if
established  at once.

1882.]        On A ctinometrical          Observations      made       in India.          55
                                                   son
                                                   * -          II
                                        g a                   net              HO OS OS
                               o                                                H  «
                                                                                H t-
                                                   CO CO
                                                   OJ -*P IO      «
                                                              i-H IO CO OS ^i
                                                              O      IO •iJi m     CM  O
                                                       oiH O8-«H»CO
                      g           §      °         00 --iO-                           i-l
                                                   t«         cocoMHHa
                                                              C:     C3 C71
                                                                                   ^  ^
                                                   00             Ci         C3 O0 00 O-
                      -<.
                      es
                      o
         00
         ao                             s a a      Oi CD lO   CO *?     OHCO       IO IO
                                       'S g 8      CO  MH                    HH    CO U3
          C
         OS                                        to CO OS CO Q ^ CO CO CO -3
         30                  *1                    CM CO-* tQUCDIOlO^
                                                   to to to io io in to io io to
                                                                                   <N
         "3
          o
          -                                                             w
                                                                                      fH
                                                                             qo co
          O
          r.               3  s  a  *             VH-^COCOCM
                                                       CM O-      CM            O0 CM
         jo
          o
                             -si    a              co cp tp   o      e* '- o    to cp oo
         to                   §'3 2              °co   cc*
                                                   CD to U3 lO
                                                              HooCDoOH^i
                                                                     ^
                                                                                   oo co
                                                                             iO lO lO CO
                             GO.
          tic                    N;g
          e
          c
                                                a O
                                                H
                                                       oo
                                                       CO
                                                              oooooo
                                                              05             CO
                                                                                   o
                                                                                   CO
                                                                                       o
                                                 . OS OS  O OHCMHHC4               CM CO
-r ft 8.                        5    co
                                           ,
                                             c
                                             5
           I         PS
                                                 * lO -H     •       CO      H^'CO-IO
                                                                             CO O iO
                                                   J-
                                                   CO O- 04
                                                       O- OS
                                                                     lO
                                                                     OS      -3 -3 00 i-
                          'si    1 1 g
                                                   a too      iH             HO    iO Ol
                                                 °CD CO t»    CM             CM CO CD CD
                                    9
                              3 a   S            °0    •* CO  O      CO            •* lO
                             £ U.s
                                                 .CO   OS 9 H        CM      HCM CO ^i

                               Mr.           J.      B. N. Hennessey.                 [May 25,
                      2             d.
             8erm-                                                            9
                                      z.                  CM C3 lO C3 © CO
                      of No.
                               a8                         OS 1- -3 -3 M O     5
                                                          lQ iQ lQ lO CD CD   ia
            In                        45°
          •„9fr         P       '* ?« not?               «o cp  «
                                                         CC '* t~
                                                                  oo «  m
                                                                     — OJ
            -oipoJ
                                                                      i
                                    p»1098lO3            OS OS C3 OS © OS
                                                                     -H
 Sri
  o
  BO                            o»          -P   *       toiocoonco
                        o^      noiianpaa                1           +
  So
                                            •uoou
          jaqrs pun aiojaq                               CMHlOOOO
                                                         l^ to 9*. CO tH C3
                                                         -3 -3 -3 C3 O -3
          Uoain 'aoi^ttipua
                                                         TO CO O 00 CO OS     iO
                               •aonwjsip
illiuaz luuoipuaui s(nng                                 °5   5
                                                              5
                                                              5      ^
                                                                     ^
                                                                                           —•
                      2
                                                         '8          6
                                                         O                                 oo9
                                                                                           •—!
            8erm-
           In
                    2
                     of No.
                               a8
                                    z. d.
                                    46°
                                                         iiiliiilllliiig                   9B
                                                                                           'Xj
                                                                                           m
 off.
          '0St -P 'a 1« nop
            -oipoj pa^aajjog                             iiiiiiiiHiiisi
                               oSt          P    z
  -9as-
                      o?        noijanpajj               i      +
 •<                                         •uoou
          ja?ro pus ejojaq
          8o9U1  '80t)o!poJJ
                                                         -3   -3«C»-3C3osC3C3-?-3-3So3C3
                              -aouo^grp                                                    CO
qqraaz reuoipuau- 8,ung                                 "^gg^gscogggo^oj
                       9-78.
                                                         o o

1882.] On Actinometrical Observations made in India. 57
58                              Mr.    J.     B. N. Hennessey.                                                        [May 25,
                                         8   3.                                        'u So h
               Jt3                                                                                                                  T3
                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                           .   S      K                             o
                                                                                                                                    cj
                                                                                        (jpfl         2
                                                                                       p5       «
                                                                                                (C    !»
                                                                                       ,2             3
                                                                                       5 S*                                          - T3
                                                                                       p\2S
                                        iOOSCDCOi-HCdCOCD
                                        .t»UOC-iO9»CC)C0C0                                                                          0.-
       a
                                                                                                                                    a    a
                                                                                                                                    a a
                                                                                                                                     .o
                 aM '                   -fHHCO^COOIO
                                                                                       *
                                                                                       §                                      T3 CO      S
                 S " -°                                                                                                                  *J
                                                                                         *                                     Cj CO
                     .3
                     -°
                        3                                                              o
                                                                                       8
                ,2        •9i
                                                                                       -a a
                                                                                       '2             §
                                        toooswocooN                                            is £
                                                                                                      3                        ecow
                                                                                               0      E                       s §   -
                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                           .
                                        tMCDOS^-^UOCOOS
                                                                                   3            a?
                                                                                       ai       a
                                                                                       '9                                     ^ (8O
                                        iM 00 -o i> OS ii?
                                              CO CO CO     lO
                                                              ©  o                             a      8
                                                                                                                                ' .  ¦*
           -% pdonpax                                                                                                          ho *^
                                                                                       ©
                                                                                                                              .5    °^
                                                                                                      S«
     uooa            pun
                                                                                       -       —      i                       S  ai-5
                                                                                                                              •Sjq «
                                                                                                                              3p.3« C
                                                                 iH iH                 -^3-e                '
                                                                                                                              2     -    a •5
                                      ! -H -H -H -H -H -H -H         -fl               CO       o     a    «    S
                                              -# OS lO CD    OS                                                                          a
                                              C3       o
                                                    co rl                  no                                                 n     « o
                                                                                                                              £-*
                                                                           a                                    u
                                                                                       B. -jT
                                              O- -3 OS OS                  CM                              '!
                                                                            to                 § a         *    .'§            3
                                             io9»cocoo»H                                                                      ooh
                                                                                                                              00  Ql
                                                                                                      8
           I
                                                                           a
                                  S          rtHH          O H                                  a*--            cr            o K
                                                                                                                              "    a 5
      s
                                                                                       Jg •2
      S cr                                   -H-H-H -H-H -H-H
                                  J
                                  §                                                       C
                                                                                                *~ o                          pa   a EcJ)
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                          2
                                             co lQ i> iH CO CO CM
                                                                                          S
                                  -13
                                             --i io o CO H 1^ 00                                                              a 3
                          a                                                                                     •£
                 B
                                                                                       «C - o -
                                                                                          S
                                   cs
                                             OS CO OS OS OS JO cc
                                                                                          m^-J
                                                                                                                6
                                       «ospi-'^ciaoSiH                                 a
                                                                                          C3 es .Cv '*£
                                                                                       n o cs ^ O
                                                                                         a Sn 9> ~
                                                                                                                              sis
                                                                                       O d v d °
     psaoipuam       a,tmg
                                      °N co *-o     co co
                                                                                 ! :
                                                                                       -a      5
                                                                                               2           *    3
                                                                                       2        £rg
                                                                                                                              255"
                                                                                                                      d   a
                                                                                 OS             oj    2    a    P             ti    2    Sri
                                                                                 s     1.      S      8
                                                                                                       8        I     I   m
                                                                                 S-a^                 S-S a .
                                                                                                        ag                . .            S
                                      1        b                                 5a                                                      «
                                                                                               a                          s
                                        5.                                                                            s   s
                                                  c3                                           S                          s
                                                                                                      5ST3                           3
                                                                                               3      6  n«                              *«

        °l9ll9X                  'HIA      —       p-w^sqy            }o                 s^insaa       p3A.-o-qo                                             m'Ai       OA)       sjo'joi9xu'joy                                         —                                         puu
                                                                              ^fj-T-p                                    ^[-noouu^t8un8s                                                                                                      K.9iu8jjSpojj                   'v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56go
                                                                                                                         9o 'JJjoo--nK            tramwv       •("9
                                          uco^      uo(8t|pej        9j                                                                j-    'uooa                                                                                       pa9oaaoo      uo(-•|pt!J 9« •"g,
                                                                           •anob-9jjtjnb                n-an    jo                                                                     uo;-3npo}-
                                                                                                      -Jo}ob p9--                                                                    1  vtvcrs
 '9-9                                                                     >9-j.fl-.-.--9n 'on    9           'uooa                          *ji39a9x-abx                                                                                                  9o           2. No. of
                                                                                                                          -ojug                                                9
              distance. zen8h
                                        J39U90U993o        'o                                                                                                            ON
                                                                             -bm) '(--T                                  u8--•                                                                                                                          ?           terms in
                                                                                                                                                             'un-uj        o                                                                           gB    to•1   and     No.
                                                                                                                         p.npM                                                                                                                                           2,
                                    1'
                                    1       -                                                                                                                                        u9-                  •a-ov                                JPo        oSz
                                    1'                J3JJo               o99g           JO9Jo        J]8o   •awv           OJ                                                                                                                                      of     Mean
              meridional Sun's
                                                                                                                                                             bp-b
                                                                                                                                                                                      o                   OH          •5           •v         '8'ON       PR                  99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A
                                        •UOOU         •9ou                •uo9           •uo9         o      'ON    9.    eo      ,               9'M
              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           !
                   0
PO      99     88E                 o-9T99           MT-9              80T-8             --T-8          E-9    98         E8 99        9    9      89         ---89      99-8-         ,-                    i-                      i©           98           98          -8       »Do
        9      98E                 8-T-8            8-T-8             --T-H'            £-T9-          -8     -9            -99       98          9 8        89   9      --9.           9                                           T-           -8-          -9          89       ".o
        99     8-RE                -9 9T 9          8-T-9              --9T89g          9-9T-8         -9     -T            9f8       98          8     -    899          -98           9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i9              T9           £8           98          -8       Z8
        91     99E                 9-9T-9           99 9T --          8-T09             MT99i          -9     -9            --8       98          8 T        9989        -o98           9                           9               £-9           9g          98          88       o     --
        i      9o 8                --OT99G          9TH9        --     o.0T9';g         -.0T98         -99    98             go8      i    9      88         -.-59        i98             9                         9               -9           -i           9i          9i       lav
        9      9o      --          --T-8            -9 9=f 9.         -8    -T   --      8OT9gg        -8     -8            -H-       98          98         999          998             9                         9               89           £W           -9           «g      o  -0
        9      8--                 -9 9T 9          8Z899              |T9g    9         8OTE8g        8-     9i            98        9i          -.9        99           90'.-           99                        9               E£-          9o-          -9          EB-      av 9(090,
        T      g-or                99 8T            -8     9
                                                           T9         98 --Z8           8-TI8          88     -8            -99       89-         8-         999.9        E98                                        9              m            -i           9           -9       10o
               O-                          99- 8                                 8                                                    99.-                   99           998                                                       -8           -V-          -8
        O8                         TC99             --T99              egg -t           C-TE8          T9     -8             8og-                 - -.            9.-
                                                                                                                                                                                          i9                                                                              £8       a0o
        9              98          W-T89            99 9OT                              C9
                                                                                           8
                                                                                           9
                                                                                           T           9-9    89            8-8            9      -.9        999 8        888             9                                         9*9          --           -9          9-
                  ..                                                   oTocg 8                                                        9                                                                                                                                            -v
        9-        99 9             9-TK9             g.-=F99          -9 9OT            --T-9          fl9    99            8£8       99          -.8        99     8     -98                                                       9©           99           9-          i«-      -v
        8         98   8            8oT-g9          9-T-9             9-T--             8-T9-          -9     ©-             o-g.     e     8-    8 9        (.•.99-      9998                                                      -9           --           -i-         --       "o
        9         Oo-              --T99            /'0T-i9           E-T9.9            -.-T99         9      E0-           898       9--         9     g-   m r..        -88                                       -8--- E         i9           99           -9          -9        vy
        -8        £-9              9.-TM-9          80T-*9            8-T--              --Tg-         9-     --            -9*-      99          T9         --..9        £T8                                                       99           f.-          -9          -/5      Uflo
        68        o-9              98a   t0g-       9W      9
                                                           =F9                                         -8                   88        -     8     9-         8©9                                                                    89                        i           £9       Z8
        --        o-9              80T-9            8-=FR9            --Tf-8            i-T9-8         -9      --           £88       -.9         99          o-o?,-      998                                                       -9           --           99          7-
        9t:       9    8           --T8C            --T-9              8OT9rg            9OTE8g        -9      --g          »8        9     9..   9o-        --o.         98 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      99            99           9-           99           o-g
'AON     9     o-e                 9-9T99            g.-Ti9           --T-i             9-T99          -9                   99f-      88          8-og       99   8       £98                                                        99.9        -i           -8          £8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ---
               e-9                 --T99            9zo 9-T           E8
                                                                            8
                                                                            0
                                                                            T           --T98          99      9fl          99        98          99-  9     9£99         98   9
                                                                                                                                                                               9      +                      +                      89           -8           -8          --5      --
               89                  8-T-9            --T99             8-T99             98 0
                                                                                           T     8     U9     -9-           ee-       99          go9        9-9          £V-8                                                       89          i            9i          -9       -v
               B98                 8oTe-9           0T99        -     98    -T           9oTzgg        T9       -gg         88        8     9     99         '.9 9        9£P8                                                        sr.-;      -8           -8          98
                  9    8-          --T-9            9-T999            -TE8       8g     --Ti-          9.9      wg          »8        9     8-    8--        E89          998  8                                                    -9           -8           -8          88
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   --
                  --9              --T99            99 9T       9-     8OTo;g            g-oTo8g       8-9     -£9          88-       /-    E.    g-o*       9i9 8        fl9.                                                        >:<;1      99           -9          89
                  o98              8-T8.-
                                                    8
                                                    9
                                                    9       9   --     -gg 8ot             -T
                                                                                         -og      8    99      98           99        9     9.    99         9-.9 z-      -r.9O-                                                     --*         -8           -8          -8
                                                           =F                                                                                                                                                                                                                      --
                  9-9              0TO9      9      80T-9             E-T9J              oig 9-oT      -9      -8           --9       99          g.og       g-9--        ---8                                                       99          O8l          9-          89        vy
        9         98 8             9-T9O9           --T98              -0Trg;            flOT9'g       88      9            Rf-       99          8 9         -
                                                                                                                                                              1   'J-     9.H8                                                       -9          98           £8          -8       -
                                                                                                                                                             [9                                                                                                     9
                                                                                                                                                                                          --£ - 9 z-0 99ot- £ I--
        9         £-9              9-T-9             9-9,9
                                                         OT 9-         8OT9gg           f--T-8         -9      -8            -9,--    --9         9R-         9i          T98                                                        o9          99           9           9T       >ov
                                                                                                                                                                  9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -9 9 9Io - 9 g g -
        9         9--              i9 --OT          --T-8             8-T98             o.-T-9         99      --           ?.-9      98          T     9    T9           98 9             9                                         ?.9         88           -8          -8       -av
                  99*               8utpnpx-        'm-9    'b-99     'M9H     put) M99 bo-8O 99                         u--u         9     8     89         999 8                                                                               i9           £8
                                                                                                                                                                        19

 60                           Mr. J.   B. N. Hennessey.                       [May    29),
    October 11. — Wind in low puffs from S. Air and sky beautifullv clear, except
occasional small patches of c.c. which kept rising to W., and floating up to some 303
of sun, when they became invisible and could no longer be followed.
    October 12. — As on 11th ; except that the small patches of c.c. passed along a
 track some 8° to  W   below sun.
    Ootober 14. — A very favourable day. Light wind from S. Not even a speck of
eloud visible ; light haze towards plains S., and also slightly visible by dimming
 hills to N.
    October 15. —A very favourable day and exactly like 14th, with one exception,
i.e., small light c.c. floated up from W. in a course passing some 15° to 25° below
sun and disappeared when some 30° W. of sun. Wind S., at first very low, later on
in somewhat fresh puffs.
    October 16. — A very favourable day, except that c.c. (from very small up to 10s
in diameter) kept passing at intervals in a track     10° to 20° below sun.    Haze over
plains more than yesterday, but no increase up here.
    October 17. — A very still day, very clear, but small c.c.. keep occasionally floating
W. to E. in track about passing through sun j invisible near sun. Haze over plains
rather increased since yesterday ; haze is not visible overhead.
    October 18. — Sky clear but for small c.c. floating about and disappearing 15° to
40° from sun ; haze over plains increased.     Hills some 30 miles to S. just visible ;
to N. view fine and clear. Wind S., in gusts but not strong.          It is impossible to
say how far, if at all, the clouds interfered.
    Octobor 19. — Sky beautifully blue and etaar, but observation spoiled by a few
patches of c.c. floating W. to E. across sun from time to time.          Haze to S. over
plains. A thunderstorm to N. last evening. Wind S. and low.
    October 20. —A very fine day marred by not more than half-a-dozen c.c. floating
about, some of which interposed.      Sky otherwise blue and clear.      All doubtful ob
servations rejected.     Wind in rather fresh gusts and southerly.           Observations
rejected when c.c. visibly interposed.
    October 22. — A most brilliant day. Sky blue and without cloud or haze.         Wind
S. and rather fresh.
    October 24. — Sky beautifully clear, except half-a-dozen small streaks of cir-strati
about 10° above S. horizon, far from 0. Wind S. and sometimes in gusts, other
wise day highly favourable
    October 25. — Day beautifully fine.    Wind S. and in gusts low and fresh.
    October 26. — Day beautifully fine : two or throe (only) small patches of as.
moving W. to E. some 25° below sun. Wind S. and in rather strong gusto.
    October 28. — To-day is peculiar.   Strati and cumuli run along horizon for some
10° height from S. by E. and N. to S.E., besides a few small cirri to N. some 603
from sun ; and in addition a few small c.c. kept floating up from W. to some 25° of
sun (in track which would pass say 15° to 20° under sun) and then disappeared.
Wind S. and in rather fresh gusts. No visible clouds approached the sun. Sky
generally blue and bright.
    October 29.— Sky deep blue, for about 10° below to 7° above sun. A little haze
to S. over plains, c.c. along horizon from S.E. to N.W. A most perfect day for
observations.
    October 30. — Day beautifully fine.   Not a speck of cloud except some cumuli on
the suows (N) up to some 4° altitude only.          Wind S. and occasionally in fresh
gusts.    Haze  (smoke, vapour, and dust) over plains to S., but hills to N. quite clear.
Weight for day 1 -0.
    October 31. — Day beautifully  fine, as nearly as possible like yesterday     (30th)  ,
except wind slightly stronger and haze over plain slightly increased.

1882.]              On Actinometrical        Observations   made     in India.         61
  November 1. — Day beautifully fine, like yesterday ; wind as high, i.e., in fresh
gusts, from S. Clouds over snows, and one or two small patches floated a little
way upward and disappeared some 60° or 80° from sun. Haze over plains increased
slightly from       smoke.
  November 2. — Beautifully clear, not a cloud anywhere except a very few small
ones over the snows.
   November 3. — Beautifully clear day, perhaps the clearest we have had. Wind S.
and in gusts of greater strength than usual.
  November 4. — Day beautifully clear in respect to cloud, of which there is a
narrow (1°) belt of e.s. some 8° above horizon to S. But as regards haze, this has
been increasing (chiefly from smoke) over the plains, and to-day this haze is ver\
slightly perceptible N.E. and W. as well.
   November 5, 9.0. — Beautifully clear, not a speck of cloud, no wind.     Over plains
a good deal of haze (smoke), which is slightly visible against distant hills to N. (also
E. and W.), so that we are in it.
   9.30. — Just as at 9 a.m., except wind rising.
     10.0.   — As   before, wind rising.   Good series.
     10.30. —Not a speck of cloud, as before.
    11.0. — As before.   Not a speck of cloud. Wind rising.
    Noon. — A highly favourable day excepting the thin smoky haze in which we arc
imperceptibly enveloped — imperceptibly, i.e., it does not appear between us and the
 sun, hut it is quite visible over the plains (S.), and appears slightly against distant
 hills (15 to 50 miles) N.W. and E. Wind in low gusts.
   1.0. — Fine, as before.
     1.30. — Fine, as before.
     2.0. — Fine, as before.
     2.30. — Fine, as before.     (Observer uncomfortably placed.)
     3.0. — Fine, as before.
   November 6. — Day beautifully clear, except slight (smoke) haze, which is as
yesterday or perhaps a trifle less. Wind S. Observations good.
    November 7. — Day beautifully clear. Smoke haze below to S., but hardly, if at.
all, visible against hills to N., slightly visible E. and W. Wind S. and low.
   November 8. — Day beautifully clear now, but up to 8 or 9 a.m. fine strati were
over southern sky. Wind S. and low.
   November 9. — Day beautifully clear, except the smoke haze, which may be a trifle
less than yesterday to S.E., S., and N.W.
   November 10. — Day beautifully fine, and sky bluo and clear some 50° around
sun. Smoke haze more and we are slightly in it. A very few small patches of c.c.
floating about, some perhaps in sun's track (E. to W.), others about 20° below sun.
Wind  S. and in rather strong gusts.
  November 11.-— Day beautifully fine ; compared with yesterday there are more
small patches of c.c. floating about, but not in tracks leading through sun ; and the
nearest disappearance of a patch was not under 25° from sun : there is also more
smoke haze, and it is visible all round along horizon, so that we arc in   thoughit,   it
is   quite invisible above.      Wind S.E.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            r.
Tab-e          IX.      — Mean               autumaa-                        actinoinetrical                     resu-ts             between                15tb            October                   and        16th            November                  for        each                       and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   year,
         summer                 resu-t             for          1881,                                  in        terms             of      Actinometer                        No.       2,        and                                         summer               mean            of       1881)
                                                                                expressed                                                                                                                       (excepTing
         reduced               to     45°         zenith             distance.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s
                                                                                                                                               Radiation            in   terms                                                         Thermometer.
                                                                                                                      Sun's
                                                                                                                                                       of     No.    2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Observed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            i
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Baro                                                                                  with
                                                                                                                 zenith        dis                                                                                                In    shade.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  meter.                                                         8n                  Actino
                                                                                                                      tance.                                                                                                                                          sun,
                                                                                                                                            At    sun's             Reduced                                                                                                             meter.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  black
                                                                                                                                               zenith               to      zenith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  bu-b.
                                                                                                                                            distance.                dis.      **°.                                                              Wet.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Dry.
     888.            October          2*     to     November                  *,   for    8    davs                   T      *                    8*O                    *88
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a
     88*8.                „            .*    to             „                T,    for    82      „                   T8                          *88                    **                       28     ***                **    *              T                fi8
     8*8.                 „           88 to        October                   2*, for              „                   48                          *8*                    88                                                 82-*                 *.   **          822
                                                                              8,          8*                                 8*                                                                                                    8                                       88*
     **8.            April            2*     to     May                          for              „                    T                          85                                              23     *28                *8                   78               **8                      B.
         „           October           88 to        November                 88, for      2.      „                    T-*                        *T                     *8*
                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.     ***                y-8                  *2   2            ,*     -*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r   No.     :
         ¦'               M                  to                  »                  ,r    2*      „                    *i    8                    88                     *8*        *T                                                                                             I       A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8
    No8b.       — In        888        the        dai-y     series        of actinomctrical                     observations                            for    about           ha-f         an    hour          before        and        after        noon.        8n      88*8      for        exact-y
                                                                                                                                           ranged
              near-y)       .8      minutes           before           and     after      noon,       and       for    8*8           and       8*8       the                     was        reduced             to     T         minutes          before         and      after      noon.             As
 (very                                                                                                                                                              range
 regards        barometer              and        thermometer                  readings        none        were       ta-n           (methodica--y)                 in   888          : in       *8*8          and      8**            they    were       taken         regu-ar-y          at     noon,
 i.e.,   midd-e           of        actinoinetrica-                   observations,            but         in   8888         the                                     instruments                      were      read         short-y          after       *h.      .8m.,          excepting         the
                                                                                                                                        meteoro-ogica-
                        which         was     not        read.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            —    8
 barometer,
   *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
         These        two       resu-ts                                              becauec          in                        A       into     No.    2     the    mean           ratio        or    factor        used        was                  '
                                                  necessari-y            agree,                             converting
                                                                                                                                                                    <                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                              H
                                                                                                                                                                              V I

Hennessey .

 T882.]      On    the Cause  of  the  Light J3order in Photograplis,     fyc.  63
V. " On the Cause of the Light Border frequently noticed in
        Photographs just outside the Outline of a Dark Body seen
        against the Sky; with some Introductory Remarks on
        Phosphorescence." By Professor G. G. Stokes, Sec. R.S.
         Received May 20, 1882.
   An     observation    I made  the other day with solar phosphori, though
not involving anything new in principle, suggested to me an explana
tion of the above phenomenon which seems to me very likely to be
the true one.         On inquiring from Captain Abney whether it had
                                            " The usual
already     been   explained, he wrote :                explanation of the phe
nomenon you describe is that the silver solution on the part of the
plate on which the dark objects fall has nowhere to deposit, and hence
the metallic silver is deposited to the nearest part strongly acted upon
by light." As this explanation seems to me to involve some difficul
ties,   I venture to offer another.
      1.  I  will first mention the suggestive experiment, which is not
 wholly uninteresting on its own account, as affording a pretty illus
tration of what is already known, and furnishing an easy and rapid
mode of determining in a rough way the character of the absorption
of media for rays of low refrangibility.
    The sun's light is reflected horizontally into a darkened room, and
passed through a lens,* of considerable aperture for its focal length.
A phosphorus is taken, suppose sulphide of calcium giving out a deep
blue light,t and a position chosen for it which may be varied at
pleasure, but which        I will suppose to be nearer to the lens than its
principal focus, at a place where a section of the pencil passing
through the lens by a plane perpendicular to its axis shows the caustic
surface well developed.           A screen is then placed to intercept the
pencil- passing through         the   lens, and the phosphorus is exposed to
sunlight or diffuse daylight, so as to be uniformly luminous, and is
then placed in position ; the screen is then removed for a very short
time and then replaced, and the effect on the phosphorus is observed.
    Under the circumstances described there is seen a circular disk of
blue light, much brighter than the general ground, where the excite
ment of the phosphorus has been refreshed.              This is separated by a
dark halo from the general ground, which shines by virtue of the
   * The lens actually used was one of crown glass which     I happened to have ; a
lens of flint glass would have been better, as giving more separation of the caustic
surfaces for the different colours.
   t  The experiments were actually made, partly with a tablet painted with Bal-
main's luminous paint, partly with sulphide of calcium and other phosphori in
powder.

 64                        Prof. G. G. Stokes.                   [May 25,
 original excitement, not having been touched by the rays which came
 through the lens.
    2. The halo is due to the action of the less refrangible rays, which,
 as is well known, discharge the phosphorescence.        Their first effect,
 as is also known, is however to cause the phosphorus to give out
 light ; and if the exposure were very brief, or else the intensity of the
 discharging rays were sufficiently reduced, the part where they acted
 was seen to glow with a greenish light, which faded mnch more
rapidly than the deep blue, so that after a short time it became
relatively dark.
    3. This change of colour of the phosphorescent light can hardly fail
 to have been noticed, but     I have not seen mention of it.       In this
 respect the effect of the admission of the discharging rays is quite
 different from that of warming the phosphorus, which as is known
 causes the phosphorus to be brighter for a time, and then to cease
 phosphorescing till it is excited afresh.    The difference is one which
 it seems important to bear in mind in relation to theory. Warming the
 phosphorus seems to set the molecules more free to execute vibrations of
 the same character as those produced by the action of the rays of high
 refrangibility.  But the action of the discharging rays changes the
 character of the molecular vibrations, converting them into others
 having on the whole a lower refrangibility, and being much less
 lasting.
    4. Accordingly when the phosphorus is acted on simultaneously by
 fight containing rays of various refrangibilities, the tint of the result
ing phosphorescence, and its more or less lasting character, depend
materially on the proportion between the exciting and discharging
rays emanating from the source of light.       Thus daylight gives a bluer
and more lasting phosphorescence than gaslight or lamplight.         I took
a tablet which had been exposed to the evening light, and had got
rather faint, and, covering half of it with a book, I exposed the other
half to gaslight. On carrying it into the dark, the freshly exposed
half was seen to be much the brighter, the light being, however,
whitish, but after some considerable time the unexposed half was the
brighter of the two.
    Again, on exposing a tablet, in one part covered with a glass vessel
containing a solution of ammonio-sulphate of copper, to the radiation
from a gas flame, the covered part was seen to be decidedly bluer than
the rest, the phosphorescence of which was whitish. The former part,
usually brighter at first than the rest, was sure to be so after a very
little time.   The reason of this is plain after what precedes.
    A solution of chromate of potash is particularly well suited for a
ray filter when the object is to discharge the phosphorescence           of
sulphide of calcium. While it stops the exciting rays it is transparent
for nearly the whole of the discharging rays. The phosphorescence is

1882.]       On the Cause of the Light Border in Photographs,    $"C.  65
accordingly a good deal more quickly discharged under such a solution
than under red glass, which along with the exciting rays absorbs also
a much larger proportion than the chromate of the discharging
ray s.
    5.  I  will mention only one instance of the application of this
arrangement to the study of absorption. On placing before excited
sulphide of calcium a plate of ebonite given me by Mr. Preece as a
 specimen of the transparent kind for certain rays of low refrangibility,
and then removing the intercepting screen from the lens, the trans
 mission of a radiation through the ebonite was immediately shown
 by the production of the greenish light above-mentioned.      Of coursei
after a sufficient time the part acted on became dark.
     6. I will mention two more observations as leading on to the expla
 nation of the photographic phenomenon which      I have to suggest.
     In a dark room, an image of the name of a paraffin lamp was thrown
 by a lens on to a phosphorescent tablet. On intercepting the incident
 rays after no great exposure of the tablet, the place of the image was
 naturally seen to be luminous, with a bluish light.     On forming in a
 similar manner an image of an aperture in the window shutter,
 illuminated by the light of an overcast sky reflected horizontally by
 a looking-glass outside, this image of course was luminous ; it was
 brighter than the other.    On now allowing both lights to act simul
 taneously on the tablet, the image of the flame being arranged to fall
 in the middle of the larger image of the aperture, and after a suitable
 exposure cutting ofi both lights simultaneously, the place of the
 image of the aperture on which the image of the lamp had fallen was
 seen to be less luminous than the remainder, which had been excited
 by daylight alone.    The reason is plain. The proportion of rays of
 lower to rays of higher refrangibility is much greater in lamplight
than in the light of the sky ; so that the addition of the lamplight
did more harm by the action of the discharging rays which it con
tained on the phosphorescence produced by the daylight, than it could
do good by its own contribution to the phosphorescence.
    7. The other observation was as follows : — The same tablet was laid
horizontally on a lawn on a bright day towards evening, when the
sun was moderately low, and a pole was stuck in the grass in front of
it, so as to cast a shadow on the tablet.     After a brief exposure the
tablet was covered with a dark cloth, and carried into a dark room for
examination.
    It  was found that the place of the shadow was brighter than the
general ground, and also a deeper blue.     For a short distance on both
sides of the shadow the phosphorescence was a little feebler than at a
greater distance.
    This shows that, though the direct rays of the sun by themselves
alone     would have strongly excited the phosphorus,   yet acting along
     VOL. XXXIII.                                              F

66                       Prof. G. G. Stokes.                   [May 25,
with the diffused light from all parts of the sky, they did more harm
than good. They hehaved, in fact, like the rays from the lamp in the
experiment of § 6. The slightly inferior luminosity of the parts to
some little distance on hoth sides of that on which the shadow fell,
shows that the loss of the diffuse light corresponding to the portion
of the sky cut off by the pole was quite sensible when that portion lay
very near the sun.
   All this falls in very well with what we know of the nature of the
direct sunlight and the light from the sky.    In passing through the
atmosphere, the direct rays of the sun get obstructed by very minute
particles of dust, globules of water forming a haze too tenuous to be
noticed, &c. The veil is virtually coarser for blue than for red light,
so that in the unimpeded light the proportion of the rays of low to
those of high refrangibility goes on continually increasing, the effect
by the time the rays reach the earth increasing as the sun gets lower,
and has accordingly a greater stretch of air to get through.    Of the
light falling upon the obstructing particles, a portion might be absorbed
in the case of particles of very opaque substances, but usually there
would be little loss this way, and the greater part would be diffused
by reflection and diffraction. This diffnsed light, in which there is a
predominance of the rays of higher refrangibility, would naturally be
strongest in directions not very far from that of the direct light ; and
the loss accordingly of a portion of it where it is strongest, in conse
quence of interception by the pole in front of the tablet, accounts for
the fact that the borders of the place of the shadow were seen to be a
little loss luminous than the parts at a distance.
    8. The observations on phosphorescence just described have now
prepared the way for the explanation I have to suggest of the photo
graphic phenomenon.
   It is known that, with certain preparations, if a plate be exposed
for a very short time to diffuse daylight, and be then exposed to a
pure spectrum in a.dark room, on subsequently developing the image
it is found that while the more refrangible rays have acted positively,
that     in the manner of light in general,
          is,                              a certain portion of the less
refrangible   have acted in an opposite way, having undone the action
of the diffuse daylight to which the plate was exposed in the first
instance.
     It
      appears then that in photography, as in phosphorescence, there
may in certain cases be an antagonistic action between the more and
less refrangible rays, so that stands to reason that the withdrawal
                              it
of the latter might promote the effect of the former.
   Now the objective of a photographic camera     ordinarily chemically
                                                 is
corrected   that;   to say, the minimum focal length
                    is                                    ismade to lie,
not in the brightest part of the spectrum, as in a telescope, but in the
part which has strongest chemical action. What this is, depends

1882.]      Oh the Cause  of the Light Border in Photographs, §c.       97
more    or less on the particular substance acted on; but taking the
preparations most usually employed, it may be said to lie about the
indigo or violet. Such an objective would be much under-corrected
for the red, which accordingly would be much out of focus, and the
ultra-red still more so.
    When such a camera is directed to a uniform bright object, such as
a portion of overcast sky, the proportion of the rays of different
refrangibilities to one another is just the same as if all the colours
 were in focus together ; but it is otherwise near the edge of a dark
 object on a light ground. As regards the rays in focus, there is a
 sharp transition from light to dark ; but as regards rays out of focus,
 the transition from light to dark though rapid is continuous.        It is,
 of course, more nearly abrupt the more nearly the rays are in focus.
 Just at the outline of the object there would be half illumination as
 regards the rays out of focus.    On receding from the outline on the
 bright side, the illumination would go on increasing, until on getting
 to a distance equal to the radius of the circle of diffusion (from being
 out of focus) of the particular colour under consideration the full
 intensity would be reached.       Suppose, now, that on the sensitive
 plate the rays of low refrangibility tend to oppose the action of those
  of high refrangibility, or say act negatively, then just outside the
 outline the active rays, being sharply in focus, are in full force, but
  the negative rays have not yet acquired their full intensity. At an
 equal distance from the outline on the dark side the positive rays are
 absent, and the negative rays have nothing to oppose, and therefore
 simply do nothing.
     9. I  am well aware that this explanation has need of being con
 fronted with experiment.      But not being myself used to photographic
 manipulation,   I was unwilling to spend time in attempting to do what
 could   so much  better be done by others.   I will, therefore, merely in
 dicate briefly what the theory would lead us to expect.
     We might expect, therefore, that the formation of the fringe of
  extra brightness would depend : —
     (1.) Very materially upon the chemical preparation employed.
  Those which most strongly exhibit the negative effect on exposure to
  a spectrum after a brief exposure to diffuse light might be expected to
  show it the most strongly.
     (2.) Upon the character of the light. If the light of the bright
  ground be somewhat yellowish, indicating a deficiency in the more
  refrangible rays, the antagonistic effect would seem likely to be more
  strongly developed, and, therefore, the phenomenon might be expected
  to be more pronounced.
     (3.) To a certain extent on the correction of the objective of the
   camera.   An objective which was strictly chemically corrected might
   be expected to show the effect better than one in which the chemical
                                                                    •
                                                                F 2

 68            Cause  of the Light Border in Photographs,  fyc.  [May 25,
 and optical foci were made to coincide, and much         better than one
 which was corrected for the visual rays.
    It is needless to say that on any theory the light must not be too
 bright or the exposure too long ; for we cannot have the exhibition
 (in the positive) of a brighter border to a ground which is white
already.
    P.S. — Before presenting the above paper to the Royal Society I
submitted it to Captain Abney, as one of the highest authorities in
 scientific photography, asking whether he knew of anything to dis
 prove the suggested explanation.        He replied that he thought the
explanation a possible one, encouraged me to present the paper, and
kindly expressed the intention of submitting the question to the test
of experiment.
    I have referred to the photographic action of the mope and less re
frangible rays as antagonistic. This is practically true so far as the
explanation      I  have ventured to offer is concerned, inasmuch as the
more refrangible rays convert a salt of silver which is not developed
into one which is developable, while the less refrangible convert the
latter into one which is not developable.        But Captain Abney has
pointed out to me that though the first and third salts cannot be dis
tinguished by appearance, nor by the action of the developing solution,
they are nevertheless not the same, so that the two actions of the rays
are not, rigorously speaking, antagonistic, inasmuch as the one is not
strictly the reverse of the other.      Thus with bromide of silver the
explanation of the observed phenomena, according to Captain Abney,
is that the undevelopahle bromide is converted, chiefly by the action
of the more refrangible rays, into a subbromide, which is developable ;
and this again is converted, chiefly by the action of the less refrangible
rays, into an oxybromide, which is undevelopable.       As however under
the ordinary circumstances for obtaining a good picture the action of
the light is chiefly of the first kind, and a much longer exposure would
be required to bring out prominently the second kind of action, the
explanation I have suggested is not virtually affected, though the two
actions could not be prolonged indefinitely, as in the illustrative expe
riment in phosphorescence described in § 6.
   June    10.
    The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide        Recess to Thursday,
June 15th.

 1882.]                      Election   of Fellows.                            69
                                June   8, 1882.
   ITie Annual Meeting     for the Election of Fellows was held this day.
                    THE PRESIDENT             in the Chair.
   The Statutes relating to the election of Fellows having been read,
Professor Francois de Ghaumont and the Rev. R. Harley were, with the
consent of the Society, nominated Scrutators to assist the Secretaries
in examining the lists.
   The votes of the Fellows present were then- collected, and the fol
lowing candidates were declared duly elected into the Society.
Ball, Professor Valentine, M.A.            Godman,      Frederic     Du     Cane,
Brady, George Stewardson, M.D.,               F.L.S.
   F.L.S.                                 Hutchinson,    . Professor    Jonathan,
Buchanan, George,. M.Di                       F.R.C.S.
Clarke,    Charles Baron,       M.A.,      Liversidge,    Professor   Archibald,
   F.L.S.                                     F.G.S..
Darwin, Francis, M.A., F.L.S.             Malet, Professor John C., M.A.
Dittmar, Prof essor William, F.C. S.      Niven, William Davidson, M.A.
Gaskell, Walter Holbrook, M.D.            Palgrave, Robert Heury Inglis,
Glazebrook,       Richard      Tetley,        F.S.S.
   M.A.                                   Weldon, Walter, F.C.S.
   Thanks were given    to- the  Scrutators.
                          Presents, April 20, 1882.
Transactions.
   Adelaide : — Royal Society of South Australia.             Transactions and
        Proceedings   and  Report.   Vol.   IV. 8vo.   Adelaide   1882.
                                        The Society per the Colonial Office.
   Baltimore : — John Hopkins University.            Studies from the Biolo
        gical Laboratory. Vol. II. No. 2. 8vo. John Hopkins University
        1882.                                                   The Univers-y.
   Cambridge (U. S.) : — American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Memoirs. Vol. XI. Part 1. 4to. Cambridge 1882.
                                                                 The Academy.

70                                  Presents.                          [Apr. 20,
Transactions (continued) .
   Dehra Dun : — Geological Survey of India.          Memoirs. Vol. XVIII.
        Parts   1-3.  8vo.  Calcutta  1881.   Palaeontologia     Indica. Fossil
        Flora of the Gondwanas. Vol. III. Part 3. 4to. Calcutta 1881.
        Salt Range Fossils. Series XIII. Vol. I. Part 3. 4to. Calcutta
        1881. Manual of the Geology of India. Part 3. By V. Ball.
        8vo. Calcutta 1881.                                         The Survey.
   Edinburgh : — Royal       Scottish Society of Arts.            Transactions.
        Vol. X. Part 4. 8vo. Edinburgh 1882.                        The Society.
     Royal Society.     Transactions.   Vol.  XXX.    Part    1.  4to.  Proceed
        ings. Vol. XI. No. 108. 8vo. Edinburgh.                     The Society.
   Leipzig  : — Astronomische    Gesellschaft.    Vierteljahrschrift.     Jahrg.
        XVII. Heft 2. 8vo. Leipzig 1882. Statuten. 8vo.
                                                                    The Society.
   London: — British Museum. Catalogne of the Batrachia Salient in,
        S. Ecaudata. Second Edition.          By G. A. Boulenger. 8vo.
        London 1882.                                              The Museum.
     Entomological Society. Transactions. 1882. Part 1. 8vo. London.
                                                                    The Society.
     Linnean Seciety. Journal. Botany. Vol. XIX. Nos. 117-119.
        8vo. London 1882.       Zoology. Vol. XVI. No. 92. 8vo. London
        1882.                                                       The Society.
     London Library.       Catalogue. Supplemental Catalogue. 1875-80.
        8vo. London 1881.                                      The Committee.
     Royal    Astronomical    Society. Monthly    Notices.    Vol.   XLII. Nos.
        4, 5. 8vo.                                                  The Society.
     Royal Microscopical Society.        Journal.  Series  2.  Vol. II. Part 2.
        8vo. London 1882.                                           The Society.
     University of    London.     Calendar.   1882. 8vo. London 1882.
                                                               The University.
   St. Petersburg:    —  Academie Imperiale des Sciences.              Memoires.
         Tome XXIX. Nos. 2, 3. Tome XXX. Nos. 1, 2. 4to. St.
         Petersbourg 1881-2.     Bulletin. Tome XXVIII. No. 1. 4to.
                                                                 The Academy.
   Shanghai:    —  North-China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society.
         Journal: New Series. Vol. XVI. Part 1. 8vo. Shanghai 1882.
                                                                    The Society.
   Wiirzburg    : — Physikalisch  - medicinische   Gesellschaft.        Verhand-
         lungen. Neue Folge. Band XVI. 8vo.                    Wiirzburg 1881.
         Sitzungsberichte.    Jahrg.  1881.  8vo.  Wiirzburg 1881.
                                                                    The Society.
Observations    and Reports.
   Coimbra : — Observatorio da Universidade.          Ephemerides Astrono-
         micas, 1883. 8vo. Coimbra 1881.                     The Observatory.

1882.]                            Presents.                                 71
Observations,    Ac. (continued).
  London — Meteorological Office.
             :                              Hourly Readings, Nov. 1880.
        Folio.    Qnarterly Weather Report, 1876. Appendix III. 4to.
                                                                   The Office.
  Paris : — Comite International des Poids et Mesures. Proces-Ver-
        baux, 1881. 8vo. Paris 1882.                         The Committee.
  Washington : — United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. Methods
        and Results. Report for 1880. Appendix No. 16. 4to. Washing,
        ton 1882.                                                The Survey.
Abney    (Capt. W. de W.), F.R.S.            Photography with Emulsions.
     Second Edition. 12mo. London 1882.                          The Author.
Broome (Rev. J. H.) Astral Cipher Emblems of the Signs of the
     Zodiac. Single sheet.                                       The Author.
Cavallo    (Tiberius)   F.R.S.    A  complete    Treatise   on Electricity  in
     Theory and Practice. Fourth Edition. 3 vols. 8vo. London 1795.
                                                     Dr. Owen Rees, F.R.S.
Gamble (J. S.)      A Manual of Indian Timbers. 8vo. Calcutta 1881.
                                                                 The Author.
Harcourt (L. F. Vernon)        A Treatise on Rivers and Canals. Text
     and Plate. 2 vols. 8vo. Orford 1882.                        The Author.
Preston (Rev. T. A.)          Wiltshire Rainfall, 1881. Oblong. Marl-
     borough 1882.                                               The Author.
Waterhouse     (C. 0.)   and   E.   Wilson.    Aid  to  the  Identification  of
     Insects. Vol. I. Small 4to. London 1880-82.                  The Editor.
                          Presents, April 27, 1882.
Transactions.
  Cape   Town : — South African Philosophical Society. Transactions.
        Vol. I. 8vo. Cape Town 1878-80. Vol. II. Parts 1 and 2. 8vo.
        Cambridge 1881.                                          The Society.
  London : — East India Association.        Journal. Vol. XIV. No. 1. 8vo.
        London   1881.                                       The Association.
     Institution of Mechanical Engineers. Proceedings, 1882. No. 1.
        8vo. London.                                         The Institution.
     International Medical Congress.        Transactions. Seventh session.
        4 vols. 8vo. London 1881.             The Hon. Secretary-General.
     Meteorological Society. Quarterly Journal. New Series. Vol. VIII.
        No. 41. 8vo. London 1882. List of Fellows. March 1, 1882.
        8vo.                                                     The Society.

72                                Presents.                        [Apr. 27,
Transactions (continued).
     National Association for the Promotion of Social Science. Trans
        actions,   1881. 8vo. London 1882.         Sessional    Proceedings.
        Vol. XIV. No. 5, 6. Vol. XV. Nos. 1-5. 8vo. List of Members.
        1881-82. 8vo.                                      The Association.
     Quekett Microscopical Club. Journal. Nos. 47, 48. Ser. 2. No. 1.
        General Index to the First Series. 8vo. London 1881-82.
                                                                   The Clnb.
     Royal   Asiatic Society.   Journal.  Vol.  XIV.  Part   2: 8vo.   London
        1882.                                                   The Society.
     University College.    Physiological Laboratory.    Collected    Papers.
        No. 4. 1879-81. 8vo.                                    The Editors.
   Stockholm : — K.     Svenska     Vetenskaps     Akademie.       Ofversigt.
        Arg. XXXVIII. Nos. 8-10. 8vo. Stockholm 1882. Bihang.
        Band VI. No. 1. 8vo. Stockholm 1880.                  The Academy.
  Yokohama : — Seismological Society of Japan. Transactions. Vol. II.
                                                         -
        8vo.                                                    The Society.
Observations   and Reports.
  Batavia: — Magnetical and Meteorological Observatory. Observa
        tions. Vol. V. 4to. Batavia 1881-82.              The Observatory.
  Dublin : — Dunsink Observatory.        Astronomical Observations and
        Researches.   Part 4. 4to. Dublin 1882.           The Observatory.
             —
   Toronto : Meteorological Office.        Report of the Meteorological
        Service of the Dominion of Canada. 8vo. Toronto 1882.
                                                                  The Office.
   Zurich : — Schweizerische Meteorologische Centralansta.lt. Beobach-
        tungen. Jahrg. XVI. Lieferungen 6, 7.           Titel und Beilage.
        Jahrg. XVII. Lief. 5-7. Titel und Beilage. Jahrg. XVIII.
        Lief. 1-4. 4to. Zurich.                             The Institution.
Adams (Charles)       Hunter and the Stag : a reply to Professor Owen.
      Second Edition. 8vo. London 1882.                          The Author.
Callon (J.) Lectures on Mining delivered at the School of Mines,
      Paris.   Translated by W. Galloway and C. Le Neve Foster.
     Vol. II. 8vo. London and Paris 1881. Atlas. Vol. II. 4to.
                                                         Mr. W. Galloway.
Liversidge (Professor A.)      List of Scientific Papers and Reports. 8vo.
      Sydney.                                                    The Author.
Poli (Aser)    I Cristalli di Ossalato   Calcico nelle Piante.     4to. Roma
      1882.                                                      The Author.
Schiaparelli (G.    V.)   Osservazioni  Astronomiche   e Fisiche anll' Asse

1882.]                              Presents.                                 73
     di Rotazione      e snlla Topografia del Pianeta Marte. Memoria
      Seconda.    4to. Roma 1881.                                   The Author.
Tupper (C. L.) Punjab Customary Law. 3 vols. 8vo. Calcutta 1881.
                                             The Secretary of State for India.
Zinno (Professor Silvestro)         Collezione di alcune Memorie. Note ed
      Opuscoli. 8vo. Napoli      1880.   Influenza della Chimica sull' Origine
     e Progresso della Civilta dei Popoli. 8vo. Napoli 1881.
                                                                    The Author.
                             Presents, May 4, 1882,
Transactions.
   Frankfurt     a. Main : — Neue Zoologische Gesellschaft. Der Zoolo-
        gische Garten. Jahrg. XXII. Nos. 7-12. 8vo, Frankfurt a.
        Main 1881.                                                  The Society.
   Glasgow    : — Philosophical Society. Reports        relative  to  Exhibition
        of Apparatus for the utilization of Gas, Electricity, &c. 1880.
        8vo. Glasgow 1882,                          The Executive Committee.
   London : — Institution of Civil Engineers.          Minutes of Proceedings.
        Vol. LXVII. 8vo. London 1882.' List of Members, Jan. 2,
        1882.                                                   The Institution.
      Statistical Society. Journal. Vol. XLV. Part 1. 8vo. London.
                                                                    The Society.
      Victoria Institute.      Journal of the Transactions. Vol. XVI.
        No. 61. 8vo. London.                                      The Institute.
      Zoological Society.      Transactions. Vol.- XI. Part 6. 4to. London
        1882.     General Index. Vols. I-X. 4to. London 1881. Proceed
        ings. 1881. Part 4. 8vo. London 1882.                       The Society.
   Minister in Westfalen : — Konigliche Akademie. 11 Inaugural- Dis-
        sertationen. 4to and 8vo. 1881-2.                        The Academy.
   New York: — American Geographical Society.                  Bulletin.   1881.
        No. 4. 8vo. New York.                                      The Society.
   Paris : — Societe Ph.ilomathiq.ue.        Bulletin.   7e Serie. Tome VI.
        No. 2. 8vo. Paris 1882.                                     The Society.
           —
   Rome : R. Comitate Geologico d'ltalia.              1882. No. 1 e 2. 8vo.
        Roma 1882.                                                  The Society.
                       —
   St. Petersburg : International Polar Commission.                 Communica
        tions. Part 2. 8vo. St. Petersburg 1882.
                                                The St. Petersburg Academy.
   Turin : — R. Accademia delle Scienze. Atti. Vol. XVII. Disp. 2.
        8vo. Torino.                                             The Academy.
   Vienna: — K. K. Zoologisch - botanische Gesellschaft.               Verhand-
        lungen. Band XXXI. 8vo. Wien 1882.                          The Society.

74                                 Presents.                    [May 11,
Observations and Reports.
   Batavia : — Observatory.      Regenwaarnemingen in Nederlandscb-
         Indie. Jaarg. III. 8vo. Batavia 1882.           The Observatory.
               —
   Calcutta : Office of the Meteorological Reporter.       The Cyclone in
         the Bay of Bengal in June, 1872. 8vo.           The India Office.
   Dodabetta : — Meteorological Observations made at the Meteorolo
         gical Bungalow on Dodabetta.         1847-48. (2 copies.) 4to.
         Madras 1848. Report on Observations of the Total Eclipse of
         the Sun on Dec. 11-12, 1871, made at Dodabetta by Lieut.-
         Col. Tennant, F.R.S. 4to. London 1875.          The India Office.
   Melbourne : — Office of the Government Statist. Census of Victoria,
         1881. Birth-places and Religions. Single sheets.
                                                          Colonel Hayter.
   Montreal: — Geological and Natural History Survey of Canada.
         Report of Progress, 1879-80, and Maps. 8vo. Montreal 1881.
                                                             The Survey.
Boileau (Col. I. T.) A Collection of Tables, astronomical, meteoro
      logical, and magnetical, 4to. Umballa 1850. (2 copies.)
                                                         The India Office.
Dewalque (G.) Sur la Session du Congrès Géologique International
    '
      à Bologne. 8vo.     Sur un Nouveau Gite de Fossiles dans l'assise
       du poudingue de Burnot. 8vo.          Sur l'Origine des Calcaires
       Devoniens de la Belgique. 8vo. Bruxelles.         And four other
      Excerpts.                                              The Author.
Greenhill (Professor A. G.) On the Motion of a Projectile in a
       Resisting Medium. 8vo. Woolwich 1882.                 The Author.
Krishaber (M.)       De la Methode Ignée appliquée aux Granulations
      du Pharynx et du Larynx. 8vo. Paris 1882.              The Author.
Kroczak (Ferdinand)        Die Heilung der Tuberculose. 8vo. Brûnn
      1882.                                                  The Author.
Lacaze-Duthiers (Heuri de)        Les Progrès de la Station Zoologique
      de Roscoff et la création du Laboratoire Arago à Banyuls-sur-
      Mer. 8vo. Paris.                                       The Author.
Plateau (J.) Une Petite Illusion. 8vo. Bruxelles.            The Author.
Zinno (Professor Silvestro)       Terme di Porto d'Ischia analisi qualita-
      tiva e quantitativa. 8vo. Napoli 1881.                 The Author.
                          Presents, May 11, 1882.
Transactions.
  Bremen : — Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein.       Abhandlungen.    Band
         VII.   Heft 3.   8vo. Bremen 1882.                   The Union.

1882.]                             Present*.                                 7.1
Transactions (continued).
   Cardiff: — Naturalists' Society.       Report and Transactions.         Vol.
       XIII. 8vo. London 1882.                                   The Society.
   Munich : — K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaf ten. Sitzungsberichte.
        Mat.-Phys. Classe.      1882.     Heft 2.      8vo.   Miinchm 1882.
        Phil.-Hist. Classe. 1881. Band II. Hefte 4, 5. 8vo. Miinchen
        1881.                                                   The Academy.
          —
   Paris : Societe de Géographie. Bulletin. Oct., 1881. 8vo. Paris
        1881. Compte Rendu.          Fév.-Avril, 1882. 8vo.
                                                                 The Society.
Observations and Reports.
   Cordoba : — Observatorio Nacional Argentino. Resultados. Vol. II.
        4to. Buenos Aires 1881.                             The Observatory.
     Oficina Meteorolôgica Argentina.         Anales. Tomo II. 4to. Buenos
                                                                                 "
        Aires 1881.                                                The Office.
                   —
   Crowborough : The Observatory. Observations upon the Tempera
        ture, Pressure, and Rainfall of the Past Winter,          folio.
                                                            The Observatory.
Becker (Ludwig)       Untersuchungen iiber die Allgemeinen Storungen
     der Feronia.    4to. Bonn 1882.                              The Author.
Dall (William Healey) List       of   Papers.    1866-82.         The Author.
Decaisne (J.)    Du Poirier et du Cidre. 8vo.                     The Author.
Dupont (É.) Sur l'Origine des Calcaires Devoniens de la Belgique.
     8vo. Bruxelles.     Sur une Revendication de Priorite, introduite
     devant l'Académie par M. G. Dewalque, à propos de ma Note
     Sur l'Origine des Calcaires Devoniens de la Belgique. 8vo.
                                                                  The Author.
Kreitner (Lieut. G.)     Report   of  the Third   International  Geographical
     Congress.     Venice 1881.    8vo.                           The Author.
McCHntock (Emory)        On   certain   Expansion    Theorems.   4to.    A New
     General Method of Interpolation.          4to.    On a Theorem for Ex
     panding Functions     of  Functions.     4to.                The Author.
 Moore (F.) The Lepidoptera of Ceylon. Part 4. 4to. London 1881.
                     The Government of Ceylon, per the Crown Agents.
Weismann (August)        Studies in the Theory of Descent.          Translated
     and edited by R. Meldola.        2 vols.  8vo.     London 1882.
                                                                 Mr. Meldola.
Bronze Medallion.      Head of the late Dr. Chas. Darwin, F.R.S.            By
     A. Le Gros.                                     Presented by the Artist.

76                                Presents.                           [May 25,
                         Presents, May 25, 1882.
Transactions.
   Baltimore : — Johns Hopkins University.           Sixth Annaal Report.
        1881. 8vo. Baltimore 1882.       Circular, No. 13. 4to.
                                                             The University.
   Berlin : — K. P. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Monatebericht.
        Juli-December, 1881. 8vo. Berlin 1881-2.               The Academy.
             —
   Brussels : Académie Royale        de Médecine.      Bulletin.     3me Série.
        Tome XVI. Nos. 1-3.           Mémoires Couronnés. Tome Vil.
        Fase. 1. 8vo.   Bruseelles 1882.-                      The Academy.
     Académie Royale des Sciences.        Bulletin.   51e Année.       3e Série.
        Tome HI. Nos. 1-3. 8vo. Bruxelles 1882.                The Academy.
   Calcutta :— Asiatic Society of Bengal. Description of New Indian
        Lepidopterous Insects. Heterocera (continued). By F. Moore.
        4to.   Calcutta 1882.     Proceedings. 1881, Nos. 9, 10: 1882,
        Nos. 1, 2. Journal. Vol. XLIX.             Part 1. Extra Number.
        Vol. L. Part 2. No. 4. 8vo. Calcutta 1880-81.             The Society.
                         —
   Cambridge (U. S.) : Harvard University.            Bulletin. No. 22. 8vo.
                                                              The University.
   Copenhagen :   —   K. Danske Videnskabernes Selskab. Oversigt.
        1881, No. 3: 1882, No. 1. 8vo. Kjobenhavn. Mémoires. 6e
        Série. Vol. I.- No. 5. 4to. Kjobenhavn 1881.              The Society.
   Halle :  —  Natur wissenchaftlicher Verein.          Zeitschrift     fur die
        Gesammten Naturwissenchaften. 3e Folge. Band VI. 8vo.
        Berlin 1881.                                                The Union.
   Huddersfield :<— Yorkshire Naturalists' Union.            The Naturalist.
        Vol VII. Nos. 74-82. 8vo. Huddersfield.                    The Union.
   Kolozsvår : — Erdélyi Muzeum-egylet. Erdélyi Muzeum. Évfolyam
        VIII.- sz. G-10i Évfolyam IX. szv 1, 2. 8vo. Orvos-termé-
        szettndomånyi Értisito.      Évfolyam VI. 1-3.            The Society.
             —
   Leipzig : Filrstlich Jablonowski'sche Gesellschaft.             Preisschrift.
        No. 23. 8vo. Leipzig 1882. Jahresbericht, 1882. 8vo.
                                                                  The Society.
   London: — British Association for the Advancement of Science.
        Report, 1881. (York). 8vo. London 1882.              The Association.
     British Museum.       Catalogue    of  the   Fossil Foraminifera.      8vo.
        London 1882.                                             The Museum.
     Chemical Society. Journal. Nos. 229-234 and Supplementary
        Nnmber. 8vo.- London.                                     The Society.
     Photographic Society. Journal and Transactions. New Series.
        Vol. VI. Nos. 5-7. List of Members. 1882. 8vo.
                                                                  The Society.
     Royal Agricultural Society. Journal. 2nd Series. Vol. XVIII.
         Part 1. 8vo. London 1882.                                The Society.

1882.]                            Presents.                                   77
Transactions (continued).
     Royal Astronomical Society.       Monthly Notices.     Vol.  XLII.   No. 6.
        8vo.                                                      The   Society.
     Royal Institute of British Architects.        Proceedings. Nos. 5-14.
        4to. London 1881-2.                                      The Institute.
     Royal Institution.   Weekly Evening Meetings. Jan. 20, Apr. 28,
        and May 13, 1882. 8vo.                                 The Institution.
     Royal United Serviee Institution.          Journal.    Vol. XXVI. No.
        114.   8vo. London 1882.                               The Institution.
     Society of Arts. Journal. Vol. XXX. Nos. 1520-1539.                    8vo.
                                     *
        London 1882.                                              The Society.
     Society of Chemical Industry.        Journal. Vol. I. Nos. 3, 4. 4to.
                                                                  The Society.
   Manchester: — Geological Society. Transactions. Vol. XVI. Parts
        6-13. 8vo. Manchester 1881-2.                             The Society.
   Munich : — K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Abhandlungen.
        Phil-Phil. Classe. Band XVI. Abth 2. Hist. Classe. Band
        XVI. Abth 1. Gedachtnissrede auf Otto Hesse. 4to. Miin-
        chen 1881-2.                                            The Academy.
            —
   Naples : Zoologische Station. Mittheilungen.              Band III. Heft
        3. 8ro. Leipzig 1882.                                     The Station.
                          —
   Newcastle-upon-Tyne : Chemical Society.            Vol. V. Part 9. 8vo.
                                                                  The Society.
   New Yorki    —  Academy of Natural Sciences.              Annals.    Vol. I.
        No. 14. Vol. II. Nos. 1-6. 8vo. New York 1880-81.                Annals
        of the Lyceum. Vol. VII. 8vo. New York 1862.
                                                                The Academy.
          —
   Paris : Aeademie des Sciences de FInstitut.               Comptes Rendus.
        Tome XCIII. Tables.        Tome      XCIV.   Nos.    1-20. 4to. Paris
        1882.                                                   The Academy.
     Ecole Normale Sup6rieure.          Annales.    2me    Serie.    Tome XI.
        Nos. 1, 2. 4to. Paris 1882.                                 The School.
     Societé d'Encouragement pour         l'lndustrio    Nationale.    Bulletin.
        3e Serie.   Tome VIII. Nos. 95, 96. Tome IX. Nos. 98, 99.
        4to. Paris 1881-82.       Compte rendu. 1881, No. 19 : 1882,
        Nos. 1-8. 8vo.                                             The Society.
     Soci^te Francaise de Physique. Seances.            Septembre-Decembre,
        1881. 8vo. Paris 1881.      Resumes des Communications.             8vo.
                                                                   The Society.
   Penzance : — Royal Geological Society of Cornwall.             Transactions.
        Vol. X. Part 4. 8vo. Penzance.                             The Society.
   Philadelphia: —  Franklin   Institute.      Journal.    Vol.   CXIII.    Nos.
        676-7. 8vo. Philadelphia 1882.                           The Institute.
           —
   Rome : R. Accademia      dei  Lincei.     Transunti.    Series  3a. Vol. VI,
        Fasc. 9-11. 4to. Roma 1882.                              The Academy.

78                              Presents.                        [May 25,
Transactions {continued).
   Shanghai: — North-China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society.
        Journal. Vol. I. No. 3. Vol. II. No. 1. New Series. Nos. 9, 12.
        8vo. Shanghai 1859-78.
                                    '                         The Society.
   Turin : — R. Accademia delle Scienze. Atti. Vol. XVII. Disp. 3.
        8vo. Torino.                                        The Academy.
   Utrecht: Utrechtsche Hoogeschool. Onderzoekingen gedaan in
              —
        het Physiologisch Laboratorium. 3de Reeks. VII. Afl 1. 8vo.
         Utrecht 1882.                      Dr. Donders, For. Mem. R.S.
   Vienna : — Osterreiehische Gesellschaft fur Meteorologie. Janner—
        Mai, 1882. 8vo.     Wien 1882.                        The Society.
Observations and Reports.
   Calcutta : — Office of the Inspector- General of Forests. Sugges
        tions regarding Forest Administration in the North- Western
         Provinces and Oudh. folio. Calcutta 1882.
                                                       Dr. Brandis, F.R.S.
     Meteorological Office. Registers of Original Observations, re
        duced and corrected.     Results of Autographic Registration,
         1880.   Observations. March-June, 1881. 4to.
                                                       R. H. Scott, F.R.S.
   Colaba : — Observatory. Report on the Condition and Proceedings
         of the Government Observatory. 1880-81. folio.
                                                         The Observatory.
             —
   Dublin : General Register Office. Weekly Return of Births and
        Deaths.    Vol. XIX. Nos. 1-19. Quarterly Return and Quar
        terly Summary, 1881. 4th Quarter. Yearly Return. 1881. 8vo.
                                      The Registrar- General for Ireland.
   Dun Echt : — Lord Crawford's Observatory.             Circulars.   Nos.
        45-51. 4to.         The Earl of Crawford and Balcarres, F.R.S.
   London : — House of Commons.        Copy of Correspondence
        respecting   the Arrangements to be made for Observing the
         Transits of Venus, which will take place in the Years 1874 and
         1882. folio. 1869.                                  The Speaker.
   Melbourne : — Department of Mines. Reports of the Mining Sur
         veyors and Registrars.   Sept. 30, 1881. 4to. Melbourne.
                                                          The Department.
      Observatory. Report of the Board of Visitors. 1881. 4to. Mel
         bourne.                                         The Observatory.
      Office of the Government Statist.     Statistical Register for 1880.
         Parts 3-7. 4to. Melbourne.              The Government Statist.
           —
   Paris : Observatoire. Rapport sur l'etat de l'Observatoire, 1881 .
         4to. Paris 1882.                                The Observatory.

1882.]                               Presents.                              7!)
Observations, &c. (continued).
  Rome : — Pontificia Universita Gregoriana. Bulletino Meteorologico.
        Vol. XIX. Nos. 10, 11. Vol. XX. No. 1. Vol. XXI. Nos. 1, 2.
        4to. Roma 1880-82.                                        The College.
  Sydney    : —  Department   of Mines.     Geological   Sketch   Map  of New
        South Wales. Compiled from the Original Map of the late
        Rev. W. B. Clarke, F.R.S.        Four sheets.       The Department.
  Washington : —Engineer Department.              Report upon U. S. Geogra
        phical Surveys west of the One Hundredth Meridian. Vol. VII.
         Archaeology.    4to. Washington 1879.               The Department.
     Treasury Department. Report of the Cruise of U. S. Revenue-
                              " in the Arctic Ocean. By
         Steamer " Corwin                                     Captain Hooper.
         8vo. Washington 1881. (2 copies.)                  The   Department.
Journals.
  Annalen der Physik und Chemie. 1881, Nos. 8-12 ; 1882, Nos. 1-5.
         Beiblatter.   1881, Nos. 6-8; 1882, Nos. 1-4.            8vo. Leipzig
                                             •
         1881-82.                                                   The Editor.
   Annales des Mines. 7e Serie.          Tome XX. Livr. 6. 8vo. Paris
         1881.                                             L'Ecole des Mines.
   Astronomie (TV) Nos. 1-3. 8vo. Paris 1882.                      The Editor.
  Bulletino di Bibliografia e     di Storia. Maggio e Giugno 1881. 4to.
         Roma 1881.                                 The Prince Boncompagni.
   Gazette de Hongrie.       1881. folio.     Budapest.
                                                    The Hungarian Academy.
   Indian Antiquary.      Parts 126-131.       4to.   Bombay 1881-2.
                                                                    The Editor.
   Morskoi Sbornik.         1881, Nos. 10-12.         1882, Nos. 1-4.      8vo.
         St. Petersburg 1881-2.                   The Cronstadt Observatory.
   New York Medical Journal. Vol. XXXV. Nos. 4, 5. 8vo. New
          York 1882.                                                The Editor.
   Scientific Roll. Vol. I, Nos. 4-7. 8vo. London.                  The Editor.
    Van Nostrand's Engineering Magazine. Vol. XXVI, Nos. 1-5.
          8vo.    New York 1882.                                    The Editor.
 Balfour (J. H.), F.R.S. Obituary Notices of Sir Robert Christison,
      Bart., and Sir C. Wyville Thomson. 8vo. Edinburgh 1882.
                                                                   The Author.
 Brongniart (Charles) Sur des pucerons attaques par            un  champignon.
      4to.     Par-is. Sur la Structure des Ootheques des Mantes et sur
      l'eclosion et la premiere mue des larves.             4to.    Paris. Les
      Hymenoptores Fossiles. 8vo. Paris 1881. Note sur les Tufs

80                               Presents.                    [May 25,
     quaternaires  de Bernouville.   8vo.   Meulan 1880.   Observations
     sur la Clepsine.   8vo.   Rennes.
                              The Author, per Dr. H. Woodward, F.R.S.
Foster (C. Le Neve)      On the Occurrence of Cobalt Ore in Flintshire.
     8vo.                                                  The Author.
Lubbock (Sir John), Bart., F.R.S.         Ants, Bees, and Wasps. 8vo.
     London 1882.
Montigny (Ch.)      Nouvelles Observations sur les Effets de la Foudre
     sur des Arbres placés près d'un Fil Télégraphique. 8vo. Bruxelles
     1882.                                                 The Author.
Packard (A. S.), Jun. Is Limulus an Arachnid ? 8vo.        The Author.
Plateau (J.) Sur des Sensations que l'Auteur éprouve dans les Yeux.
     8vo. Bruxelles.                                       The Anthor.
Purves (J. C.)     Sur la Délimitation et la Constitution de l'Étage
     Houiller Inférieur de la Belgique. 8vo. Bruxelles 1881.
                                                           The Author
Schieboldt (F. O.) De Imaginatione Disquisitio ex Aristotelis Libris
     repetita.   8vo.  Lipsiio 1882.                       The Author.
Schrauf (A.) Paragenetische Studien im Serpentingebiete des sud-
     lichen Bôhmerwaldes. 8vo. Leipzig 1882.               The Author.
Von Mueller (Baron F.) Eucalyptographia.          Decades VI and VIII.
     4to.   Melbourne 1880.                                The Author.
Wolf (Dr. Rudolph)       Astronomische  Mittheilungen.   LV.   8vo.
                                                           The Author.


                                CONTENTS (continued).
                                                                                              PAG IS
 II.   Note on Mr. Russell's paper " On certain Geometrical Theorems.               No. 2."
         By William Spottiswoode, Pres. R.S                                                      37
III.
IV.
      On Effects      of Retentiveness
         (Preliminary Notice.)
         Mechanical Engineering
                                     By
                                      in
                                          J.
                                         the
                                            in the Mngnetisation of Iron and Steel.
                                              A. Ewing, B.Sc., F.R.S.E., Professor of
                                               University of Tokio
      On Aetinometrical Observations made in India at Mussooreo in Autumn
                                                                            ....                 39
        of 1880, and Summer and Autumn of 18,81. By J. B. N. Hexnessey,
        F.R.S., Deputy Superintendent Great Trigonometrical Survey of India
         (Plate  1)                                                                         .45
 V. On     the Causes of the Light Border frequently noticed in Phot ographs
         just outside the Outline of a Dark Body seen against the Sky ; with
         some Introductory      Remarks on Phosphorescence.            By Professor G. G.
         Stokes,    Sec. R.S                                                                     63
                                           June  8, 1882.
Election of Fellows                                                                              69
List  of Presents                                                                           .69
Obituary    Notice :—
   Dr. Geobge Budd                                                                                 j
                                   Now published.       Price  4.«.
   CATALOGUE            OF THE SCIENTIFIC BOOKS IN THE                        LIBRARY OF
                                  THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
  Fiest Section       :—  Containing Transactions, Journals, Observations and Reports,
                                        Surveys, Museums.
  CATALOGUE           OF SCIENTIFIC PAPERS, COMPILED                        BY THE ROYAL
                                             SOCIETY
                        Published   by Her Majesty's     Stationery Office.
         8 vols., 4to.    1800—1873.       Per vol. : 20*., cloth   ; 28*., half -morocco.
      On Sale by Murray, Albemarle Street, and Trubner and Co., Ludgate                 Hill.
        HARRISON          AND SONS,        45 & 40,   ST.   MARTIN'S        LANE, W.C.,
                                    AND ALL oOOKSELLERS.

                         PROCEEDINGS OF
              THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
vol. xxxiv.
                                      '
                                        10 V   f  ' 8; i-                 No. 221.
                                   CONTENTS.
                                    Jwia  15, 1882.
     I.  Researches on Spectrum Photography in relation to New Methods of
           Quantitative Chemical Analysis.      By W. N. Habtley, F.R.S.E.
            &c., Professor of Chemistry, Royal College of Science, Dublin         SI
    1 1. On the Reversal of the Metallic Lines as seen in Over-exposed Photo
           graphs of Spectra. By W. N. Habtley, F.R.S.E., &c., Professor
           of Chemistry, Royal College of Science, Dublin .                       Hi
   III.  Experiments    on the Value of the Ohm.       Part I. By R. T. Glaze
            beook, M.A., F.R.S., Fellow and Assistant Lecturer of Trinity
           College, Demonstrator at the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge
           and   J. M. Dodds, B.A., Fellow of St. Peter's College. Part II.
           By R. T. Glazebbook, and E. B. Sabgant, M.A., Trinity College          86
    TV. On a Deep Sea Electrical Thermometer.          By C.  William Siemens
           D.C.L., F.R.S
     V. On   the Coxal Glands of Scorpio hitherto undescribed and correspond
           ing to the Brick-red Glands of Limulus. By E. Ray Laxkesteb
           M.A., F.R.S., Jodrell Professor of Zoology in University College.
           London                                                                 95
    VI.  Note on the Differences in the Position of the Ganglia of the Ventral
           Nerve-cord in three Species of Scorpion. By E. Ray Lankesteb,
           M.A., F.R.S., Jodrell Professor of Zoology in University College,
           London                                                                101
   VII.  On the Specific Heat and Heat of Transformation of the Iodide of
           Silver, AgT, and of the Alloys, Cu2I2.AgI, Cu2I2.2AgI, Cu2Is.3AgI,
           Cu2I2.4AgI, Cu2I2.i2.AgI, PbI2.AgI.        By Professor M. Bellati
           and Dr. R. Romanese, Professors in the University of Padua         . 104
         For  continuation  of Content) tee 3rd and 1th pages oj Wrapper.
                               Price Five Shilling*.

          PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.
                                      Part r,  1882.
                                       Contents.
   I. Oil  the Electromotive Properties of the Leaf of Dioneea in the Excited and
       Unexcited States. By      J. Bubdon-Sandebsox, M.D., F.R.S., Professor of
       Physiology in University College, London.
  II. Lucifer  : a Study in Morphology.       By W. K. Bbooks, Associate in Biology
       and Director of the Chesapeake Zoological Laboratory of the Johns Hopkins
        University, Baltimore, Md., U.S.A.
III.  On the Structure and Development of the Skull in Sturgeons (Acipenser
        ruthenus and A. sluriv). By William Kitciien Pabkeb, F.R.S.
 IV.  On the Stresses caused in the Interior of the Earth by the Weight of       Con
       tinents and Mountains.     By G. H. Dabwin, F.R.S.
  V. Experimental Determination of the Velocity of White and of Coloured Light.
        By James Young, LL.D., F.R.S., and Professor G. Fobbes.
 VI. The Bakebian Lectube. — Action of          Free Molecules  on Radiant Heat, and
        its conversion thereby into Sound.     By John Tyndail, F.R.S.
Index to Part    I.
                                      Price £1   14*.
 Extra volume (vol.   168) containing  the Reports of the Naturalists attached to the
                       Transit of Venus Expeditions.    Price £3.
                              Sold by Harrison and Sons.
Separate copies of Papers in the Philosophical Transactions, commencing with 1875,
                    may be had of Triibner and Co., 57, Ludgato Hill.

 1882.]                    On Spectrum Photography.                      81
                                 June 15, 1882.
                       THE PRESIDENT in         the Chair.
   The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered
for them.
   Mr. Gabriel Augnste Daubree (Foreign Member), Dr. George
Stewardson Brady, Dr. George Buchanan, Mr. Francis Darwin, Pro
fessor William Dittmar, Dr. Walter Holbrook Gaskell, Mr. William
Davidson Niven, and Mr. Robert Heury Inglis Palgrave were admitted
into the Society.
    The President read a despatch from H.M. Consul-General at
Florence, transmitted through the Foreign Office, giving an account
of a commemoration in honour of the late Charles Darwin, held in
the great hall of the Istituto di Stndi Superiori.
    A preliminary (oral) Statement of Results of observation of the
total    Eclipse of the Sun on May 17,     as seen  in Egypt, was made by
Mr.     J. N. Lockyer, F.R.S.
    The following Papers were read : —
I.   '•
         Researches on Spectrum Photography in relation to New
         Methods of Quantitative Chemical Analysis."             By W. N.
         Habtley, F.R.S.E., &c., Professor of Chemistry, Royal
         College of Science, Dublin.         Communicated by Professor
         G. G.  Stokes,   Sec. R.S. Received May 19, 1882.
                               Preliminary Note.
    (1.) Since   I  perfected the instrument employed by me in investi
 gating the molecular structure of organic compounds, I have been
 engaged in studying the spark spectra of elementary bodies with the
 object of applying my method of working to the purposes of technical
 chemical analysis.      Progress in the course of this research has proved
 it to be necessary to investigate all kinds of spectra de novo in the
 hitherto little explored ultra-violet region.
    Some fourteen years' practice in photography has convinced me
 that when a plate is properly exposed the development of the image
 is the simplest of all operations ; in order, therefore, to simplify spec
 troscopic work,     I  have carefully ascertained the time of exposure
 required to produce the most characteristic spectra under various
     V0L. XXXIV.                                                 G

82                        Prof. W. N. Hartley.                    [June 15,
conditions, such as intensity of spark and conductivity, &c., of the
electrodes.    This, in the instrument      I prefer to use, is generally a
period of half a minute. (" Journal of the Chem. Soc.," vol. xli,
p. 84, 1882.)
   (2.) A long series of experiments has been made with the object
of comparing the spectra of various compounds in solution with those
of the elements they contain. In the process of photographing the
spectra of solutions it is desirable to eliminate all foreign lines as far
as possible, hence the selection of suitable electrodes was a matter of
the first consideration, the method of working being almost entirely
dependent on this for its accuracy and value.         No method like that
of Bunsen is convenient, in which charcoal points are employed in
conjunction with a spark from a coil without a condenser, by reason
of the prolonged exposure rendered necessary, the intensity of the
emitted rays being small.       Electrodes of gold, platinum, iridium, and
other metals were used, and those of gold proved decidedly the best,
as containing the fewest lines and the metal being a most excellent
conductor of electricity.
   All these metals are, however, useless compared with electrodes of
graphite. The spectrum of graphite consists of eleven or twelve in
significant lines due to the carbon, and about sixty-six lines and bands
due to air.
   The air-lines are easily recognised from their " physiognomie," as
M. Lecoq de Boisbaudran calls it, or as I have elsewhere described
this peculiarity in relation to spectrum photographs, their
                                                                    " graphic
character."    In no case with the intensity of spark which I employ
and the normal exposure have       I  ever been troubled with the presence
of such impurities as may be contained in points of good Siberian or
Ceylon graphite. Such points have been submitted to the continuous
action of a condensed spark for something like ten hours at a time,
the same solution being used and the electrodes unaltered.              It is
usual to take   fresh electrodes  for  each solution.
   (3.) In comparing the spectra of solutions of salts with those of
metallic electrodes, it was found that in almost all cases the lines of
metals were exactly reproduced from the solution, the graphic character
being retained except in regard to their continuity.          Discontinuous
but long lines, or in certain cases even short lines, appear as long lines
in the spectra taken from solutions. The peculiarities of the spectra
of magnesinm, of cadmium, and iron, were exactly reproduced, line for
line, from the chlorides.     An alteration was noticed in the spectrum
of graphite,  the  short  lines  became long, that is to say, discontinuous
became continuous lines, when the electrodes were wetted with water
or acids.
   An exceptional instance of variation in a spectrum was seen in that
of zinc. The pure metal exhibits a series of highly characteristic ex

1882.]                   On Spectrum Photography.                              83
cessively short lines or dots, which are totally absent from the photo
graphs of solutions of zinc made from the same metal.              Certain dis
continuous lines in the spectrum of iridium become continuous when
moistened with calcic chloride solution. It has been remarked by me
elsewhere (Joe. cit.~) that the more volatile, and      I  may now add, the
more unoxidisable a metal, the more continuous are its lines.                The
compounds      in solution are more  volatile than  the metals, and    hence  the
greater continuity in the lines. In the case of graphite it is doubtless
a volatile carbon compound, either carbon dioxide or a hydrocarbon,
which is formed by the heat of the spark when the points are
moistened with water.        In the case of iridium it is difficult to suppose
that the calcic chloride solution forms a chloride by the simple action
of heat on such a refractory metal ; but this is the only explanation
that will account for the greater continuity of the lines. Insoluble
compounds give no spectra when mixed with water or glycerine and
exposed to the spark.       The non-metallic constituents of salts do not
yield any marked series of lines, and therefore do not obscure the
metallic spectra.
   , The spectrum of aluminium as obtained from perfectly pure solu
tions is free from a group of short or discontinuous lines seen in my
published photographs of spectra.        By prolonged exposure, as I have
elsewhere shown, these lines have been proved to be due to iron.
 The spectrum of aluminium is thus proved to be a very simple one.
 In all these spectra the rays lying between 4500 and 2000 on the
 scale of wave-lengths are completely focussed on one plate, and the
 relative intensities of the lines exhibit the relative intensities of the
 rays.     Any modification in the relative intensity of a line or in its
 length is accurately registered on the sensitive plate.           As many as
 fifteen different spectra have been photographed on one plate, and
 developed by one immersion in the developing solution.             It has been
 proved experimentally that accidental alterations in the period of normal
 exposure, which are not very noticeable, do not affect the spectra.
 Any irregularities such as may be unavoidable in the passage of the
 spark do not alter the normal densities of the images of the various
 rays.     The development of the photographs is completed in about
 thirty seconds.     These points are of vital importance in placing this
  method of working on such a basis that it may be employed in quanti
 tative methods of chemical analysis, for if the intensity of the rays
  be so great that the period of exposure         is rendered much shorter,
  difficulties would arise in obtaining photographs with neither more
  nor less than the requisite density.       And, again, were the exposure
  much prolonged the method would become somewhat tedious, or, at
  least, it would be impaired in value.
      (4.) Of all methods likely to yield results of practical importance
  in estimating the relative proportions of the constituents of either an
                                                                 G   2

84                        Prof. W. N. Hartley.                 [June 15.
alloy or a mineral, only those have recommended themselves to me
which depend upon the use of solutions ; and for the reason that
most alloys are not homogeneous, and the portion of a metallic
electrode exposed to the action of the spark is volatilised from one
point, and is too minute in quantity to represent the composition of
the mass. Now, the composition of a solution represents in every
part the composition of the entire mass dissolved ; it is, therefore,
quite unimportant how small a fraction of it is used for the purpose
of obtaining the spectrum of its constituents.
    It is a remarkable fact that at the present time we know little or
nothing of the sensitiveness of the spectrum reaction under various
conditions, notwithstanding that such knowledge is absolutely neces
sary for the purpose of giving stability to numerous theories and
arguments which are based on spectrum observations.          I have made
some experiments in this direction by determining the extent of
dilution which serves to modify in various ways the spectra of
solutions of metallic salts, and that which finally causes the extinction
of the most persistent line or lines.   The sensitiveness of the reaction
varies with different    elements and  with  the period of exposure, the
intensity of the spark, and other conditions;        I have no difficulty
whatever, when working in the manner here indicated, in recognising
spectra yielded by solutions which contain no more than yj1^th of a
per cent, of calcium, silver, copper, and 10^o6th of a per cent, of
manganese.      It is necessary, however, for me to withhold a full
account of my experiments until I have determined the wave-lengths
of the lines in the various spectra under observation, for it is quite
impossible to describe the changes in the spectra without reference to
accurate measurements       of the metallic lines.   For some time past
Mr. W. E. Adeney has been working in conjunction with me at these
determinations, and I hope with as little delay as possible to have the
honour of submitting to the Koyal Society all details here omitted,
both with regard to these new methods of analysis, and the wave
 length determinations.
 II.   " On the Reversal of the Metallic Lines as seen in Over
        exposed Photographs of Spectra."          By W. N. Habtley,
        F.R.S.E., &c., Professor of Chemistry, Royal College -of
        Science. Dublin.     Communicated by Prof. G. G. Stokes,
        Sec. R.S. Received May 19, 1882.
     In preparing series of photographs of metallic elements when their
 spectra are obtained by the action of a condensed spark passed between
 metallic electrodes, I have been very careful to ascertain the exact
 period of exposure of the sensitive plate to the rays, which will bring

1882.]            On the Reversal   of the Metallic Lines,   fyc.           85
ont the most characteristic lines without the additional diffused rays of
the air-spectrum; at the same time very delicate and feeble air- lines .
are adequately shown. This has always been accomplished by making
a series of comparative exposures.      With gelatine emulsion dry plates
great latitude in exposure is capable of yielding perfectly satisfactory
photographs. An under-exposed plate is not easy to develop, in order
that the usual density for the strong lines as seen in a good negative
may be gained.      The air-lines are generally very feeble or altogether
omitted. An over-exposed plate is likewise difficult to develop ; it
yields a thin flat image, and more or less marked indications of a con
tinuous air-spectrum are seen.
    Over-exposure, even when not excessive, is liable to cause strong
lines to appear reversed.      I have mentioned in my paper " Notes on
•Certain Photographs of the Ultra- Violet Spectra of Elementary
Bodies" ("Journal of the Chemical Society," vol. xli, p. 89, 1882),
that sometimes lines appear reversed in one photograph, but not in
another. This did not seem at all likely, or even possible, to be caused
by over-exposure, because the two periods differed only by a minute ;
but I have small doubts now on the matter. The conversion of what is
•called a negative into a positive image by excessive exposure has been
 already noticed by Mr. C. Bennett (" British Journal of Photography,"
 1878), by Captain Abney, who investigated the nature of the change
,{"Phil. Mag." [5] 10, p. 200), occurring in the sensitive film, and by
 M. Janssen (" Comptes Rendus," 90, pp. 1447—1448).
    In illustration of this phenomenon, I may mention a remarkable
 result  I obtained on one occasion when photographing a landscape.           I
endeavoured to secure a picture with detail in a shaded foreground,
 and a direct view of the setting sun, with mountains in the middle
 distance, and strongly illuminated as well as dark clouds. In one case
 I succeeded remarkably well, but in another plate the foreground was
 good, but the sun was completely reversed.         The negative image was
 clear glass and the sun printed black.          What should have been a
 negative in the strong lights became a positive. Again, by exposing a
 plate to the cadmium spectrum, the whole of the metallic lines were
 rendered distinctly, but with a flatness and want of density, the whole
  of the strong air- lines at the least refrangible end of the spectrum
  were, however,   completely reversed.
     Any strong lines may  be reversed   by over-exposure  without materially
  altering the appearance of  the rest of the spectrum.   This is particularly
  the case   with the lines of the metals magnesium, aluminium, and
  indium, but particularly so with magnesium.            The reversal takes
  place in the centre of the line, that is to say, where the radiation is
  most active.    Except by the method of comparative exposures, which
  I  have always employed, it would be impossible to say whether a
  reversal was dne to an absorbed ray or an over-exposed                 plate.

86               Experiments     on the Value   of the  Ohm.       [June  15,
M. Cornu has shown that            the quadruple group of rays in the
magnesium spectrum may hecome quintuple or sextuple, according to
the increased intensity of the spark employed.         This is precisely what
might happen if one reversal by over-exposure were followed by a
second.    Such reversals might be looked for if under the conditions of
the stronger spark the exposure of the plate were not shortened,
because the first and third of the four lines are stronger than the other
two, and they would therefore be the first and second to suffer reversal.
The reversal would split the lines in two, and hence produce the
appearance of a sextuple group.         In order to ascertain whether this
might readily occur in the magnesium spectrum, some observations
were made with plates containing several photographs obtained by
different periods of exposure.       Thus the first spectrum was the result
of ten seconds, the second of half a minute, and others various times
extending to half an hour. The quadruple group was not affected in
the way observed by M. Cornu, from which fact it would appear that
the division of the lines was caused by a reversal which was the
result of absorption of the central portion of the ray or rays.            In
the two photographs obtained by the longest exposures, especially in
the last, the triplet b' between K and L became a quadruple group
by reason of the most refrangible line being split into two by a
reversal, the cause of which was nothing more than over-exposure. In
the quadruple group previously mentioned the lines were totally
reversed or not at all.     This subject of reversal by over-exposure is
one   well deserving  the attention   of those who are engaged in the study
of solar physics.       Comparative exposures should be methodically
employed    to confirm the accuracy of observations made entirely by the
aid of photographic representations of spectra.           Especially is this
desirable when gelatine or other dry plates containing organic matter
are  in use.
III.   " Experiments on the Value of the Ohm." Part I. By R.
       T. Glazebbook, M.A., Fellow and Assistant Lecturer of
       Trinity College, Demonstrator at the Cavendish Laboratory,
       Cambridge, and J. M. Dodds, B.A., Fellow of St. Peter's
       College.    Part II. By R. T. Glazebbook, and E. B.
       Sabgant, M.A., Trinity College. Communicated by Lobd
       Rayleiqh, F.R.S. Received May 24, 1882.
                                  (Abstract.)
   The method of the experiments is a modification of those of Kirch-
 hoff and Rowland.
   Two coils of copper wire of about 25 centims. radius, each containing

1882.]           Experiments on    the   Value of the Ohm.                   87
about 780 turns, were placed with their mean planes parallel and at a
known distance apart.      The coefficient of mutual induction between
the two can be found from the geometrical data ; let this be M. Let
one of the coils be connected in circuit with a ballistic galvanometer,
and let R be the resistance in centimetres per second of the circuit.
Let a steady current of intensity i be circulating in the other coil— the
primary.    On reversing this current an induction current, of which
                  2Mi
the amount is           is produced    in the secondary       circuit, and the
                   It
galvanometer needle is disturbed from rest ; if B be the first throw of
the needle, T the time of a complete vibration,          \  the coefficient of
damping, v that of torsion, G the galvanometer constant, and H the
horizontal intensity of the earth's magnetism, we have
   The galvanometer was then connected in series with a large re
sistance coil, in our case of about 3,000 ohms ; let S be the resistance
of the galvanometer and this coil. The two extremities of the re
sistance S were connected with two points in the primary circuit, the
resistance between which was about 1 ohm ; let this resistance be V.
Then of the primary current i, an amount                    i,   is transmitted
                                                     S+   V
through the galvanometer, and      if a. be the deflection of the needle, we
have
                          J^-HO
                          S V
                            +            Q
                                          +
                                            Otan*.
Eliminating i, G and H, we obtain
                   R_         22vM           S+  V tan*
                                                      bin.''-
                       T(1+!)K)                            2
         -                                             11
And if R be the value of R in ohms, the ratio — gives us the value
                                 .
                                                       R
of the ohm in centimetres per second.
   The coils and galvanometer were wound for this purpose with great
care by Professor Chrystal under the supervision of the late Professor
Clerk Maxwell.     Professor Chrystal's removal from Cambridge pre
vented the completion of the experiments by him.
   For a detailed account of the precautions necessary, the methods of
making the observations, and the comparison of the resistance coils
used, reference must be made to the paper.
   Each experiment involves eight observations of throw due to the
induction current and two of deflection ; the values of the deflection

88                 Experiments on       the   Value  of  the Ohm.       [June   15,
being obtained from observations of the oscillations of the needle
about its position of rest, the chance of error is much smaller than in
the throws.
   Each set of experiments is the mean of four ; one for each of the
four positions in which the coils could be placed by inverting first one
and then the other without altering the distance                  between their
centres.
   Part I, which we regard as preliminary, contains the result of three
such sets, and from it we find
                                             earth quadrant
                        lohm= -98598
                                                 second
The mean distance between the mean plane of the coils was 15-019
centims.
   In Part   II   three series of experiments are described           for different
distances between the mean planes of the coils.
              In   Series  A this  distance was 15'019 centims.
                    „      B           „            18252       „
                    „      C           „            26-692      „
Different batteries were used.
   The following table gives the values of R in earth quadrants/sec.
arranged in order of magnitude, with the battery used in each case,
the error of each result from the mean, and the percentage error.
   In the column headed battery, D stands for an ordinary cylinder
Daniell ; T for Thomson's sawdust tray Daniell.
                                        Table.
                                                                Percentage
          Series.      Battery.           R.          Error.
                                                                  error.
                                                      -           -
            B
            A
                         5 T.         158 106
                                                      -  -216
                                                                  -   135
            A
                         4 D.         158-918
                                                      -  -154
                                                                  -   096
                         5 T.         158   231
                                                      -  -091
                                                                  -   057
            C
            B
                         6 T.
                         5 T.
                                      158
                                      158
                                            238
                                            303       -   08 4
                                                          019     - -012
                                                                      05a
            C            5 T.         158  -332           010         006
            A            4 D.         158  -407          -085        -052
            A            2 D.         158-499             177         110
            C            6 T.         158 -611           '289        -181
                                                  earth q"adrant,
                  Mean value of    R     158-322
                                                        second
                                Mean of errors    "125.
                        Mean of percentage errors         -078.

 1882.]           On a Deep Sea Electrical           Thermometer.              89
   The value of R in terms of the ohm was found to be
                                       160-520   ;
the temperature being 12°, the values in the above table have been
reduced to this temperature.
   From this we find as the value of the ohm —
                                         earth
                   Series   A    -98633         quadrant, 4 sets.
                                              second
                     „      B    -98558          „          ,2   „
                     „      C    -98676          „          , 3  „
while the mean of the whole set is
                        1  ohm= -986307
                                             earth   q™*""*
                                                   second
this being determined from nine sets of observations.              If we include
 Part I, giving to each observation only half the weight of one of
those in Part II (reasons for this are given at full in the paper), we
 have finally
                                             earth quadrant,
                        1  ohm=-986271
                                                   second
   The value obtained by Lord Rayleigh in his latest experiments with
 the rotating coil is
                                      ear^ tllladrallt
                              '98651
                                           second
   The experiments have been made at the Cavendish Laboratory, and
 our thanks are due to Lord Rayleigh for much kind help and many
 valuable suggestions.
 IV. " On    a Deep Sea Electrical Thermometer." By C.                 William
       Siemens, D.C.L., F.R.S.            Received June 7, 1882.
     In   the Bakerian      Lecture for 1871, which I had the honour of
 delivering   before   the    Royal Society,*      I showed that the principle of
 the variation of the electrical resistance of a conductor with its tem
 perature might be applied to the construction of a thermometer,
 which would be of use in cases where a mercurial thermometer is not
 available.
   The instrument      I  described has since been largely used as a pyro
 meter for determining the temperatures of hot blasts and smelting
                         »  " Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 19, p. 443.

90                        Dr. C. W. Siemens.                    [June 15r
furnaces,  and Professor A. Weinhold,* using the instrument with a
differential voltameter described in my paper referred to, found its
indications to agree very closely with those of an air thermometer
within the limits of his experiments from 100" to 1,000° Centigrade.
I  am not aware, however, that any results have been published of its
application to measuring temperatures where a much greater degree
of accuracy is required, as in the case of deep sea observations.     My
friend, Professor Agassiz, of Cambridge, U.S., ordered last year for
the American Government an instrument designed by me for this
purpose, and during the autumn it was subjected to a series of teste
on board the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey steamer
" Blake,"
           by Commander Bartlett.
    The apparatus consists essentially of a coil of wire T, which is
lowered by means of a cable to the required depth ; and is coupled
by connecting wires to form one arm of a Wheatstone's bridge. The
              * " Annalen der Phrsik und Chemie," 1873, p. 225.

 1882.]         On a Deep Sea Electrical Thermometer.                 91
connexions of the bridge are shown in figs. 1 and 2. The arm CD is
the comparison coil S made of the same wire as the resistance coil Tr
and equal to it in resistance.   This coil is immersed in a copper vessel
of double sides, filled with water, and the temperature of the water
is adjusted by adding iced or hot water until the bridge is balanced.
The temperature of the water in the vessel is then read by a mercurial
thermometer ; and this will also be the temperature of the resistance
coil.
   To avoid the error, which would be otherwise introduced by the
leads to the resistance coil, the cable was constructed of a double
core of insulated copper wire, protected by twisted galvanised steel
wire. One of the copper cores was connected to the arm BC of the
bridge, and the other to the arm DC, and the steel wire served as
the return earth connexion for both.
   The resistance coil and comparison coil were made of silk-covered
iron wire "15 millim. diameter, and each about 432 ohms resistance at
a temperature of 66° P.       To allow the resistance coil to be readily
affected by changes in the temperature of the water, it was coiled on.
a brass tube with both ends open, allowing a free passage to the
water. Sir W. Thomson's marine galvanometer with a mirror and
scale was employed to determine the balance of the bridge.
   Mr. J. E. Hilgard, assistant in charge of the United States Coast
and Geodetic Survey, has sent me the following results of Commander
Bartlett's experiments.
   The apparatus was set up on board the " Blake," at Providence, in
April, 1881, but owing to there being no ice machine on board, only
preliminary experiments were made until the following August.
   The " Blake " sailed from Charleston on August 4th, running a
line over known depths in the current of the Gulf Stream.        A 60 lb,
sinker used in sounding was attached to the end of the cable near the
resistance coil, which was allowed to hang freely below.      When well
in the strength of the stream a series of temperatures were taken by
the Miller-Casella thermometers on the sounding wire, and imme
diately after the insulated cable was lowered to the surface, and water
from the surface placed around the comparison coil on deck.          The
temperature of the attached thermometer read the same as that
determined for the surface by the thermometer attached to the hydro
meter case.
   Under these conditions the pencil of light from the mirror was on
the zero of the scale.    During the experiments the vessel was rolling
from 10° to 15°, and there was a moderate breeze from south-east.
The resistance coil was lowered to five fathoms below the surface, and
was allowed to remain five minutes, the circuit being closed, the
pencil of light remained at zero. Lowerings were then made to 10,
 20, and 30 fathoms, and in each case five minutes were allowed for

 92                             Dr. C. W. Siemens.                    [June    15,
 the resistance coil to assume the temperature of the water, and after
 adjusting the temperature of the water around the comparison coil, it
 was allowed to stand five minutes before the final reading was taken.
    The rolling of the vessel affected the mirror so as to throw the
 light about 5° on each side of the zero point when the circuit was
 open, and nearly the same when closed ; but as the deflection was the
 same on either side it was easy to determine the middle point. While
at work in the stream it was necessary to work the engine in order to
 keep the wire vertical.        The jar of the engine, however, affected the
 mirror to such a degree that readings could only be taken when the
,engine was stopped.
    The Tables    I, II,  III, IV   give the results of the several lowerings.
                      I.                                       II.
               Reading of                               Reading of
                               Reading of                           Reading of
    Depth in     attached                     Depth in    attached
                              Miller- Casella                      Miller- Casella
    fathoms.  thermometer                     fathoms. thermometer
                              thermometer.                         thermometer.
                    coil.                                    coil.
     Surface       81°-5           8-T5        Surface      8-T5        81°-5
         5         81 -5           81-5           30        68 5
        10         76-5            76-5           50        65 -25      65
       20          70 25           69-5           75        60
       30          69-5            69
       30          6-875           6-875
                     III.                                     IV.
     Surface       83-5            83-5        Surface      84-5        84-5
        30         68                             30        81          80
        50         65 25                          50        7-S5
       75          60 75                          75        61 -75
      100          56              54
      150          51
      200          47              47           200         49-5        49 -75
    On August 10th the " Blake " left Hampton Boads, steaming to
the eastward until reaching the meridian of 74° 30' W., when a
 sonnding was taken, giving a depth of 1,024 fathoms.              A serial was
 taken to a depth of 400 fathoms with two Miller-Casella thermo
meters, which had been carefully compared with the standard and
 found to agree at different temperatures.               Immediately after the
 serial with the thermometers the insulated cable was lowered into the
sea, and the temperature, by the galvanometer and comparison coil,
recorded for the same depths as taken in the first serial. Five minutes
-was allowed at 5 and 10 fathoms, but there was no deflection of the

1882.]              On a Deep Sea Electrical Thermometer.                          93
pencil of light. The temperature of the surface was 76°-5.                   Having
lowered to 15 fathoms, at end of one minute the pencil of light was
9° to the left of zero on the scale. At the end of five minutes it was
22°, and at the end of ten minutes still 22°. A number of experi
ments were made with regard to the time necessary for the resistance
coil to assume the temperature of the water.                    Five minutes was
decided on as being necessary and sufficient, and was adopted in all
succeeding lowerings.
     The first lowering was to 400 fathoms, the temperature at that
depth being 40°. The cable was then reeled in to 200 fathoms, when
the current was made. There was found to be no deflection, the tem
perature of the water in the copper vessel having risen from 40° to
43°-5.       This temperature agreed with that at 200 fathoms when
lowering to the same depth.
     During the experiments there was a light south-east breeze, and a
 very smooth sea.           They lasted from 7.18 p.m. until 1.30 a.m., but
 special care was taken with every reading, and it is probable that
 fifteen minutes would be a fair average time for each observation with
 the electrical apparatus.
     The results are given in the Table.
                        I.                                      II.
                 Reading of                               Reading of
                                Reading of                             Reading of
     Depth in      attached                   Depth in     attached
                               Miller-Casella                        Miller-Casella
     fathoms.   thermometer                   fatlioma. thermometer
                               thermometer.                           thermometer.
                      coil.                                   coil.
                                       o                       0             0
      Surface        76-5           76 5            30       54            54
           5         76-5           76 -5           50       54-25        53 -5
          10         76-5           76            100        50 -5        50-5
          15         69             68            150        46-5         46 5
          20         58             58            200        4-85         43 5
          30         54 -25          54
          50         54-25          53 -5
          75         52 5            52 5
         100         51             50-5
         150         46             46 5
         200         43 5           43 5
         300         40 5           40-5
         400         40             40
     Early on the morning of August 12th another serial to 800 fathoms
 was taken with the           Miller-Casella thermometers, and immediately
 after with the electrical apparatus.         Several readings were taken from
 the surface to 100 fathoms, and then the coil was reeled out to 800
 fathoms, and the readings taken as it was drawn up.

'94                  On a Deep Sea Electrical Thermometer.                [June 15,
                  Reading of                               Reading of
                               Reading of                                Reading of
   Depth in         attached                   Depth in      attached
                              Miiler-Casella                           Miller-Casella
    fathoms.     thermometer                   fathoms.   thermometer
                              thermometer.                             thermometer.
                       coil.                                    coil.
                         o            o                          0             0
      Surface         76            76          Surface'       77 -5        77-5
           5          76            75-25           5          76 -25       75 -25
         10           7-85          69             10          75 *5        69
         15           61 -25        68             15          66-5         63 -5
         20           55 5          59             20          58           57
         30           51            52-5           30          51 -5        51 -5
         50           5-875         52             50          54-5         53 -5
         75           52 -5         52 5           75          53 -5        52-5
       100            50            49 5          100          51           49 5
                                                  125          48-5
                                                  150          46-5         46
                                                  200          43 5         4-825
                                                  300          4-0-5        40-75
                                                 400           40           39-75
                                                  500          39-25        39
                                                  600          38 -75       38 -75
                                                  700          38-5         38 -5
                                                  800          38-5         38-5
    In    the last series of observations     in reeling back the cable, the tem
 perature      at 50 fathoms was 54°-5, and fell to 51°-5 at 30 fathoms.
 Immediately after another series was taken with the Miller-Casella
 thermometer, and the same increase of temperature from 30 to 50
 fathoms was observed.         The cable was lowered three separate times to
•50 fatlioms, and the readings being taken both when lowering                      and
 reeling in with the following results : —
                   Reading of                               Reading of
                                Reading of                              Reading of
    Depth in        attached                   Depth in      attached
                              Miller- Casolla                          Miller-Casella
     fatlioms.   thermometer                   fathoms.   thermometer
                              thermometer.                             thermometer.
                       coil.                                    coil.
                                      o                          0            o
      Surface         77°'5         77 -5
         20           57 -25        57             30          51 -75       52
         30           52-25         52             50          54 5         53 -5
         50           55-25         53 -5          75          53           52-5
         20            57 -75       57
         30            52 -75       52
         50           54-75         54
         75            53           5-S5
    During the above experiments the           sea was   perfectly smooth, with no
 wind. The ship's engines were not used at all, the vessel lying almost
  motionless in the water.        The temperature of the comparison coil was
 reduced by water from a carafe, the water contained therein being frozen

 1882.]               On  the   Coxal Glands    of Scorpio.                  95
by a Carre ice machine.         Two carafes were prepared at a time, and
there was plenty   of  time   to keep one constantly at hand.
    In order to allow the Miller- Casella thermometers to record the
high temperature of 50 fathoms in the last series, they were lowered
very rapidly to that depth, and after eight minutes reeled back at the
rate of 200 fathoms per minute, so that the minimum side had not
time to assume a lower temperature.
    The cable was led from a large reel through an 18-inch leading
block, and was lowered and reeled in very slowly, and without jerks.
    It may be noted in the above Tables that the two instruments gave
precisely the same readings at positions of maximum or minimum
temperature, but that in intermediate positions the electrical thermo
meter, in almost every instance, gave a higher reading.               This dis
crepancy may be accounted for, I think, by the circumstance that the
electrical thermometer gives the temperature of the water actually
surrounding the coil at the moment of observation, whereas the
reading of the Miller-Casella         instrument must be affected by the
maximum       or minimum temperatures encountered in its ascent or
descent, which may not coincide with that at the points of stoppage.
 A strong argument in favour of the electrical instrument for geodetic
and meteorological purposes has thus been furnished.
V. " On the Coxal Glands of Scorpio hitherto undescribed and
       corresponding to the Brick-red Glands of Limulus."                   By
       E.   Ray   Lankesteb, M.A., F.R.S., Jodrell Professor of
       Zoology in University College, London. Received May 25,
       1882.
    In my   essay entitled
                            "  Limulus an Arachnid,"*         I have mentioned
                                                                 "              »
 Dr. Packard's discovery of the "brick-red glands                  of Limulus,
 situated at the junction of the coxae of the prosomatic limbs with
                                             "
 the body in the following terms : — It is true that Packard has
 assimilated a brick-red coloured structure occurring at the base of the
 cephalothoracic   limbs of Limulus to a shell-gland or renal organ.
          I
 In this cannot agree with him. It is not even apparent, at present,
 that this brick-red organ, which        I have examined, is of a glandular
 nature at all."
     Dr. Packard first described these glands in 1874, and figured them
                                                         " Anatomy, Histology,
 subsequently in his valuable memoir on the
  and Embryology of Limulus Polyphemus," published in the Anni
  versary Memoirs of the Boston Society of Natural History, 1880.
                        * " Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci.," 1881.

96                        Mr. E. R. Lankester.                 [June 15,
Dr. Packard observes — " These glands are quite large and apparently
of some physiological importance, and are easily fonnd, as they are
conspicuous from their bright red colour, causing them to contrast
decidedly with the dark masses of the liver, and the yellowish
ovaries or greenish testes, near which they are situated. The glands
are bilaterally symmetrical, one situated on each side of the pro-
ventricle and stomach, and each is entirely separated from its fellow.
Each gland consists of a stolon-like mass extending along close to the
great collective vein, and attached to it by irregular bands of con
nective tissue, which also hold the gland in place. From this hori
zontal mass four vertical branches arise, and lie between and next to
the partitions at the base of the legs, which divide the later o- sternal
region of the cephalothorax into compartments.          The posterior of
these four vertical lobes accompanies the middle hepatic vein from its
origin from the great collective vein, and is sent off opposite the
insertion of the fifth pair of feet. Halfway between the origin of the
vein and the articulation of the limb to the body, it turns at a right
angle, the ends of the two other lobes passing a little beyond it, and
ends in a blind sac, less vertical than the others, slightly ascending at
the end, which lies just above the insertion of the second pair of feet.
The two middle lobes are directed to the collective vein. Each lobe
is somewhat flattened out, and lies close to the posterior wall of the
compartment in which it is situated, as if wedged in between the
wall and the muscles between it and the anterior portion of the com
partment.    Each lobe also accompanies the bases of the first four
tegumentary nerves."
   I can fully confirm the accuracy of this careful description of the
naked-eye appearance and situation of these glands.         I am also in
agreement with Dr. Packard, when he states that these glands have
no opening into the great veins, and, like him, I have as yet been
unable to detect the situation of their opening to the exterior.
   Dr. Packard's description of the minute structure of these brick-
red bodies is such as to have led me to doubt the correctness of his
conclusion that they are glands and more especially renal glands. At
the time when I wrote to that effect I had only made dissections
 showing their position and relations in two specimens of Limulus.      I
have since been able to obtain perfectly fresh specimens of the brick-
red glands from a Limulus killed for the purpose, and having
hardened them in absolute alcohol, I have prepared and examined
 sections demonstrating their minute structure.
   This does not agree with the description given by Dr. Packard,
 whose account of the minute structure of these bodies led me to
 doubt their glandular nature.
   Dr. Packard states that " the four lobes end in blind sacs and have
 no lumen or central cavity," and in the next paragraph somewhat

1882.]                 On the Coxal Glands     of Scorpio.                97
inconsistently remarks
                            " each lobe when cut across is oval, with a
yellowish interior and a small central cavity."          He states that the
gland     is " dense thongh yielding,  and  on  this account  hard to be cat
with the microtome," and appears to have confined his observations
accordingly to preparations of the fresh gland teased. Various kinds
of cells, from a " cortical " and a " medullary " substance of the
 gland, are described and figured, but it does not seem to be possible
 to bring these results of " teasing " into relation with what       I  have
 ohserved in sections taken in various directions across the lobes of
 the gland, and stained and mounted in the usual way in balsam.
     I find that each of the quadrilobate glands, which    I should propose
 to call the right and the left " cpxal glands," is essentially a sac, lined
 with a characteristic glandular epithelium, the lumen of the sac being
 cut up into a nnmber of inter-communicating passages by the pro
 duction of the inner surface of the sac into very numerous and far-
 reaching trabecula-.     The gland-cells which clothe these trabecula- are
 remarkable for their round, well-defined nuclei, and for the possession
 of a peculiar differentiation of the substance of the cells near their
 free surface, which has at first sight the appearance of a very thick
 cuticle.
     A more detailed account of the structure of these cells may be
  deferred for the present.    My object now is to point out that in the
  Scorpions there exists a similar pair of large coxal glands, having
  essentially the same structure and position as the coxal glands of
  Limulus.      I was led to look for the existence of such glands by the
  hypothesis that Scorpio and Limulus are very closely related members
  of the class Arachnida; and it will,       I think, be conceded that the
  discovery of the existence of such corresponding organs goes a long
  way towards confirming the conclusion as to the close affinity of the
  two animals, to which    I  had been led by the observation in them of
  numerous other structural coincidences.
     The coxal glands of the Scorpions are very large and prominent
 structures, each attaining the size of a dried pea in a large Indian
  scorpion of five inches in length. They are placed as in Limulus at
  the junction of the coxae of the ambulatory limbs with the body
  (fig. 1. B.). They do not send lobes forward corresponding to the
 second, third, and fourth of the six limbs of the prosoma, but are
 oblong white bodies resting upon the sternal prolongations of the
 hinder limbs (fifth and sixth) on each side. Posteriorly each gland
  rests against the ingrowing chitinous wall (fig. 1. C.) of the coxa of the
  last limb of the prosoma which forms the posterior cornu of the
 entosternite, but the mass of the gland lies in the hollow of the sternal
 prolongation of the fifth limb, and is attached to it by a triangular
 outgrowth which       I shall provisionally speak of as a duct, though     I
  have not at present succeeded in finding any external aperture corre-
     V0L. IXXIT.                                                 H

98                             Mr. E. R. Lankester.                       [June 15,
sponding to these coxal glands of the Scorpion, any more than                  I have
in the case of the similar glands of Limulus.
  Dingram of the anterior portion of a Scorpion's body, to show the position of the
                                     coxal glands.
A. Anterior glandular    coeea of the alimentary canal (salivary glands of Newport
       and Blanchard, not of Rufour). These are drawn of smaller size than natural,
      and are turned forward so as to expose the coxal glands.
B. The coxal gland of the left side.
C. Fibrous septum (diaphragm of Newport) formed by the posterior cornua of tho
      entosternite.
                                                        "
D. Glandular ca;ca of the alimentary canal (so-called     liver").
E. Axial portion of the alimentary canal.
1 to 6. The six pairs of limbs of the prosoma.
    These oblong, almost egg-shaped, glistening white bodies have not
altogether escaped the notice of previous students of the anatomy of
Scorpions ; hut owing to the fact that spirit-specimens have been
used by most naturalists who have dissected Scorpions, and that spirit
fails to preserve the softer tissues of a whole Scorpion in a fit state
for observation, the nature of these glnnds has been misunderstood.
    I have been enabled to dissect freshly-killed specimens of the large
Indian scorpion, Sc. cyaneus (allied to tho species called Buthts*
   * Not the  genus Buthux   of Leach, but of Gervnis, identical with Heftromelrus of

 1882.]                On  the   Coxal Glands   of Scorpio.                   9i>
 Kochii and Buthus afer by some authors), through the kind exertions of
 my friend Dr. Heury Trimen, Director of the Royal Gardens at
 Peridenya, Ceylon, also of the fine North African Androctonus funestus
 {Ehrenberg spec.), of which I received specimens in a living state
 from Algeria through the courteous intervention of Professor Carl
 Vogl, of Geneva ; and, lastly, of Scorpio Italicus, Roessel, and Sc.
 Carpathicus,   Linn., the common little Italian scorpions (not to be
confused with the larger yellow Spanish Sc. Europmus of Linnaeus,
 which is an Androctonus closely allied to A. funestus and often called
                             I
A. occitanus), for which have to thank Mr. Gibson Carmichael. When
the prosomatic carapace is removed from one of these Scorpions
recently killed, the white oviform coxal glands are seen in the position
described, right and left of the alimentary tract.               The anterior
 glandular   caeca  (fig. 1.  A.)  of the  alimentary   tract, called  salivary
glands by Newport, rest upon the coxal glands and hide them to
 a certain extent.      This proximity has led to the notion that the
coxal glands are connected with the alimentary canal.
    Newport in the plates illustrating his masterly description of the
circulatory and nervous system of the Scorpion, published in the
" Phil. Trans." nearly forty years ago (1843), has figured these
bodies, but has not described them in the text of his work.              In the
                                                      "
description of the plate they are spoken of as lateral appendages of
the thoracic portion of the canal, (?) gizzard (?)." The accuracy
and completeness of Newport's account of the vascular and nervous
systems is worthy of profound admiration, when it is remembered
that he had only specimens preserved in alcohol to deal with. At the
same time this condition of his specimens accounts for the incorrect
ness of his conclusions as to the very soft and decomposable glandular
structures.
    Leon Dufour (" Memoires de l'lnstitut," Tom. 14, 1856) has also
described     and  figured     the coxal  glands in Androctonus       occitanus
(Scorpio Europeans) the large yellow scorpion of southern France and
Spain.     Dufour had the advantage of using freshly-killed specimens,
but his account of the anatomy of this species appears to me to be,
nevertheless, curiously inaccurate in many important particulars.            He
very properly does not consider the glandular caeca of the most
anterior portion of the alimentary canal as " salivary glands
                                                                      " as did
Newport, but recognises the identity of their structure with that of
the large glandular masses filling up the mesosoma which have been
termed " hepatic," and accordingly describes the
                                                           " salivary glands "
of Newport as the anterior or cephalothoracic lobes of the liver.
   He, however, describes the pair of coxal glands as " salivarv
Ehrenberg.    The confusion of nomenclature among the Scorpions is very great.
Peters ("Berlin Monatsbericht,"    1861, p. 510) has given the best systematic
arrangement of the sub-genera.
                                                                  h2

100                        Mr. E. R. Lankester.                        [June 15,
glands," and this, notwithstanding that he has accurately recognised
the absence of any dnct connecting them with the alimentary canal.
He figures snch a duct, but remarks in the text of his memoir, that
these apparent ducts are really ligaments.
   He further figures and describes the broad triangular offset from
the anterior and inferior margin of the gland which appears to me to-
be in all probability its true duct,* and gives to this the name of
" fleshy pedicle."
    Dufour observed and figured something of the minute structure of
the coxal (his " salivary ") gland.         He shows that its smooth white
surface is marked by winding lines of a labyrinthine arrangement,
but erroneously attributes their existence to a coiled tubular
structure.
    My own observations on the minute structure of the coxal glands of
the Scorpions dissected by me are briefly as follows : the three species-
agreeing in essentials.     Each gland is a sac ; the labyrinthine mark
ings seen on the surface being due to the existence of labyrinthine
trabeculae which rise up from the inner surface of the sac, and break
up its lumen into numerous narrow passages as is the case in the
ooxal glands of Limulus.         An injection of freshly precipitated lead
chromate forced into the gland did not escape from it by any duct,
but distended the triangular " pedicle," which           I  consider as probably
the duct, though    I  have as yet failed to find any pore corresponding
to it on the outer surface of the coxa or of the sternum.
   Coxal glands taken from freshly killed Scorpions and placed in
absolute alcohol, and subsequently            stained with picrocarmine or
haematoxylin, and cut into sections in the usual manner, showed
that the gland is a sac with its wall folded inwards, so as to form
numerous trabeculae, clothed with a remarkable epithelium.                     The
cells of this epithelium are much larger than those of the coxal
glands of Limulus, but agree with them in presenting a differentiation
of the cortical substance of the cell. Each cell of the epithelium of
the scorpion's coxal gland presents in optical section a complete
cortical ring of bright dense-looking substance surrounding a trans
parent protoplasm, in the centre of which is the nucleus. The dense
cortical substance of each cell appears to be finely striated ; the striae
radiating from the medullary substance towards the surface of the
cell.   This striated structure recalls to mind the striated structure of
the cells of the leech's nephridium, and of the mammalian kidney.
    The trabeculae on which these cells rest are cavernous, being filled
with blood.     The blood spaces so formed are larger than the spaces
                         I
   * June 24M, 1882. — am indebted to the skill of my assistant, Mr. A. Q-.
Bourne, B.Sc., for some complete series of sections through small Scorpions, the
study of which has led me to doubt whether these glands hare any duct. Their
exact nature and function require further investigation, with which I am engaged.

1882.]         Position   of   Ganglia,   $-c.,   in Scorpions.        10L
left between the projecting trabeculae.        The latter are the true
" lumen "   of the gland.   The structure of the central portion of the
coxal gland of the Scorpions differs from that of its periphery, to which
the previous description refers.
    Conclusion. — It does not seem possible to doubt that the coxal
glands of the Scorpions and of Limulus are homologous structures.
Though no external opening has been found as yet, in either the one
case or the other, it is possible that such an opening exists.    Though
glands in a similar position (at the bases of the limbs or jaws) are found
in other Arthropoda, there are none known which agree so closely in
position and structure with either the coxal glands of Limulus, or of
 Scorpio, as these do with one another.      Possibly such coxal glands
are in all cases the modified and isolated representatives of the com
plete series of tubular glands (nephrida) found at the base of each
ieg in the archaic Arthropod, Peripatus.
    P.S. — 1 may add that since writing the above,            I
                                                            have found a
similar pair of glandular organs in a large South American Mygale,
 which I received from the Zoological Society on the day of its death,
 in the Insect House at Regent's Park. The coxal glands in Mygale
are elongated and lobed as in Limulus.          They rest on the dorso
 lateral region of the entosternite.
VI. "Note                                     of the Ganglia of
              on the Differences in the Position
     the Ventral Nerve-cord in three Species of Scorpion."  By
     E. Ray Lankester, M.A., F.R.S., Jodrell Professor of
      Zoology in University College, London.               Received May 25,
      1882.
   No one who is acquainted with the researches of George Newport
can doubt the general accuracy of his description of the nervous
system of an
             " Androctonus."   Very probably the Scorpion which he
 made use of for his researches on the nervous system was Androctonus
funestus, Ehr., the same which    I
                                  have received in the living condition
from North Africa.
   The accuracy of Newport's description in a very material point,
and one which refers to a very obvious feature, has been called in
question by Leon Dufour.       Dufour dissected a species closely allied to
A. funestus, one which is little more than a small European variety of   it,
namely, A. occitanus.    Yet he gives an account of the disposition of
the ganglia of the ventral nerve-cord, and of the innervation of the
four pairs of pulmonary sacs, which         widely different from that of
                                           is
Newport.
 I am able to confirm the general accuracy of Newport's account by
my dissections of A. funestus, and have been in much doubt as to

 102                           Mr. E. R. Lankester.                     [June 15,
 whether Dufour's account ought to be considered as erroneous, or as
due to a difference in the species which he dissected.                Whilst thus
doubtful I discovered that the Scorpio (Buthus of some authors) cyaneus
of Ceylon presents a disposition of the ganglia of the ventral nerve-cord
and an innervation of the pulmonary sacs, which differs both from
that of A. funestus as described by Newport, and of A. occitanus, as
described by Dufour.                    I
                               Further have found that the Scorpio Italicus
 (as  also  the  allied   Sc.  Garpalhicus) has a disposition of these parts
agreeing with that observed by me in the Scorpio cyaneus of Ceylon.
Thus I am led to think it possible — though             I                    I
                                                          cannot say that think
it probable— that the difference in the accounts given by Newport and
Dufour of the two species of Androctonus is due to specific variation.
    The disposition observed by Newport in his Androctonus, which                    I
can confirm so far as A. funestus is concerned,* is as follows : —
    Tracing the nerve-cord from the ganglionic mass in the cephalo-
thorax (or prosoma, as         I prefer to call it), we find in the mesosoma
(the broad so-called abdomen of authors) a ganglion in the segment
containing the second pair of lungs, a second ganglion in the segment
containing the fourth pair of lungs, and a third ganglion in the lung-
less segment which succeeds the segment containing the fourth
pair of lungs. These three ganglia do not all supply the structures-
adjacent to them : each sends off two lateral nerves and a median
inferior nerve.       The latter nerve was' not seen by Newport, but is
rightly described by Dufour.            Dufour also observed what Newport
failed to do, viz., that the nerve-cord itself is double. The first and the
second pair of Inngs, as well as the adjacent regions of the segments
in which they lie, are supplied by two pairs of nerves, which descend
from the ganglionic mass in the prosoma (cephalothorax).                          The
ganglion adjacent        to  the second   pair  of  lungs supplies by    its   lateral
nerves, not that pair of lungs, but the third pair of lungs.               The next
ganglion supplies      the  adjacent  fourth   pair  of lungs, whilst the  ganglion
in the segment following that containing the fourth pair of lungs
supplies the muscles adjacent to it, there being no lungs in this
 segment.
    In the Ceylon scorpion, S. (Buthus) cyaneus, and in Sc. Italicus
 (Raes),   I find, on the other hand, the following arrangement.                There
are three ganglia in the broad abdomen, one placed very close to the
prosoma in the segment belonging to the first pair of lungs, a second
 placed in the segment corresponding to the third pair of lungs, and a
third in the lungless segment.            Further, the distribution of the lateral
nerves given off by the ganglia is quite different from what we find in
Androctonus funestus.
    In S. ct/aneus of Ceylon only one (the first) pair of lung-sacs (and
   * June 24th. — Newport's drawing, however, represents the middle of the three-
 ganglia as lying in the third lung-segment, instead of the fourth.

1882.]               Position         of Ganglia,        <£r.,   in Scorpions.                        10SJ
Figures 2,    3, 4. Diagrams        showing the disposition       of the ganglia and chief nerve*
               in Scorpions.
Figure 2 represents the arrangement found in Androctonus funestus.        It except             is,
               for the position of the middle ganglion, the same as that described bj
               Newport, the median nerve given off from each ganglion of the cord,
               and the two strands (instead of one) which constitute the cord being
               additions to that author's results.
Figure   3   represents the arrangement found in the large tropical Scorpio (Buthus,
               or Heterometrus of Ehrenberg) cyaneut of Ceylon, and Sc. Kochii of
               India, and also in the small European Scorpio Italicus, Roes, and Scorpio
               Carpathians, Linn.
Figure   4   is  constructed from the figure given       Leon Dufour, of Androctonus
                                                                 by
               occitanus — the yellow Scorpion of Spain and Southern France.       In
               those points in which this figure differs from fig.                 2,
                                                                      seems probable it
               that Dufour     is   incorrect, but possibly he        is   not altogether so.
oc, nerves to central and lateral        eyes.
1— 6, nerves to the six limb* of the prosoma.
7, nerve to the genital operculum (first segment of mesosoma).
8, nerve to the pecten (second segment of mesosoma).
9— 12, four hinder segments of the mesosoma.
13, 14, two first segments of the metasoma.
P1   tc P', the four pairs of pulmonary          sacs.
the adjacent parts of the segment in which       lies)  supplied from  it           is
the great ganglion of the prosoma.      The ganglion lying in this, the
first lung-bearing segment, supplies the second lung-bearing segment.

 104                  On Iodide   of Silver and its A Hoys.       [June  15,
 The third lung-bearing segment is supplied by the ganglion which lies
 in that segment.      The fourth lung-bearing segment has no ganglion
 lying   in it, and appears to depend entirely for its nerve-supply on the
 median nerve given off by the ganglion which, as in Androctonus, is
 placed in the next following segment.
    These relations can only be understood by the aid of drawings.
 The woodcut shows diagrammatically in three figures, fig. 2 the dis
 position in Androctonus funestus (agreeing essentially with Newport's
 description), fig. 3 the disposition in Scorpio cyaneus of Ceylon, fig. 4
the disposition described by Dufour.           This last diagram has been
constructed from Dufour's drawing.          It is without doubt erroneous in
important particulars      relative  to the large ganglion of the prosoma,
and is very probably erroneous in regard to other particulars.
    It is worthy of attention as tending to associate the European
scorpions of the sub-genus Euscorpius with those of the type of Buthus
afer, to which Sc. cyaneus of Ceylon belongs, that in Scorpio Italicus
and Scorpio Carpathicus,       I  have found the same disposition of the
ganglia and of the primary branches of the ventral nerve-cord as that
drawn in fig. 3. The only difference observed was that the ganglia
in these European species are all a little further forward, so as to lie
close to the anterior limit of the segments in which they occur.
    We thus find that an important anatomical difference obtains
between the Scorpions with triangular sternum (Androctoni) and the
Scorpions with pentagonal sternum (Euscorpii, Buthi, &c.). Whether
the Scorpions with band-like sternum (Telegoni) differ from or agree
with either of these types in respect of their nervous system, has yet
to be discovered.
 VII.    " On the Specific Heat and Heat of Transformation of the
       Iodide of Silver, Agl, and of the Alloys Cu2I2.AgI,
       Cu2I2.2AgI, Cu2I2.3AgI,Cu2I2.4AgI, Cu2I2.12AgI, PbIa.AgI."
        By Professor M. Bellati and Dr. R. Romanese, Professors
        in the University of Padua. Communicated by Professor
        A. W. Williamson, For. Sec. R.S. Received June 7, 1882.
                                   (Abstract.)
    The authors' calorimetric investigation refers to substances which
 have been already studied by Mr. G. F. Rodwell (" Proc. Roy. Soc."
 vol. 32) as to their expansion and contraction by heat.
     After having detailed the method of experimenting and tabulated
 the results of determinations for each substance, the authors recapitu
 late the results in the following table : —

1882.]              On Hypocychids,                                Epicycloids,                                 and Polyhedra.                                            105
                     Percentage
 Composition
                                  of Agl.       9,.
    of the                                                  9,.                                                 0.                                                        X.
  substance.
                                                  C.        C.
 Agl                100 -0                      142°    156°-5                       -054389 +   0000372(T +                                                -0577     6-25
                                                                                                                                                  0 0 0 0
                                                                       0 0 0 0 0 0
                                                                                                  0                                    1)
 Cu2I*12AgI          88                          95     228                          -05882 (from 91° to 89°)                                                0580     -831
                                    2 3 0 2 1
 Cu»Io.4AgI          71                         180     282                          056526   +                 0000410(T                                    0702         95
                                                                                                  0 0 0 0
                                                                                                                                   +   t)                             7
 CuXsAgI             65                         194     280                          059624   +             -0000280          (T   +                         0726     7-74
                                                                                                                                       1) 1) 1)
                                                                                                        -
 Cu.J2.2AgI          55                         221     298                          -061035 +               0000295(T             +                        , .       7-88
 CuJ2.Agl.      .    38                         256     324                          -063099  +
                                                                                                            -0000260(T             +                                  8-67
 PbIs.AgI..          33 -8                       118    144            0             047458   +   0         '
                                                                                                                0000026 (T         +    1)        0         0567      2-556
     In this
          table and   are the temperatures at which the structure
                                    0l                 03
change  commences and finishes, according to Mr. Rodwell's results,
c denotes the mean specific heat of the substance between   and                                                                                                   t            T
for     temperatures                            below       0l;   C1the specific heat for temperatures
                                                                            is
beyond      and
              02
               ;
                                      X,        is   the heat absorbed by the unit weight of the sub
stance  in consequence of modification of structure.   The relative
accuracy of certain results and some probable conclusions are finally
discussed.
VIII. " (I.)       On a Tangential Property of Regular Hypocycloids
            and Epicycloids.   (II.) On Theorems relating to the
            Regular Polyhedra which are analogous to those of Dr.
            Matthew Stewart on the Regular Polygons."    By Henry
            M. Jeffery, F.R.S. Received June     1882.                                                               3,
                                                                  (Abstract.)
I.      On a Tangential Property                                  of         Regular Hypocychids and Epicycloids.
    1 The following theorems will be established —
        .                                                                                                                 :
   (A.) The product of the perpendiculars drawn from all the cusps
in each of these roulettes on any tangent is a function of the perpen
dicular only, which      drawn on the same tangent from the centre of
                                                 is
the fixed circle, on which the roulette     generated.   Consequently                      is
   (B.)  The  sums  of the  cotangents of the  angles  which any tangent
to the roulette makes with the vectors drawn from the cusps to the
point of contact       function of the cotangent of the angle made by
                                         is     a
the vector drawn from the centre with the same tangent line, and of
the perpendicular drawn from the centre.
   2. These propositions are extended to spherical geometry, and their
dual forms stated both for planimetry and spherics.

106                                  Mr. H. M. Jeffeiy.                            [June 15r
  3.   A proof will              derived for two general theorems on
                              be hence
regular polygons given by Dr. Matthew Stewart (Props. 39, 42), of
which many others are special cases.
   4. These propositions will first be elucidated by examples.
   In the case of the regular hypocycloids, we may consider them as-
referred to line-coordinates, the polygon of reference being formed by
joining the (n) cusps.
  If    «=3,                                                        or^t+j^+j^0.
                          i1ii12i13=i13=-|3(i1i+i12+.Ps)3
        n=4,
                     PiPiPsP^p^^iPi+Pi+Pz+Piy.
   Consequently by differentiating with respect to 9 (the inclination
of a perpendicular on a tangent to the initial line) in the several cases-
on both sides (Besant, " On Roulettes," § 7) —
  If           n = 3, cot       «1   + cot *2 + cot *8 = 3 cot *,
               ?i   = 4,                     2cotam=4cota,
               i1=5,                         2cotaOT       = 5£ — ^-coto,
                                                              yl — a
where d is a constant, and ol, *2, . . . » denote the angles made by                       the
tangent with the vectors from the cusps and centre.
  5. In the epicycloid the same polygon of reference is used.
                                             pi
  If                       n=l,      i«2Pi=4-r,i   *ne    nnicuspid cardioid,
                                             o
                    n=2,        it*PiPr=£,
                    n=3,
                              la^psp^^pt-iay^-l).
Consequently,       if        n = 1,             cot al   = 3 cot *,
                              ji =2, cot
                                         al + cot a.2=4 cot *.
The general theorems will now be established.
  6. Let these perpendiculars from the cusps be expressed by tan
gential polar coordinates, when the initial line is drawn from the
centre to a cusp      :   —
PiPs. -Pi=(p— acos0)|p—        +                          0}}
                                                             -         a cob
                        acos^—
                                                             -
                                                                               (^—^ir+o)^.
  The artifice used            by      Gregory     in a         kindred-question    ("   Math.

  1882.]       On Hypocycloids,     Epicycloids, and Polyhedra.          107
 Journ.," vol. iii, p. 145) is here adopted.        Let x3+y3=p, 2xy=a.
 Cotes' theorem is thereby applicable to determine the product.
 xzi+y2i-2z*yicoBne=(a?-2xycoBe+y2)                                        '  -
                                                 {x*-2xy cos(^
    We mast next express x^+y3" in terms of p,          a.   The expression,,
 which is closely allied to the expansion of cos nO,       is given in Tod-
 hunter's " Theory of Equations," p. 183.
    Since           (1 -zz*) (X—zy2)   =1 —z(x* +y3-zxhf),
 if we take the logarithm of both sides, and select the coefficient of z",
    It is also necessary to obtain the ascending series —
     .^•+^y-Kr(f)v^(r®'-                                               - -  ¦
 if n  be an even integer,
          *w;=.rv^(r<i)'+--
 if n be an odd integer.
    7.  The polar tangential equations to the regular hypocycloids and
epicycloids are
                                n        n 4-2x2    /
where a is the radius of the fixed circle, and bears to the radius of
the rolling circle the ratio n : 1 (Besant, " On Roulettes," § 14).
    If we take the upper sign, and write —
                  in y = nP
                 sin          .   where (n — 2)y=n (  - — o\
Hence — 2 cos nO
    =2co8(n-2)      (|-x),
    = (2 sin x)""2- (n-2)(2 sinx)""^ (W~2)(M-5). (2 sin x)"-6-
        f   2np
        l(»-2)aj1^_(ft_2)f
                                       2nP
                                  '\(n-2)ai}-«
                          V
Hence the general theorem is established for hypocycloids.

 108                            Mr. H. M. Jeffery.               [June     15,
                +(i)v^^)-(M-2)(^2r}
         -MVJ"("-^)("-5)_(»-2)(w-5)/                        n \-«  1
           \2/P       I        1.2.3             TT2
   The series ends with the term involving p3 or p*, according as n is
•odd  or even, as may be seen by examining the expansion of cos n6 in
an ascending series.
    8. The equation to the regular epicycloid is
                oiPX=,              . where (» + 2)x=» (£+0).
Hence the formula for this epicycloid is                       •
                      / (^+2)(w-2)(W-3)/          k
                                                    Y~4_"(^-3)    \T   ,
                                                                  /
                                                                          9 * '
            V2.T       I         1.2.3         U+2/         1.2
   By reversing the order in expanding cos n9, it appears that no
terms involving p2, p, p° occur.
   12. Proof of Stewart's theorems.
    Since the formulae of § 6 are general, they apply to a parallel line,
on which the perpendiculars are drawn.
(i;i+a0(Ps+a!)     • • •
                          (Pi+aO
       =                                                                 =U.
         (p+xr-n(^\p+x)^+^Zp.(g(p+xy-*-                           . . .
   The sums of the several powers of p^ p2, . . . are obtained by taking
the logarithm, and differentiating on both sides —
                             1        8     3
                  X      3*      SB3    X*           U   dx
(This last quotient is remarkable, as it shows the matrix out of which
these theorems of Dr. Stewart arose.)
=_i_(i-r2(?y_^+i13(£y_I_+                             ..  \

1882.]            On Hypocycloids,      Epicycloids, and Polyhedra.                    109'
=t\l-r+£
  x I          x    x*    x3   ...}J
                       1\2/   a;3  I    la;  1   .2   a;2
                                                               "  •
                                                                     J
   By equating the several powers of                the several sums of powers are
                                                 x
found.
This is the dual of Stewart's Prop. 40.
   13. If in § 12 the line touch the circle, so thaty=a, 2(p-)"» bc-
                                                               3.1 _
                             n-(2m-l)(2w-3)
                                         ii—                                  fx.
                                                       .  . .                           QQ,
comes                                               £               am        (Prop.   39).
                                                 ...2.1
                                                                       .   .
                                     m(m —  1)
   Lemma.       — Every product of consecutive factors can be expressed                 as a
sum of a product of lower consecutive factors.
                                                                          •6)
Thus      1 +4(n-4)+6(w-yf"~5) +4<w- 4).("75y*'
                           (w-4)(»-5)(w-6)(w-7)_n(«-l)(w-2)(n-3)
                                     1.2.3.4                             1.2.3.4
as appears by the equating coefficients of x*                 in the identity
                             (1 +a;)"-*(a! + 1)4= (1 +x)-.
   Hence when          p=a in     § 12,
q+I)-+2ro(m-1)(I+I)-^+^^-^^-2ffi=g)(I+I)-^
                                                                                  +    .   . .
                         i\i i «t(m— l)f,
                                   L__^jl + 2(m-2) + i ^ ZJ +
= 'il +, m{l it +' /                           , o/         o\  i (m— 2) (to— 3)1    ,
                   (m-l)}+—                                                              . . .
 =1,+(.y+{^)}V..,=1.3.a.(8l-lv
   14.     Dr. Stewart's general theorem (Prob. 42) follows from the same
formula as the former.
II.   On Theorems relating to the Regular Polyhedra, which are analogous
            to those of Dr. Matthew Stewart on the Regular Polygons.
   1.   These two general propositions may be thus stated in the dual
form    : —

  II0                           Mr. H. M. Jeffery.                   [June 15,
     (A.) Let     there be a regular polyhedron of (n) faces, inscribed in a
 sphere of radius (a). If from the summits and centre there be drawn
px, p.,, . . . pn, p perpendiculars on any plane (exterior to the solid, if
 (>»)  is odd), the sum of the (nt)th powers of the perpendiculars from
 the summits is a function of the perpendicular from the centre.
                   S(^)"=o/            {(p + a)»+l-(p-a)-+i}.
                             2(m+  l)a
    This formula is applicable to all five Platonic bodies, if m be 1, 2, 3 ;
if m be 4, 5, and not larger, it is restricted to the dodecahedron and
 icosahedron.
    (B.) Under the same conditions as in (A), if there         be   taken any
point, whose distance from the centre is («), the sum of the (2m)th
powers of the distances of this point from all the summits will be a
function of its distance from the centre.
                                "
                                       {iv + a)!»+°—(v-a)**+*}.
                            s(m+ l)av
    2.  Following the analogy of plane geometry,       I propose   to consider
a group of five surfaces, whose orthogonal projections are the tricuspid
and quadricuspid hypocycloids, and which have the property, that the
product of the perpendiculars drawn on any tangent plane from all
the summits of one of three regular polyhedra (which are cuspidal
points on those surfaces), is a function of that perpendicular only
which is drawn on the same tangent plane from the centre of the
sphere circumscribed abont the polyhedron.
    These three surfaces are defined by tangential polyhedral coordi
nates referred to the three first of the regular polyhedra.
                           (1)  PiPzPsPi     =P*-
                           (2)  pip2 ' ' -di=p6-aY-
                           (3)  prf2 . . .
                                           Pa=JB*.
                           (4)  plPi . . . }lB=p*-$aY.
                           (5)  plPi . . . p8=p8.
    3.  By generalising the results of examination in each case of the
regular polyhedra, it is found that the continued product of the per
pendiculars drawn from all their summits on any plane may be thus
expressed in terms of that drawn from the centre —
                 ' ' -                                            - - -
          P1P2         Pi=P"-2^3~a2p"-3+i(^-^)aV,"i-
Subsequent terms would involve the inclinations         of lines and planes.
But the following scale is found to exist : —

 1882.]                On ITypocycloids, Epicycloids, and Polyhedra.                                                         Ill
 X-(n-2)fz* + (n-4,)gz*-(n-6)hz*+                                                 . . .
                          = (l-n/r2 + 7^r*-?iAz6+                               . . .
                                                                                        )(l+£z3+}r*+}r6+                   . . .   )
 where       /,   g, h are         found to have the preceding values                                     :
                  2f=%         :   4</=£/n—                  and 6h would be %gn — \fn +                          \.
                                                is written in brief for
                                                                                              -.^
    4.   For the continued product of the perpendiculars on                                                        a   parallel
plane —
<Pi+z)(Pa+x)                   .    - -   (pa+x) = (p+x)i--Lna?(p                                     +   xy-*+   .
                                                                                                                  .    .   =U.
   The sums of the several powers of plt p2, . . . are found by taking
 the logarithm, and differentiating on both sides.
n        1 _ „    ,   1   „         1       .               _1        dU
^-^2i+^-^s23+
                          =™(l-E+£2_P3+
                           x    x
                                                                            ... I
                                  x2 Lx3                                         J
                                   na*t,
                                                                                  '"J
                                                             4,.Hp*
                                                  f* p
                                                                                          1
                           +
                                   3Pl                       l72"i3
                                   5ass
                                      I                as    1    .   2   a;3           J
    By equating the coefficients of like powers of                                               x,
                                                                                                                       F
                          1' Tnr.2                          1
                                                                                          1.2.3.4                            I
                                                 +     a)'"+1-(p-a)m"1}'
                  =2l^TTa{(P
-where m    restricted not to exceed
                  is                                                      5.
   Thus    established the first proposition (A) of
                 is                                                                               §   1
                                                                                                      .
    5.Proposition (B) of         proved as in   §   2   is                              §   4.
   The form, being universal,       equally applicable, when plt p2, . . .
                                                             is
are used to denote the constants in the expression for distances, such
as —
                                                <5r2= a> + vi — 2av cos x-
Write in this form—

112          On Ilypocycloids,       Epicycloids,      and Polyhedra.          [.June 15,
       o2 +  u2 for p,      2av for a,       Bv £33, . . . Bn2  for pv  p2. . . . pH,
 (V+*)(V + *0         . . .            +   (o8+^+ir)i--i-naV(a»+«3                 + ar)"-»
   6.  Discussion of the first surface of the group.
                       PiPuPsP^P*^^.?! +Pi+Ps +P*)*-
    It satisfies  both the required conditions of § 2 ; and no other surface
formed     from the regular tetrahedron satisfies the tests. Its quadri-
planar equivalent in point-coordinates is of the tenth order.
    The orthogonal projection on any face from its quadrantal pole,
whose equation is
                    Pi=i(Pi +Ps +Ps +Pd = UPi +Pa + Ps) '
tfives the tricuspid hypocycloid (see § 4 of Memoir                  I)
                            PiP°.Pz=
                                      ^(Pi +Pi +Pi)s=PS-
                     6sc8-4acs-46si+18a6cd-27a3i2=0,
where
 H=   afac,     b=PyS + a'lS+      . . . ,   C = aP + a-1+     . . . ,  d=a + ft + r4 + S.
    To ascertain its form two sections have been taken, (1) by a face,
(2) by a plane through an edge and a centre.
    From (1), when c=0,               b-(t?-ibd)=0,
thatis,              ^/3V{(V0*y) + y(7-)+V(«/9)}=0.
The first factors denote the three edges, which are conjugate double
lines, the last a tricuspid hypocycloid.
    (2) Let 7=c, or the surface be intersected by a plane AOB, which
passes through the edge AB, and bisects the edge CD perpendicularly.
This would give the sections of greatest and least curvature ; another
such section superimposed vertically would give a clear conception of
the surface.
    The surface consists of six lobes, which are arranged in pairs, each
pair being touched by the same asymptotic cone.
    The edges of the asymptotic tetrahedron are conjugate lines, as is
also the great circle at infinity.
    7. In the same way the other surfaces are discussed and exhibited.
The property (B) of Memoir             I has its analogues on this group of sur
faces and their duals.

1882.J            On  the Critical Point of Mixed Gases.              113
IX. "On       the Critical Point of Mixed Gases." By Gerrard
       Ansdell,     F.C.S.     Communicated by Professor James
       Dewar, M.A., F.R.S. Received June 8, 1882.
    Having on two previous occasions communicated to the Society
papers on the physical constants of liquid hydrochloric acid gas and
liquid acetylene, under which head I include the coefficients of compres
sion and expansion, the critical points, and the volumes and tensions of
the saturated vapour, it naturally led up to what promised to be a long
investigation into the similar constants of other gases ; and, amongst
other things, the behaviour of two or more gases in presence of each
other, more particularly with regard to the alteration of the critical
point, appeared to me of especial interest.
    These experiments, which     I commenced nearly two years ago, were
unavoidably interrupted at the time, and I have only now been able to
resume them.
    This subject has latterly engaged the attention of many physicists
 and chemists, and, amongst others, both Andrews and Cailletet have
 examined to a certain extent the behaviour of gaseous mixtures,
 the former finding both the critical point and vapour-tension of
 carbonic acid considerably modified by the introduction of a small
 quantity of pure nitrogen, and the latter (" Compt. Rend.," 90, 210)
 noting the peculiar behaviour of carbonic acid with one-fifth its
 volume of air, the former appearing to mix completely with the latter
 at 130 atmospheres pressure and 5°-5 C., forming a homogeneous
 mixture.    More recently Amagat (" Compt. Rend.," 89, 1879) and
 Roth (" Wiedemann," N.F., 2, 1880) have contributed exhaustive
 papers on the deviation of gases from Mariotte's law.            Clausius
 and Van der Waals have introduced new formulae for calculating
 the critical point, Winkelman (Berichte, N.F., 2, 1880), Hannay
 (" Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 33) and others have been examining the rela
 tion between the different states of matter, and Ramsay and Pawlewski
 have investigated the behaviour of different liquid compounds with
  regard to their critical points, &c. ; the former took equal weights of
 pure benzene and ether, and found that the critical temperature and
 pressure of the mixture was just between those of the individual
 bodies, but as he evidently experimented with only the one mixture,
 his resnlts do not bear much upon the present problem, for which
 these experiments      were undertaken, namely, the variation of the
 critical points of different percentage mixtures of two or more gases.
 Pawlewski 's results, which seem to have an important bearing on the
 subject, I shall refer to more fully afterwards.
    Before selecting any particular gases for investigation, there were
     VOL. XXXIV.                                                I

114                          Mr. G. Ansdell.                    [June   15,
several   important points to be considered.    In the first place, it was
advisable to select those gases which could not only be easily prepared,
but whose physical constants had been thoroughly investigated ; it
would be an advantage to use gases having comparatively low critical
points, as the temperature would be much more easily kept constant,
and would consequently contribute to the accuracy of the results ; but
above all those gases should be chosen which would not be likely to
react upon each other in a liquid state, or at high temperatures and
pressures, for this would modify the results considerably, from the
probable formation of new compounds, &c.          That this is likely to
occur is shown in Professor Dewar's experiments on the behaviour of
carbonic acid in presence of other bodies (" Proc. Roy. Soc.," 1880),
 where the carbonic acid often appeared to exist in a liquid state far
above its critical point.   This was no doubt due to the formation of a
 new compound ; at least, as it could not be pure carbonic acid, we can
only regard it as a compound of some kind formed under particular con
 ditions of temperature and pressure, and this supposition seems to be
confirmed by the experiment of carbonic acid in presence of camphor,
 where the camphor undoubtedly formed a new body, for we know how
readily it combines with numerous substances such as hydrochloric
acid, &c., to form unstable compounds. For these reasons      I  chose car
bonic and hydrochloric acid gases, as they could be easily prepared, and
their critical points had been very accurately determined, the former
 by Andrews, the latter by myself, besides being bodies most unlikely
 to be decomposed in each other's presence, more especially as they are
chemically saturated bodies, and therefore according to the new
 chemical theory, most unlikely to form any addition or molecular com
 pound.
     The following method was adopted in the experiments,               the
 Cailletet pump being used as described in my former papers.           The
 carbonic acid was made by dropping pure strong sulphuric acid into a
 saturated solution of potash bicarbonate, being afterwards washed
 with distilled water, and dried by passing through four \J -tubes with
  pounded glass and sulphuric acid.    To check the readings of the air
  manometer (which was the same used in my former experiments) and
  also the purity of the gas, a tube was filled with the pure gas alone,
  and the tensions at different temperatures and the critical point were
  found to agree very well with Andrews' results. The hydrochloric
  acid gas was prepared by the action of strong sulphuric acid on pure
  chloride of ammonium, as described in my last paper (" Proc. Roy.
  Soc.," vol. 30), and was washed and dried with the usual precautions;
  a tube was also filled with the pure gas to begin with, and the critical
  point and tensions of the saturated vapour agreed as nearly as
  possible with those obtained by myself two years ago.
     The purity of the individual gases and the accuracy of the air mano

 1882.]           On the  Critical Point of Mused Gases.               115
 meter having thus been proved, an ordinary Cailletet tube was chosen,
 having a capillary part about 2 milliros. in diameter, and a total
'capacity of about 50 cub. centims.      This was accurately calibrated,
and then filled with the hydrochloric acid gas, by passing it through
 in a regular stream for about four or five hours ; after sealing off, the
 bent    end was placed nnder pure dry mercury, under the receiver of
an air-pump, and a sufficient quantity of the gas withdrawn to make
 room for any amount of carbonic acid gas required to be introduced ;
the introduction was effected by passing a very fine capillary tube, bent
at a particular angle and through which pure carbonic acid was stream
ing, round the bend of the tube while it remained under mercury, great
care being taken to prevent the slightest trace of air from getting in.
When sufficient carbonic acid had been introduced the tube was
transferred to one of the iron bottles containing pure dry mercury,
which was connected with another iron bottle containing the air
 manometer, and with the pump in the usual way.
    The critical point of the mixture was first determined, and then the
tensions of the saturated vapour at different temperatures, together
 with the fractional volume to which the gas was reduced at the point
of liquefaction, and also the relation between the liquid and gaseous
 volumes at different heights in the tube.
    At the end of the experiments the tube was carefully lifted out of
the bottle, the outside of it well cleaned and dried with bibulous
 paper, and the end of it placed under distilled water.       The small
quantity of mercury in the bend of the tube was shaken out, and the
 water allowed to rush up the tube and absorb the hydrochloric acid
 gas ; the solution was afterwards made up to 500 cub. centims. with
 distilled water, and 50 cub. centims. titrated with standard nitrate of
silver, which gave the quantity of chlorine equal to the amount of
 hydrochloric acid in the tube.      The small residue of mercury was
 dried and weighed, and the space it occupied subtracted from the
 total capacity of the tube, the remainder, after correction for tem
 perature and pressure, being of course the volume of the mixed gases ;
 from this was subtracted the volume of the hydrochloric acid gas
 calculated from the amount of chlorine obtained by titration, the
 remainder being carbonic acid, with, of course, any slight impurity
 of air or other inert gas that might be present.
    The following tables give the tensions of the saturated vapour, at
 different temperatures, of the different percentage mixtures of pure
  hydrochloric acid and carbonic acid gases.   They are also plotted in
 the form of curves on Plate I.
                                                            i2

 116                           Mr. G. Ansdell.                            [June  15,
             I.                  II.                   III.                IV.
        T.          P.       T.          P.         T.        P.       T.       P.
         0   ..   27-84      0   .. 28-86           0   .. 3317        0   .   31-89-
       15    ..   40-66     13-8 . ..   39-86     16-3  . .. 50-09    19-0  .  51-93
       27    ..   54-22     25-5 . ..   52-77     25-4  . .  63-98    25-6.    60 46
       37-5  . .  70-28     38-0 . .    67-36     340.     . 77-02
       46    ..   82-26     44-0... 76-23         43-2   . . 90-03
       47-2  . .  9221      45-5  . .   80-52     451                 39-5  .
                 V.                          VI.                       VII.
        T.              P.            T.              P.          T.             P.
         0     ....    32-72          0     ....    34-56        0     ...  .  3465
       17-5    ....    50-73       18-8     ....    55-79       18-8   ...  .  56f-4
       266     ....    63-31       25-5     ....    65-68       24-9   ...  .  67-27
       35-0    ....    76-64
       37-6    ....    79-14
C.P.=380       ....    81-35       33-5     ....    7769        32-4   ...  .  77-25
                 1= mixture containing 17'18 per cent. C02.
               11=       ii         tt        19-37               )'
             111 =        H         tt        25-48               tt
              IV=                    II       42-44                ii
               V=        ii         *i        45-67               i1
              VI=        ii         ii        74-18               it
            VII=         ii         tt        82-14               ii
   T= temperature of mixed gases.
   P= pressure in atmospheres.
   C. P=critical point.
   The critical points of the different mixtures are also plotted as a
curve on Plate II, where the ordinates represent the percentage
amount of carbonic acid in the mixture, and the abscissas represent
the temperature in degrees (centigrade).             Now Pawlewski, in a short
abstract of a paper (" Berichte," No. 4, 1882), describes a number of
experiments he had made with the isomeric ethers, the alcohols, &c., and
gives an equation to represent the critical point of mixtures of two or
more liquids belonging to the same class of organic bodies, in terms of
their respective critical points and relative weights, from which it
would appear that the critical point of mixed bodies is directly propor
tional to the percentage composition of the mixture, when the origin
of temperature taken is that of the body having the lowest critical point.
He also mentions that this would probably be the case with the liquid
form of substances which are gaseous at ordinary temperatures ; but
from our knowledge of liquefied gases, their physical constants are so
much exaggerated with regard to their compression and expansion, Ac.,

 1882.]          On  the Critical Point of Mixed Gases.              117
 and the variation of their critical points is so much affected. by small
'quantities of impurity, that we might naturally suppose gases having
low critical points would not altogether follow this law, and the
                   imiimiimi
results of my experiments seem to confirm this view. It will be seen
from the diagram, Plate II, that instead of descending in a straight
line as it ought to do, according to Pawlewski's formula, it forms a

118               On the Critical Point   of Mixed  Gases.     [June  15,
very regular curve, all the values being below those of Pawlewski's,
until a point is reached where the mixture contains about 17 per cent,
of carbonic acid, within which limit it evidently approaches to Paw-
lewski's values.    The reason for this apparent anomaly can only be
explained by the assumption that a small trace of air or other impurity
was present in the tube, for we know from Andrews' and my own
experiments, that even the j^gth part of air makes a considerable
difference both in the critical point and tension of a gas.
   It is also conceivable that a trace of air may have more effect in a
mixture of two gases, than upon either individually, and this would
consequently complicate matters considerably, when a mixture of
several   different gases is used. It was principally on this account
that tensions of the saturated vapour of the mixture at different tem
peratures was taken, so as to judge of the amount of impurity in the
gases, and whether it materially affected the results.
   The curves on Plate I represent these tensions, the ordinates being
the pressure    in atmospheres,   and the abscissae the temperature in
degrees C.     The corresponding curves for pure hydrochloric acid and
carbonic acid are also shown, but although all the curves for the
different mixtures, except one, fall between the two, still the distances
are evidently not strictly proportional to the percentage composition,
which can only be explained by the presence of a small quantity of
air; now, as this impurity must have been infinitesimal, it is inte
resting and curious to see how much it has modified the tensions
of the saturated vapour.        No.   Ill  should, of course, have come
between No.      II and No. IV, and must have had rather a larger
amount of impurity than the others, and this is also the case in
No. VII, which actually shows a tension higher than that of the
most volatile constituent of the mixture, which, of course, is unpre
cedented.
   Having satisfied myself that these apparent anomalies were really
due to impurity, I filled another tube with extreme care, which con
tained the same relative proportions of the gases, within -2 of a per
cent, as No. VII, and found that it now assumed its proper place
below the curve for carbonic acid, the critical point, however, being
scarcely altered at all, showing that an amount of impurity, sufficient
to materially modify the tensions of the vapour, had very little effect
on the critical point.
   The present position of the question therefore appears to be, that
the critical points of mixtures of liquefied gases cannot be expressed
by Pawlewski's formula, the maximum difference between his cal
culated value and mine, which occurred in a mixture of equal volumes
of the gases, being as much as 3°-6 C. This is -2 or 25 per cent, of
the whole difference between the critical points of the two gases-
hydrochloric acid being 510-25, and carbonic acid 31° C.

 1882.]           On an Arrangement  of  the Electric Arc,  fyc.        119
     But although these experiments      seem  to lead to this conclusion,
more extended researches with other gases of the same nature, using
the same precautions, will have to be made, before the real form of
the curve can be ascertained.
     This investigation has been carried out in the Laboratory of the
"Royal Institution.
X. "On        an Arrangement of the Electric Arc for the Study
       of the Radiation of Vapours, together with Preliminary
       Results." By G. D. Liveing, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of
       Chemistry, and J. Dewar, M.A., F.R.S-, Jacksonian Pro
       fessor, University of Cambridge. Received June 8, 1882.
    In previous papers*    we have described various devices for facilitat
ing the study of the reversal of the lines of metallic vapour.          The
 first series of observations were made by examining the spectrum of
the interior of iron or porcelain tubes filled with vapour and heated
 to the highest temperature of a coke furnace, the subsequent series
 being eye or photographic records of the radiation of the electric arc
 surrounded by metallic vapour in the middle of blocks or tubes of
lime or magnesia.
     By inclosing the arc in a crucible of lime or magnesia we have
found its steadiness very greatly increased, and the mass of metallic
vapour which can be maintained at a temperature approaching to
that of the arc much enlarged, but it cannot be said that that tem
perature is at all under control, and the walls of the crucible are
almost always cooler than the contents. By the arrangement we have
now to describe we are able to make observations through a long
 range of temperature, as the temperature rises and as it falls, and so
to trace the influence of temperature in many cases in which the
extent of that influence was before doubtful.             The temperature
attainable is doubtless far below that of the arc, but still it is quite
 sufficient to maintain iron and aluminium in the state of vapour, and
show the reversal of the lines of these elements with singular sharp
ness.     The temperature of the interior is sufficiently high to transform
the diamond into coke, even in a current of hydrogen, and the result
may be taken as proving that the temperature is above that of the
oxyhydrogen flame.
    The apparatus employed is thus constructed : A rod of carbon, a in
the figure, 15 millims. in diameter, perforated down its axis with a
cylindrical hole 4 millims. in diameter, is passed through a hole in a lime
    * "Proc. Roy. Soc.," "On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours,"
vols. 28, 29, 32.

120              Profs. G. D. Liveing and    J. Dewar.       [June 15,
block d, and is connected by means of a copper clip with the positive
electrode of a Siemens dynamo-electric machine ; another carbon rod
b, uuperforated, is passed into the lime block through a second hole
at right angles to the first, so that the end of the rod b meets the
rod a in the middle of the block of lime. The rod b is connected
with the negative electrode of the dynamo machine, and after contact
is made between the two carbons is raised a little so that the arc
discharge continues between the two carbon rods within the block of
lime or magnesia.      In this way the outside of the rod or tube, a,
becomes intensely heated, the heat is retained by the jacket of lime,
and the interior of the tube gradually rises in the central part to a
very high temperature.       By stopping the arc it can be made to
pass through    the  same  stages of temperature in the inverse order.
Observations are made by looking down the perforation. When the
light issuing from the tube is projected by a lens on to the slit of a
spectroscope, the heated walls of the tube give at top and bottom a
continuous spectrum, against which various metallic lines are seen
reversed, while in the central part, when the tube is open at the
farther end, the spectrum is discontinuous, and the metallic lines
seen reversed against the walls at top and bottom, appear as bright
lines.
   By passing a small rod of carbon    c into the perforation from the
farther end, a luminous background can be obtained all across the
field, and then, as the walls of the tube are hotter than the metallic
vapours between them and the eye, the metallic lines are only seen
reversed.   A very slight alteration in the position of the carbon rod
makes the lines disappear, or reappsar, or show reversal, and as the
core is adjusted by eye observation before photographs are taken, all
the conditions of the experiments are thoroughly known and are

 1882.]        On an Arrangement      of the Electric Arc,  fyc.        121
 under easy control. We have taken photographs of the violet and
lower part of the nltra- violet spectrum given by the tube at succes
sive intervals while the temperature was rising, and noted the follow
ing results. When commercial carbons were tised the first lines to be
seen as the temperature rose were the potassium lines, wave-length
 4044-6, next the two aluminium lines between H and K became con
spicuous, then the manganese triplet about wave-length 4034, and the
calcium line, wave-length 4226, then the calcium lines near M and an
 iron line, probably M, between them, and then gradually a multitude
of lines which seem to be all the conspicuous iron lines between O
and h. At this stage, when the small rod c is used to give a back
ground, the bright continuous spectrum is crossed by a multitude of
 sharp dark lines, vividly recalling the general appearance of the solar
 spectrum.     In the higher region the continuous spectrum extends
 beyond the solar spectrum, and the magnesium line, wave-length
 2852, is a diffuse dark band, while all the strong iron lines about T,
and the aluminium pair near S, are seen as dark lines.             The be
 haviour of the calcium lines H and K is peculiar. These lines are
often absent altogether, when the line wave-length 4226 and the two
 near M are well seen, and when the two aluminium lines between
them and many of the iron lines are sharply reversed.             Even the
introduction of a small quantity of metallic calcium or calcium
,chloride into the tube did not bring them out reversed.         They were
 only  seen as  bright  lines, not very strong, when  the  small  rod c was
 removed.
    In some of the photographs H is visible as a bright line without K.
 We   have formerly observed that K shows reversal in the electric arc
 spectrum taken in a lime crucible on the addition of aluminium, when H
 remains bright, and such a condition as that shown by the hollow carbon
tube where H is present without K, might legitimately have been
predicted. The lithium lines at 4603 and 4131 are often bright when
many other lines in the neighbourhood are reversed, and must, there
fore, be regarded as relatively difficult of reversal. As a rule the lines
less refrangible than 4226 are balanced as to their emissive and
absorptive power, and, therefore, disappear, while the more refrangi
 ble are reversed.     The cyanogen group at 3883 remain bright when
the iron lines on either side are reversed ; they often, however, dis
appear on the continuous spectrum. Many lines about P and Q of
the solar spectrum are reversed. The cyanogen band above K is
generally to be found in the photographs of the spectrum when only
air is in the tube. It is then very faint, and is the only cyanogen
group visible. If ammonia is passed into the tube the fine set above
 K, the N group, and, although less plainly marked, the set at 4218,
appear. In one plate the three lines at 4380 and the group of seven
at 4600 appear along with the blue hydrocarbon set. It is well

 122           On  the Ultra-violet  Spectra    of the Elements.   [June 15,
known that ammonia reacts on carbon at a white heat, producing
cyanide of ammonium and hydrogen, bo that the genesis of the
cyanogen spectrum under the present conditions is a crucial test of the
validity of our former observations on this subject, which are, howeverr
in marked disagreement with the results obtained by Mr. Lockyer, in
his review of the same field of investigation.
   Both the indium lines 4101 and 4509 are persistently reversed,
together with several lead lines. Tin gives flutings in highly refran
gible portions of the spectrum, and silver gives a fine fluted-looking
spectrum in the blue.        Chloride of calcium gives a striking set of
six or seven bands between L and M, which may be seen both bright
and reversed.
   When the small rod c is removed, it is easy at any moment to sweep
out the vapours in the tube by blowing through it ; it is equally easy
to pass in reducing or other gases. Ammonia introduced seems to
facilitate the appearance of reversed lines.            On passing this gas
through    a  tube   containing magnesia,     the  set of lines just below 6,
which we have always found to be associated with the presence of
magnesium and hydrogen, and is most probably due to some com
pound, instantly appear.
   The above is a brief abstract of the few observations we have
been able to make as a preliminary to a more thorough research, and
we feel warranted in thinking that the method promises to solve some
intricate spectroscopic problems.        When we can command several
electric arcs to heat a considerable length of carbon tube, and are-
enabled to examine the radiation of a powerful arc passing through
vapours in the tube, valuable results may be anticipated.
XL "     On the Ultra-violet Spectra of the Elements. Part I.
       Iron." By G. D. Liveing, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of
       Chemistry, and J. Dewar, M.A., F.R.S., Jacksonian Pro
       fessor, University of Cambridge. Received June 8, 1882.
                                  (Abstract.)
   By means of photographs taken with a Rutherford grating                 of
17,296 lines to the inch, the authors have determined the wave-lengths
of ninety-one of the most prominent lines in the spark spectrum of
iron between wave-lengths 2948, the termination of Cornu's map of
the solar spectrum, and 2327, and also of fourteen of the strongest
lines in the spark spectrum of copper beyond that up to the wave
length 2135. Using these lines as lines of reference they have, from
photographs taken with calcite prisms, deduced the wave-lengths of
584 more lines in the arc and spark spectra of iron within those

 1882.]      On tlie Spectra  of Carbon and its Compounds.             123-
 limits.   These lines are mapped on the same scale as Angstrom's and
 Cornu's maps of the solar spectrum. The paper describes the method
 of taking the measures, and gives in detail the quantities observed
 and the data on which the calculations are founded.
                   Part II.   Received June 15, 1882.
                                 (Abstract.)
    In the second part of this paper the authors have given a map of
the ultra-violet lines of potassium, sodium, lithium, barium, strontium,
calcium, zinc, mercury, gold, thallium, aluminium, lead, tin, antimony,
 bismuth, and carbon, as developed in the arc. They point out that in
 several cases the lines are in all probability harmonically related, as
shown by the repetition of similar groups of lines at regularly dimi
nishing distances, the groups being alternately sharply defined and
diffuse, and becoming more diffuse as they die away at the end of the
series.   They had previously called attention to this kind of relation
ship between the visible lines in the spectra of the alkalies and of
magnesium. The like relationship holds good in the ultra-violet
spectra of those metals, and is strongly marked in the cases of calcium
and zinc, less strongly in some other metals.
XII.    " General Observations on the
                                             Spectra of Carbon and its
      Compounds." By Professor G. D. Liveing, M.A., F.R.S.,
      and Professor James Dewar, M.A., F.R.S. Received June
      12, 1882.
   In our two former     papers on the spectra of the compounds of
carbon with hydrogen and nitrogen (" Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 30) we
described the results of a long series of synthetical and analytical
experiments which had enabled us to trace satisfactorily a fluted band
spectrum which occurs in the arc and spark discharge in many com
pounds of carbon, and generally when carbon poles are used to transmit
the current of the arc or spark in air, to the compound substance
cyanogen.     This led to a further investigation of the carbon ultra
violet line spectrum in order to complete the series of simple vibra
tions which originate from this substance.     After all this work a great
deal remains to be ascertained regarding the conditions which cause a
variation of intensity in the different series of carbon flutings which
originate from cyanogen, and also their persistency and development.
   The present paper is a short record of the particular variations in
the carbon groups which are revealed in the different photographs of
the spectrum of the arc discharge that we have had occasion to take

124               Profs. G. D. Liveing and        J. Dewar.        [June 15,
for other purposes, together with some new observations on the
genesis of the cyanogen spectrum during combustion.
   The remarkable discovery of Dr. Huggins, regarding the occur
rence   of two of the most marked series of cyanogen bands in last
year's comet, adds considerable interest to this question, and has
induced us to make a further study of the chemical reactions in
flames which cause this particular spectrum to appear at a relatively
low temperature.
        Electric Discharge    between Carbon  Poles in different Gases.
   In order    to  facilitate   reference the  general appearance of the
portion of the cyanogen spectrum to which we shall refer is given in
the following diagram : —

1882.]        On the Spectra   of Carbon and its Compounds.            125
    The apparatus used in the experiments has been already described
in our paper on the spectrum of the compounds of carbon 'with
hydrogen and nitrogen (" Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 30). No attempt
was made to use perfectly pure gases or to remove all traces of
nitrogen from the vessels employed ; the object being to study the
variation of the groups of lines, perfect purity in the gases was not
required.
    The arc discharge between graphite poles in carbonic acid shows the
triple set, beginning about 4380, with traces of the other sets of
cyanogen bands at 4218 and 3883.          If the carbonic acid gas is dis
placed by air, the triple set are very much 'weakened and are some
times invisible, while the other fluted series at 4218 and 3883 are
greatly strengthened.
   The spark discharge does not show the cyanogen sets in carbonic
acid, but a series of five groups appear between the limits of the lines
S and N of the solar spectrum, which may possibly be due to carbonic
acid or carbonic oxide. The carbonic oxide flame, however, does not
show this set.      If the spark discharge is taken between graphite
poles in nitrogen all the cyanogen series appear; but in hydrogen
they sometimes disappear.      As a rule, however, they remain faint even
when a current of the gas is kept continuously passing through the
bulb in which the discharge is taken.          With the arc discharge in
hydrogen    the triple set are well marked,   while the series at 4218 dis
appear, and the ultra-violet group are just visible ; the hydrocarbon
set, however, at 4310 come out strong.
    In order to ascertain how the pressure of the surrounding atmos
phere affected the emissive power of the cyanogen produced synthe
tically in the arc discharge, a series of observations on the spectra
obtained under diminished pressure of the gaseous atmosphere was
undertaken.     The pressure in different gases was reduced to a mean
value of about 1 inch of mercury, and under such conditions the
intermittent discharge of the De Meritens machine was examined.
The arc in air, under these circumstances,       showed the blue hydro
carbon set ; all the cyanogen series of bands together with a nitrogen
series near H.     Carbonic acid at the same pressure had the triple set
 of lines strongly marked, while the others were decidedly weaker, as
 in the experiments with the gas at atmospheric pressure.
    In hydrogen, at equal pressure, the triple set disappear, and the
 hydrocarbon set at 4310 occur, which series is not generally seen in
 the photographs of the arc spectrum.        But what is very remarkable
 is the appearance of two lines of carbon, viz., 2836'3 and 2837'2 (also
 2506 and 2508) in the spectrum of the discharge, whereas these
 spark lines are not generally found in the arc spectrum.
     The following lines of carbon have been observed in the arc dis
  charge of the Siemens continuous current machine, as well as in that

126               Profe. G. D. Liveing and      J. Dewar.       [June 15,
of the De Meritens intermittent current, taken in air. We have
observed in previous experiments that the De Meritens arc in
hydrogen produces a sufficient temperature to render the C line of
hydrogen permanently visible.         The continuous Siemens current,
under    the same  circumstances,  only shows this line when the arc is
produced by breaking the contact of the poles, not with the steady
arc.
              Approximate   Wave-lengths of Carbon Arc-lines.
                         2434-8 absent from spark.
                         2478-3 strongest line.
                         2506-6.
                         25141.
                         2515-8.
                         2518-8.
                         25239.
                         2528-1.
                         2881-1 not in spark.
    We have here another instance of the lines of high refrangibility
appearing, under certain circumstances, when no trace of strong lines
belonging to the less refrangible portion of the spectrum can be
detected.    Thus the strong carbon line in the blue at 4266 does not
appear in the photographs of the arc spectra.       Of course it is possible
that a very long exposure of the photographic plate might reveal some
of the missing lines, as we have shown in other cases.       The presence
of these carbon lines is a proof that carbon vapour of a definite, but
probably low, tension exists in the arc discharge, and this is doubtless
the reason why under such conditions carbon combines with hydrogen
and nitrogen with such facility.      By a careful series of experiments
 carried out at different pressures with varying electric power we
 hope to ascertain with greater precision the variations in the carbon
 line spectrum.
                        Eye Observation of Spectra.
    When the spectrum of different parts of a magnified image of the
 electric arc is examined, all the more refrangible cyanogen groups may
 be seen near the positive pole, together with a series of channellings
 in the red. When the arc is steady the cyanogen spectrum is per
 manently visible at the negative pole, when no trace of the hydro
 carbon series can be seen. In the same way the arc in the middle of
 a magnesia crucible often shows no trace of the hydrocarbon set,
 although the cyanogen are strong.          If, however, puffs of air or
 carbonic acid are passed into the arc, the hydrocarbon lines are pro
 duced.    There is always, under these circumstances,         far greater

 1882.]        On the Spectra  of Carbon and its Compounds.             127
variation    in the brightness of the hydrocarbon series than of the
cyanogen, in fact, the presence of magnesia rather favours the steady
formation of cyanogen.       When the hydrocarbon spectrum is strong
the brilliancy and number of the cyanogen groups that are visible
are undoubtedly increased, so that the one variety of vibrations seems to
affect the other.     This is easily accounted for by the chemical inter
action which takes place between acetylene, nitrogen, and hydrocyanic
acid.    The hydrocarbon spectrum is brought out at once in the
magnesia crucibles by moistening one of the poles.        All  such actions
seem to show that hydrogen is essentially connected       with the produc
tion of this fluted spectrum jnst       as nitrogen is with   the cyanogen
series.
                          Are Discharge in Fluids.
    The   De Meritens arc, taken in water, shows the hydrocarbon
spectrum alone ; no cyanogen bands can be seen by eye observation,
even when ammonia or nitrate of potash is added to the water.            In
this case the observations      are rendered uncertain from the great
intensity of the continuous spectrum.       If glycerine is used instead of
water no cyanogen groups of lines can be recognised, but on adding a
little nitrobenzol the set of threo lines (about 4380) peculiar to the
cyanogen spectrum appear, this being the only group which can be
detected by the eye on the continuous background.          This result sup
 ports the observations     on the varying intensity of this group in
different gaseous media, and seems to show that conditions can be
found where it is the most characteristic group of cyanogen.          These
three lines are easily seen in the spectrum of the arc taken in carbonic
acid, although they disappear from the spectrum of the arc taken in air.
                            Vacuum Tube Spectra.
    In our former experiments with vacuum tubes we did not use a capil
lary glass tube, but preferred to examine the photographic spectrum
obtained from a short spark taken between platinum wires.            Objec
 tion has been taken to this plan of working on the ground that, as the
 capillary form of vacuum tube increases the brilliancy of the spectrum,
 particular lines or groups of the spectrum which otherwise would be
 missed, might be revealed in them, and such tubes ought, therefore, to
 have been employed.      In order to answer this objection we have pre
 pared  and  examined  vacuum    tubes of this kind containing benzol and
 benzol with naphthalene in solution, using all the precautions to avoid
 the presence of nitrogen formerly described, and have always found
 snch tubes free from any trace of the cyanogen spectrum. When such
 tubes are, however, examined daily, the cyanogen bands often appear
 after a rime, and thio can be traced in all such cases to a leak or crack
 at the point where the platinum is sealed into the glass.          No per

128                 Profs. G. D. Liveing and         J. Dewar.          [June    15,
fectly pure hydrocarbon gives            the series of bands     we attribute     to
cyanogen.*
                             Observations on Flames.
    The temperature produced by the combustion of hydrocarbons and
other non-nitrogenous organic bodies well supplied with oxygen, is not
sufficient to induce the combination of nitrogen with carbon, so that
the cyanogen spectrum is absent from such flames. We know, how
ever, that hydrocyanic acid is often produced in the oxidation of
organic bodies containing nitrogen, and that ammonia reacts with
carbon at a white heat, producing hydrocyanic acid and hydrogen.
Such actions led us to expect that the cyanogen spectrum ought to
appear in the flames of organic compounds containing nitrogen, pro
vided the temperature were sufficient to render the radiation of this
substance sufficiently intense.         Our first experiments did not succeed.
The most careful examination by the eye of the spectrum of a
hydrogen flame which had passed through a solution of hydrocyanic
acid or of a flame of alcohol containing nitrobenzol or nitrite of ethyl,
did not result in any recognition of the strong cyanogen groups.
This failure led to a chemical examination of the composition of the
gases withdrawn from the interior of such flames, in order to ascertain
the combustible mixtures which react during combustion to produce
hydrocyanic acid. The gases were extracted from the flame with
an apparatus similar in principle to that employed by Deville in
his " Chemical Researches on Flame."                 When coal gas is passed
through a solution of ammonia and burnt, the flame gases contain
hydrocyanic acid and acetylene, but if oxygen is well supplied to the
flame no cyanogen reaction is given by the extracted gas.                      Car
bonic oxide mixed with ammonia in the same way gave no trace of
hydrocyanic acid during combustion : even when a large quantity of
the mixture was burnt and the flame gases continuously withdrawn
no appreciable cyanogen reaction could be detected. Similarly hydro
gen mixed with a little carbonic acid and ammonia gave no cyanogen
reaction. When hydrogen is passed through ammonia solution
mixed with chloroform, tetrachloride of carbon, bisulphide of carbon,
    * It is worthy of note that the strong carbon line wave-length 2478 3 present in
both the arc discharge and in the spark discharge in carbon compounde at atmo
spheric pressure, is not found in the spectrum of the spark in cyanogen at low
pressure.    We have tried to obtain a photograph of it from a "Plucker" tube
fitted with a quartz end, and placed end-on in front of the spectroscope, but
found no trace of it. As this line appears in the spectrum of the flame of cyanogen,
its absence from the spark discharge in cyanogen of low tension seems intelligible
only on the supposition that the discharge is selective in its course, and lights up
only certain of the substances present, or else that the quantity of carbon vapour
present at any instant is so minute, as to produce no sensible effect on the photo
graphic plate.— July 10, 1882.

 1882.]         On  the Spectra  of Carbon and its Compounds.          129
 or picoline, cyanogen can always be recognised in the flame gases.
'Chloroform under such circumstances yields the largest amount.
 When a mixture of carbonic oxide and ammonia is passed through a
porcelain tube heated in a furnace, large quantities of hydrocyanic acid
 are produced, especially when the moist gases are employed. Ammonia
 passed over perfectly pure graphite at a white heat produces hydro
 cyanic acid, and the vapour of chloride of ammonium is equally
 efficient in bringing about this reaction.      It appears to result from
 the experiments        that hydrocyanic acid can always be separated
 from the interior of flames such as we have employed, provided
 that portion of the flame which, in carbon compounds, is characterised
 as reducing, be selected.        That stage of combustion during which
 free carbon or dense hydrocarbon vapours containing very little
 hydrogen are formed, is favourable to the formation of hydrocyanic
 acid, as ammonia can at this stage react on the carbon.        It is quite
 possible, however, that hydrocyanic acid may exist in small quantity
 in some of the flames which tested according to this method appear
 to contain none, and that notion is favoured by the consideration of
 the dissociation phenomena which are known to occur in flames.
 This led us again to spectroscopic examination as the most delicate
  test for the presence of cyanogen, but instead of trusting to the
 eye as in former experiments, photographs were taken of the spectra
 of flames by means of a quartz and calcspar train, and the exposure of
  the plate purposely prolonged.        Thus examined, it was found that
  coal gas well supplied with oxygen gave only the hydrocarbon groups,
  together with the two interesting additional lines first discovered
  by Dr. Huggins, having the wave-lengths 3872 and 3890 ; but when
  the coal gas passed through ammonia the photographs revealed the
  characteristic cyanogen groups at 3883 and 4218, the most refrangible
   group being the strongest.      The cyanogen spectrum can then be pro
  duced synthetically from nitrogen compounds in flames along with the
   hydrocarbon spectrum, so that the appearance of the groups of
  cyanogen is not always associated with a very high temperature such
  as we have in the electric arc.     Cyanogen once formed gives its pecu
   liar spectrum at the relatively low flame temperature produced by
   burning cyanogen mixed with carbonic acid. Of course the mean tem
   perature of a flame is very different from the temperature of individual
   molecules, and this complicates the problem we are discussing.       The
   thermal equivalents of cyanogen and acetylene being highly negative,
   it is certain that these substances yield on combustion the highest tem
   perature of any two compounds burning in oxygen ; and we have
   shown in a former paper that burning cyanogen in nitric oxide gas,
   which probably indnces a still higher temperature, does not bring about
    any marked change in the character of the spectrum.       Spectroscopic
   analysis can thus detect very small quantities of cyanogen under
       VOL. XXXIV.                                               K

  130                         Lord Rayleigh.                   [June   15.
 widely different physical conditions.    As the temperature of the flame
 of cyanogen probably approaches the temperature of the carbon poles
 of the electric arc, and as we have shown that carbon undoubtedly
 exists in the form of vapour in the arc discharge, from the fact of
 the ultra-violet line spectrum being present, the question naturally
 arises, is carbon present in the form of vapour in the cyanogen flame ?
 In order to answer this question we have taken photographs of the
 ultra-violet spectrum of the cyanogen flame fed with oxygen, and with
 long exposures have had no difficulty in detecting one of the strongest
 carbon lines, viz., that at 2478'3, along with a trace of what may be
 the pair of lines at 2837, but more probably is a mercury line. No
 other carbon line was found in the photographs. It seems, therefore,
 proved that carbon vapour does exist in the flame of cyanogen,
 although to a much smaller extent than in the arc discharge. Observa
 tions must be made on the spectra of flames under high pressures, in
 order to solve many problems connected with spectroscopic enquiry,
 and this subject we hope to discuss in a future communication.
 XIII. " Further      Observations upon Liquid Jets, in continuation
       of those recorded hi the Royal Society's ' Proceedings ' for
       March and May, 1879." By Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Pro
       fessor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cam
       bridge. Received June 8, 1882.
    The experiments herein described were made in the spring and
summer of 1880, with the assistance of Mrs. Sidgwick.          Section 2
was indeed written out as it now stands in August of that year.
There were some other points which            I had hoped to submit to
examination, but hitherto opportunity has not been found.
 On some of the Circumstances which influence the Sca9ering of a nearly
                           Vertical Jet of Liquid.
    § 1.  It has been already shown that the normal scattering of a
nearly vertical jot is duo to the rebound of the drops when they come
into collision.   If, by any means, the drops can be caused to amalga
mate at collision, the appearance of the jet is completely transformed.
This result occurs if a feebly electrified body be held near the place of
resolution into drops, and it was also observed to follow the addition
of a small quantity of soap to the water of which the jet was com
posed.     In trying to repeat the latter experiment in May, 1880, at
Cambridge, I was astonished to find that even large additions of soap
failed to prevent the scattering. Thinking that the difference might

1882.]                        On  Liquid Jets.                         131
be connected    with the hardness of the Cambridge water— at home        I
                         I
had used rain water — repeated the observations with distilled water,
but without finding any explanation.          The jet of distilled water
scattered freely, both  with  and  without  soap, and could only be pre
vented from doing so by electricity. Eventually the anomalies were
traced to differences in the character of the soap.          That used at
Cambridge up to this point was a clarified specimen prepared for toilet
use.    On substitution for it of common yellow soap, the old effects
were   fully reproduced.
   Further experiment seemed to prove that the real agent was not
soluble soap at all.   If  water impregnated with the yellow soap was
allowed to stand, a white deposit separated, after which the super
natant liquid was found to be inactive. But after shaking up the
same effects were produced as at first.    The addition of caustic potash
to the unclarified soapy mixture destroyed its power.         On the other
hand, sulphuric acid rendered the clarified soap solution active.
   The natural conclusion from these facts would be that the real
agent is unsaponified greasy matter distributed through the liquid ;
and this view is confirmed by the striking results which follow the
addition of small quantities of milk. The experiment may be made
conveniently by connecting a Woulf's bottle with the water tap by a
rubber tube fitted to one tubulure, while the vertical nozzle is in con
nexion with another tubulure. If a little milk be placed in the bottle,
the jet of opalescent liquid apparently coheres, and passes the
summit in one unbroken stream.        After a time the milk is gradually
washed out, aud the scattering is re-established.     About one drop of
skimmed milk per ounce of water is sufficient to produce the effect.
   I  must not omit to mention that ou several occasions distinct
evidence was obtained that it is possible for soap to be in excess.
With a large quantity the coherence of the jet was imperfect, and was
improved by dilution.      The complete elucidation of the subject pro
bably requires more chemical knowledge and experience than is at my
command.
   Of the various other substances which have been tried, such as
glycerine, sugar, gum arabic, alcohol, sulphuric acid, none have been
found active.
   Vertical fountains of mercury were found not to scatter.       The head
was about 15 inches, and various glass nozzles were used from fa inch
to 5^ inch in diameter. Also a nozzle terminating in an amalgamated
brass plate, through which a hole of fa inch was pierced.            In all
these cases the drops of mercury coalesced       at collision, behaving in
the same way as drops of milky water issuing from the same nozzles.
 Fountains of clean water issuing from these nozzles under the same
pressure scattered freely.
   When the diameter of the nozzle from which       a water jet issues is
                                                               K 2

132                           Lord Rayleigh.                   [June   15,
reduced    to  below  T£„   inch, the scattering cannot be completely
prevented by the presentation of an electrified body.        One possible
reason for this is evident.      The mutual repulsion of the similarly
electrified drops increases rapidly relatively to the masses as the
size is reduced, and thus it may happen that before the differential-
electrification sufficient to rupture the separating envelope at
contact is arrived at, the repulsion may be powerful enough to
prevent most of the drops from coming into contact at all.              In
connexion with this it may be remarked that two perfectly equal
and equally electrified spheres would repel one another at all dis
tances ; but that if there be the slightest difference in the size or
electrification, the repulsion will be exchanged for attraction before
actual contact is attained. This attraction will be local, and thus the
opposed parts of the surfaces may come into contact with considerable
violence, even when the relative motion of the centres of the masses
is small. It is easily shown experimentally (see § 4) that violence
of contact tends to promote coalescence, so that we have here a
possible explanation of the action of electricity.
   With respect to the persistent scattering of very fine jets, however,
it would appear that the principal cause is simply that many of the
fine drops fail to come into contact in any case. The capillary forces
act with exaggerated power, and doubtless impress upon the minute
drops irregular lateral velocities, which may easily reach a magnitude
sufficient to cause them to clear one another as they pass.       At any
rate little difference is observable in this respect between a fine jet of
clean water under feeble electrical influence, and one to which a little
 milk has been added, but without electrification.
    With a suitable jet, say from a nozzle about       inch diameter, and
rising about 2 feet, the sensitiveness to electricity is wonderful, more
 especially when we remember that the effect is differential.       I have
 often caused a jet to appear coherent, by holding near the place of
 resolution a brass ball about 1 inch in diameter, supported by a silk
 thread, and charged so feebly that a delicate gold-leaf electroscope
 would show nothing.      Indeed, some care is necessary to avoid being
 misled by accidental electrifications. On one occasion the approach
 of a person, who had not purposely being doing anything electrical,
 invariably caused a transformation in the appearance of the jet.
    The jets hitherto under discussion are such as resolve themselves
 naturally into drops soon after leaving the nozzle, or at any rate
 before approaching the summit of their path.         If the diameter be
 increased, we may arrive at a condition of things in which the undis
 turbed jet passes the summit unbroken. In such a case the addition
 of milk, or the presentation of an electrified body, produces no
 special effect.   One interesting observation, however, may be made.
  Bv the action of a vibrator of suitable pitch, e.g., a tuning-fork,

 1882.]                        On Liquid Jets.                       133
resolution on the upward path may he effected. As the vibration
gradually dies down, the place of resolution moves upwards, but it
cannot pass a certain point. When the point is reached, resolution
into actual drops ceases, the upper part of the jet exhibiting simple
undulations, when viewed intermittently.         The phenomenon is in
perfect harmony with theory. As it leaves the nozzle, the jet is un
stable for the kind of disturbance imposed upon it by the vibrator.
The subsequent loss of velocity, however, shortens the wave-lengths
of disturbance, until at length they are less than the circumference
of the jet, after which the disturbance changes its character from
unstable to stable.      The vibrator must evidently produce its effect
quickly, or not at all.
               Influence of Regular Vibrations of Low Pitch.
   § 2. Towards the close of my former paper on the capillary
phenomena of jets,     I hazarded the suggestion that the double stream
obtained when an obliquely ascending jet is subjected to the influence
of a vibration, an octave graver than the natural note, is due to the
compound character of the vibration.          At the time of Plateau's
researches the fact that most musical notes are physically composite
was much less appreciated than at present, and it is not surprising
that this point escaped attention. I have lately repeated Plateau's
experiments under improved conditions, with results confirmatory of
the view that no adequate explanation of the phenomena can be given
which does not have regard to the possible presence of overtones ;
     I
and have added some observations on the effects of the simultaneous
action of two notes forming a consonant chord.
   In order to make a satisfactory examination of it, it is necessary
to employ some apparatus capable of affording an intermittent view
of the jet in its various stages of transformation.  In the experiments
formerly described I used sparks from an induction coil, governed by
the same tuning-fork which determined the resolution of the jet.
This has latterly been replaced by a perforated disk of black card
board, driven at a uniform speed by a small water-motor.            The
diameter of the holes is one-fifth of an inch —about that of the
pupil of the eye, and the interval between the holes is about four
inches. Examined under these conditions the jet and resultant drops
are sufficiently well defined, and there is abundant illumination if the
apparatus is so arranged that the jet is seen projected against the
sky.    The speed of the motor is regulated so that there is one
view through the holes in about one complete period of the phe
nomenon to be observed.         If the power is a little in excess, the
application of a slight friction to the axle carrying the disk renders
the image steady, or, what is better, allows it to go forwards through
its phases with moderate slowness.

134                             Lord Rayleigh.                      [June  15,
    Although the multiple streams are better separated when the jet is
originally directed upwards at an angle of abont 45°, I preferred to
use a horizontal direction as giving simpler conditions.          The velocity
and diameter are then practically constant throughout the transfor
mation, and may be readily calculated from observations of the head
and of the total quantity of fluid discharged in a given time.            The
reservoir consisted      of a large glass bottle, provided with a tubulure
near the bottom.        Into this was fitted a 1-inch brass tube, closed at
the end by a     flat plate, in which a circular aperture was pierced of
about 1Jj of an inch in diameter.
   If  7t=head,
       d= diameter of jet,
       v= velocity of issue,
      V= volume      discharged in unit time,
then                      l*d-v=V,          v= -/(2<jr7i).
   Again, if N' be the frequency of the most rapid vibration            which
can influence the jet, we have by Plateau's theory —
                         N'=— =
                              lvd
                                       «*    -   WW
                                    2v/(JrV)   2v/(Vv")"
    If N be the frequency of the principal          note of the jet, then, as
explained in my former paper,
                                       4-508
    In  the present     experiment it was found that 1050 cub. centims.
were discharged       in four minutes, and the head was 7f inches, so tbat
in C.G.S. measure —
whence                       N'=372,         N=259.
    As sources of sound tuning-forks, provided with adjustible sliding
pieces, were employed, except when it was important to eliminate the
octave as far as possible'; the vibration          was     communicated to the
 reservoir through the table on which            it stood.     The forks were
 either screwed to the table and vibrated with a bow, or mounted on
 stands    (resting on the table) and maintained electrically.             The
 former method was quite adequate when only one fork was wanted at
 a time.                          i
     With pitches ranging from 370 to about 180, the observed phenomena
agreed perfectly with the unambiguous predictions of theory.             From
 the point — decidedly below 370 — at which a regular effect was first

 1882.]                           On  Liquid Jets.                          135
obtained, there was always one drop for each complete vibration of
the fork, and a single stream, every drop breaking away under the
same conditions as its predecessor.            After passing 180 it becomes a
question     whether   the  octave   of  the  fork's  note may not produce an
effect as well as the prime.        If this effect be sufficient the number of
drops is     doubled,  and  unless the prime be very subordinate indeed,
there is a double stream, alternate drops taking sensibly different
courses.       In these experiments the influence of the prime was usually
sufficient to determine the number of drops, even in the neighbour
hood of pitch 128.          Sometimes, however, the octave became pre
dominant, and doubled the number of drops.               It must be remembered
that the relative intensities with which the two vibrations reach the
jet depend upon many accidental circumstances.                   The table has
natural     notes of its own, and even the moving of a weight upon it
 may change the conditions very materially.              When the octave is not
 strong enough actually to double the drops, it often produces an
effect which is very apparent to an observer examining the trans
 formation through the revolving holes.              On one occasion a vigorous
 bowing of the fork which favours the octave, gave at first a double
 stream, but this after a few seconds passed into a single one.            Near
 the   point of resolution those consecutive drops which ultimately
 coalesce as    the fork dies down, are connected by a ligament. If the
 octave is strong enough this ligament breaks, and the drops are
 separated, otherwise the ligament draws the half-formed drops together,
 and the stream becomes single.           The transition from the one state of
 things to the other could be watched with facility.
     In order to get rid entirely of the influence of the octave a different
 arrangement is necessary.         It was found that the desired result could
 be arrived at by holding a 128 fork in the hand over a resonator of
 the same pitch resting on the table.             The transformation was now
 quite    similar in cbaracter  to  that  effected  by a fork of frequency 256,
  the only differences being that the drops were bigger and twice as
  widely spaced, and that the spherule, which results from the gathering
 together of the ligament, was much larger.              We may conclude that
  the cause of the doubling of a jet by the sub-octave of the note natural
  to it is to be found in the presence of the second component, from
  which scarcely any musical notes are free.
      When two forks of pitches 128 and 256 were sounded together, the
  single or double stream could be obtained at pleasure by varying the
   relative intensities.  Any imperfection in the tuning is rendered very
   evident by the behaviour of the jet, which performs evolutions syn
   chronous with the audible beats.          This observation, which does not
   require the aid of the revolving disk, suggests that the effect depends
   in some degree upon the relative phases of the two tones, as might be
   expected d priori.    In some cases the influence of the sub-octave is

136                            Lord Rayleigh.                   [June  15r
shown more in making the alternate drops unequal in magnitude, than
in projecting them into very different paths.
     Returning now to the case of a single fork screwed to the table, it
 was found that as the pitch was lowered below 128, the double stream
was regularly established.        The action of the twelfth below the
principal note (85£) demands special attention. At this pitch we might
 in general expect the first three components of a compound note to
 influence the result. If the third component were pretty strong it
 would determine the number of drops, and the result would be a three
 fold stream.    In the case of a fork screwed to the table the third
 component of the note must be extremely weak, if not altogether
 missing ; but the second (octave) component is fairly strong, and in
 fact determines the number of drops (190§). At the same time the
 influence of the prime (85^) is sufficient to cause the alternate drops
 to pursue different paths, so that a double stream is observed.
     By the addition of a 256 fork there was no difficulty in obtaining
 the triple stream, but it was of more interest to examine whether it
 were possible to reduce the double stream to a single one with only
 858 drops per second.       In order to secure as strong and as pure a
 fundamental tone as possible,    I cause it to act in the most favourable
 manner upon the jet, the air space over the water in the reservoir was
 tuned to the note of the fork by sliding a piece of glass over the neck
 so as partially to cover it.   When the fork was held over the resonator
 thus formed, the pressure which expels the jet was rendered variable
 with a frequency of 85^, and overtones were excluded as far as possible.
 To the unaided eye, however, the jet still appeared double, though on
 more attentive examination one set of drops was seen to be decidedly
 smaller than the other. With the revolving disk, giving about eighty-
 five views per second, the real state of the case was made clear.     The
 smaller drops were the spherules, and the stream was single in the
 same sense as the streams given by pure tones of frequencies 128 and
 256.    The increased size of the spherule is of course to be attributed
 to the greater length of the ligament, the principal drops being now
 three times as widely spaced as when the jet is under the influence of
 the 256 fork.
     With still graver forks screwed to the table the number of drops
  continued to correspond to the second component of the note.         The
  double octave of the principal note (64) gave 128 drops per second,
  and the influence of the prime was so feeble that the duplicity of the
  stream was only just recognisable.       Below 64 the observations were
  not earned. Attempts to get a single stream of 64 drops per second
  were unsuccessful,    but it is probably quite possible to do so with
  vibrations of greater power than I could command.
     In the case of a compound note of pitch 64 a considerable variety
  of effects might ensue, according to the relative strengths of the

 1882.]                          On Liquid Jets.                         137
various components.        Thus, the stream might be single (though this
is unlikely), double, triple, four-fold, or even five-fold, with a corre
sponding number of drops.
    Observations were next made on the effects of chords.            For the
chord of the fifth the pitches taken were 256 and § x 256. The two
forks could be screwed to the table and bowed, or, as is preferable
 (especially in the case of the chords of the fourth and third to be
spoken of presently), maintained in vibration electromagnetically by
a periodic current from a break-fork of pitch 85^, standing on another
 table.    The revolving disk was driven at such a speed as to give
 about eighty-five views per second. As was to be expected, the num
 ber of drops was either 256 in a triple stream, or '§ x 256 in a double
stream, according to the relative intensities of the two vibrations.
"With the maintained forks the phenomenon is perfectly under control,
 and there is no difficulty in observing the transition from the one state
 of things to the other.
    In like manner with forks 256 and £X256, driven by fork 64, and
 with sixty-four views per second, the stream is either triple or quad
 ruple ; and with forks 256 and £ X 256, we get at pleasure a four-fold
 or five-fold stream. To obtain a good result the intervals must be
 pretty accurately tuned.       In the case of electrically maintained forks,
 the relative phase remains unchanged for any length of time, and the
 spectacle seen through the revolving holes is one of great beauty.
    The actual results obtained experimentally by Plateau differ in some
 respects from mine, doubtless in virtue of the more composite character
 of the notes of the violoncello employed by him, but they are quite
 consistent with the views above expressed. The only point as to which
 I  feel any difficulty relates to the single stream, which occasionally
 resulted from the action of the twelfth below the principal note. It
 seems improbable that this could have been a single stream of the
 kind that    I obtained with some difficulty from a pure tone ; indeed
 the latter would have been pronounced to be a double stream by an
 observer uuprovided with an apparatus for intermittent views.              I
 shonld rather suppose that the number of drops really corresponded
 to an overtone, and that from some accidental cause the divergence of
 what would generally be separate streams failed to be sensible.
                       The Length of the Continuous Part.
    When     a  jet falls vertically downwards, the circumstances       upon
 which its stability or instability depend are continually changing,
 more especially when the initial velocity is very small.        The kind of
 disturbance to which the jet is most sensitive as it leaves the nozzle
 is one which impresses upon it undulations of length equal to about
 four and a-half times the initial diameter. But as the jet falls its
  velocity increases (and consequently the undulations are lengthened),

138                         Lord Rayleigh.                      [June   15,
and its diameter diminishes, • so that the degree of instability soon
becomes small.      On the other hand, the kind of disturbance which
will be effective in a later stage is altogether ineffective in the earlier
stages.   The change of conditions during fall has thus a protective
influence, and the continnons part tends to become longer than
would be the case were the velocity constant, the initial disturbances
being unaltered.
   I have made many attempts to determine the origin of the dis
turbances which remain in operation when the jet is protected from
ordinary tremors, but with little result. By suspending the reservoir
with india-rubber straps, &c., from the top of a wooden tripod, itself
resting upon the stone floor of one of the lower rooms of the Cavendish
Laboratory, a considerable degree of isolation was attained.      A stamp
of the foot upon the floor, or the sounding of a note of suitable pitch
of moderate intensity in the air, had no great effect. Without feeling
much confidence I rather incline to the opinion that the residual
disturbances .'ire of internal origin. As the fluid flows up to the
aperture along the inner surface of the plate which forms the bottom
of the reservoir, eddying motions are almost certainly impressed upon
it, and these may very possibly be the origin of the ultimate disin
tegration. With the view of testing this point,         I    arranged an
experiment in which the velocity of the fluid over the solid walls
should be as small as possible.
   AB (fig. 1)  representsa    large brass tube, to which a smaller one
is soldered at   B,suitable for india-rubber connexion. The bottom of

1882.]                          On   Liquid Jets.                         139
the large tube consists       of a carefully worked plate in which is a
circular hole of ^ inch diameter.         When the rubber tube is placed in
connexion with the water supply, a jet drops from A, and may be
made exceedingly fine by regnlaton of the pinch-cock C.           By turning
off the supply at C altogether, the jet at A may be stopped, without
emptying the vessel.         The stability, due to the capillary tension of
the surface at A, preponderates         over the instability due to gravity.
By this device it is possible to obtain a jet whose velocity is acquired
almost wholly after leaving the vessel from which it issues.          In this
form of the experiment,         however, the jet is liable to disturbance
depending upon the original velocity of the fluid as it passes through
the comparatively       narrow rubber tube, and when           I attempted  a
remedy by suspending a closed reservoir (fig. 2), in which the water
                                  E7
                                      ~    «Lv_E BT _f
                             Ftp    2.       V
 might be allowed first to come to rest, other difficulties presented
 themselves.     The air confined over the surface of the water acts as a
 spring, and the flow of water below tends to become intermittent,
 when rendered sufficiently slow by limiting the admission of air.          A
 definite cycle is often established, air flowing in and water flowing
 out alternatively at the lower aperture.        The difficulty may be over
 come by careful manipulation, but there is no easy means of making
 an adequate comparison with other jets, so that the question remains
  undecided whether the residual        disturbances are principally of in
  ternal or of external origin.
                       Collision of  two Resolved Streams.
     §4.  In the case of a simple vertical fountain, when the scattering is
  prevented    by electricity, there is every reason to believe that the
  action is differential, depending on a difference of potentials of
   colliding drops.    The principal electrification, however, of the
   successive drops must be the same ; and thus, sensitive as it is, this

140                            Lord Rayleigh.                  [June    15,
form of the phenomenon is not by any means the best calculated to
render evident the smallest electrical forces.      As was shown in my
former paper, it is far surpassed by colliding jets, between which a
difference of potential may be established, a subject to which we shall
return in § 5. It is possible, however, to experiment upon the
collision of two distinct streams of drops, which are differently, — if we
please, oppositely — electrified from the first. Apart from electrical
influence, the collision of such streams presents points of interest
which have been made subject of examination.
   Two similar brass nozzles, terminating in apertures about -fs inch
in diameter, were supplied from the same reservoir of water, and
were held so that the jets rising obliquely from them were in the
same plane and crossed each other at a moderate angle.           The jets
were resolved into regular series of drops by the action of a 256 fork
screwed to the table and set in action by bowing.           The periodic
phenomenon     thus established could be examined with facility by
intermittent vision through a revolving perforated disk (§ 2), so
arranged that about 250 holes passed the eye per second.
                                                ©
                               ©           Q    ©
                                       r
                   ©
                         Q
    When the angle of collision is small, the disposition of the files of
drops may be made such that they rebound without crossing, fig. 3 ;
more often, however, the drops shoulder their way through after
one or more collisions, somewhat       as in fig. 4. In both cases the
presentation of an electrified body to one place of resolution will
determine the amalgamation of colliding drops, with of course com
plete alteration of the subsequent behaviour.      By judicious manage
 ment a feebly electrified body may be held in an intermediate position

1882.]                             On  Liquid Jets.                         141
between the two points of resolution so as not to produce the effect,
confirming the view that the action is differential.
    At a somewhat higher angle of collision amalgamation will usually
occur without the aid of electricity, but the fact may easily escape
recognition when intermittent vision is not employed.              The streams
do not usually join into one, as we might perhaps expect, but appear
to pass through one another, much as if no union of drops had
occurred.       With the aid of the revolving disk the course of things is
rendered evident.        The separating layer is indeed ruptured at con
tact, and for a short time the drops move as one mass.                 There is,
however, in general, considerable outstanding relative velocity, which
is sufficient to bring about an ultimate separation, preceded by the
formation of a ligament (fig. 5). In certain cases, although after
                                                              o
                                                         -
                                                 ^   \        a
                                                              0
 contact a ligament        is formed, the relative velocity is insufficient to
 overcome     its tension, and the drops draw again together and ulti
 mately cohere.       If  the impact is very direct, so that the relative
 velocity is almost entirely in the line of centres, the drops may flatten
 against one another and become united without the formation of a
 ligament.
     In order to determine how small a difference of potential would
 be   effective in causing the coalescence of streams of drops meeting at
  a small angle, the two places of resolution were enclosed in inductor-
  tubes, between     which with the aid of a battery a difference of
  potential could be established.         The arrangement is shown in fig. 6.
  One of the inductors is placed in connexion with the earth, with
  the reservoir from which the water comes, and with one pole of the
  battery.    By operating a key, the other inductor may be placed at
  pleasure in communication with the first inductor, or with the other
  pole of the battery.       In the first case the battery is out of use, and in
   the second the difference of potential due to the battery is established
   between the two inductors.

 142                          Lord Rayleigh.                     [June 15,
   Experiment showed that the effect depends a good deal upon the
exact manner of collision. In almost all cases twenty cells of a
 De la Rue battery sufficed to produce amalgamation, with subsequent
replacement of the original streams by a single one in a direction
bisecting the angle between the original directions. With a less
battery power the result may be irregular, some of the drops
coalescing and others rebounding.        When the collisions are very
direct, even four cells will sometimes cause a marked transformation.
   The complete solution of the problem of the direct collision of
equal spheres of liquid, though probably within the powers of existing
mathematical analysis, is not necessary for our purpose ; but it may
give precision to our ideas to consider for a moment the case of a
row of equal spheres, or cylinders, with centres disposed upon a
straight line, and so squeezed together that the distances between the
centres must be less than the original diameters.        By the symmetry,
the common     surfaces   are planes, and  the  force  between contiguous
masses is found by multiplying the area of the common surface by
the internal capillary pressure.      When the amount of squeezing is
small, the internal capillary pressure is approximately unaltered, and
the force developed is simply proportional to the area of contact.      In
the case of the cylinder the problem admits of very simple solution,
even when the squeezing is not small ; for, as is easily seen, the free
surfaces are necessarily semicircular, and thus the condition of un
altered volume is readily expressed.     It will of course be noticed that
as regards lateral displacements the equilibrium is unstable.
                  Collision of Streams  before Resolution.
   § 5. The collision of uuresolved streams was considered in my
former paper.    It appeared that the electromotive force of a single
Grove cell, acting across the common surface, was sufficient to deter

 1882.]                         On  Liquid Jets.                        143
mine coalescence, and that the addition of a small quantity of soap
made     rebound impossible. Moreover, the " coalescence of the jets
would sometimes occur in a capricious manner, without the action of
electricity or other apparent cause."
   As in many respects this form of the phenomenon is the most
instructive,   I .was desirous of finding out the explanation of the
apparent caprice, and many experiments have been made with this
object in view. The observations on fountains recorded in § 1 having
suggested the idea that the accidental presence of greasy matter,
removable by caustic potash, might operate, this point was examined.
   "July 8, 1880.* — Colliding Jets. — Two large glass bottles, with holes
in the sides, close to the bottom, were fitted by means of corks with
glass tubes, drawn out to nozzles of about -fy of an inch in diameter.
The bottles were well rinsed with caustic potash, to remove any
possible traces of grease, and filled with tap water. The colliding jets
coalesced in a manner apparently entirely capricious, the only prin
ciple observable being that they coalesced even more readily with high
pressures (12 inches) than with low, and with lower pressures would
stand collision at greater angles.      The addition of caustic potash suffi
cient to give a very decided taste to the water, produced no apparent
effect."    Subsequently the water used was boiled with caustic potash,
but without success.
   "
      July 27, 28, 29, 30.— On the theory that when the jets collide
without uniting there is between them a thin film of air, which would
be very liable to be sucked up by water not saturated with air, we
tried jets of water through which a stream of atmospheric air had
been passed for several hours.          We tried it three times. The first
time the jets seemed very decidedly less liable to unite capriciously.
The second time they behaved even worse than ordinary tap water
usually does.    The third time we thought it rather better than tap
water usually is, but not materially so."
   Jets of hot water, and of mixtures of alcohol and water in various
proportions, were also tried at this time, but without obtaining any
clue as to the origin of the difficulty.
    I had begun almost to despair of success, when a determined
attempt to conjecture in what possible ways one part of the stirred
liquid could differ from another part suggested the idea that the
anomalies were due to dust.
      Aug. 1880. —We tried dropping dust on to the colliding jets just
    "
 above the point of collision, and found that union was always pro
 duced.    The following powders were tried — powdered cork, sand,
 lycopodium, plaster of Paris, flowers of sulphur, sugar, dust that had
 accumulated upon a shelf, and later emery and putty powder.            The
 lycopodium was a   little  more   uncertain  in its action than the others,
                         • Mrs. SidgwicVs " Note Book."

144                           On Liquid Jets.                   [June    15,
but apparently only because, owing to its lightness, it was difficult to
ensure its falling upon the jets.     Whenever we were sure it did so,
union followed."
    When mixed with the water, powders acted differently. Emery and
putty powder were not effective, but sulphur caused immediate union.
Much probably depends upon the extent to which the extraneous
matter is wetted.      A precipitate of chloride of silver, formed in the
liquid itself, seemed to be without influence.
    Acting upon this hint, Mrs. Sidgwick made an extended series of
observations upon the behaviour of jets composed of water which had
been allowed to settle thoroughly, and which were protected from
atmospheric dust.     For this purpose the jets were enclosed in a beaker
glass, the end of which was stopped by a plug of boxwood, fitted air
tight. Through the plug passed horizontally the two inclined glass
nozzles, and underneath a bent tube serving as a drain.        The results,
observed    under  these circumstances, were   such  as to render it almost
certain that dust is the sole cause of the capricious unions. The pro
tected jets of settled water were observed for a total period of 246
minutes, during which the unions were at the average rate of one in
ten minutes.     The longest intervals without unions were thirty-four
minutes and twenty-nine minutes. Comparative experiments were
made upon the behaviour of jets from the same nozzles under other
conditions.    Thus jets of unsettled water, but protected from atmo
spheric dust, united on an average twenty-four times in ten minutes.
With unsettled water the protection from atmospheric dust is not of
much use, as uuprotected jets of the same water did not unite more
than twenty-six times in ten minutes. On the other hand, jets of
settled water, not protected from the atmosphere, united only twelve
 times in ten minutes.        Although, no doubt, somewhat         different
numbers might be obtained on repetition of these experiments, they
 show clearly that the dust in the water is the more frequent cause of
 union under ordinary circumstances, but that when this is removed
the atmospheric dust still exerts a powerful influence.       The difficulty
of getting water free from dust is well known from Tyndall's experi
ments, so that the residual tendency to unite under the most favour
able conditions will not occasion surprise.
     Although there is no reason to suppose that any other cause than
 dust was operative in the above experiments, it remains true that very
 little impurity of a greasy character will cause immediate union of
 colliding jets. For this purpose the addition of milk at the rate of
 one drop of milk to a pint of water is sufficient.      It may be noticed
 too that the effect of milk is not readily neutralised by caustic potash.
    With respect to the action of electricity, further experiments have
 been made to determine the minimum electromotive force competent
 to cause union.     The current from a Daniell cell was led through a

 1882.]      On a Collection  of Rock  Specimens   from Socotra.        145
 straight length of fine wire. One end of the wire was connected by
 platinum foil with the liquid in an insulated glass bottle, from which
 one of the jets was fed. The glass bottle supplying the second nozzle
 was similarly connected with a moveable point on the stretched wire.
 The electromotive force necessary to cause union, as measured by the
 distance between the two fine wire contacts, though definite at any one
 moment, was found to vary on different occasions, possibly in conse
 quence of forces having their seat at the surfaces of the platinum
 oil. From one-half to three-quarters of the whole force of the
 Daniell was usually required.
    With a view to further speculation upon this subject, an important
 question suggests itself as to whether or not there is electrical
 contact between colliding and rebounding jets. To solve this question
 it was only necessary to introduce a fine wire reflecting galvano
  meter into the arrangement just described, taking care that the
 electromotive forces employed fell short of what would be required
 to cause the union of the jets.       Suitable keys were introduced for
 more convenient manipulation, and sulphuric acid was added to
 the water, in order to make sure that absence of strong galvanometer
 deflection could not be due merely to the high resistance of the thin
 columns of water composing the jets. Repeated trials under these
 conditions proved that so long as the jets rebounded their electrical
 insulation from one another was practically perfect.
    As to the explanation of the action of electricity in promoting
 union, it would be possible to ascribejit to the additional pressure called
 into play by electrical attraction of the opposed water-surfaces, acting
'as plates of a condenser.   But it appears much more natural to regard
 it as due rather to actual disruptive discharge, by which the sepa
rating skin is perforated, and the equilibrium of the capillary forces
is upset. A small electromotive force, incapable of overcoming the
insulation of the thin separating layer, is without effect.
XIV.     " On a Collection of Rock                                       By
                                        Specimens from Socotra."
       Professor T. G. Bonnet, M.A., F.R.S., F.G.S.               Received
       June 12, 1882.
                                 (Abstract.)
   In   the spring of 1879 the island of Socotra, which lies off the
north-east corner of Africa, about 140 miles from Cape Gardafui, was
visited by Professor Bayley Balfour.           Landing at the north-west
extremity, he traversed the northern side of the island up to the
eastern end, then returning by a more central course to the sea, he
    VOL. XIXIV.                                                  L

146                        Prof. T. G. Bonney.                   [June   15,
crossed the   Haggier Mountains to the southern coast, and returned
again to    Hadibu,  on the north side, by a route lying further to the
west.    During this journey, in addition to extensive botanical and
zoological collections, Professor Balfour obtained about 500 rock
specimens illustrative of the geology of a considerable portion of the
island. These were sent to the author for examination. A consider
able number of them, as was to be expected, were more or less
weathered, and so were not in a very favourable condition for precise
description ; but about eighty of the best preserved specimens have
been examined microscopically ; from the study of which, and of the
remainder the following sketch of the geology of the island may be
given.
    The north-west, inland from Gollonsir Bay, consists of a plateau of
limestone resting unconformably upon a group of highly crystalline
gneisses, associated with diorites, which correspond in general cha
racter with the Hebridean series of north-west Scotland. The latter
 group is frequently exposed in the beds of the valleys, the uplands on
 either side being formed of the limestone.         The elevated district
 traversed between Gollonsir and Kuhmeh Bays is similarly consti
 tuted, but it is probable that some true granite also exists among the
 older series ; the limestone extends all along the coast of the latter
 bay, having its usual foundation, and there is evidence that felsites
 occur somewhere in this district, most probably inland from the
 eastern shore.    In this part are basalt dykes, which cut the limestone
as well as the older rocks.
    Near the coast of Hadibu Bay, west of that town, we have limestone,
conglomeratic at base, resting on an indurated shale or argillite, together
 probably with an intrusive rock approaching kersantite in character.
 The argillite is also found inland beneath the limestone, south-east of
 Hadibu. The Haggier mountains, a fine chain forming a sort of back
 bone to the island, consist of felspathic granites, varying from coarse
 to fine, the former containing little besides quartz and felspar (the
 variety pegmatite), through which have broken minette, basalt, and
felsite ; the limestone may be traced some distance up their flanks.
 East of the Haggier, the granite rock continues, but quartz-felsites,
 and even rhyolites, appear to become more common, and an epidotic
 quartzite gives an indication of the occurrence of the metamorphic
 group. Granite and felsites form the inland district traversed by the
 river which passes Maaber, as well as the eastern half of the Haggier
 mountains.
    The district in the neighbourhood of the coast between this and the
 next river to the east, consists of granite cut by felsites, rhyolites, and
 diorites, or dolerites.    Possibly the gncissic series reappears here.
 Further east yet we obtain clearer indications of the latter, overlain as
 before by an extensive capping of limestone.      Thus, the main axis of

1882.]       On a Collection    of Bock   Specimens  from Socotra,        147
the northern part     (if not 'of  the whole island), appears to consist of
granitoid gneiss, replaced towards the centre by granite.
    The granitic, felsitic, and rhyolitic rocks must occupy a consider
able breadth of the island from          north to south, for there are many
specimens    from   districts  traversed   on the return journey from the
eastern promontory, in which Prof. Balfour, after keeping parallel to
the southern coast for some miles, struck inland in a north-west direc
tion.     Thus measured, there must        be an area  some ten miles across
occupied by these rocks ; and judging from the specimens, one would
say that this was one of the chief centres of ejection of rhyolitic lavas ;
this is near that part of the island covered by the final A in Sokotba
on the map.       In crossing back to the north shore along the course of
the   Haggier river granites, basalts, felsites, and rhyolites, as might be
expected,    were collected.      The conglomerates of felsite and rhyolic
 pebbles picked up on the Nowkad Plain, approaching the southern
 coast, show that there must be a large mass of these rocks somewhere
 on the south flank of the Haggier range.
     The limestone is generally of a yellowish or whitish colour, compact
 in structure, and often not unlike the dolomites of the Italian Tyrol,
 in the hand specimen. Microscopic examination shows that it is some
 times partially dolomitized.         It contains numerous foraminifera
 amphistegina, globigerina, textularia, rotalina, Ac.      The first of these
 shews that it is probably of Middle Tertiary age, and thus rather
 later than the limestone of the Sinai Peninsula.
     The author's investigations lead then to the following conclusions :
 That the oldest rocks in Socotra are gneisses, hornblendic, and grani
 toid, belonging, like those of the north-west of Scotland, of North
 east America, &c., to the earliest Archaean age.          That these, as at
 Sinai, are broken through by granites, some of which resemble much
 those of Serbal and Jebel Musa, and that these are cut by later
 granites, felsites, and greenstones, together with basalts, the last pro
  bably of rather recent date.       On the southern flank of the Haggier
  range, there must have been a rather extensive volcanic disturbance,
 from which rhyolitic lavas, often showing marked fluidal structure
  and scoria were ejected.     The date of these eruptions cannot be fixed,
  bat it was prior to the deposition of the limestone, and may be much
  older, except locally, where there is a little sandstone possibly repre
  senting the Nubian sandstone          (Carboniferous) of Sinai, and the
  argillite. What is now Socotra, would appear to have been a land sur
  face from very early times, until the submergence          in the Miocene
  period, when the great masses of limestone were deposited.            It is,
  however, quite possible that the peaks of the Haggier range may have
  remained above water even during that time.            Since its elevation,
   great denudation has doubtless taken place, including the definition
   of the island, and the sculpturing of the valleys in the limestone
                                                                 l2

 148                    Dr. W. Hugging.           On  the        [June   15,
 district.  During this period, there have been some disturbances of a
 volcanic nature, as the limestone is cut by dykes of basalt, and of com
 pact trachytes which, however, differ considerably from the purplish
 rhyolites already mentioned.      As there is a possibility of this island
 having remained above water from a very remote antiquity, the in
 vestigation of its flora and fauna will possess a peculiar interest.
 XV. " On the Photographic Spectrum of Comet (Wells) 1, 1882."
       By William Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S. Received
       June  15, 1882.
    On the evening of Wednesday, May 31, 1 obtained a photograph of
 the spectrum of this comet with an exposure of one hour and a
 quarter. A spectrum of a Urste Majoris was taken through the other
 half of the slit, on the plate, for comparison.
    The photograph shows a strong continuous spectrum extending
from about F to a little beyond H. In this continuous spectrum        I am
not able to distinguish the Fraunhofer lines. In this comet therefore,
at this time, the original light giving a continuous spectrum must
 have been much stronger relatively to the sunlight reflected than was
the case in the comet of last year. It should be stated that the greater
faintness of the present comet made it necessary to use a more open
slit, which would cause the Fraunhofer lines to be less distinct ; but
the lines G, H, and K are to be clearly seen in the star's spectrum
taken under the same conditions.
   Eye observations by several observers on the visible spectrum of
the comet had already shown that this comet for the first time since
spectrum analysis was applied to the light of these bodies in 1864,
gives a spectrum which differs essentially from the hydrocarbon type
to which all the comets previously examined spectroscopically (about
twenty) belong.
   In the visible spectrum bright lines, presumably of the vapour of
sodium, and some other bright lines and bright groups of lines have
been seen. The hydrocarbon bands in this part of the spectrum have
been suspected to be present by some observers.
   The photographic spectrum differs greatly from that of the comet
of last year.*    I am not able to see the cyanogen group in the ultra
violet beginning at wave-length 3883, nor are the other two groups
between G and h and between h and H to be detected.
   The continuous spectrum which extends from below F to a little
distance beyond H, contains at least five brighter spaces, which are
doubtless groups of bright lines, though it is not possible in the pho-
                       • " Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 33, p. 1.

 1882.]    Photographic Spectrum     of Comet ( Wells) 1, 1882.     149
 tograph to resolve them into lines. These places of greater brightness
 can be traced beyond the border of the continuous spectrum on the
 side which corresponds to the coma of the comet on the side next the
 sun. The light from this part of the comet gave a very much fainter
 continuous spectrum, for on the photographic plate it appears to be
almost wholly resolved by the prism into these bright groups. One
 or two fainter groups are suspected to be present, but they are too
indistinct to admit of measurement.
   The five stronger bright groups are too faint at the commencement
and ending of each group to permit of more than a measurement of
the estimated brightest part of each bright space.
    The positions of these brightest parts are —

150            Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell.             Action of Heat        [June 15,
                                      \4769,
                                      \4634,
                                      A. 4507,
                                      \4412,
                                      \4253.
   Professor A. Herschel and Dr. von Konkoly pointed ont long ago
that the spectra of periodic meteors belonging to different swarms
differ from each other, and the meteorites which come down to us
differ greatly in their chemical constitution.          It is not surprising to
find the matter of the nucleus of this comet to exhibit a chemical
difference from that of other comets.
   In the diagram, the width of the continuous spectrum corresponds
to the diameter of the nucleus.            The bright bands extend into the
coma on the side next the sun.
XVI.     " On the Action of Heat upon the Contagium in the two
                                                                                 '
       forms of Septiehajmia known respectively as ' Davaine's
                            "
       and ' Pasteur's.'         By G. F. DOWDESWelL, M. A. (Cantab.),
       F.L.S., F.G.S., &c. Communicated by J. Bubdon Sandeb
       son, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S., &c. Received June 15, 1882.
   Professor Rosenberger, of Wiirzburg, has recently published the
results of experiments,* by which he claims to have effectually
sterilised by heat, the blood and exudation fluids of the rabbit in the
two forms of septichjcmia, known as those of Davaine and Pasteur;
and he states that these fluids so sterilised, upon injection into other
animals, were found to be infective, reproducing the disease with the
recurrence of the specific organisms which characterise it : he there
fore regards these organisms as having no causal connexion with the
affections in which they are found, but as merely secondary                    or
epiphenomenal.       That   this  would   be the necessary    deduction  from the
 experiments mentioned, if it were proved that the fluids had been
effectively sterilised, is obvious ; but the account published contains no
details whatever of the methods employed, nor protocol of the ex
periments, so that it is impossible either to discuss them or to form a
judgment as to the correctness of the conclusions.                They, however,
 involve a question so important in respect to the theory of contagium
vivum — the relations of these micro-organisms to disease — that it was
 determined to work out the subject on the basis indicated in Professor
 Rosenberger's paper, adopting such methods and precautions as
 appeared necessary.
              * " Centralb. f. d. Med. Wiss.," 1882, No. 4, pp. 65-69.

1882.]         upon Contagium in two Forms       of Septichcemia.         151
   Pabt I. — Experiments upon Pasteur's Septichmmia in      the  Guinea-Pig.
     Guinea-pig No. 1. — 0'7 cub. centim. of putrid ox-blood was injected
with a Pravart's syringe, into the peritoneal cavity of a full-grown
guinea-pig, which the next morning was found recently dead, rigor
not having set in : round the place of injection there was some sub
cutaneous exudation, with destructive inflammation of the tissues of
the abdominal wall, sections of which showed numerous Bacilli and
Micrococci in the layers of connective tissue between the muscles.
Acute peritonitis was found with a large exudation of serous fluid
containing some extravasated blood-corpuscles, and deeply stained
with their colouring matter.          The fluid in this case was not very
coagulable, differing in this respect from some others.         The same day
0-5 cub. centim. of the peritoneal exudation fluid of No. 1 was
injected into the subcutaneous tissue of the abdomen of guinea-pig
No. 2, which, as the following day was Sunday, was not examined till
Monday morning, when it was found dead, and in a much more
advanced stage of decomposition         than would have occurred normally
in the same period. In all forms of septichaemia this rapid decom
position is invariably found.          Guinea-pig No. 3 then received in
similar manner 0'5 cub. centim. of the diluted subcutaneous exuda
 tion fluid of No. 2, which, likewise, was not coagulated.            On the
 following    morning    No. 3 was found  dead but still warm  ; the abdomen
 was infiltrated with a large quantity of subcutaneous exudation fluid,
 deeply stained with haemoglobin, and containing some extravasated
 blood-corpuscles, as well as numerous active Bacilli and some Micro
 cocci or spores.      The serous fluid was not very coagulable ; of this a
 portion was mixed with equal parts of normal saline solution, freshly
 made and boiled, containing in addition. 1 per cent, of potassic car
 bonate, to render the serum alkaline and prevent coagulation upoif
 boiling, which it did effectually.     Vacuum tubes of about 10 millims.
  diameter and 10 centims. long, previously prepared, were then par
  tially filled with this liquid by breaking their points under its sur
  face; these were then placed one by one in a small flask of salt
  solution, to avoid frothing and splashing; this was then heated,
  and when     the  liquid was boiling freely, the tube enclosing it was
  resealed by the   blow-pipe.   The tubes were then placed in the hot air
  chamber, the temperature       of which was gradually raised to 140° C,
  and maintained at nearly that point for one hour.          No coagulation
  occurred upon heating, but it was found in subsequent experiments,
   that, inasmuch as the degree of dilution and alkalinity required to
   prevent this, varied in different cases, both with exudation serum and
   with blood, it was necessary in every instance to determine this point
   experimentally.      The same evening guinea-pig No. 4 received by
    subcutaneous   injection 0'3 cub. centim. of the exudation fluid of

152             Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell.          Action of Heat      [June  15r
No. 3, diluted and prepared as above mentioned, bat unheated, while
guinea-pig No. 5 received in similar manner 0'3 cub. centim. of the
same fluid superheated and cooled.           The following day, twenty-five-
hours after injection, No. 4 was prostrate, in a state of collapse, and
the next morning was found dead with the same symptoms and micro
organisms as in previous cases, while No. 5 was quite unaffected,
feeding heartily and with temperature             unaltered.    This animal
remained healthy and unaffected for some days, and subsequently
died from an accidental cause. On examination no symptoms what
 ever were found, either of septichaemia or peritonitis; there was no
exudation of any sort and the blood was free from organisms.             The
following day      the  exudation   fluid of No. 4 was  diluted and rendered
alkaline in the same manner as in the previous experiments, enclosed
in tubes and superheated as before; of this l-0 cub. centim. was
injected into the subcutaneous tissue of guinea-pig No. 6, which, not
withstanding the large quantity it received, remained totally un
affected and was ultimately killed.
    Some cultivation experiments were then made in different nutrient
 fluids, both with the sterilised and the unsterilised exudation serum,
 the result was that in all cases excepting one, in which there was
 reason to believe that the result was due to accidental contamination,
 no development of organisms occurred with the sterilised fluid, which
 it invariably did with the unsterilised.
     In the septichaemia of Pasteur, the characteristic organism is a
 Bacillus, somewhat similar morphologically to the B. anthracis, and
one of the forms of the hay Bacillus, B. subtilis of Cohn, the ubiquitous
  organism which developes so readily and constantly in most organic-
 infusions, from atmospheric or other contamination, and until the
 specific morphological characters of these organisms are better
  discriminated than they are at present, that is probably until there is
  a further substantial advance in our optical appliances, it is scarcely
 safe to draw any conclusion from their occurrence in cultivations,
 unless these are numerous and repeated, with rigorous control
experiments.
      In this case, i.e., Pasteur's septichaemia, or the malignant oedema
of Koch, in the guinea-pig,     I  have invariably found both in this, as in
other series of experiments, that in animals examined immediately
upon death there are none of the specific organisms (the Bacillus
described, — which is so large that it can scarcely be overlooked) to be
found in the blood, or in any of the organs of the infected animal,
and that the blood is not infective. After death, however, they
  speedily invade the organs of the animal, the kidneys and the spleen
 being apparently the first attacked; hence the necessity in all these
 cases of examining the subject immediately after death.

 1882.]         upon    Contagium in two Forms       of Septichmmia.           153
Pabt      II. — Experiments     upon the blood of Rabbits         in the form    of
                     Septiehccmia known as that of Davaine.
    This form of septichaemia in the rabbit, which has attracted so
much attention, and been the subject of so many experiments since
those first published by Davaine and by MM. Coze and Feltz, in
1869, is originated by the subcutaneous           injection of a small quantity
— a few drops — of putrid blood, usually that of the ox. Infection
with the specific disease in this case, as in the parallel one of septi
chaemia in the mouse, is somewhat uncertain, and the law on which it
depends has not been clearly determined.                Usually, however, blood
                                       —               —
which is only a few days old, three or four is, as originally stated
by Davaine, the most readily infective, but by no means constantly
so. In the following experiments all the rabbits employed were young,
and nearly of the same age and size, not quite full grown.                    The
sepf ichaemic blood used for injection was always diluted, generally with
an equal bulk of freshly prepared and boiled normal saline solution ;
the quantities of blood given as injected, unless otherwise stated, are
always those of the blood itself which was used, and not of the
solution.
    No. 1. — 0-2 cub. centim.         of putrid ox-blood some days old was
injected into the subcutaneous tissue of the back of rabbit No. 1.              In
forty-eight hours afterwards the rectal temperature was found to be
106° F., and the animal died on the third day.              In the blood from
the heart, examined immediately after death, a few of the organisms
characteristic of the disease* were found, and preparations made and
stained by the Weigert Koch method, gave the same result.
    Two hours after death Ol cub. centim. of the blood of No. 1 was
injected into rabbit No. 2.           Twenty hours afterwards the rectal tem
perature     was  104°   F., and   the  animal expired in my presence twenty-
three hours after injection.           Section was made almost immediately,,
within about five minutes after death, but the blood was found already
partially coagulated in the cavities of the heart and in the vessels. The
blood which remained fluid was quickly mixed with two parts normal
 saline solution, with the addition of 3 per cent. pot. carb., and 0'3 cub.
centim. of this solution (=0*1 cub. centim. blood) was injected into
 the subcutaneous        tissue of rabbit No. 3, which died just within
 twenty hours after injection.          A portion of the dilute alkaline blood
 was then placed in tubes, by breaking their points, sealed at a red heat,
 underneath the fluid ; they were then immersed in a small flask of
 saline solution, sealed while boiling, and placed in the hot air oven,
 the temperature of which was gradually raised to 140° C., and slowly
    * There are fully described in the forthcoming number
                                                           (for June, 1882) of the
 " Journ.
           Royal Micros. Society."

154             Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell.        Action of Heat      [June   15,
cooled  ; it was maintained at a temperature of over 100° C. for up wards
of one hour. It being then late in the evening, rabbit No. 4 was on
the next morning injected with a Pravart's syringe full of the dilute
superheated blood.      This animal survived and was but slightly, if at
all affected, notwithstanding the very large quantity of fluid injected.
The following day there was no appreciable disturbance whatever,
but on the third day slight pyrexia occurred, the animal's skin felt
hot to the touch, and the rectal temperature rose to 100'0° F., which,
however, sometimes occurs normally in rabbits kept in confinement.
Subsequently, it remained totally unaffected for several days, as long
as observed, and was then destroyed.
   Some days afterwards, the blood of another rabbit of a subsequent
generation of the same infection, immediately upon death, was mixed
with two parts normal saline, solution, and 2 per cent. pot. carb.,
this was inclosed in tubes, boiled, sealed, and heated to 120° C, in
the same manner as before.
   Of the alkaline dilute blood (unheated) further diluted up to
100,000,000 times, 0 6 cub. centim. (='000000006 cub. centim. of
blood) was injected into the back of rabbit E, which died of septi-
chffimia within twenty hours.
   Of the dilute superheated blood, 0'6 cub. centim. (=0-2 cub.
centim. blood) was injected into rabbit F, which the next day was
apparently unaffected, but died with the usual symptoms of septichaemia
the following day, i.e., thirty-nine hours after injection.    In the blood
were   found   the  characteristic Bacteria, and  it proved to  be infective
when injected in a small quantity into another rabbit. Upon this, the
same day, a further portion of the same superheated dilute alkaline
blood   was   injected in the same quantity (0'6 cub. centim.) into
rabbit G. This rabbit remained totally unaffected, and survived as
long as observed, twenty days after, although it had received upwards
of 30,000,000 times the quantity of blood which had proved lethal to
rabbit E within twenty hours.
   Cultivation experiments have been made both with the superheated
blood and with that in the natural state, taken upon death ; but as it
was found that the Bacterium which occurs in these cases refuses to
germinate in any of the various cultivating media employed, except
ing only in the serum of ox-blood, and in that very sparsely and
uncertainly, they were inconclusive ; and the greater part of the
cultivating glasses inoculated with blood of both sorts, after being kept
several days in the incubator at temperatures between 30° and 40° C.,
unstable as the solutions are, remain to this day — a month subse
quently—perfectly pellucid and unaltered, save from some loss by
evaporation.
   On considering these results, it appeared possible that, in the case
where the superheated blood proved infective, from the method of

1882.]         upon Contagium    in two Forms of Septiclumnia.          155
filling the vacuum tubes, portions of the dilute blood drying on their
sides, might have escaped perfect sterilisation by heat ; it was there
fore determined to repeat the experiments with tubes filled by a
method which should avoid this possible source of error.              Tubes
were made of thick German glass, about -3 inch internal diameter,
closed at one end and slightly drawn out three or four inches from
the bottom ; then the blood of rabbit H, which died in my presence,
of transmitted infection, was immediately collected and mixed with
three times its bulk of normal saline solution with the addition of
3 per cent, potassic carbonate.      In this instance it was found that a
less degree of either alkalinity or dilution would not prevent coagula
tion on heating.         Of this blood further diluted up to the ten-
thousandth degree, 0-6 cub. centim. ( = '00006 cub. centim. of the un
 mixed blood) was injected into the back of rabbit I, which died of
septichoemia in twenty-seven hours ; the characteristic organisms were
 found in the blood, which on inoculation into another rabbit proved
 to be infective.     A portion of the same alkaline dilute blood was
 then placed in the tubes above-mentioned,         2 to 3 cub. centims. in
each, by means of a capillary pipette introduced to the bottom, con
 tamination of the sides being avoided ; the tubes were then drawn
 out by the blow-pipe ±o a capillary point, boiled in salt solution and
 sealed while boiling.     One tube that was heated separately to 140° C.
 burst, as had been the case in several other experiments previously ;
 the remainder were thereupon heated to fully 100° C. for six hours,
 when the temperature was raised to 130° C., were maintained at that for
 one hour, and then gradually cooled.      Of this dilute superheated blood,
 rabbit K received by subcutaneous injection in the back 0'6 cub. centim.
  (=0'15 cub. centim. blood), and rabbit L received l-l cub. centim.
 of the same (=0'275 cub. centim. blood), that is nearly five thou
 sand times as much as rabbit I had received of the unheated blood.
  Both these rabbits K and L were unaffected in any manner whatever :
  there was no appreciable variation of the rectal temperature ; they
  continued to feed well, and did not lose flesh.      They were killed ten
  days subsequently    ; and no  material  inflammation    at or around the
  place of injection, and no thickening whatever of the tissues which
  occurs so markedly in all cases of infection could be observed ; there
  was only a slight stain, as if by the colouring matter of the blood, in
  the subcutaneous tissue near the spot of injection.
      From the result of these experiments      I conclude that the active
   virus of infection, both in the case of Pasteur's septicheemia — the
   malignant oedema of Koch — in guinea-pigs, and in Davaine's septi-
   cheemia in rabbits, is destroyed by the prolonged action of a suffi
   ciently high temperature ; that blood or exudation fluid so treated is
   not infective, nor in any appreciable manner toxical, when injected
   in moderate quantities (up to 1 cub. centim.) into other healthy

  156                 E. Nunn.       On   the Development     of         [June 15,
 animals, while the same fluids unheated, are invariably and fatally
 infective in infinitely smaller quantities.
    Tn Davaine's septichaemia in the rabbit,           I have found throughout
 these experiments that the period of incubation is remarkably constant,
 death, after the first generation of infection by putrid blood, almost
 invariably occurring from about twenty to twenty-five hours, and con
 sequently that if it does not occur within about that period, it may be
 concluded that infection has failed; it may die subsequently, as rabbits
 in confinement constantly do, more especially under the conditions in
 which they are kept in laboratories ; but unless within about the
 period specified they do not die infected with specific septichaemia,
 the characteristic organisms are not found in the blood, nor is that
 blood infective ; hence it is not necessary to observe such animals for
 more than a few days after inoculation.
    These experiments were conducted in the laboratory at University
 College, with the co-operation of Dr. Burdon Sanderson, and at his
 suggestion.
 XVII.    « On the Development of the Enamel of the Teeth of Ver
       tebrates."     By Emily Nunn. Communicated by Professor
       Huxley, F.R.S. Received June 14, 1882.
                                    [Plates 2-4.]
    The question of the origin of the enamel of the teeth in vertebrate
animals has been the subject of much discussion.               It has been held —
1st, that the enamel results from the calcification of the enamel cells
 (Tomes, Waldeyer, Edwards) ; 2nd, that it is formed by excretion
from those cells (Kolliker, Hertwig, Leydig) ; and, 3rd, that it is not
formed by these cells at all, but has the same origin as the dentine,
whatever that may be.*
    Again, there are numerous opinions concerning the nature and origin
of the cuticula dentis : — 1, that the cuticula is the persistent basement
membrane itself (Huxley, Hertwig, Leydig) ; 2, that it is the altered
enamel membrane ; 3, that it is the external layer of cells of the
enamel organ (Waldeyer) ; 4, that it is the metamorphosed stratum
intermedium of the enamel organ (Lowve) ; 5, that it is the ends
(Beckeln) of the cells of the enamel membrane (Kollman) ; 6, that it
is a dermic structure (Tomes) ; 7, that it is an excretion of the cells of
the enamel membrane         (Kolliker).
   • Huxley,  "                         " Encyclopaedia of Anat. and Phys.," vol. v,
                Tegumentary   Organs,"
Sup., gives reasons for considering the whole tooth ecderonic, but adds, " All these
points can only be decided by a much more extensive series of investigations."

 1882.]            the  Enamel   of  the Teeth   of Vertebrates.                157
     The existence of a basement membrane or menibrana pratformativa,
 said by some to cover the tooth papilla, is generally considered
 donbtfnl.    It is asserted, 1st, that the newly-formed layer of enamel
 has been mistaken for it (Waldeyer) ; 2, that the first-formed layer of
 dentine has been mistaken for it (Lowve) ; 3, that the " appearances
                                                           "
 described are capable of a different interpretation         (Tomes).
    The present investigation was undertaken at the suggestion of
 Professor Huxley with the hope of determining — or at least of getting
more light upon — firstly, the history of the various membranes — the
cuticula dentis, the so-called newly-formed layer of enamel, the mem-
 brana praeformativa, and the first-formed layer of dentine ; secondly,
the origin of the enamel.
    The present paper gives the results which have been arrived at
concerning these points.
    The nature of dentine will form the subject of a second paper.
    Since it is well established that the teeth and placoids of the
 Plagiostomi are homologous with the teeth of the higher vertebrates,
illustrations from these will be used as well as from mammalian teeth,
adult and embryonic.
    The drawings described have been made by the aid of the camera.
    1. The Cuticula Dentis. — A membrane             covering the enamel of
young teeth has been repeatedly described as homogeneous and reticu
lated, or with " zellzeichnungen,"        supposed to have been made by
adjoining cells. Huxley* says of this membrane : " It is perfectly
clear and transparent, and under a high power exhibits innumerable
little ridges upon its outer surface, which bound spaces sometimes
oval, sometimes quadrangular, and about i 0\ 0 of an inch in diameter.
In the frog its surface is in parts reticulated as in man ; in the
mackerel and skate I have been unable to find any such reticulation.
In the calf a similar membrane may be demonstrated, but it is much
                       I
more delicate, and have not seen the peculiar areolae on its surface."
    This account agrees with the description given by other writers of
a membrane found lying upon the enamel, as also with my own
observations.
    The membrane, then, may be reticulated, entirely, in parts only, or
not at all. It varies in thickness in the same animal, and as well as
in different animals, and may be thick or delicate. It has been found
by myself, as well as by other observers, upon the young tooth, both
before and after its eruption. Hitherto it has not been figured,t
neither has its history been determined ; hence the various opinions
as to its nature and origin.        WaldeyerJ declared it to be the newly-
   * Huxley, " Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science," 1853, pp. 157, 158.
   t A drawing, by Nasmyth, has since been found, of the inner surface of       this
membrane, showing the impressions of the enamel prisms.
   J  Waldeyer, " Handbuch,"  1869.

  158                E. Nunn.      On   the Development      of      [June 15r
 formed layer of enamel.        Huxley*        considered it  as the persistent
 basement membrane.
     Fig. 1, A, Pl. 2, is a drawing en face of this membrane as seen upon
 the molar of a young rabbit • it was taken from the tooth below the
 gum. The areolae, upon its outer surface, were perfectly clear and
 transparent, as has been described, and a side view (fig. 1, B) showed
 them to be elevated into ridges.        But the spaces or disks which they
 bounded were granular and were found to stain slightly with carmine.
 In this preparation they were ronnd, but in some they are distinctly
 polygonal, while in others they are faintly seen and their outlines
 cannot be definitely traced.      In the part of this membrane exposed
 above the gum, which appeared perfectly homogeneous, they conld not
 be detected at all. While this membrane still covers the embryonic tooth
 " it may be that a few of the elongated cells of the organon adamantinae
 adhere to it."t This may be the case even when the membrane has been
 well washed with a camel-hair brush previously to being hardened, as
 in fig. 1, B. This preparation clearly shows the reticulation to corre
spond in position to the cell-wall of the overlying cells and the enclosed
spaces to the protoplasmic contents.            The different structure of the
clear colourless glassy areolae and the granular slightly coloured disks,
proves the reticulation to be something more than the impression of
adjoining cells, as it has been described to be. The frequently granular
character of the disks is rarely so distinct as in the present preparation,
generally requiring a high power of the microscope for its demonstra
tion, and it seems previously to have escaped observation.
    The ridges, always upon the outer surface of the membrane, appear
to be the walls of the cells, broken off a little above the extreme end of
the cell, and in many preparations they occupy a larger relative space
in the membrane than is shown in fig. 1.
    It would seem as if the cell-wall were thickening about this end of
the cell, or the protoplasm were undergoing a differentiation into a
substance similar to cell-wall.     The ends of the cells of the overlying
enamel membrane frequently appear jagged (fig. 2), as also the surface
of the membrane directed toward them, while its other surface, or that
directed towards the enamel, is perfectly smooth, as is the case with
the surface of the enamel, when the tooth has been sufficiently care
fully and gradually decalcified.
    In the upper part of fig. 2, where the tissues have not been separated,
no membrane can be detected, the line between enamel cells and mem
brane not being a sharp one ; but when the former are torn away, the
latter is isolated (fig. 2, c), and a front view showed it to have the
appearance of fig. 1, save that the disks are polygonal (fig. 2, B).
    A similar structure on the tooth of the thornback is shown in fig. 3.
                              * Huxloy,  I.e.
                              + Huxley,  I.e. p. 157.

1882].              the   Enamel of   the Teeth   in Vertebrates.                159
Here, as is frequently the case, the ends of the cells appear broken or
vacuolated, or striated, and with high power the striae can be distinctly
seen              section on. the edge of the membrane, which in all
       in transverse
stages, being much more tenacious than the enamel cells, generally
adheres to the enamel when the cells are removed, and may be raised
up by the use of acid.           As a rule, the older the tooth the more com
pletely    the   reticulations    or the cell-markings are obliterated, and the
more resisting is the membrane, so that by maceration, as well as by
the help of an acid, it may be taken off entire from the surface of the
young tooth. It has been isolated by myself in this way, as also by
Hertwig, who asserts it to be the "derb" basement membrane, and
the
       " zellzeichnungen " upon it to be simply the impressions of adjoin
ing cells.      Preparations similar to fig. 3 clearly disprove this, and the
basement membrane, when it can be demonstrated,                     is far from a
 "derb" structure, as will be shown further on.
     Kolliker* says — " The ends of the enamel cells taken from the
 enamel present different appearances.                Some are simply cut off
 squarely,    others   possess   smaller  (myself, Hertz) or larger (Waldeyer)
 clear layers of the same breadth as the cells (the enamel fibres in
 process of formation), still others, finally, have pointed ends, with or
 without such layers (Tomes, Waldeyer, Hertz).                     Iconsider these
 ends,    whicb  I     also    have   seen, as  artificial  products — that     is,
                                                                                 as
 accidentally detached parts of the yet unfinished enamel fibres."               If
 Kolliker had seen them on the firm dense membrane, as in fig.                   or
                                                                                 3,
 fig.  2, he could not have held this opinion. An extended and careful
 study leaves no room for doubt that this membrane, forming in many
 cases the cuticula of placoids and the cuticula dentis of both mam
 malia and fishes,        ismade by the metamorphosed ends of the enamel
 cells.    But the cuticula has not always precisely this structure either
  upon the tooth or on the placoid apparently more or less of the so-
                                        ;
  called enamel cells may enter into its formation.              This, at least,      is
  certain, the cuticla, or
                                  " Schmelz oberhiiutchen," may not only have
                              " cell markings," but        may be formed of entire
  upon its surface the                                 it
  cells (or at least of enough to include the nuclei) which have under
  gone a greater or less differentiation into horny tissue, obscuring
  more or less completely the outlines of the nuclei.             Such a cuticula
 is   shown in situ on the placoid represented in fig. 4. It            entire upon
                                                                       is
  the under surface of the scute, which           is   more protected     upon the
                                                                            ;
  upper side fragments only are left.           A high immersion lens showed
   distinctly   on  parts   of  the  membrane,   the outlines of cells and their
   nuclei (fig.5)     and the membrane could be traced into the columnar
   layer  of  epithelial cells at the base of the spine.
      The cuticula of the mammalian tooth has several times been found
                 * Kolliker, "Handbuch der Gewebelehre,"      p.   385.

   160                 E. Nunn.     On  the Development  of        [June  15,
  to have the same structure, and it has been possible, in transverse and
  longitudinal sections, to trace the gradual transition of the enamel
  cells into a perfectly homogeneous membrane (figs. 6 and 7, Plate 3),
  the cylindrical cells growing shorter as they approach the crown of the
  tooth, until, instead of being columnar, they are almost square, and
  finally flattened, and at last the outlines of the cells quite disappear,
 and there is left a perfectly homogeneous membrane.
     These changes are not easy to follow ; in many preparations it is
  impossible to make anything out, and the drawings have been made
  from most fortunate preparations selected from some thousands of
  sections prepared in various ways.
     The cuticula dentis, then, is formed by the metamorphosis of more
 or less of the enamel cells, and this metamorphosis may begin before
  any calcification of the underlying dental tissues.    In this stage it has
  been frequently taken for the " newly-formed layer of enamel," for
  the " basement       membrane," and for the " first-formed layer of
 ,dentine."
         2.  The Basement    Membrane    and Membrana   Prceformativa.
     The mucous      membrane of the Plagiostomes immediately under
  the epithelium     is frequently more or less laminated, and one of
  these   laminae bounding the surface of the mucosa has often been
 described as the " derb basement membrane.
                             "
                                                       But being only the
  outer one of a series of laminae, it represents the basement membrane
 as simply the margin of the mucosa, with no definite and special
  structure of its own.
     In order to get at the special structure of the surface of the derma
 supposed to be bounded by a basement membrane, it is well first to
 examine portions which have a cellular rather than a distinctly
 laminated structure, and it is absolutely necessary that the sections
 should be perfectly vertical to the surface of the derma, the study of
 which will be much facilitated if the epithelial cells have, for the most
 part, been previously washed away.
     Fig. 8 is a vertical section of the dermis and of the base of a young
 tooth of the skate.       The section being very thin and perfectly ver
 tical, the structure of the cellular granular dermis stands out in strong
contrast to the perfectly clear and dense basement membrane, brought
 into even greater relief by the cleft (cZ.), and by its absence from a
 part of the derma where it has been accidentally torn away.             The
basement membrane runs up from the derma over the surface of the
young tooth, which, as yet, has no calcific deposit, though there is a
thick dentinal basis under the basement membrane, much thicker than
the future enamel.         It is finely granular throughout, showing no
,differences of structure in different parts, no signs of tubules,
                                                                      though

1882.]                 the Enamel of        the Teeth   in Vertebrates.                 161
there is generally a faint granular striatum running from the surface
of the pulp to the basement membrane.
    Fig. 9 is a portion of a vertical longitudinal section of the young
tooth of a thornback hardened in alcohol.                    The basement membrane
could be traced from the derma quite up to the apex on one side ; it
was quite invisible upon the other side, which was cut slightly
obliquely to the surface of the tooth.                    The series of sections, how
ever,    furnishing the requisite conditions showed it to be there also.
But in this section (fig. 9) not the slightest trace of it can be
detected, and, but for subsequent sections, one could declare it did not
exist.
     If, at any time before calcific deposit, a young tooth* be carefully
 cut out, with a portion of the surrounding derma, and the cells of
 the enamel       organ be washed away, examination with the microscope
 will show its outer surface to be quite smooth and dense,f and a clear
 strong homogeneous              membrane, enveloping granular and cellular
 contents, can be pretty clearly made out.                   Pressure of the coverslip,
 causing the membrane to split, will bring out still more clearly the
  different structures of the perfectly clear granular transparent dense
  membrane, and the enclosed cellular pulp or granular dentinal basis
  upon its surface.         If the tooth be now hardened in alcohol and cut
  into thin sections, those which are perfectly vertical will show the
  basement membrane of the small portion of adherent dermis to run
  np over the tooth as shown in fig. 8.                 It is exceedingly delicate and
  perfectly transparent, and when              the  surfaces   of the tissues are cut at
   all obliquely, it is as invisible as a thin film of glass.               Hence it can
   seldom be followed over the entire surface of even the most perfect
   section, and it cannot, like the cuticula in a somewhat older tooth,
   be separated by the use of acid.              When a small bit is fortunately torn
                             it               "                   "
   away    with   needles,      shows    no      cell markings      upon it, but is per
   fectly smooth.
      If  a young tooth papilla be treated in this way, the basement mem
   brane will be found quite upon the cellular pulp, a few cells of the
   unamel membrane frequently adhering to its surface.                      If the section
    be teased slightly and the membrane broken, the short outlines of its
    ends, sometimes standing out alone (Plate 4, fig. 10, b. nr.), and its
    clear dense structure appears in marked contrast with the granular
    underlying pulp.
       When the teeth,      in situ, have been treated with chromic acid for a
    week or more,        as is generally done, and then imbedded,                  and cut
    very much at      random as is necessarily the case, it is a great chance
    if any    trace of basement membrane                  can be seen.        The enamel
       * A small
                  tooth of one of the Plngiostomcs    answers best — say of the thornback.
       t At this stage the cuticula,  if  its formation be begun, is generally brushed off
     along with the enamel cells.
        V0L. XXI1V.                                                             M

102                        E. Nunn.       On   the Development     of             [June   15,
cells may appear to lie quite upon the cellular pulp; but if the section
be good and sufficiently thin, a close examination will often reveal
the membrane upon some part or other of the surface of the pulp.
     Fig.   11 represents a section  of a tooth papilla a little more advanced.
A thin layer of dentinal basis (neither dentine nor enamel) covers the
surface of the pulp, and over all is the basement membrane which, in
one part, has fortunately been torn away with needles, and is shown
to have a very different appearance from the cuticula, which later is
                         and can easily be isolated or " raised up
                           it,                                         "
developed above                                                           by acid.
    In the Plagiostomes the soft dentinal basis under the basement
membrane increases in thickness to a considerable depth before the
beginning of calcific deposit, and thus affords a better opportunity for
the study of the behaviour of tho basement membrane, as well as fnr
that of the formation of enamel and dentine, than                   met with
                                                                        is                 in
mammalian teeth.          It frequently becomes two or three times as thick
as the future enamel will be before the occurrence of any calcification,
which at last begins at the surface and proceeds inwards.              The base
ment membrane of the derma can readily be traced running up over
the surface of the young tooth at all stages, while the tissues are still
soft. But its fate, after calcification begins,         more difficult to follow:
                                                         is
whether       calcifies
             it          or  remains  uncalcified,  cannot   of course be deter
mined from acid preparations, and from these alone                   would seem
                                                                         it
that thin    sections   could   be made.     Experiment    has  proved, however,
that alcoholic preparations of considerably calcified young teeth can,
by sacrificing       razor for each section, and coming first upon the soft
                       a
 parts, then upon the hard, be cut into fine sections.             These sections
throw great light upon the manner of calcification and the relation                        of
 tho soft and hard parts they show, too, that after the removal of the
                                     ;
 cuticula no micalcified membrane remains upon the surface of the
 tooth, but owing to the great refractive power of the calcified portion,
it  seemed impossible to demonstrate a thin membrane on its margin.
 The strong appearance of a membrane might still be simply the re
 fractive lines.     The persevering and careful use, however, of diluted
 nitric acid  added    under the coverslip, brings clearly into view the base
 ment membrane upon the outer surface of the tooth                  ; not "raised
                                                                        it   is
 up,"  however,    as      the
                            is  case  with  the  cuticula,     if
                                                                has not
                                                                   it    been pre
  viously removed, and         an altogether different and much more delicate
                                 is
  structure  than   the  latter  membrane.      Fig. 12    a section prepared
                                                              is                           in
the way just described, showing the basement membrane, and at one
place a fragment of the cuticula adhering to it.      Teeth far enough
developed to show      distinctly differentiated enamel layer with
                                 a                                                         a
broad band of dentine underneath, can, with sufficient skill, be cut into
the thinnest sections; and, these are vertical, the basement mem
                                         if
brane may always be demonstrated on their surface or under the
 cuticula     if  it   remain adherent.

1882.]          the   Enamel of   the Teeth   in Vertebrates.           163
   Thus the basement membrane may be demonstrated running up
from the surface of the dermis over the tooth papilla and young tooth
in all its stages. The whole tooth is formed under the basement
membrane and the entire growth is from the side of the pulp.          The
calcification begins at the surface of the tooth, and there is no addition
made outside the part already calcified, no " newly formed layer of
enamel " appearing as a membrane on the surface, the tooth receiving
its additions from the side of the pulp only.
                       3.   The Origin of the Enamel.
   In its early stage the enamel cannot be distinguished from the
dentine. It is formed by a later differentiation of a dentinal basis,
which is the same for both dentine and enamel, and the nature of
which can be best made out by teasing out, in salt solution, the young
still soft tooth of some Plagiostome — say of a skate. It will then be
found that the granular basis is formed by the regular arrangement
side by side of the slender processes of the odontoblasts (fig. 13), and
that they extend right up to the basement membrane, occupying tho
place of the future enamel as well as of that of the dentine ; and it is
these regularly arranged processes which cause the striae often de
scribed. If the tooth be quite young, the processes are easily sepa
rated and seen in connexion with the cell from which they proceed,
and they are frequently branched.
   If the tooth be left in ammonium bichromate for a few hours, or
even in salt solution, the processes, as well as the cells, can be more
readily isolated.   Indeed, on simply breaking through the basement
membrane many of them escape and will be found outside.
   When the tooth becomes a little older, and the basis thicker, the
processes appear glued together by an intercellular matrix as it were,
so that the whole basis appears as one mass, the constituent parts of
which are separated with difficulty, and only by prolonged maceration
in ammonium bichromate. But, by this time, the deposition of calca
reous salts begins ; and, soon after, the differentiation of the mineralised
portion into dentine and enamel.
   The fact that the processes of the odontoblasts extend quite up to
the basement membrane, occupying the place of the future enamel,
admits of only one view with regard to the origin of the enamel, and
explains the existence of tubules which have often been described as
extending into  it,and continuous with the dentinal tubules.
   The mode of calcification and the nature of dentine will be discussed
in a future paper.
   The results arrived at in this paper may be summed up as follows —   :
  1.  The cuticula dentis     formed by the metamorphosis, either in
                             is
whole or in part, of the enamel cells, which have nothing whatever
to do directly with the formation of the enamel.     In its early stages
                                                                M   2

164                         E. Nunn.        On  the Development      of          [June  15,
the cuticula has frequently been considered as
                                                                    " the
                                                                            newly-formed
                          " and also as the basement membrane.
layer of enamel
    2. The basement membrane                 may be demonstrated upon the surface
of the tooth-papilla and upon the tooth in all stages of development.
 It becomes calcified with the other hard tissue of the tooth and cannot
be separated          by acid.
    8. The enamel, like the dentine, owes its origin to the odontoblasts,
the processes of which, in an early stage, may be traced quite up to its
outer edge.
                               EXPLANATION OF FIGURES.
   The same letters have been employed to mart corresponding               structures in the
whole series of figures.
   The figures were drawn by the aid of the camera.
          b. m. Basement membrane.
                 e.  Cuticula dentis.
             cal. Limit of calcification.
               cl. Cleft formed by pressure of coverslip, dissecting needle,   ic.
                tl. Dentine.
           tier.    Derma.
               di. Disks.
                 e. Enamel.
           e. f. Enamel cells.
          e. m. Enamel membrane.
             ep.    Epithelium.
           e.   I. External layer of the enamel organs.
          e.   o. Enamel organ.
               f.   Dentinal basis.
            i.  1.  Intermediate layer of the enamel organ.
              in. Involution of epithelium (enamel organ).
               j.   Jaw.
          j.    c. Cartilage   of jaw.
                n. Neck of enamel organ.
                o.  Odontoblasts.
               p. Pulp.
             pr. Processes of odontoblasts.
                r. Reticulation,
              ri. Ridges.
                 *. Space left by shrinkage of tissues.
           i. p. Tooth papilla.
                 t. Tubule.
                a. Limit of enamel layer.                 .
   Zeiss Oc.     Ill  was employed for all the sections.     The objective is stated for the
different figures.
Figure 1. Membrane lying between enamel and enamel cells of molar of rabbit.
             A. En face view, the membrane is seen to be not homogeneous, but the
                  reticulation and enclosed disks have a different structure.
             B. Side view which shows the reticulation to be elevated into ridges.
                   Two enamel cells and portions of others remain attached, fitting in be
                  tween the ridges.    Obj.    immersion.

Proc Roy. Soc Vol 34 PL. H

Nunn Proc Roy. Soc. Vol 3 4. PL. 3 .

Nil M.H-
         Proc Roy. Soc. Vol. 34. PL. 4.


 1882.]               the  Enamel       of the    Teeth    in Vertebrates.                   165
Figure  2.  Part of transverse section of lower incisor of rabbit, snowing the mem
               brane (cuticula dentis) lying between enamel and enamel cells.
               B. shows an en face view of a portion of c.
               Obj.      immersion.
Figure 3.   A   portion of vertical section of young tooth of an adult Raia clavata
                (thornback), showing the formation of the cuticula by the ends of the
               enamel cells. Obj.           immersion.
Figure 4. Longitudinal section of spino from a fin ray of the thornback, showing
               the cuticula entire upon the under surface of the spine, with only frag
               ments left upon its upper surface.           Obj. 2 inch.
Figure  5.  A  portion of tho cuticula of fig. 4, showing the outlines of the cells and
               their nuclei.     Obj. -fe immersion.
Figure  6.  A  portion of a transverse section of the lower incisor of rabbit, a short
               distance below the gum. The enamel extends over the side of the tooth
               no farther than a. A thick layer covered the front of the tooth which,
               except at one point, has disappeared.          Obj. -1l5 immersion.
Figure  7.  A  portion of a longitudinal vertical section of the upper small incisor of a
            .  rabbit.    e. m., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, are cells of the enamel membrane drawn at
               intervals, showing their gradual change as they approach the crown of
               the tooth until, on its exposed portion, they form a homogeneous mem
               brane. Obj. F. Zeiss.
  (Tho following    seven sections wore from teeth preserved in alcohol, without acid.)
Figure 8. Vertical section of dermis and young tooth of Saia batis (skate). The
               basement membrane upon tho derm stands out remarkably clearly, and
               could be seen running up over the young tooth quite to its apex.
               Obj. F. Zeiss.
Figure 9. The apex of vertical longitudinal           section of tooth of a thornback, showing
               the basement membrano upon that edge which was cut exactly vertical
               to the surface of the tooth. No basement membrane can be distin
               guished upon the other edge, it being cut obliquely to the surface. Obj.
               F. Zeiss.
Figure  10.   A  portion of a vertical longitudinal aection of a tooth papilla of a young
               skate.     The cellular pulp still extends quite up to the basement
               membrane, which is more marked as the lines of the cells of the pulp
               appear to run at right angles to it.          Obj. F. Zeiss.
Figure  11.   Portion   of  a vertical   section  of  a tooth  papilla of a thornback, in which
               a thin layer of dentinal basis is seen under the basement membrane,
               a small piece of which has been fortunately torn away with needles.
               Obj. F. Zeiss.
Figure 12.    Portion   of section of a tooth of the skate.         Calcification has proceeded
               from    the  surface   as  far  as  cat.   The   cracks   in the calciGed portion
               are produced       in  cutting.    Most    of  the   dentine   is still uncalcifiod.
               Nitric acid    was   added    under   the  coverslip   and  has brought out more
               clearly the basement membrane, which, however, never in any stage of
               the tooth can be raised up by acid, as can the cuticula which lies over
               it, a fragment of which adheres at c. Obj. F. Zeiss.
Figure 81. A portion of young tooth of a thornback, teased out in aait solution,
               showing the dentinal basis to be formed by processes of the odonto
               blasts arranged closely side by side. Obj. F. Zeiss.
Figure 14. Part of one of a series of vertical sections of tooth papilla of skate.               In
               S, cut vertically, the basement membrane b. m. is distinctly visible. In
               A,  cut more obliquely, it is not seen.         Obj. F. Zeiss.

 1(36                      Mr. A. V. Harcourt.                [June    15,
 XVIII.    " On an Instrument for Correcting        Gaseous Volume.''
       By A. Vernon Harcourt, M.A., F.R.S.           Received June 13,
       1882.
    This instrument has been devised in order to facilitate the correc
 tion of the observed volume of a mass of gas, measured at any common
temperature and pressure, to the volume the gas would occupy if
 measured under standard conditions.       A reading of the instrument
 furnishes a number which serves for the making of this correction, and
 stands instead of readings of the barometer and of the thermometer,
 and a reference to a table of the tension of aqueous vapour at different
 temperatures.
                                 /o\
    The instrument consists of two small glass tubes standing side bv
side ; the one is open above, having been drawn out and bent down-

1882.]       On an Instrument     for  Correcting Gaseous   Volume.      1<37
wards to exclude dust       ;  the  other tube terminates in a bulb, whose
capacity is about four and a half times that of the tube.           The two
tubes are connected below by means of caoutchouc tubing with a
small cylinder containing mercury, closed above by a leather cap,
which can be pressed down by a button attached to a screw moving in
a fixed socket.      When the screw and button are lowered the mercury
rises in both tnbes.        The ends of the tubes and the reservoir of
mercury      are contained in  a square box, upon the bottom of which they
rest, and whose top carries the socket in which the screw turns.
At the back of the box is a wooden upright which supports the
tubes. The tube which terminates in a bulb is graduated and figured
so as to mark the capacity of the bulb and tube, down to each line
of graduation.
     In technical measuremeuts of coal gas it is still customary to take
for the standard conditions an atmospheric pressure equal to 30 inches
of mercury and a temperature of 60° F.           The instrument here figured
has been made for correcting to these conditions.         The capacity of the
bulb and stem down to the first line is 3'1 cub. centims., and that of the
 graduated portion of the stem is 0'7 cub. centim.        The bulb and stem
 have been charged first with a minute drop of water and then with a
 quantity of air, occupying under standard' conditions 3^ cub. centims.,
 the stem below this level being filled with mercury.           This volume
 is marked on the instrument as 1000, the unit taken being -j            cub.
 centim.      The top line of the graduation marks a capacity of 3'1 cub.
 centims., and is figured 930, this being the smallest volume to which
 the inclosed air is likely to be reduced by low temperature- and high
 atmospheric pressure.        The maximum volume to which the inclosed
  air is likely to be expanded may be taken at 3'8 cub. centims., and
  accordingly the lowest line of graduation marked on the stem is 1140.
      To use the instrument the pressure of the screw on the mercury is
  increased or relaxed nntil the level of the mercury is the same in
  both tubes.      A reading is then made on the graduated stem, and
  represents the volume occupied at the actual atmospheric pressure
  and temperature by a mass of air in presence of water which, under
  standard conditions, occupies a volume 1000.           Any volume of gas
  measured in a gasholder or registered; by a meter, under the same
   conditions, may be corrected to its true volume, under standard con
   ditions, by multiplying by 1000 and dividing by the number read upoa
   the instrument.
      When the standard conditions adopted are 0° C. and 760 millims.
   pressure the   bulb is made somewhat larger, so that the 1000 gradua
   tion comes near the top of the stem, and the graduations are continued
   downwards to 1230.
        The name proposed for this instrument     which serves to correct the
   measure of a gas, is aerwihometer.

1G8                                                       [June  15,
XIX.   " Sunspots and Terrestrial Phenomena. I. On the Varia
    tions of the Daily Range 6f Atmospheric Temperature, as
    recorded at the Colaba Observatory, Bombay. II. On the
    Variations of the Daily Range of the Magnetic Declination,
    as recorded at the Colaba Observatory, Bombay."           By C.
    Chambers, F.R.S., Superintendent of the Colaba Observa
    tory. Received Hay 30, 1882.
                        [Publication deferred.]
XX. "On     a Method  of Tracing Periodicites in   a Series  of Ob
    servations when the Periods are unknown."         By   Vinayek
    Narayetj Nene, First Assistant at the Colaba Observatory,
    Bombay.       Communicated by C. Chambers, F.R.S. Re
    ceived May 30, 1882.
                        [Publication deferred.]
XXI. " On    the Causes of Glacier Motion."     By W. R. Browne,
    M.A., late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. Com
    municated by Professor Stokes, Sec. R.S.              Received
    June   1, 1882.
                        [Publication deferred.]
XXII. "The      Life History of the Ringworm Fungus {Trico-
    phyton tonsurans)."    By M. MORRIS and Dr. G. C. HENDER
     SON.  Communicated by Professor J. S. BuRDON-SANDERSON,
    M.D., F.R.S. Received June 12, 1882.
                        [Publication deferred.]
XXIII. "On       the Nerves of the Epiglottis."       By William
    Stirling, M.D., Sc.D., Regius Professor of the Institutes of
    Medicine (Physiology) in the University of Aberdeen, and
    G. Duffus. Communicated by Professor T. H. Huxley,
    F.R.S. Received June 14, 1882.
                        [Publication deferred.]

 1882.']                              Presents.                            169
XXIV. " On the Action of certain Reagents on Coloured Blood
     Corpuscles.        Part I. Blood Corpuscles of the Frog and
     Newt." By WILLIAM Stirling, M.D., Sc.D., Regius Pro
     fessor      of the Institutes of Medicine (Physiology) in the
     University of Aberdeen. Communicated by Professor T.
     H. Huxley, F.R.S. Received June 14, 1882.
                               [Publication deferred.]
  The     Society    adjourned over the Long Vacation           to Thursday,
November 16 th.
                           Presents, June 15, 1882.
Transactions.
  Ballaarat    ; — School of Mines.      Annual Report 1882. 8vo. Ballaarat
         1882.                                                     The School.
  Berlin : — K. P. Akademie der Wissenschaften.             Sitzungsberichte.
         I-XVII.     8vo. Berlin 1882.                         The Academy.
                           —
  Cambridge (U. S.) : Musenm of Comparative Zoology. Memoirs.
         Vol. VII. No. 2. Parò II. 4to. Cambridge       '   1882.     Bulletin.
         Vol. IX. Nos. 6-8. 8vo. Cambridge 1882.                The Museum.
  Catania: — Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali.               Atti. Serie
        3*. Tomo XV. 4to. Catania 1881.                        The Academy.
  Emden: — Natuforschende Gesellschaft. Jahresb. LXVI. 1880-81.
        8vo. Emden 1882.                                          The Society.
                 —
  Falmouth : Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society. Annual Report.
         1881. 8vo. Falmouth.                                    The Society.
               —
  Florence : R. Istituto di Studi Superiori.              Pubblicazioni.     Il
         Commento di Sabbatai Donnolo sul Libro della Creazione.
         Castelli. 8vo. Firenze. 1880.                          The Institute.
  Frankfurt-a-Main : — Senckenbergische Naturforschende                 Gesell
         schaft. Abhandlungen. Band XII. Heft. 3-4. 4to. Frankfurt-a-
        Main. 1881. Bericht. 1880-81. 8vo. Frankfurt-a-Main 1881.
                                                                 The Society.
  Gòttingen:     —  K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften.      Abhandlungen.
        Band XXVIII. 4to. Gòttingen 1882.                        The Society.
  Graz . — Naturwissenschaftlicher         Verein fiir Steiermark. Jahrg.
         1881.    Mittheilungen. 8vo. Graz 1882.                   The Union.
                 —
  Hamburg : Verein           fur naturwissenschaftliche        Unterhaltung.
        Verhandlungen, 1877. 8vo. Hamburg 1879.                    The Union.
  Heidelberg:      — University.     19 Inaugurai- Dissertationen, &c. 4to.
        and 8vo. Anzeige der Vorlesungen, 1881-2. 8vo. Heidelberg.
                                                             The University.

170                                 Pvesents.                          [June  15,
Transactions (continued) .
  London : — Anthropological Institute.           Journal. Vol. XI. No. 4.
        8vo. London 1882.                                         The Institute.
     Chemical Society. Journal. No. 235. June 1882. 8vo.
                                                                    The Society.
     East India Association. Journal. Vol. XIV. No. 2. 8vo. London
        1882.                                                  The Association.
     Institution of Civil Engineers. Private Press. 1881-2. Nos. 5-14.
        8vo.                                                   The Institution.
     Pharmaceutical Society.          Pharmaceutical Journal. January to
        1882.                                                       The Society.
     Royal Geographical Society. Proceedings. January to Jane 1882.
        8vo. London.                                                The Society.
     Royal     United  Service  Institution.    Journal.  Vol.  XXV.      Appen
        dix. Vol. XXVI. No. 115. 8vo. London 1882. The Institution.
     Society of Antiquaries.       Archaeologia. Vol. XLVII. 4to. London
        1882.                                                       The Society.
      Society of Arts.       Journal. Vol. XXX. Nos. 1540-42. 8vo.
        London 1882.                                                The Society.
                   —
   Manchester : Geological "      Society.
                                         '    Transactions. Vol. XVI. Parts
        14, 15. 8vo.                                                The Society.
   Moscow    : — Societe  Imperiale     des   Naturalistes.    Bulletin.    1881.
        No.    3. 8vo.  Moscou 1882.                                 The Society.
   New York : — American Geographical Society. Bulletin. 1882.
        No. 1. 8vo. Neiv York.                                      The Society.
           —
   Paris : Ecole Normale Supericure.             Annales. 2me Serie. Tome
        XI. No. 3. 4to. Paris 1882.                                   The School.
      Museum d'Histoire Naturelle.           Nouvelles Archives. 2me Serie.
        Tome IV. 4to. Paris 1881.                                  The Museum.
   Philadelphia: — Academy of Natural Sciences.              Proceedings 1881.
         Parts 1-3. 8vo. Philadelphia 1881-2.                    The Academy.
      American Philosophical          Society.     Proceedings. Vol. XIX.
        No. 109. 8vo. Philadelphia 1882.                            The Society.
      Franklin Institute.      Journal. 3rd Series. Vol. LXXXIII. No. 6.
         8vo. Philadelphia.                                        The Institute.
   Rome: — Accademia Pontificia.           Atti.   Anno XXXIV. Sessioni
         IV e V. 4to. Roma 1881. Processi Verbali. Anno XXXIV.
         Sessione 6. Anno XXXV.             Sessioni 1-5. 8vo.
                                                                  The Academy.
      R. Accademia dei Lincei.         Transunti. Vol. VI. Fasc. 12. 4to.
         Eoma 1882.                                               The Academy.
            —
   Turin : R. Accademia delle Scienze.            Atti. Vol. XVII. Disp. 4.
         8vo. Torino.                                             The Academy.
              —
   Vienna : Anthropologische Gesellschaft.               Mittheilungen.     Band
         XI. Heft. 3-4. 4to. Wien 1882.                              The Society.

1882.]                             Presents.                                171
Transactions (continued).
     K. K.      Geologische  Reiclisanstalt. Abhandlungen,          Band XII.
        Heft     3. 4to. Wien 1882. Jahrbuch.         Band XXXII. No. 1.
        8vo.    Wien 1882.   Verhandlungen,     1882.    Nos. 1-7. 8vo.
                                                              The Institution.
     Osterreichische Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie. Zeitsclirift. Band
        XVII. Juni-Heft. 8vo. Wien 1882.                          The Society.
                   —
   Wellington : Colonial      Museum     and   Geological Survey.       Manual
        of the Birds of New Zealand. 8vo. New Zealand 1882. Annual
        Report of the Museum and Laboratory, 1880-1. 8vo. New
        Zealand 1882.                                            The Museum.
Observations and Reports.
   Bristol: — "Dockising River Avon."            Reports     by   T.   Howard,
        R. Rawlinson, H.     J. Marten, and G.    J. Symons.
                                                  Mr. G. J. Symons, F.R.S.
   London    : — Meteorological Office.      Daily and Weekly Weather
        Reports.       January to June, 1882 (in separate sheets as
        published) and Volume for       July  to December, 1881.
                                                                     The Office.
     Royal Mint. Annual Report of the Deputy-Master, 1881. 8vo.
        London 1882.                            The Hon. C. W. Fremantle.
          —
   Malta : Public Library.        Report on the Phoenician and Roman
        Antiquities in the Group of the Islands of Malta. 4to. Malta
        1882.                                                     The Library.
           —
   Milan : R. Osservatorio        di  Brera. Pubblicazioni       N.   XX. 4to.
        Milano 1882.                                        The Observatory.
               —
   Moscow : Observatoire.       Annales. Vol. VIII. Livr. 1. 4to. Moscou
        1882.                                               The Observatory.
          —
   Paris : École des Ponts et Chaussees. Observations sur les Cours
        d'Eau et la Pluie. 1880. folio. Versailles.       Resume des Obser
        vations Centralisees. 1880. 8vo. Versailles 1882.
                                                              M. le Directeur.
             —
   Prague: K. K. Sternwarte. Beobachtungen. 1881. 4to. Prag.
                                                            The Observatory.
               —
   Sydney: Observatory. Results of Rain and River Observations.
        8vo. Sydney 1882.                                   The Observatory.
   Upsala  : —  Observatoire   Meteorologique    de   l'Universite.    Bulletin
        Mensuel. Vol. XIII. 4to. Upsal 1881-82.             The Observatory.
   Vienna: — K. Akademie der Wissenschaften.                Anzeiger. Jahrg.
        1881. Nrs. 14—28.       Jahrg. 1882. Nra. 1—9. 8vo.
                                                                The Academy.

172                                      Presents.                         [June   15,
Journals.
  American        Journal of Otology.           Vol.   III.   Nos. 3, 4. Vol. IV.
        Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. New York and Boston 1881-2.                       The Editor.
  American Journal of Science.                 January to May, 1882. 8vo. New
        Haven 1882.
  Analyst.       January to June, 1882. 8vo. London 1882.
                                                                         The Editors.
  Annales     des   Mines.     8e Ser.    Tome    I. Livr.   1. 8vo.  Paris 1882.
                                                                  L'Ecole des Mines.
  Athenaium. January to June, 1882. 4to. London.                          The Editor.
  Builder.      January    to   June, 1882.     folio.  London.           The Editor.
   Chemical News. January to June, 1882. 8vo, London.
                                                                          The Editor.
   Educational Times. January to June, 1882. 4to. London.
                                                        The College of Preceptors.
   Electrician.      January to June, 1882. 4to. London.                  The Editor.
   Electrical Review.        January to June, 1882. roy. 8vo. Loudon.
                                                                          The Editor.
   Electricion.      Tome II. Nos. 13-24. 8vo. Paris 1881-82.
                                                     Mr. W. Spottiswoode, P.R.S.
  Horologieal Journal. January to Jnne, 1882.                             The Editor.
   Indian Antiquary.        Vol.     XI.  Part   132.  4to. Bombay     1882.
                                                                          The Editor.
   Journal of Science. Vol. III. Nos. 95, 96. Vol. IV.                   Nos. 97-102.
        8vo. London.                                                      The Editor.
   Mondes (Les). Janvier-Juin, 1882. 8vo. Saint-Denis.
                                                                  M. l'Abbe Moigno.
   Nature. January to June, 1882. 4to. London.                            The Editor.
   Notes and Queries.         January     to  June,  1882.   4to.  London.
                                                                          The Editor.
   Observatory. January           to  June,   1882.  8vo.   London.      The  Editors.
   Oxford     University Gazette.           Supplement to No. 425, containing
        Report      on the University Observatory.
                                          The Savilian Professor of Astronomy.
   Revue Politique et Litteraire.            Janvier-Juin, 1882. 4to. Paris.
                                                                        The Director.
   Revue Scientifique. Janvier-Juin, 1882. 4to. Paris.
                                                                       The Directors.
    Scientific Roll. Vol. I. Part 1. Nos. 1-6. 8vo. London.
                                                      Mr. W. Spottiswoode, P.R.S.
    Scottish Naturalist.        No. 46. 8vo. Edinburgh.                   The Editor.
    Symons's Monthly Meteorological Magazine.                      January to April,
         1882. 8vo. London.                                               The Editor.
    Van Nostrand's Engineering Magazine. June, 1882. 8vo. New
         York.                                                            The Editor.

  1882.]       On  the  Propagation    of That   hy Conduction, fyc.      173
 Carvallo    (J.)   Loi des Nombres Premiers. 8vo. Meulan.
                                                                  The Author.
Gladstone      (J. H.)     F.R.S.    Michael  Faraday.     Autorisirte Ueber-
      setzung.    8vo. Glogau.                                    The Author.
Haupt (Ottomar)           Bi-metallic England. 8vo. Paris 1882.
                                                                  The Author.
 Jackson (B. D.) Vegetable Technology. 8vo. London 1882.
                                                    Mr. G. J. Symons, F.R.S.
 Kalischer (S.) Ueber die Molecularstructur der Metallo und ihre
      Beziehung zur elektrischen Leitungsfiihigkeit. 8vo. The Author.
 Leeds (A. R.) Relative Purity of the City Waters in the United
      States. 8vo. New York.         Upon the Compounds of the Aromatic
      Bases with Metallic Salts, with a Note upon Thiocarbanilide. 8vo.
      New York.                                                   The Author.
 Leeds (A. R.) and Edgar Everhart.            A Method for the Analysis of
      Mustard. 8vo. Netv York.                                   The Authors.
 Quatrefages (M. de) For. Mem. R.S. Note sur Charles Darwin. 4to.
      Paris.                                                      The Author.
 Russell (H. C.)        Transit of Mercury. 8vo. Sydney 1882.
                                                                  The Author.
 Steel (James)         The Exact numerical Quadrature of the Circle
      effected regardless of the Circumference. 8vo. London 1881.
                                                                  The Author.
 Lacaze-Duthiers (H. de) Histoire de la Laura Gerardice. 4to. Pan's
      1882.                       The Author, per Professor Huxley, F.R.S.
" Experimental         Researches      on the Propagation of Heat by
      Conduction in         Bone,    Brain-tissue,   and Skin."      By J. S.
      LOMBARD, M.D., formerly Assistant Professor of Physiology
      in Harvard University.             Communicated by Dr. Bitown-
      S£quard, F.R.S.           Received October 1. Read November
      17, 1881.
                                   Introduction.
    The question of the precise degree of the conductivity for heat of
the tissues lying between the surface of the brain and the outer sur
face of the integument is, of course, of the first importance in study
ing the possible effects on the exterior of the skin of changes of
temperature occurring in the superficial layers of the cerebrum ; and
the question of the degree of conductivity of brain-tissue itself is of
great importance with reference to the extent to which propagation
through the cerebral mass of thermal changes occurring in a single
point or tract of the brain may take place.

174           Dr.  J. S. Lombard.         On  the  Propagation     of
   Many years ago the writer made a few (not, however, very exact)
experiments on the conductibility of bone, which did not lead him to
anticipate any serious obstacle in the skull to the outward transmission
of heat from the brain. Moreover, the experiments of Professor
Tyndall on conduction in elephant's tusk, whalebone, cow's horn, Ac.,
pointed to tissues of this nature as being better conductors than
sealing-wax and bees'-wax, on both of which substances the write:
had made many experiments, and which he knew would conduct suffi
ciently well to enable one, with delicate apparatus, to appreciate a
slight change of temperature through a thickness of them greater than
the average thickness of the skull.
   In order to make the theoretical conditions of transmission to the
outer surface as unfavourable as could, with any justice, be warranted,
the writer selected the conductivity of paraffine as the representative o:
the conductivity of bone and skin combined, and founded on this basis
his line of reasoning respecting the effect of slight variations of the
temperature of the surface of the brain on the temperature of the
exterior of the skin. But in June, 1880, M. Francois Franck, in a
communication made to the Societe de Biologie, gave the results of
experiments     made by him on the conductivity of bone, skin, and
brain-tissue, which placed the whole subject in a new light.* M. Franck
stated that a difference of temperature of 1° C. failed to make itself
felt at the end of fifteen minutes through 3 millims. of bone, using a
thermometer detecting 0°-05 C. With 2° C. difference of temperature
a doubtful change of 0°-05 C. was obtained ; indeed, it required a
difference of 4° C. to effect a change of 02°.           Using thermo-electric
apparatus detecting      0°-01333  C.  (^t),  M.   Franck    failed to find anj
indication of a transmission of heat with a difference of temperature
           9
of 1° C. Skin he found to conduct about the same as bone, while on
the contrary, through 30 millims. of brain-tissue transmission readily
took place.
    As it is difficult to conceive of rises of temperature in the brain,
 due to changes of mental activity, measured by whole degrees Centi
 grade, M. Franck's experiments on bone and skin, if correct, would
peremptorily end all question of the possibility of changes of tempera
 ture in the superficial layers of the brain, arising from psychical pro
cesses, affecting directly the outer surface of the scalp.
    So able an experimenter as M. Franck making the above statement'!,
 the writer felt himself obliged to go over the whole ground thoroughly,
 although convinced at the outset that, as regards bone at least,
 M. Franck was in error. Accordingly, the writer devoted himself for
 the space of nearly six months entirely to the experimental examination
 of the conduction of heat in the tissues in question, drawing bis
                       * " Gazette Medicate," July  3, 1880.

              Ileal   by Conduction       in Bone, Brain-tissue, and Skin.                175
results      from      over    700 experiments        picked out from a still larger
uumber.         It will   be seen  that M. Franck is quite correct as regards tlio
comparatively good conductivity of brain-tissue, but in error as
concerns the conductivity of bone and skin.*
     In approaching this subject, we have at the start, to take into con
sideration what rises of temperature are likely to occur in the brain as
the result of increased mental action of different kinds.
     The only direct information in our possession concerning the pro
duction of heat in the brain during increased cerebral activity is
furnished by the well-known admirable experiments of M. Moritz
Schiff. f       As M. Schiff did not reduce his results to a thermometric
standard, we are left wholly in the dark as to the degree of the rises of
temperature noted by him.                 It has been rather gratuitously assumed,
because M. Schiff did not calculate the thermometric values of the
deflections of his galvanometer, that, therefore, these values must have
been exceedingly small — too small, in fact, to bo easily estimated — and,
consequently, that the rises of temperature in the brain were propor
tionally feeble. But a knowledge of the general nature of the galvano
meter and thermo-piles employed by M. Schiff, together with a careful
 study of the experiments themselves, have failed to prove to the writer
 that M. Schiff was experimenting with any extraordinary degree of
 delicacy. To begin with, the electromotive force of the piles employed
 was not great. Although M. Schiff mentions certain alloys of Rollinan,
 all the results of his experiments on the brain appear to have been
 obtained with single pairs of either the antimony-bismuth, copper-
 bismuth, or platinum-German silver combinations.                       Now the electro
 motive forces of these combinations may be expressed by 35, 24, and
 4'5 respectively, while the electromotive                  forces of the combinations
 principally       used   by  the writer    are  represented by 1 19 5 and 210. The
  galvanometer used by M. Schiff was a combination of the principles of
  the Meyerstein and Wiedemann instruments.                       These instruments are
  certainly not superior, even if they are equal, in sensitiveness to the
  Thomson galvanometer, which the writer has usually employed.                            The
  perturbations, arising from external causes, mentioned by M. Schiff,
  may occur when instruments of the kind are not adjusted to any very
  great degree of delicacy, and therefore are not necessarily proofs of high
  sensitiveness.         But the principal proof that the galvanometric deflec
   tions did not represent very minute values of temperature is to be
   found in the account of the experiments themselves. It is there stated
   that with single pairs of German silver and platinum, implanted in
       * The             of the specific heat of the tissues has been purposelv omi9ed, as
              question
   nothing    definite is known on this important point.        Yet the writer is stronjj'y in
    clined to believe that the differences in the rate of thermal transmission in theso
    tissues are in part owing to differences in their specific heats.
       t " Archives de Physiologie," t.    Ill, 1870, p. 6.

    176            Dr. J. S. Lombard.          On    the Propagation  of
    corresponding points of the two hemispheres of large dogs, the perma
   nent galvanometric deflections, showing the difference of temperature
   between the two points, were about 15° of the scale, which was divided
   into millimetres.* Now it is very unlikely that the temperatures of
   two points of opposite sides of the brain would, on an average, approxi
   mate each other nearer than by 0°-03 C., — this after making full
   allowance for the good conductivity of brain-tissue.             In practice it is
   difficult to find in the different   tissues,    unless the points examined are
   within a centimetre of each other, a nearer approach to equality than
   the difference just given.      Of course, still smaller differences may be
   met with by accident, but one cannot count upon finding them at a
   venture.     The dogs are specified as large, aud, indeed, in one place,t
   M. Schiff gives the distance between the two points examined.                  In
  this case each pile was 15 millims. from the longitudinal median line;
  the two points examined were consequently at least 30 millims. apart.
  We may assume then that the 15° of the galvanometer did not repre
  sent less than 0° 03 C. ; therefore 1° of the galvanometer was equal to
  0°-002 C.      Now the simple odour of food with these animals caused
  deflections   of 6° or 7°, equal to 0°'012 0. to 0°-014 G.,% and the masti
  cation of food increased these figures to 12° and 14° of the galvano
  meter, equal to 0°-024 C. and 0o-028 C. It must, however, be borne
  in mind that these deflections did not by any means represent the total
 rise of temperature, but only the difference of rise between the two points
  examined.      All  M. Schiff's results are in fact relative, based on the
 assumption that one of the two points examined would rise in tem
 perature more than the other.            The use of the second pile with him
 was, in fact, principally for the purpose of keeping the primary deflec
 tion of the galvanometer within the field of division on the scale, this
 pile thus serving as a compensating element.                Now if a difference of
 rise of temperature of from 0°-012 C. to 0° 028 C. can be produced in
 the two hemispheres of the dog by the feeble cerebral action excited by
 the means given, it is certain that the thermal effects of the active
 exercise of the intellectual and emotional faculties of man may be
 estimated in, at least, tenths of a degree Centigrade.
     In the case of the experiments on fowls, we have further and still
 stronger proof, both that the apparatus was not excessively delicate,
and also that the alterations of temperature were not so very small.
In these experiments the thermo-electric arrangement was a small bar
of bismuth 4 to 5 millims. long, in the two ends of which copper wires
were buried to a depth of 1 millim., thus forming a thermo-electric
junction at each end. As the copper wires were embedded in the
bismuth to a depth of 1 millim., the two junctions were only from 2 to
                              • Loc. cit., pp. 205, 207.
                              t  Loc. cit., p. 211.
                              X Loc. cit., p. 210.

               Heat by Conduction in Bone, Brain-tissue, and Skin.                     177
3 millims. asunder.             This close proximity of the two junctions must
have very greatly diminished the delicacy of the arrangement, as a
change of temperature at one junction would speedily be propagated
to the       other, setting up a reverse current in the latter.* Moreover,
considering how good a conductor the brain-tissue is, a slight change
of temperature in the point of brain in contact with one junction
would very quickly be felt in the point in contact with the other
junction, only 4 or 5 millims. of tissue intervening.                           Again, the
galvanometer appears             to have  been   less  sensitive   in   these  experiments
than in those first cited.            Yet M. Schiff obtained deflections of 12° to
14° from the insignificant               psychical processes awakened in these
animals by the exhibition of coloured papers, &c.                      It is very evident
that,      under    such   adverse   circumstances     as those specified, the absolute
rise of temperature must have been considerable                       to have given any
sort of a balance to one point over the other.
     Weighing all the evidence, then, there does not appear to the
writer, to be the slightest reason why rises of temperature as high as
0° 3 C. should not occur in the brain of man during mental activity ;
and elevations            of 0°"2 C. are certainly admissible ; but the results
which will be given in this paper are based on values of only 0°-l C.
     In the present experiments, instead of making use of differences
of temperature of 1° C., or more, fractions of a degree have been em
ployed, as furnishing more conclusive proof of the possibility of the
 transmission of small differences                of temperature,          than could be
 afforded by the mere reasoning from larger to smaller values.                         We
 will consider first the apparatus employed, and then the methods of
 experimenting.
                                     Apparatus Employed.
      The instrnments employed in testing the conductivity of the tissues
 under consideration, were as follows : —
      First. — Thermo-electric piles of from one to four pairs, composed of
 the antimony-zinc-cadmium alloy of Professor Moses G. Farmer,
joined to bismuth as the other metal.                   The general construction of
 these piles has been fully described elsewhere,t and the only point of
 difference to which special attention need be called here, is, that
 whereas, in the description referred to, the conducting wires are
 represented as composed of copper strands, in the present instance they
 consisted of single fine copper wires 0'011 inch in diameter, — con-
 •   *   See  the writer's remarks on reverse currents in piles, in " Regional Temperature
 of the Head," p. 6.        It would have been almost utterly impossible to have tested
  the    thermometric values of a pile so constructed, — at least such is the writer's
  experience.
      t  See the  writer's work " Regional Temperature of the Head," p. 19.        Tho par
   ticular alloy referred to above is the one designated " No. 1."
        V0L. XXXIV.                                                              S

178              Dr.    J. S. Lombard.       On   the Propagation       of
dnctors of this size and character being more manageable in packing
the pile in paraffine in the manner to be described further on.*
    Second.  — The writer's rheostat and keys.f
    Third. —   Sir William Thomson's galvanometer and scale.
    The greatest precantion must be taken to guard against the
development, in any part of the apparatus, of accidental currents due
to external thermal influences.          For this reason, not only should every
exposed junction of dissimilar        —  or even similar — metals be thoroughly
protected with cotton-wool, but also the whole rheostat and the keys
should be covered over with several layers of flannel, the plugs and
keys being manipulated through a single thickness of the cloth, the
other layers being momentarily raised for this purpose, and only at the
very point concerned.           Moreover, besides covering thickly with wool
the binding screws of the Thomson galvanometer, the whole brass
back of the instrument should be covered with flannel extending over
the top and sides of the box containing the coil, and leaving only the
glass front exposed .
                               Methods of Experimenting.
    In earlier     experiments (1867-68), in the case of bad conductors
generally, provided the substances were of sufficient density, a form
of apparatus similar to that used by Professor Tyndall in like investi
gations was employed;           J but in later, including the present, experi
ments, the methods adopted were different, and in the present instance
were of two kinds, both, however, the same in principle, and differing
only in detail.
    The fundamental principle of both methods was the determination
by means of a thermo-pile applied to one surface of the substance
under examination, — say, for example, a piece of bone, — of the
rapidity and extent of the change of temperature induced by conduc
 tion in this surface by the contact of the opposite surface with a mass
 of water of a temperature differing in a slight but definite degree from
 that of the air in the immediate neighbourhood. At the outset, the
 whole of the piece of bone and the pile, if properly protected, will be
 at the temperature of the surrounding air ; and when contact of one
 surface of the bone with the water takes place, this surface, assuming
 the temperature of the water gives rise to a thermal movement across
 the bone proportional to the difference of temperature between its two
 surfaces, and as these two surfaces are now respectively at the tem
 peratures of the air and of the water, the movement is proportional to
 the difference between the latter two temperatures.
    * All possibility of currents caused by vibration of the conducting wires must be
 guarded against, hence larger wires than those specified, unless flexible like strands,
 are unsafe.
    t Op. eit. , p. 22.
      " Heat considered    as a Mode of Motion," American   ed., p. 233.
    X

            Heat by Conduction in Bone, Brain-tissue, and Skin.                               179
    The first important points of the methods, are, therefore, the deter
 mination and regulation of the differences between the temperatures
 of the air and the water.    These differences were determined by ther
 mometers and thermo-piles (the latter being included in a circuit distinct
 from that of the pile used in testing for conductivity, and having their
 own galvanometer) placed in and near the water, the thermo-piles
 giving differences of 0°-02 C.    In practice it was fonnd that, with care
 and patience, a difference of about 0°-125 C. between the air and water
 could be pretty steadily maintained long enough for the purposes of
the experiments.       It            is,
                               however, as      rule, better to reverse the
                                                               a
 ordinary   order  of things,  and   to take  heat  from the bone instead                        of
furnishing heat to      that
                        it,     to say,is    better to have the temperature
                                                     it   is
 of the water lower by the desired amount than that of the air, than to
 have  ithigher, for the temperature of the water          more easily main
                                                                       is
 tained at  a  point differing slightly   from   the  temperature of the air
 when the former      the lower of the two.
                       is                          If the temperature of the
room   in which the experiment      made be carefully watched, we may
                                                is
be certain that the temperature    of the water will not exceed that of
the air; the principal difficulty will be to keep the temperature of the
water from falling too much below that of the air, and this end      best                is
attained by withdrawing by suction, through a long tnbe held in the
mouth, a small quantity of the liquid, and then returning         after a           it
longer or shorter stay in the mouth.* A little practice will enable one
to graduate, in this simple manner, with great nicety, the tempera
ture of  asmall mass of water.    The amount of water usually employed
was about one quart contained in an earthen vessel, exposing no
more surface of water to the air than was necessary for the intro
duction of the different appliances used in the experiments.
   We have next to attend to the manner of applying the thermo
pile to the surface of the substance examined, and the precautions
necessary in so doing      and here the two methods diverge, the one
                                 ;
being applicable to the case of bone, and the other to that of brain and
skin. We will consider each method in turn, taking first that which
concerns      bone.
                                                 Bone.
   To begin with, the closest possible                    contact   between the face of the
pile and the bone must bo aimed at.                       To this end, the surface of the
bone   isfiled smooth, and the face of the pile having been accurately
fitted to it, the two are closely and permanently attached to each other
 by   means   of a thin layer of shellac varnish applied to the face of the
pile and    to the surrounding ebonite casing.    Firm and steady pressure
must be     maintained until the shellac     quite dry, as the interposition
                                                          is
  •
      Care must be taken not to alter sensibly the level of           the water by withdrawing
too large an amount,   for    reasons      to be seen further on.
                                                                                S   2

  180            Dr.   J.   S. Lombard.         Oh  the  Propagation   of
 of minute babbles of air            will   be fatal to successful   experimenting.
 The pile and bone thus constitute a single piece.
    The next step is to isolate, as far as possible, the whole pile from
 all external thermal influences, except such as act through the piece of
 bone, or through the conducting wires of the pile.               To effect this, the
 pile  is enveloped     in   its whole    length,  and  beyond to  a distance along
 its conducting wires of several times its length, in layers of fine
 cotton-wool, which latter are afterwards steeped in melted paraffine.
 The casing thus formed extends laterally beyond the edges of the
 surface of the bone to which the face of the pile is attached.                  The
 first layer of cotton-wool is applied loosely, and the paraffine is com
 paratively cool when poured upon the wool. The result of this is that
 the paraffine does not penetrate very deeply into this first layer, thus
 leaving a mass of loose wool, next the pile, entangling a certain
 amount of air, and this latter furnishes a strong safeguard against
external influences.          Of course, care must be taken that the attach
ment of the face of the pile to the bone be not broken by the heat of
the paraffine.     When all is complete the whole arrangement consists of
a mass of paraffine-soaked cotton-wool some 60 millims. in length, one
end of which is terminated by the piece of bone which protrudes from
the centre of this end,* while from the other end emerge the conduct
ing wires of the pile, the pile thus forming the core of the mass, and
being shut off laterally and at its upper end from the exterior by
from 20 to 40 millims. of envelope.
    Two narrow strips of pasteboard, bound tightly by means of strips
of flannel, on opposite sides of the mass, near its upper end, and
brought together and tied so as to form a sort of arch above this end,
furnish a handle by which the mass can be held vertically, with the
exposed bone downwards, by the claw of a horizontal arm working up
and down a perpendicular metallic rod fitted into a small but steady
stand placed on the table, which supports the vessels containing the
water, and the thermometers and thermo-electric appliances used in
testing the differences of temperature between the air and the liquid.
                                    Brain and Skin.
    The fundamental principle was — as has been said — the same here               as
in the case of bone, but, as the substances could not with safety                  be
brought into immediate           contact with the water, the following special
arrangements       were     adopted : A box of thin pasteboard 50 millims.
deep by 85 millims. square was used as a mould, and was filled with
melted paraffine.        After solidification had taken place, a space was cut
   * One must be sure that the paraffine does not extend down the sides of the
                                                                                piece
of bone so as to touch the water when the under surface of the bone is brought in
contact with the liquid,- — as paraffine will conduct sufficiently well to introduce
errors into the results  if the above precaution be not taken.

            Heat hy Conduction in Bone, Brain-tissue, and Shin.                   181
out in the centre of the mass, extending from the upper surface to the
pasteboard bottom ; at and near this latter point the area of the space
was just large enough to accommodate the piece of tissue to be tested.
The pasteboard bottom under the space was next cut out, and its
place supplied by a copper plate less than 0'5 millim. in thickness,
which was closely and exactly fitted in, melted paraffine being used on
the inside to secure it.        The substance to be tested, when in position,
therefore      rested  on the thin copper        plate, and was surrounded by
paraffine walls.*        The pile (enveloped at the end near its face in only
a thin layer of paraffine-soaked       wool, so as not to touch the surrounding
walls of paraffine) was pressed down firmly upon the substance lying on
the copper plate, and was kept in position by wedging with cotton
wool the space between its envelope, near the upper end of the latter,
and the paraffine walls. The reason for preventing the envelope of the
pile near its face from touching the surrounding paraffine walls, is that
the    latter are, at the bottom of the box, in almost direct            contact  with
the   water ; and as paraffine conducts about as well as the substances
tested, a thermal movement might possibly take place directly, between
the face of the pile and the water, through the paraffine walls.                  The
intervention      of an air-space between the envelopes of the pile and the
paraffine wall, not only in the neighbourhood of the face of the pile,
but extending to a point far beyond the entire length of the latter,
rendered any such thermal movement impossible.                       Two strips of
pasteboard were fitted to the sides of the box, in the same way as
in the case of bone.         These strips, moreover, served as supports for a
mass of cotton-wool, which covered the top of the box, in order to cut
off communication between the air imprisoned in the box and the ex
ternal atmosphere through any chance crevice in the cotton-wool
 wedges holding the pile in place.
    The prepared bone, or the paraffine box containing the piece of brain
 or skin, having been attached to the claw of the sliding arm mentioned
 on page 180, by means of the pasteboard strips, is brought over the
 surface of the water, and then carefully lowered                 until the under
 surface of the bone or the copper plate in the bottom of the box is
just immersed, and no more, in the liquid. f           When this is effected the
 sliding arm is made fast, and the bone or box removed by raising the
 whole arrangement, as one piece, by means of the perpendicular rod
    •  In comparing bone with brain and skin, it  was found that the interposition of
 the copper  plate had no effect on either the rapidity or the extent of the thermal
 transmission.   This was proved by covering the under surface of a piece of bone,
 previously tested, with a copper plate of the thickness of that used in the experi
 ments on brain and skin, when it was found that the conductivity       remained un
 changed.
    t The necessity of the caution contained in the note   at the bottom of page 180
  will now be obvious.

  182               Dr.  J.  S. Lombard.         On   the  Propagation     of
  of the stand.        The wet surface of the bone or box is next carefully
  dried with cotton-wool, and protected from external disturbing in
  fluences by an enclosure of thick pasteboard placed near the vessel
  containing the water.
       If now, at a given moment, we wish to commence an experiment,
  we have merely to raise the whole arrangement, as was done when we
  removed the bone or box, bring the latter over the water, and then set
  the stand down again.            As the distance between the water and the
  substances to be brought in contact with it was previously accurately
  determined, and the necessary adjustment made with the sliding arm,
  we may be certain that the proper degree of immersion is ensured.
  Moreover, as in experiments of this kind a second's time is of import
  ance, and as the above procedure can be timed so as to bring the
  surface of the bone or box in contact with the water at a given second
  (and that, too, without the necessity of the observer taking, for a
  moment, his eyes off the scale of the galvanometer or the timepiece,
  as the movements necessary can be performed without looking when
  once their direction and extent are appreciated), it fulfils another
 important requisite in this portion of the work.* Before adopting
 this simple procedure the writer made many experiments with more
  or less complicated apparatus ; but all these appliances were, one
 after another, thrown aside as introducing troublesome, and often
 dangerous, complications. It must be remembered that the exposed
 surface of bone, or copper bottom of the box, must be protected, when
 not immersed, from radiation, possible currents of air, &c., otherwise,
 thermal exchanges will take place through the exposed surfaces, and
 —using such delicate means of investigation as we are now treating of
 — the index of the galvanometer will not be steady for a moment ;
 this being the case, the bone or box cannot be simply suspended, in free
 air, over the water, to be lowered upon tho latter when the appointed
 time comes ; and all attempts to protect them properly, while thus sus
 pended, have led to difficulties, bringing with them, among other evils,
 delays in the removal of the protections, and, therefore, errors of time.
      It remains now to describe the manner in which the observations
 were made.
     In    the first place, the deflections of the galvanometer were noted
 regularly every fifteen seconds, commencing from the second at which
contact between the bone or copper plate and the water took place, up
to six minutes.          If, however, as sometimes happened, the first sign of
the thermal movement             showed itself before the first fifteen seconds
had elapsed,       of course   that  particular movement was also noted.            After
the sixth minute the deflections were noted every half minute or every
    *   It is hardly necessary to say that the possibility of currents caused by vibration
of the conducting wires of the pile in the movements in question, was fully appre
ciated, and negatived by direct experiment.

          Heat by Conduction in Bone, Brain-tissue, and Skin.         183
minute according to the rate of movement of the index of the galva
nometer, which was usually much diminished by this time, the per
manent thermal condition, or state of thermal equilibrium, being now,
as a rule, not very far off. The readings of the thermometers and of the
thermo-electric   apparatus used in testing the differences of tempera
ture between the air and the water, were noted every half minute.
As it was not the rule — even when the greatest care was used — to find
the index of the galvanometer at 0° of the scale at the start, it was
almost always necessary to add to or subtract from the readings of the
thermometers the thermometrical value of the deflection at the moment
when the instrument began to show the first sign of the thermal trans
mission.    Thus, suppose the thermometers       to show a difference
between the air and the water of 0°-125 C. in favour of the former,
and the index of the galvanometer      to be 5° of its scale on the cold
side of 0°. If the galvanometer be set to show 1° deflection as equal to
0°0006742 C., we must deduct 0° -003371 C. (5x0-0006742) from the
0°-125 C. difference between the air and the water, since the surface
of bone or brain or skin in contact with the thermo-pile is already
cooler than the air by 0°-003371 C.   The true thermometric difference
between the two surfaces of the substance under examination     is,
                                                                  there
fore, 0°121629 C.
                          Experiments   on Bone.
   The bones examined were the skull and long hones of sheep, and
the  ribs of oxen.
   In the experiments on the skull, pieces of various thicknesses and
areas were taken from different parts, but the results to be given here
were obtained with fresh pieces of the parietal and occipital bones
7'5 millims. in thickness, and 5J1'5 millims. by 15 millims. in area.
   We have three principal points for consideration, namely, as
follows   —
          :
     (a.) The time required for the first sign of the change of tempera
ture to show itself through the hone.
  (6.) The degree of change       of temperature   produced at certain
measured intervals of time.
   (c.) The maximum of the change of temperature produced, when
the permanent thermal condition    attained.
                                  is
   Taking the above in the order in which they are set down, we have
first to consider the question indicated under the heading "a."
   To begin with, the degree of difference of temperature to which the
bone was subjected  must be taken into account. The average degree
of             of temperature
      difference               was 03-129 C., the maximum being
0"-147 C., and the minimum 0°-1136 C.    Under these conditions, the
average time required for the first appearance through the bone of
the thermal change, with the apparatus set to detect 0°,0006742 C.,

 184               Dr.   J.  S. Lombard.         On   the   Propagation        of
 was 28-4 seconds.           In 53-333 per cent, of the cases it was 23 seconds ;
 in 26'667 per cent, it was 38 seconds ; and in the remaining 20 per
 cent, it was 30 seconds.
     If   the results of the different experiments are calculated for 0°-l C.
 difference of temperature, on the basis that the time required would
 be inversely proportional to the degree of difference of temperature,
 the average time is found to be 37'3 seconds, the maximum and the
 minimum being respectively 55'86 and 26-29 seconds.                             The average
rate of the thermal transmission is, therefore, 1 millim. per 4-9733
seconds, the maximum and the minimum times being, respectively,
 7-448 and 3 5053 seconds.
    (6.) Degree of change of temperature               produced at certain measured
intervals of time.
    We will examine the changes produced at the end of                        1  minute    and
15 seconds, 2 minutes, 4 minutes,            and 6 minutes, respectively, measured
from the moment             when the bone touched the water.                   We will take
simply the averages and extremes of the changes due to the differences
of temperature given under the preceding heading, having first, how
ever, reduced all the results to values representing the effects of 0°-1 C.
difference.       Table I gives these averages and extremes in both galva-
nometric and thermometric figures.                   The galvanometric deflections,
it will be seen, indicate the steps towards equalisation of the tem
peratures of the two surfaces of the bone at the several periods:
thus, as 0ao-l C. is equal to 148-316° of the galvanometer,* and as
0u-l C. represents the difference of temperature                      between these two
surfaces at the start, the steps towards equalisation are measured by
the approximation of the figures of the galvanometric degrees to 148-316.
Table I. — Effects of 0°-l C. difference of temperature through 7 5
    millims. of sheep's skull. 1° of galvanometer is equal to 0O-0006742
    C. ; and 0°-l C. is equal to 148°-316 of galvanometer.
                              Avorages.              Maxima.                    Minima.
   Time from the
      moment of
                        Degrees                Degrees                 Degrees
   contact of bone                 Thermo                  Thermo                   Thermo
                           of                     of                       of
      and water.                     metric                  metric                   metric
                       galvano                 galvano                 galvano
                                    values.                 values.                  values.
                         meter.                 meter.                  meter.
  At    the end of —
      1  min. 15 sec. 23-864°     001609° C.   34-916°   002354° C.     13-058°    0-00845° C.
      2    „    0 „     54170     003652       74-720    005038         30470      0-02054
      4 „       0 „     88-804    0-05987     115 485    007786         4O000      0 02696
      6    „   0 „    116476      007853      135384     0 09127        68504      004618
   *   1° C. is equal to 1483°- 16 of the galvanometer   ;  hence  1° of the galvanometer    is
equal to 0°-0006742 C.

            Heat by Conduction in Bone, Brain-tissue,            and Skin.        185
     Percentages of heat transmitted, deduced from the above values.
          Times.               Averages.            Maxima.            Minima.
                            16 090 per cent.    23 541 per cent.    8 804 per cent.
     2  „     0   ,         36523               508-78             20 543
     4  „     0             59874      „        77864              26 969
     6  „     0   „ ....    78532               91-287             46187
    This table shows that already            by the end of one minute and a
 quarter the thermal transmission was, on an average, very marked,
 and that at the end of the sixth minute, 78^ per cent, of the initial
 difference of temperature had been made up. It will further be seen
 that these results are widely at variance with those of M. Franck,
 the latter having failed to obtain, at the end of fifteen minutes, using
 thermometers detecting 0°-05 C., any indication of conduction through
 only 3 millims. of bone, with a difference of temperature of lu C. ;
 while, according to the table, a change of nearly 0°-06 C. was found, at
the end of four minutes, through 7'5 millims. of bone, with a difference
 of only 0°-l C.
    (c.) The maximum change of temperature produced when the per
manent thermal condition is attained.
    We have nnder this heading to consider               the thermal condition of
the bone at the time when the flow of heat through it has settled into
a regular and steady movement, in which each cross section of the
conductor receives and transmits equal quantities.
    We have first to inquire how long a time is usually occupied in the
attainment of this condition.
    With the differences of temperature          specified under the heading (a)
the time ranged from 9 minutes to 11 minutes 30 seconds, the average
of all the times being 9 minutes 53 seconds. In 42-857 per cent, of
the cases it was 9 minutes, in 28*572 per cent, it was 10 minutes, in
14-285 per cent,        it was   11  minutes   30 seconds,    while the remaining
14-286 per cent,         was divided      equally between      11 minutes and 10
minutes 30 seconds respectively.
   Table   II   gives the effects of the transmission at this period, reduced
to values representing 0°-l C. difference of temperature.

186           Dr.  J. S. Lombard.           On the Propagation   of
Table II. —Permanent thermal condition effected by 0°-l C. through 7-5
   millims. of sheep's skull. 1° of galvanometer is equal to O-0006742 C-,
   and 0°-l C. is equal to 148n-316 of galvanometer.
                           Degrees of         Thermometric    Percentages of
                         galvanometer.            values.    heat transmitted.
                            127 431°            0-08591°  C.  85-918 per cent.
                             138 333            0 09326       93-269     „
                            104800              0 07065       70659
   We find from the above table that in the permanent thermal state —
reached in the majority of cases, as we have just seen, by the tenth
minute — the initial difference of temperature of 00'1 C. between the
two surfaces of the bone is, on the average, reduced to 0o'01409 C.,
nearly 86 per cent, of the excess of heat on the warmer of the two
surfaces being now transmitted to the cooler surface.
                        Experiments     on. Brain-Tissue.
   The brain-tissue used was that of the sheep, and was in a fresh
condition. Pretty much the whole of the brain was examined, and
blocks of different thicknesses and areas were employed, but the expe
riments with which we are at present concerned were made on pieces
cut from the upper surface of the cerebrum, 7'5 millims. in thickness
»jid of an area of 21'5 millims. by 15 millims., being thus identical in
dimensions with the pieces of skull already treated of. A preliminary
series of experiments had, however, to be made to determine whether
the dura mater opposed any noteworthy barrier to thermal transmis
sion.   This question was decided in the negative, it being found that
the resistance of the membrane in question was so slight that it could
safely be disregarded.
   We will examine the results obtained on the pieces of brain            in the
same manner as was adopted in the case of the skull.
   (a.) The time required for the first sign of the change of tempera
ture to show itself through the piece of brain.
   The average degree of difference of temperature to which the brain-
tissue was subjected was 0°-13116 C., the maximum being 0°-lol3 C.
and the minimum heing 0°-1202 C.                  With these differences, the
average   time elapsing   before   the first appearance on the upper surface
of the piece of tissue of the thermal change (the apparatus having the
same delicacy as in the experiments on the skull) was 3G"88 seconds.
In 44-444 per cent, of the cases it was 23 seconds, in 27'777 per cent.

                     Heat by Conduction in Bone, Brain-tissue,                      and Skin.             187
it    was 38 seconds,                in     22 223 per cent,         it was 30 seconds, and in the
remaining                 5"550 per cent,         it was   53 seconds.
      Ifall the individual results are reduced to values representing
 0"-l C. difference of temperature, the average time becomes 40-49
 seconds, the maximum and the minimum being respectively 63' 706
 and 27-646 seconds.      The average rate of the thermal movement                                         is,
 therefore,      millim. per 5-3986 seconds, the maximum and the
                         1
 minimum times being respectively 8'4941 and 3"6853 seconds.           There
appears    indeed  from  these  figures to be  but little  difference at this
period between brain and skull.
    (6.) The degree of change of temperature            produced at certain
measured intervals of time.
   Proceeding in precisely the same manner as in the case of the skull,
we arrive at the results set forth in Table III.       These results are evi
dence of the accuracy of M. Franck in attributing           high conducting         a
power (comparatively speaking) to brain-tissue for the values given             ;
in the table approximate closely, especially in the earlier periods, to
those contained in Table       for the skull. If we take the differences
                                             I
between the thermometric values at the same periods in the averages
of the two tables, we find that the superiority of bone over brain-
tissue     represented, even at its greatest, by only a little more than the
                is
one-hundredth of a degree Centigrade.         The average degree of supe
riority of the bone over the cerebral tissue in point of conductivity at
the       different periods will be seen below —                   :
Table           III. — Effects
                       of 03'1 C. difference of temperature through 7-5
     millims. of upper surface of cerebrum of sheep. 1° of galvanometer
  is   equal to 0" 0006742 C.; and 0°-l C.      equal to 148°-316 of gal
                                                                       is
     vanometer.
 Time from the          Averages.                                  Maxima.              Minima.
    moment of
contact of copper
 plate, on which  Degrees                                   Degrees                 Degrees
                             Thermo                                     Thermo                 Thermo
   the piece of      of                                       of                       of
                              metric                                     metric                 metric
   brain rested,  galvano                                  galvano                  galvano
                              values.                                    values.                values.
 with the water.   meter.                                   meter.                   meter.
 At       the end of —
           min. 15 sec.           21-036°    001418° C.     32-445°    002187° C.    6-370°   0-00429° C.
      6 4 2 1
                „             „   42-721         02880      59068      0 03982      19-379    001306
                      0 0 0
                                             0
                „             „   74-840     005045        103-200     006957       32 558    0   02195
                „             „   99075      0 06679       816-000     0    09169   49-612    003344

188             Dr.    J.  S. Lombard.           On   the  Propagation of
     Percentages     of heat transmitted, deduced from the above values.
        Times.                Averages.                Maxima.                 Minima.
    1 min. 15 sec. . .    14'176 per cent.        21875 per cent.          4 294  per cent.
   2   „    0 „    ,.     28803       „           39825                   13-066
   4 „      0 „    ..     50-459                  69581                   21951
   6   „    0 „           66-799      „           91-696     „            33450
                                    Thermometric degree        Percentages of degree
                 Times.             of average superiority    of average superiority
                                      of skull over brain.      of skull over brain.
                                           0 00191° C.             1-914 per cent.
                                           000772                  7720       „
                                           000942                  9-415      „
                                           0 01174                11-733
   Comparing the maximum values of the two tables (I and III), it will
be noticed that at the end of the sixth minute the brain-tissue exceeds
the skull by 0° -00042 C.
   (c.) The maximum change of temperature produced when the
permanent thermal condition is attained.
   First, as to the time required to reach                   this condition, with the
differences of temperature set down under the heading (i), the range
was from 9 to 11 minutes, the average of all the times being 9 minutes
52'5 seconds.       In 50 per cent, of the cases it was 9 minutes, in 37-5
per cent, it was 11 minutes, and             in the remaining 12'5 per cent, it           was
10 minutes.
   In Table IV      we have the results of the transmission at this period,
reduced,    as in the case of the skull, to values representing 0°-l C.
difference of temperature.
Table    IV. — Permanent         thermal condition      effected by      0°,l C, through
   7-5  millims. of cerebrum of sheep. 1° of galvanometer is equal                          to
   0°-0006742 C., and0°-l C. is equal to 148°-316 of galvanometer.
                                 Degrees  of         Thermometric          Percentages of     j
                               galvanometer.             values.          heat transmitted,
                                                                                              j
                                  113029°              0 07620 C.          76-208  per cent.
                                  138-888              0 09364             93-638
                                   72 000              004854              48545      „

            Heat by Conduction in Bone, Brain-tissue,      and Skin.      189
    Comparing the above table with Table II, we find that the average
difference in the conducting powers of skull and brain-tissue is now
reduced to 0°-00971 C., in lavour of the bone ; but if we take the
maximum values, the conductivity of brain-tissue slightly exceeds that
of   skull, namely, by 0°-00038 C.
                              Experiments  on Skin.
    The skin experimented on was fresh sheep's       skin  ; and, in the par
ticular experiments with which we have now            to deal, pieces of the
shaven scalp 3 millims. in thickness, and of         the same area as the
 pieces of skull and cerebrum already described,     were employed.
    Following the course adopted with skull       and brain-tissue, we have
 the same    points as before to consider.
     (a.) The time required for the first sign of the change of tempera
 ture to show itself through the piece of scalp.
     The average degree of difference of temperature to which the scalp
 was subjected was 0°-12957 C, the maximum and the minimum being,
 respectively, 0°-1645 C. and 0°-125 C.         With these differences the
 time required for the first sign of the change of temperature              to
 manifest itself, on the upper surface of the piece of skin       —  with the
 apparatus set, as before, to detect 0°-0006742 C. — was 17-6 seconds. In
  60 per cent, of the cases the time was 19 seconds ; while the other
  40 per cent, was divided equally among 23, 16, 15, and 8 seconds.
     Reducing all the results to values representing 0q-l C. difference of
  temperature,    the   average time is found to be 22-88 seconds, the
  extremes    being   29'417  and 10 seconds.    The average rate of the
  thermal movement is consequently 1 millim. per 7'6267 seconds, the
  maximum and the minimum            times being, respectively, 9-8057 and
  3'3333 seconds.      The average rate of the thermal transmission per
  millimetre for 0°-l C. difference of temperature appears, therefore, to
  be lower, at this period, in scalp than in bone or brain-tissue ; and the
  lowest rate in scalp is below the corresponding rates in bone and
  brain-tissue ; but on the other hand, the highest rate is found in scalp,
   although the degree of superiority is insignificant.      In Table V the
   results obtained on the three tissues, at this period, are brought
   together for comparison.
      (6.) The degree of change of temperature produced at certain
   measured intervals of time.

li>0           Dr.  J.  S. Lombard.         On   the  Propagation       of
Table V. — Comparison of times required for the first sign of the ther
   mal change to show itself through 7-5 millims. of sheep's skull, 7'5
   millims. of bheep's brain, and 3 millims. of sheep's scalp, respec
   tively, with apparatus detecting 0°-0006742 C.
Degrees      of difference   of temperature        to which the        several     tissues
                                  were subjected.
                                  Bone.                Brain.                Skin.
                                0 1290° C.           081116° C.           0-12957' C.
                                0-1470               015130               091460
                                01816                012020               0 12500
   With the above differences of temperature the times required for
the first appearance through the tissues of the thermal change were
as follows : —
                                  Bone.                Brain.                Skin.
                              28 4 seconds.       30 88 seconds.         17 6 seconds.
                              380       „         5300      „            230        ,.
                              230       „         23 00     „             80        „
 Percentages of the frequency of occurrence                of the different            times
                                         noted.
             Bone.                       Brain.                        Skin.
     Times.     Percentages.     Times.      Percentages.       Times.      Percentages.
    23 seconds     53-333      23 seconds       44-444       19 seconds        60000
    38    „        26-667      38    „          27-777       23     „          10-000
    30    „        20000      30     „          22223        91     „          10-000
                               53    „           5556        15     „          10000
                                                               8    „          10000
Times calculated for 0°-l C. on the basis that the time required would
  be inversely proportional to the degree of difference of temperature.
                                  Bone.                Brain.                Skin.
                             37-30 seconds.       -10 490 seconds.      22-880 seconds.
                             5586       „         63706       „        29417           „
                             26-29      „         27646       „         10 000

           Heat by Conduction in Bone, Brain-tissue, and Skin.                              191
Times required to traverse            1  millim. of each of the tissues, calculated
                               for a difference of 0°-l C.
                                       Bone.                  Brain.                Skin.
                                  4-9733 seconds.        5 3986 seconds.       7 6267 seconds.
                                  7-4480      „          8 4941      „         9-8057
                                  3-5053                 36853       „         3 3333
   Table    VI   gives the results obtained at the end on the several times
adopted in     the preceding tables as bone and brain.
Table VI. — Effects of 0°-l C. difference of temperature through 3
   millims. of sheep's scalp. 1° of galvanometer is equal to 0°-0006742
   C. ; and 0°-l C. is equal to 148°-316 of galvanometer.
                            Averages.                  Maxima.                   Minima.
  Time from the
     moment of
 contact of copper
                      Degrees                   Degrees                  Degrees
  plate, on which                  Thcrmc-                   Thermo-                  Therm o-
                         of                        of                        of
 the piece of skin                  metric                    metric                   metrio
                     galvano                    galvano                  galvano
rested, and water.                  values.                   values.                  values.
                       meter.                    meter.                   meter.
  At  the end of —
   1 min. 15 sec.     17191°      001159° C.    21-120°     001424° C. 10-576°       000781° C.
   2   „    0    „    31241       002106        38 808      002616        20 898    0-01409
   4    „   0    „    59-208      003992        83952      0 05660        35-861    002417
   6    „   0    „    80-766     0 05445        96-192     006505        63-884     004307
   Percentages of heat transmitted, deduced from the above values.
          Times.                 Averages.                Maxima.                 Minima.
                              11-597 per cent.        14 239 per cent.         7817 per cent.
   2   „    0                 21-063                  26915       „          14 090
   4   „    0  ,              39-921                  56-603      „          24179
   6   ,.   0  „              54-452                  65058                  43 070
   It  will, at once, be evident, that, although the pieces of skull and
of cerebrum are two and a-half times thicker than the pieces of skin,
yet the amount of heat transmitted by the latter is considerably less
than the amount transmitted by the former, with the exception,
that the minimum values of scalp are higher than the corresponding
values of brain-tissue, and approach somewhat closely to those of
skull.

192            Dr.  J.  S. Lombard.        On   the  Propagation    of
   If  we should apply the well-known physical calculations of Fourier
and others, and through them seek to determine the changes of tem
perature which would exist if the piece of skin were increased in
thickness to 7'5 millims , the inferiority of the tissue in conducting
power compared with bone and brain-tissue, would become much more
striking ;* but unfortunately, not only theory — based upon the lack of
homogeneity in these structures — but also a large number of direct
experiments made by the writer, show that such calculations are not to
be relied upon.      In the case alone of the hard tissue of bone, it has
sometimes happened that the results of the mathematical calculations
and those of the experiment have partially agreed.              We cannot, then,
with any certainty, reason from one thickness of bone, brain, or skin
to another.     To have reduced the bone to 3 millims. in thickness to
correspond    with  the skin, would have entailed serious risks of error in
the method of experimenting adopted. f The thickness of bone chosen
was a natural thickness of the skull often found in the animal experi
mented on, and the same is true of the thickness of the. scalp.
   (c.) The maximum change of temperature produced, when the
permanent thermal condition is attained.
   With the differences of temperature           given under the heading (a),
the permanent thermal condition was reached in a time ranging from
11 to 15 minutes, the average being 12 minutes 15 seconds.                    In 50
per  cent, of  the  cases  the   time  was   11   minutes,  and  the  other  50  per
cent, was divided equally between 12 and 15 minutes.
   In Table   VII   we see the effects of the thermal movement               at this
stage, reduced as before to the basis of 0°-1 C. difference of tempera
ture.
Table VII. — Permanent thermal condition effected by 0°-l C. through
   3 millims. of sheep's scalp.            1" of galvanometer        is equal to
   0°-0006742 C. ; and 0n-l C. is equal to 148°-316 of galvonometer.
                              Degrees of        Thermometric       Percentages of
                            galvanometer.           values.      heat transmitted.
                               100155°           0 06751° C.      67-514 per cent.
                               117480            0 07920          79 209
                                82104            005535           558-54
  * The application    of these formulee sweeps away the whole of Table VI, as
according to them, even at the end of the sixth minute no sign of the transmission
would be found through 7 5 millims. of scalp.
  t By exchanges between the face of the pile and the water through the paraffine
envelope (see note, p. 181), which latter would, with the above thickness of   bone,
be in dangerous proximity to the liquid.

             Heat by Conduction in Bone, Brain-tissue,       and Skin.    193
    Placing the above beside Tables        II  and IV, even leaving out the
 question of relative thickness, the inferior conducting power of skin,
 compared with bone and cerebral tissue, is again manifest, although
 the degree of this inferiority        is diminished.      Thus, taking the
 averages at the end of the sixth minute, the skin falls below bone by
 24 08 per cent., and below brain-tissue by 12'347 per cent. ; while now
 these   differences  are reduced,   respectively,  to 18'404 per cent., and
 8'694 per cent.     If  we take the maximum values, the skin is inferior
to bone    (the maximum value of the latter being a trifle lower than that
of  brain-tissue) by 26-229 per cent, at the end of the sixth minute, and
by 14'06 per cent, in the permanent thermal condition.           With regard
to the minimum values, they are now, as at former periods, higher in
skin than in brain-tissue.
                    Conduction in Bone and SJcin combined.
   Let us now suppose the 3 millims. of scalp to be lying upon
the 7'5   millims. of bone, as in life, and a rise of temperature of 0°-l C.
to occur on the cerebral surface beneath.            We have seen that the
dura mater offers no appreciable           resistance, and have, therefore,
simply to deal with the compound conductor of bone and skin.             We
will first estimate how long a time would elapse after the rise of tem-
perature in the brain before 0°-0006742 C. difference would be found
on the outer surface.      Now it has been shown that the average time
required for 0°-l C. to traverse the bone is 37'3 seconds, while the
average time required for the same difference of temperature to tra
verse the skin is 22'88 seconds ; the total time would therefore, be
60-18 seconds, the shortest time would be 36'39 seconds, and the
longest time 85'277 seconds.
   Next, with regard to the amount of heat which would be trans
mitted through the compound conductor.                               I
                                                   Looking at Table we see
that the bone has transmitted, at the end of 1 minute 15 seconds,
16-09 per cent, of the heat received, and from Table VI we learn that,
during the same time the skin has transmitted ll-597 per cent. ;*
therefore, the skin receiving from the bone 16-09 per cent, of the
original amount of heat would transmit ll-597 per cent, of these
receipts,    or 1*86395 per cent, of the original amount ; hence tho
change of temperature observed on the outer surface of the scalp, at
 this period, would be 0°-001866 C. Table            VIII  gives the results,
 for the several periods of time, deduced in the above manner from
 Tables   I   and VI. These results show that, in spite of the decided
 resistance introduced by the skin, there would not be the slightest
 difficulty in detecting, with delicate apparatus, at an early period, on
                                   * Averages.
    vol. xxxiv.                                                    0

194                 Dr. J.   S. Lombard.          On   the  Propagation     of
the outer surface of the scalp, a change of 0°-l C. on the surface                         of
the brain, in the animal in question.
Table VIII.— Effects of 0°1 C. difference of temperature through 7 5
    niillims. of sheep's skull and 3 millims. of sheep's scalp, taken to
    gether.       1° of galvanometer is equal to 0°-0006742 C. ; and 0°-l C.
    is equal to 148°-316 of galvanometer.
                               Averages.               Maxima.               Minima.
         Times.         Degrees                 Degrees                Degrees
                                     Thermo   -             Thermo-               Thermo-
                            of                     of                     of
                                      metrio                 metrio                metric
                        galvano                 galvano                galvano
                                      values.                values.               values.
                         meter.                  meter.                 meter.
   At   the end of—
      1 min. 15 sec.      2-767°     001866° C.   4-971°    003352° C.  0931°    -000628° C.
      2     „    0 „     11-409     '007692      19-550     081181      4-2P3     002894
      4 „        0 „    35-450       023902      65-367     044073      9-671    -006520
      6     „    0 „     63424       042762      88083      059389     29-504     019892
                            Percentages of heat transmitted.
              Times.               Averages.              Maxima.              Minima.
                                 1-866 per cent.       3-352 per cent.      0 628 per cent.
    2     „     0   „            7692       „         13181      „          2894      „
                                23-902      „         44073      „          6-520     „
                                42762       „         59389      „         19892      „
     Coming to the permanent thermal condition of the compound con
 ductor, we can estimate, in the same manner as we have just done,
from the separate tables for bone and skin, the amount of heat which
 would be transmitted when this condition is reached.                      Table IX gives
 the results of these estimates.              Here, again, we have evidence that —
although diminished — the external manifestations of 0°-l C. change
at the cerebral surface would still be amply great to admit of detec
 tion by much coarser instruments than those we are employing.
 Supposing the rise of temperature at the cerebral surface to be only
 0°-01 C, instead of 0°-l C., it would still be plainly visible at the
exterior at the end of the fourth minute ; for the percentage of trans
 mission at this period would give a galvanometric deflection of 3° 545,
 equal to 0°-00239 C., while when the permanent thermal condition
 was attained, the deflection would be 8°-603, equal to CT00S8 C.                       But,
as was stated in the introduction, there is no reason whatever why

            Heat by Conduction in Bone, Brain-tissue,             and Skin.        195
 rises of temperature of 0°-2 C., and even 0°-3 C. may not occur in the
 brain of man, and perhaps in the brains of other of the higher animals,
 during intellectual and emotional activity, with, consequently, de
 cidedly greater external manifestations than those given in our calcu
 lations.
 Table    IX. — Permanent     thermal condition      effected   by 0°-l C. through
    7'5 millims. of sheep's     skull and 3 millims. of sheep's scalp, taken
    together.   1° of galvanometer is equal to 0c-0006742 C.               ; and 0O-l
    is equal to 148° '316 of galvanometer.
                             Degrees of         Thermometric         Percentages of
                           galvanometer.            values.         heat transmitted.
                                86033°            0-058006° C.       58 006 per cent.
                              119-572             0 073877           73-877
                                58010             0039112            39112
    With regard     to the effect of       the blood circulating between the
 surface of the brain and the outer surface of the skin, the only way in
 which this liquid could check the outward thermal propagation would
 be   by virtue of its specific heat. The writer has considered this
 question at some length in the work already cited,* and he sees no
 reason now to depart from the line of argument there followed.                     If,
 as was there done, we allow a loss of 50 per            cent,  of the initial rise of
 temperature    to satisfy  the  capacity   for  heat   of  the  blood (and we aro
 really not warranted in granting such a loss) our 0°-l C. — now
 reduced to 0°-05 C. — would still show itself at the outer surface, at
the end of the second minute, by a galvanometric deflection of 5°-704,
equal to 0°-003846 C.
    We have next to see how far the good conductivity of brain-tissue
would act to prevent localisation at the outer surface of the scalp of
changes of temperature in a narrowly circumscribed area of the
cerebral surface.
    Imagine, as before, a point of the cerebral surface to have its tem
perature raised 0°-l C. Now, setting out from this point, the excess
of heat would be transmitted to points in the surrounding cerebral
mass situated at a distance of 7 5. millims., in the proportions shown in
Tables    III and IV. What the transmission to a point of the external
surface situated directly over the focus of heat would be we have just
seen.     We have, then, merely to take the temperatures contained in
Tables    III and IV, and using the percentages of transmission through
                               * Op. cit., pp. 115, 118.

196                                   Dr.    J.   S. Lombard.                On    the    Propagation         of
skull and scalp combined, given in Tables                                                 VIII      and    IX,    to calcula8
the temperatures which would be found at a point of the outer surface
lying over the point of cerebral surface situated 7-5 millims. from the
focus of heat.  For example, Table       shows us that, at tbe end of        III
the sixth minute, a point of the brain, situated 7'5 millims. from
another point heated 0°-l C., would have its own temperature raised,
by conduction, 0°-06679 C, and Table           shows us that the trans            VIII
mission through skull and scalp combined (which would, of course, he
proceeding coincidently)     at this time, 42' 762 per cent. hence the
                                                            is,                                                  ;
temperature of the outer surface would be 0°,02856 C.                                                                Tables       X
and           XI
         show the effects of this indirect transmission to                                                           the outer
surface.
Table X. — Effects produced through 75 millims. of sheep's skull and
   3 millims. of sheep's scalp, taken together, lying over a point                                                                of
  cerebral surface 7'5 millims. distant from another point of this same
  surface, the temperature of which latter point         raised 0°-l                                 is                           C.
  The results are calculated from Tables       and VIII.    This table              III                                           is
  for comparison with Table            where the effects of the directVIII
  transmission from the heated point are given. 1° of galvanometer
   isequal to 0°-0006742 C.    and 0°-l C.    equal to 148° 316 of gal
                                                             ;                      is
  vanometer.
                                                   Averages.                   Maxima.                        Minima.
              Times.                        Degrees                      Degrees                     Degrees
                                                           Thermo-                       Thermo-                      Tbermo-
                                              of                            of                          of
                                                            metric                        metric                       metric
                                            galvano                      galvano                     galvano
                                                            values.                       values.                      values.
                                             meter.                       meter.                      meter.
 At       the end of —
           min. 15 eec.                      0392c         000264° C.     1-087°      000733° C.      0    040°       000027°    C.
    6 4 2 1
                                             4-873        '003286                     005249              0560
                        0 0 0
                                                                          7-786                                       0C0378
                  „               „         17-888         012060        45483       '030664              2122       'O01430
                  „               „         42360         028560         70-769      '047712              9868       006633
                                               Percentage of heat transmitted.
                  Times.                                 Averages.                 Maxima.                    Minima.
                                                     0   264 per cent.         0 733 per cent.            0 027 per cent.
              „                                      3286                      5-249                      0378
 6 4 2
                                                                „
                      0 0 0
                              ,
              „               ,                    12-060                     30664                       1-430
              „                                    28 560         „           47-712         „            6633         „

             Heat by Conduction in Bone, Brain-tissue, and Skin.                         197
Table XI. — Permanent thermal condition effected through 7'5 millims.
    of sheep's skull and 3 millims. of oheep's scalp, taken together,
    lying over a point of cerebral surface 7'5 millims. distant from
    another point of this same surface, the temperature of which latter
    point is raised 0°-l C. The results are calculated from Tables IV
    and IX. This Table is for comparison with Table IX, where the
    effects of the direct transmission from the heated point are given.
     1° of galvanometer is equal to 0°-0006742 C. ; and 0°-l C. is equal to
     148°-316 of galvanometer.
                                   Degrees of         Thermometric         Percentages of
                                 galvanometer.            values.         heat transmitted.
                                      65-563°          0044202° C.         44-202  per cent,
                                     102606            0070176             70176
                                      28160            0018985             18985
     Plainly, if it were a question of mere conduction alone, and if the
skull and skin at the several points were of equal thickness, and
possessed of the same conductivity, it would be easy to locate on
the outer surface, within a radius of 7'5 millims., a change of 0o-l C.
occurring on the cerebral surface.
     The following are the differences of temperature in favour of the
point of surface lying directly over the focus of heat, which would
be found under the circumstances we are considering : —
                                                        Permanent thermal condition.
                            Average differences
           Times.
                              of temperature.
                                                                           Differences of
                                                                            temperature.
     1 min. 15 sec    —         0 001602° 0.                                0-018804°  C.
     2   ,.      0              0004406                                     0008701
     4   „       0              0-011842                                    0 020127
     6   „      0   „ ...       0014202
     But, in truth, in the case of the tissues concerned, we are not, in the
 first place, dealing with simple homogeneous conductors of uniform
 thicknesses. Even within the narrow area specified, the bone or skin
 may exhibit decided differences of conductivity, due to slight varia
 tions of structure or composition. That this may be the case, the
 writer has over and over again proved by direct experiment.                          As the
     • It   will  be noticed that the least difference is found   with the maximum of trans
  mission, and the greatest      difference  with the minimum   of transmission.

198            On  the  Propagation   of Heat   by Conduction, fyc.
propagation of heat by conduction is not rectilinear, a slight alteration
of texture or composition might easily deflect the path of transmission
in such a way as to wholly change the relative temperatures of the
outer surface which we have given. Differences of thickness, also
small, but sufficient to overthrow our calculations —may exist. Lastly,
the circulation of the blood, already alluded to, although incapable of
checking the outward transmission, might yet, within such narrow
limits, bring about a confusion in the external manifestations of the
interior change of temperature.            It is only when areas of much
                        —
greater dimensions for instance, of 50 or 60 millims. square —are
taken, that we can look with any degree of confidence to the relative
external temperatures as furnishing a key to the relative temperatures
of the underlying tracts of cerebral surface.* Moreover, in increased
mental activity — whatever may be its kind — the change of tempera
ture on the outer surface of the head is of widespread extent, and not
confined to such limited areas as those on which our calculations are
based.
     * See the writer's " Regional Temperature of the Head," pp. 119 and 209.

                             CONTENTS          (continued).
                                                                                        PAGE
 VIII.  (I.)    On   a  Tangential    Property of Regular      Hypoeycloids       and
           Epicycloids.    (II.) On Theorems relating to the Regular Polyhedra
           which are analogous to those of Dr. Matthew Stewart on the
           Regular Polygons.       By Hknet M. Jefeee8, F.R.S. .                .     .   105
   IX. On the Critical      Point of Mixed      Gases.  By Gebbabd       Assdell,
           F. O.S                                                                         113
    X. On    an Arrangement of the Electric Arc for the Study of the Radia
           tion of Vapours, together with Preliminary Results.           By G. D.
           Liveing, MA., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, and            J. Dewab,
           M.A., F.R.S., Jacksonian Professor, University of Cambridge                .   119
   XI. On    the Ultra-violet Spectra of the Elements.        Part I. Iron. By
           G. D. Liveing, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, and
          J. Dewae, M.A., F.R.S., Jacksonian Professor, University of
          Cambridge                                                                       122
 XII. General      Observations on the Spectrum of Carbon audits Compounds.
          By    Professor G. D. Liveisg, M.A., F.R.S., and Professor James
          Dewab, M.A., F.R.S                                                             123
                                                                  ....
 XIII. Further      Observations upon Liquid Jets, in continuation of those
          recorded in the Royal Society's "Proceedings" for March and
          May, 1879.       By Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Professor of Experi
          mental Physics in the University of Cambridge                                  130
 XIV. On a Collection of Rock Specimens            from  Socotra.   By Professor
          T. G. Boxney, M.A., F.R.S., F.G.S                                              145
  XV. On the       Photographic    Spectrum    of Comet (Wells)    I,  1882.       By
          William Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S                                          148
 XVI.  On the Action of Heat upon the Contagium in the two forms of
                                                  "           " and " Pasteur's."
          Seprichaeniia known respectively as Davaine's
          Bj    G. F. Dowdeswell, M.A. (Cantab.), F.L.S., F.C.S.,         &c.        .   150
XVII.  On the Development of the Enamel of the Teeth of Vertebrates.              By
          Emily Nuns.         [Plates 2-4]                                               156
XVIII. On     an Instrument    for Correcting Gaseous Volume.     By A. Vebnon
          Habcoubt, M.A., F.R.S                                                          166
 XIX.   Sunspots and Terrestrial Phenomena.          I. On the Variations of the
          Daily Range of Atmospheric Temperature, as recorded at the
          Colaba Observatory, Bombay.         II. On the Variations of the Daily
          Range of the Magnetic Declination, as recorded at the Colaba
          Observatory, Bombay.         By C. Chambers, F.R.S., Superintendent
          of the Colaba Observatory                                                      168
  XX.  On a Method of Tracing Periodicites in a Series of Observations
          when the Periods are unknown.          By Vinayek Nahayeu Nenb,
          First Assistant at the Colaba Observatory, Bombay           .       .     .    168
 XXI.  On the Causes of Glacier         Motion.   By W. R. Bbowne, M.A., late
          Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge                                           168

                              CONTENTS          (continued).
 XXII.    The Life History of the Ringworm Fungus (Trlvophyton lotWHrans).
             By M. Mobbis and Dr. G. C. Hendebson                                         168
XXIII.    On the Nerves of the Epiglottis. By William Stibling, M.D.,
             Sc.D., Regius Professor of the Institutes of Medicine (Physiology)
             in the University of Aberdeen, and G. Dupfus             .-     .    .    .  16S
 X XIV.    On the Action of certain Reagents on Coloured Blood Corpuscles.
             Part I. Blood Corpuscles of the Frog and Newt. By William
             Stibling, M.D., Sc.D., Regius Professor of the Institutes of
             Medicine (Physiology) in the University of Aberdeen .               .     .  1 63
List of Presents                                                                          163
Experimental Researches on the Propagation           of Heat by Conduction in
   Bone, Brain-tissue, and Skin. By     J. S. Lombabd, M.D., formerly Assistant
   Professor of Physiology    in Harvard University                                       1 73
Obituary Notice : —
   Joseph Decaisxe                                                                           in
                                Now published.     Price  4.?.
   CATALOGUE          OF THE SCIENTIFIC BOOKS IN THE                      LIBRARY OF
                                THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
  Fibst Section     :— Containing Transactions, Journals, Observations and Reports,
                                    Surveys, Museums.
  CATALOGUE         OF SCIENTIFIC PAPERS, COMPILED                       BY THE ROYAL
                                        SOCIETY.
                      Published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office.
        8 vols., 4to.   1800—1873.     Per vol. : 20*., cloth  ; 28*.,   half-morocco.
      On Sale by Murray, Albemarle Street, and Trubner and Co., Ludgate             Hill.
        HARRISON        AND SONS,      45 & 46,   ST. MARTIN'S           LANE, W.C.,
                                  AND ALL o0OKSELLEo8.

                            PEOCEEDINGS OF
                THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
  vol. xxxiv.                        "J 0V  28   18
                                                    i t.                          No. 222.
                                      CONTENTS.
                                                                                       PAGB
 On the    Variation of the Electrical Resistance of Glass with Temperature,
    Density, and Chemical Composition.       By Thomas Gbay, B.Sc., F.R.S.E. .          199
 On the Causes      of Glacier-Motion.    By  Walter R. Bbownb, M.A., M. Inst.
    C.E., late Fellow of Trin. Coll., Cambridge                                          208
 On Impact     with a Liquid Surface.    By A. M. Wobthington, M.A.            .     .  217
 Sun-spota    and Terrestrial Phenomena.      I. On      the Variations of the Daily
    Range   of Atmospheric Temperature, as recorded at the Colaba Observatory,
   Bombay.      By Chables Chambebs, F.R.S., Superintendent               .    .     .  231
 Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena.         II. On the Variations of the Daily
    Range of the Magnetic Declination, as recorded at the Colaba Observatory,
    Bombay.      By Chablbs Chambebs, F.R.S., Superintendent               .    .    .   247
                                    November 16, 1882.
   I. On the    Nerves of the Frog's Lung.     By "William Stibling, M.D., Sc.D.         265
 II.  Notice of Portions of the Skeleton of the Trunk and Limbs of the Great
         Horned Saurian of Australia (Megalania prisca, Ow.). By Professor
         Owbn, C.B., F.R.S., G.S., &c                                                   267
III.  On the relation of particular Structural Features in certain Leaves to
         the Phenomena of Nyctitropism and Movements incident on Stimula
         tion by Concussion. By D. D. Cunningham                                        268
IV. On the Continuity of       the Protoplasm in the Motile Organs of Leaves.
         By Walteb Gabdineb, B.A.,        late Scholar of Clare College, Cambridge      272
 V. Note     on the Discovery of Bacilli in the Condensed Aqueous Vapour of
         the Breath of Persons affected with Phthisis. By Abthue Ransome,
         M.A., M.D                                                                      274
             For  continuation of Contents see 3rd and     ith pages of Wrapper.
                                Price Eight Shillings.

       PHILOSOPHICAL                              TRANSACTIONS.
                                      Part   II, 1882.
                                        Contents.
 VII.  On the Structure       and Development      of Lepidoaleus.   By F. M. Balfocb,
        LL.D., F.R.S.,      and W. N. Pabkbb.
VIII; On the Development of the Skull in Lepidosteus               ostein.    By William
         Kitchen Pabkeb, F.R.S.
  IX. On   the Vibrations    of a Vortex Ring, and tho Action upon     each,  other of  Two
         Vortices in a Perfect Fluid.      By J. J. Thomson, B.A.
   X. The Bakebian Lectube. — Chemical Theory of            Gunpowder.       By  BT. Dbbus,
         Ph.D., F.R.S.
  XI. On   the Refraction     of Plane Polarized     Light at the Surface of a TJniaxal
         Crystal.     By R. T. Glazebbooe, M.A.
 XII. On the Results of Recent Explorations of Erect Trees containing Animal
         Remains in the Coal-formation           of Nova Scotia. By      J,   W. Dawsos,
         LL.D., F.R.S.
XIII.  Experiment*      to Determine the Value of the British Association       Unit of  Re
         sistance   in Absolute Measure.      By Lord Ratlbigh, F.R.S.
 XIV.  On the Comparative        Structure   of tho Brain in Rodents.       By W. Betas
         Lewis, L.R.C.P. (Lond.).
Index to Part   II.
                                          Price £2.
Extra volume (vol.     168) containing   the Reports of the Naturalists     attached  to the
                         Transit of Venuo Expeditions.     Price £3.
                                Sold by Harrison and Sons.
Separate copies of Papers in the Philosophical Transactions, commencing with 1875,
                   may be had of Triibner and Co., 57, Iudgato Hill.

      On the Variation    of  the Electrical Resistance of Glass,     fyc.  19i)
   On the Variation of the Electrical Resistance of Glass with
       Temperature, Density, and Chemical Composition." By
       Thomas Gbay, B.Sc., F.R.S.E. Communicated by Pro
       fessor Sir William Thomson, F.R.S.                   Received December
                                                      *
       28, 1881.     Read January 12, 1882
    The following paper is     a description of the methods adopted, and of
the results obtained, in a series of experiments on the specific resist
ance of glass. These experiments were performed in the Physical
Laboratory of     the Imperial College of Engineering, Tokio, Japan.
    An account of some preliminary experiments on this subject was
communicated by the author of this paper to the " Philosophical
Magazine " for October, 1880. In that paper attention was specially
directed to the change of resistance with change of temperature, and
to   an apparently permanent change             in electric quality which the
glass    underwent when subjected to a high temperature.             Subsequent
experiments have served to confirm the results there given, but show
that if the glass be newly made very little, if any, permanent change
is  brought about by heating.
    In   the  experiments just referred to a current of electricity was
kept flowing either continuously or at short intervals during the
heaxing. As this might produce effects which would not be caused by
beating alone, it was thought desirable to test one or two specimens
for resistance at as low a temperature as possible, and then again, after
the glass had been heated to between 200° and 300° C., and cooled
to the same temperature. Experiments performed in this way have
shown an exactly similar change to that previously obtained.                  It
appears, therefore, that the change previously observed was due to
heating.
    The fact that   the permanent change produced by heating to a high
temperature was markedly greater iu specimens of old than in specimens
of   new glass, rendered it probable that the change was due to some
previous change in the opposite direction, which goes on slowly at the
ordinary temperature.        In order to put this conjecture to the test of
experiment, advantage was taken of several specimens of newly-manu
 factured glass which had just been obtained from the Government Glass
 Works,    Shinagawa, Tokio.       The results of tests made on three speci
mens    of  that glass  are  given in the following table. The first two
specimens were lime glass, while the third was a white semi-opaque
Hint glass, containing arsenic. In the first column the number of the
specimen is written ; in the second the resistance in ohms between two
opposite faces of a cubic centimetre ; in the third, the temperature at
                       * For abstract see ante, vol. 33, p. 256.
    V0L. XXXIV.                                                       r

200                                   Mr. T. Gray.
which the resistance was measured ; in the fourth, the density of
the glass; and in the fifth, the date at which the resistance was
measured.
                Specific resistance
     No. of                           Tempera
                  in ohms per                   Dousity.            Date.
   specimen.                            ture.
                  cub. centim.
                    146 x 1010          40° 0.    2-57      May  3, 1880.
        •
            {       122 x 10'°                              December 0, 1880.
                     24 x 10l0          40° C.    2:53      May  3, 1880.
        2   •         17 x 1010                             December 10, 1880.
                     12 x 1010                              May  3, 1881.
                     41 x 10"         140° C.     3:07      May  17, 1880.
        3
            {        17 x 10"                       ii      November 17, 1880.
    These results show a very considerable increase of conductivity
with age, and also show a marked difference in the variation of
different specimens.          The number of experiments is not sufficient to
give   much    information       regarding this time change, but the fact that
they give evidence that such a change takes place seems to warrant
the publication of these preliminary results.
    The measurements of resistance described in this paper were, like
those in the previous paper above referred to, for the most part made
by means of an astatic galvanometer of high resistance and great
sensibility.      The galvanometer used had an internal resistance of
 10,000 ohms, and one Daniell's element produced a deflection of one
division when a resistance of about 10u ohms was in the circuit. The
great advantage of the galvanometer over the electrometer method of
measurement is its simplicity ; the deflection being independent of the
 capacity of the circuit, provided no change is taking place in that-
capacity. In many cases, however, the resistance of glass at low
 temperatures cannot be measured by the galvanometer, and in these
 cases, the most convenient instrument is a Thomson's quadrant elec
trometer.
    The method adopted in the galvanometer measurements was that of
direct deflection, the current being produced by fifty Daniell's ele
ments, placed on a table well insulated with ebonite                       supports,
kept dry by being enclosed in boxes containing sulphuric acid.
The main difficulty in this method is to ensure absence of leakage
currents through the galvanometer.               The test used for the absence
of such currents was to insulate the electrode of the inside coating
of the glass vessel, and then close the key.           If there was no deflection,
it  was assumed that the circuit was sufficiently insulated.
     Several measurements were made by means of the quadrant elec
 trometer,    and   in that      case  the method   adopted   was to conuect      one
 coating of the glass, one pair of quadrants, and the case of the               elec

       On the Variation of the Electrical Resistance of Glass, §c.   201
 trometer to earth ; while the other coating of the glass and the
 remaining pair of quadrants were connected together but insulated.
 The resistance was then calculated from the capacity of the glass
 vessel and electrometer quadrant, and the rate of loss of charge.
     The conducting coatings for the glass were generally made by partly
 filling the vessel to be experimented on with mercury, and then
immersing it in another vessel of mercury until the surface of the
mercury inside and outside the vessel was at the same level. In order
 to avoid leakage over the sides of the vessel, it and the mercury were
made thoroughly dry by heating, and when sufficiently cooled, a
coating of paraffin was run over the surface of the mercury and the
vessel.    Through this coating of paraffin a fine glass tube, well dried
and paraffined, was passed, thus furnishing at the same time a passage,
and more thorough insulation against surface leakage for the elec
trode which made contact with the mercury. This explanation will be
more readily understood by the aid of fig. 1, which shows the arrange
ment for measuring the resistance of a glass globe, the galvanometer,
battery, and key being shown symbolically.        In the figure SM repre-
                                   Fia.  1.
sents the surface of tho mercury, Sp the surface of the paraffin, and t
the fine tube through which the electrode, I, passes. The tube, t, and
the neck of the globe were in such a case coated with paraffin.
     The precautions against leakage here described are more necessary
when the resistance at ordinary temperature is to be measured, but
even in other cases it was found advisable to begin with this, and
simply allow the paraffin to evaporate at high temperatures. The sur
face of the hot glass remained afterwards perfectly dry.
     Sulphuric acid was sometimes used instead of mercury, and answers
 perfectly if the temperature docs not require to be high. If, however,
                                                               p 2

202                                   Mr. T. Gray.
the temperature requires to be raised until the acid evaporates,                          it
becomes extremely disagreeable.                 The acid has the advantage that           it
keeps the vessel dry, and hence is to be preferred for low temperature
measurements.
    Abridged      tables of results for a few characteristic              specimens    are
annexed,       and serve to illustrate         the very wide range of resistance
which may be obtained by using different specimens of glass. The
variation with temperature of several specimens is illustrated by
means of curves. These curves only show the variation with tempera
ture through a small range, as it was found almost impossible to
include both a number of curves and long range of temperature
in the same diagram.
    It will be observed on examining these curves that the rate of
variation with temperature is very nearly the same, not only for
different specimens of the same kind of glass, but for all the kinds of
glass there figured.          Other specimens, not included in this diagram,
gave a very similar variation.             On an average it may be said that the
specific resistance of glass is halved for every 8°-5 C. rise of tem
perature.*
     In  the taWes of results the density of each specimen is recorded,
and     in some cases the chemical composition also. The chemical
analyses were performed in the Chemical Laboratory of the Imperial
 College of Engineering, Tokio, by Messrs. Fujii and Shimidzu, under
the superintendence           of Dr. Edward Divers, to whom the author is
 much indebted for the great interest he has taken, and assistance he
 has given, in the carrying out of these experiments.
     It is very interesting to notice how very closely a change of density
in flint glass agrees with a change of electrical resistance, and also
 that the electrical resistance of this kind of glass increased regularly
 until the density reached that point at which the composition of the
 glass was almost exactly that required for a trisilioate of lead, potash,
 and silica.      The very high density of lead oxide causes the density of
 the glass to be an indication of the quantity of lead present, and
     * Note added April    2G, 1882. — Although the fall of resistance with rise of    tem
  perature generally follows very nearly the logarithmic law, the results show varia
 tions from that law which     I  am not yet able to explain.       The resistance at high
 temperatures is generally higher than would be inferred from the resistance and
 rate of variation at low temperatures.       It is remarkable that specimens which had a
 high resistance gave results more nearly in agreement with the logarithmic law than
 specimens of comparatively low resistance.
     The resistances quoted in the tables are those calculated from observations after
 one minute's elect rifieut ion, the direction of the current being alternately  in opposite
  directions, and only allowed to flow for about one minute at each observation.        The
  method of observation was thus similar to that described as " the first method" in
                     "                           "                           " Phil. Mag.,"
  my paper in the Philosophical Magazine            above referred to.  (See
  October, 1880, page 227.)

       On the Variation    of the   Electrical Resistance of Glass,         $-c.    203
  hence the density in this case serves as a guide to the electrical quality
  of the glass. A specimen of glasR containing too much lead for a pure
  silicate has not yet been experimented on, but the result of such an
  experiment would be of great interest in furnishing evidence as to
  whether purity of chemical composition and high electrical resistance
  go together.
      When we turn to lime glass, however, we find that the density is
 no guide to the electrical quality.           Specimens having nearly the same
 density vary enormously as to their electrical resistance.               This, how-
 ever, is to be expected, as the density may change but little, even
 when the chemical composition is greatly altered.              Lime glass gene
 rally contains both soda and potash, and the ratio of these two bases
 may influence considerably the density, while the glass remaining a
 good glass the electrical conductivity may not be much affected.
     So far as the results of chemical composition go, however, it appears
 that in the case of lime glass also, a glass which would be pronounced
good from a chemical point of view is also relatively good from an
electrical point of view. On the other hand a glass which would be
pronounced bad chemically is also bad electrically.
    In the following    tables the resistance at various temperatures of six
specimens     of  lime glass and two specimens of lead glass are given.
The first column contains the temperature, the second the resistance
in ohms of a cubic centimetre, the third the density, and the fourth
the chemical composition in those cases where it was determined.
                    Specimen   I.     (Bohemian glass* tubing.)
              60° C                    605 X    1011                  2 43
             100                         20  x 10"
             130                         20x101"
             160                         24xl09
            174                          87  x  108
                          Specimen       II.    (Test-tube.)
             37° C.                  229 x    1010                 2 -458
            59                       306 x108
            73                       612 x10s
           101                         56x10"
           131                         62  x 107
                Specimen   III.     (Japanese lime glass tubing.)
     10°       .    670xl0lu      ..     2 55      ..  Silica                 613
     30        .    199 x1010                          Potash                 22 "9
     52        .    300 x 109                          Lime, &c., by"  diff.  15 -8
      75       .    450 x108
     85        .    220 x108                                                 100 0

204                                      Mr. T. Gray.
                  Specimen      IV.       (Japanese lime glass tubing.)
    35° C.     ..     113 x1011         ..    2-499     ..   Silica                57 2
    55          ..      25x10"                               Potash                21  1
    75          . .     61 x 1010                            Lime, &c., by' diff.  16  7
    85          ..      26xl010
    95          ..      12xl010                                                   100-0
   The analyses of the last two specimens are only approximate,
having been made previous to the electrical experiments, and for a
different purpose.           The composition differs very widely from that
which is required for a pure silicate, and the electrical resistance is
also found to be very low.
                             Specimen V.           (French flask.)
  45° C.   . .      327 x1010      . .      2 -533    .    Silica                     70 -05
  55         .      133 x   1010   . .        . .                                     10 33
  65         .      509 x109       . .        . .                                      2-70
  75         .      204 x109       .                       Soda                       14 32
  86          .     812 x10s        . .       . .                                      1  44
  95          .     391 x 108       . -       ' -     -    Magnesia                    0 10
108           .     133   x108       .                     Alumina, iron oxide,
117            .    707x10^          .                         manganese oxide .       1  45
                                                                                    100-39
    With regard to this specimen, Dr. Divers writes as follows : —
    " This seems to be a soda lime
                                                  glass mixed with a little potash      lead
 glass ; the latter having been thrown in as cullet.                   Assuming this      to
be the case, we will have approximately —
                     Potash lead glass                                 8 '7
                     Soda           ,                                 913
                                                                     100-0
    The soda lime glass has then the composition —
                     Silica                                           72 7
                     Lime                                             11  4
                     Soda                                             15 9
                                                                     100-0

       On the Variation       of the   Electrical Resistance of Glass,      fyc.    205
      Apparently the best glass has the formula —
                                                                 75 3
                                               Lime              11  7
                                            {Silica
                                                Soda             13 0
                                                               100 0
     " If this is deviated from an increase in the proportion of soda to
  lime requires a considerable increase in the proportion of silica to base.
  The flask is therefore defective, for not only is the soda in excess to
  the lime, but the silica is deficient.           I calculate that from 20 to 25
  parts of silica should be added to 100 of that glass to counteract the
 excess of soda.        Such a glass would be —
                    Silica                                        77 5
                    Lime                                           9 '5
                    Soda                                          13-0
     " However,     too little is yet known of the relations of composition to
 quality   of glass to admit of positive statement.
     "The empirical formula             a;CaO,Si02     + yNasO.SiC^ 'seems       to me
 to be a tolerably accurate expression of the various kinds of good glass,
 provided x and y are not very different from one another.                        When
 eqnal, the glass is certainly excellent."
                        Specimen      VI.   (Bohemian beaker.)
   66°  C.   .     497 x   1011   . .   2-587    .                                75 65
   88              823  x 10w     .                                                8-48
 110               138 x 10™      .                     Potash                     7-92
132                230 x 109      .                                                6 92
150                540 x108       .                                                0 36
 170               147 x108                             Alumina,    iron   and
 193               308 x 10?      .                       manganese oxides.        0-70
                                                                                100 03
    Assuming the formula K30,CaOSi02 + NajO,CaO,Si02,                       as   giving
                                                    i                    a
the best composition,        we should have —
          Potash                      18 -4      Soda.                   13 0
          Lime.                       11 -0      Lime                    11   7
          Silica .                    70 -6       Silica                 75-3

20(5                               Mr. T. Gray.
   The mean of which would give —
                Potash                                          9 2
                Soda. .                                         C-5
                Lime. .                                        11 3
                Silica .                                       73 0
   The alkali is therefore slightly in excess, but to compensate that,
there is an excess of silica, the result being a very good glass, both
chemically and electrically.
                 Specimen     VII.     (Arsenic-enamel glass.)
 49° C.        140 x 10w ?     . .   3-07   . .   Silica                     54-2
105            230 xl011                         Lead oxide                  23 9
115            101 x 10u                         Potash                    •10-5
125              45 x 10u                         Soda                     • 7-0
135              22 x 10u                        Lime                         0-3
                                                 Magnesia                     0-2
                                                 Iron and manganese
                                                     oxide and alumina        0 4
                                                 Arsenic oxide by diff.       3 5
                                                                           100    0
  In this  glass we have an excess or alkali for the lead oxide, and a
deficiency of silica ; the composition is rendered complicated, how
ever, by the presence     of the arsenic.
            Specimen     VIII.      (Thomson's electrometer jar.)
100°  c. .     206 x   1012            172       Silica                   55 -18
120            468 x   10"                       Lead oxide               31 '01
140            106x10"                           Potash                   13 28
160            245 x 10u                         Lime                       0-35
180              56 x  1010                      Magnesia                  0  -0ti
200              12xl0lu                         Alumina,       iron and
                                                    manganese oxides .     0 -67
                                                                         100  -55-
  The formula PbO,KaO,SiOa, gives—
                                   e
                Silica                                        53 -2
               Lead oxide.                                    32 9
               Potash ....                                   13 9
                      Ratio of potash to soda may  be too high.

   On the  Variation of the   Electrical Resistance of Glass, $c.     207
                                   Fig. 2.
   Allowing   the lime, magnesia, &c., to replace one equivalent of lead
oxide, this glass very nearly agrees with the above theoretical com
position . This therefore ought to be an excellent glass, and so it turns
oat to be electrically. So far as these results go then, the evidence is
in favour   of an exact   chemical   compound for a glass of low con
ductivity.
   In  the following table, the resistances at 60° C. of numbers of
different specimens of lime glass are given, together with their
 densities. The first column tells the kind of vessel experimented on ;
 the second the resistance in ohms of a cubic centimetre, and the
 third the density.

 208                              Mr. W. R. Browne.
                                         Resistance in ohms
        Description  of  glass vessel.    per cub. centim.           Densitv.
          Bohemian tubing        . . .        605 x 10"               2 -430
              ,,        beaker.    . . .      425 x  10"              2 -427
                                              542 X1011               2 -454
                                              715x10"                 2 -587
          Florence flask.     .               469 x 109               2 523
          French        ,,                    996X109                 2 533
          Japanese globe.                     210 x1010               2 510
          Test-tube                           144 x 109               2 "435
                                              350X109                 2 44
                                              285 x  1010             2 -458
                                              125x10*                 2 467
                                              147 X1010              2 499
                                              364x10s                 2 53
                                              155 x 109               2 55
                                              374 x109                2-57
                                              196 x 109               2-667
                                             933 x 109                2 547
    The specimens marked (*) were of Japanese manufacture ; the first
four being potash lime glass, and the last soda lime glass.               The other
test-tubes were supplied from England, and were probably German
white glass.
    The next table contains a similar comparison for a few specimens of
flint glass.      The columns have the same meaning as in the last
table.
         Tumbler of toughened glass. . .              622 X 1010     2 -670
         Piece of tubing. ,                           389 x 10"       2 753
         Japanese globe                               120 x 1012     2 -840
         Cylindrical       cup with hemi
            spherical base of arsenic-
            enamel glass                              302 x 1012     3 '070
         A  Thomson's quadrant electro
            meter   jar                               102 x 1013     3 172
"On    the Causes         of Glacier-Motion." By Walter R. Browne,
     M. Inst. C.E., late Fellow Trin. Coll., Cambridge. Com
     municated by Professor Stokes, Sec. R.S.                            Received
     June 1. Read June 15, 1882.
   The question of the causes which produce the movement of glaciers,
which was at one time so eagerly discussed, would appear to have
slumbered for the last ten years.                This cannot be said to arise from

                      On  the Causes  of Glacier-Motion.               209
 the fact   that a perfectly satisfactory theory has been developed, and
 recognised as such by all inquirers.      The ambiguous allusion to the
 subject   in  Sir  John  Lubbock's presidential address to the British
Association is an evidence that such certainty has not been attained.
It is, indeed, generally supposed that the fact of the melting-
point of ice being lowered by pressure is somehow at the root of the
matter ; but a full explanation of the origin of this pressure in the
case of glaciers, and of the mechanical features of the problem, has yet
to be given.      I may, therefore, be pardoned if I draw attention to a
different solution, proposed not by myself but by one of the greatest
of English mechanicians.                                        I
                                My apology for doing so is that approach
the question as an engineer, not as a physicist ; and that it is in its
essence, as will be shown immediately, a mechanical rather than a
physical problem.
   The following are leading facts of glacier-motion which must be
accounted for by any valid theory on the subject : —
   (1.) The phenomena of the movement of a glacier are simply those
of a solid body in a state of flow.
   (2.) The present glaciers of Switzerland or Norway, which are the
only ones which have been critically examined, are mere shrunken
fragments of the glaciers of the Great Ice Age. To take one instance,
the present glacier of the Rhone is about 6 miles long and perhaps
500 feet deep ; but the old glacier of the Rhone, which abutted against
the Jura, was 120 miles long and must have been 2,000 to 3,000 feet
deep.     The movement of such glaciers as this must also be accounted
for in any satisfactory theory.
   (3.) The glaciers of the present day are not confined to the tempe
rate region ; .they are found in much larger numbers and of much
greater size in the Arctic regions.
   (4.) Both in the temperate and in the Arctic regions glaciers move
in winter as well as in summer, and by night as well as by day.
   That a glacier is in a state of flow was first proved by Forbes, and
has since been confirmed by the measurements of Tyndall and others.
Whilst the whole mass moves downwards, the top moves faster than
the bottom and the sides than the middle ; the upper layers must
therefore be continually shearing over the lower, and the medial over
 the lateral.    A glacier, being a body in a state of flow, must move
under the influence of forces powerful enough to overcome its resis
tance, and so produce this condition.
   The general phenomena of the motion of a glacier are exactly
reproduced when a viscous body moves through a channel under the
influence of its own weight.        We have, therefore, to enquire whether
 the shearing resistance of ice is sufficiently low to enable us to regard
a glacier as a viscous mass.
    The only experiments known to me on the shearing resistance of

210                               Mr. W. R. Browne.
ice, are those of Moseley           (" Phil. Mag.," January, 1870).          He found
that with pressures from 100 to 110 lbs. per square inch, cylinders of
ice sheared slowly across the two planes in contact, sliding over each
other without losing continuity.    The distance sheared through was
about |- inch in half an hour. A load of 119 lbs. per square inch was
sufficient to shear through a cylinder of 1^ inches in diameter in two
to three minutes.     From these experiments it would appear that the
lowest shearing stress which will cause ice to flow is about 100 lbs.
per square inch ; but sufficient time was not allowed in the experi
ments to make this a matter of certainty.
   There is another way in which the shearing resistance of ice may
be tested.   In the case of a block of ice of vertical sides, gravity of
course produces a shearing resistance along all planes passing through
the base. Let h be the height of such a block in feet, and consider
the shearing force due to gravity on any square foot of a plane making
an angle 0 with the vertical.   This shearing force is given by—
                      wh X    h   tan   6
                                            xcos0    wh
                              2
                                                    —~o   sin   6 cos 0.
                                  h sec 0             «
  This expression is a maximum when                  6   =45°, and its value is then —
                                              wh
                                               4"
  What is the greatest height at which a vertical cliff of ice will
stand ? I am not able to state this precisely, but it is very consider
able.  Mr. Whymper mentions crevasses in South America 300 feet
deep.  Cliffs of fully that height have been seen standing out of water
in the   case of icebergs,    and as so small a part of an iceberg projects
above water,     these    cliffs probably extend below to a considerable
depth.   Taking, however, only 300 feet for the value of h, or for the
maximum height of an ice cliff, this would give about 30 lbs. per
square inch as the lowest shearing force upon a plane of ice which
would cause it to assume the condition of flow.
   Let us now suppose a glacier of thickness a, lying upon a slope
whose inclination to the horizontal is y3 : then the force per square
foot, tending to shear the ice at its junction with the slope, is clearly
aw sin     /3.
   Supposing sin     to equal
                     /3            and that the shearing resistance
                                        \,                                          is
30 lbs. per square inch, we get a = about 290.       Hence we may say
that a glacier lying on a slope of    in will not move at all under its
                                              1     4
own weight, unless     be at least 300 feet thick, and that if
                         it                                    be more     it
than this, the upper 300 feet will move as one solid mass, the part
below alone representing the conditions of flow.
  It needless to say that there are hundreds of glaciers which are
      is

                     On the Causes    of Glacier- Motion.                 211
less   than 300 feet thick, and which at no part of their course have a
slope anything approaching 1 in 4.
    We have now to show that the theories generally propounded for
glacier action are all of them negatived by some of the foregoing con
siderations.    These theories may be stated as follows : —
    (1.) The glacier simply slides over its bed as a solid body.       This is
negatived by the fact that some parts move faster than others.
    (2.) The glacier flows under the action of its own weight, exactly
as a viscous body flows.       This is the theory of Forbes. It is dis
proved by the facts given above, which show that even on a slope of
1 in 4 a glacier would not flow unless it was at least 300 feet thick.
    (3.) The glacier moves by the crushing of its base. This has been
disproved by Moseley's experiments, which showed that the crushing
resistance of ice was considerably higher than the shearing resistance.
    (4.) The glacier moves by the melting of its base. This is the
theory of Hopkins.       He placed a block of ice at 32° P. on a slab at a
small angle, and found that it slowly descended as it melted.         On this
view the bottom of the glacier must always be in a melting state.
Bnt glaciers are of all sizes and thicknesses, and they move in winter as
well as summer.      Bessels (" Die Amerikanische Nordpol Expedition,"
p. 398) measured the motion of an Arctic glacier (not apparently very
thick), in the month of April, which is just when the winter cold
would have sunk deepest, and found it considerable. Again in the
" Zeitschrift des dentschen
                                Geologischen Gesellschaft," vol. 33, p. 693,
is an account of measurements of a Greenland glacier, both in winter
and summer, which show that the motion in winter is only 20 per
 cent. less than in summer.       It has been suggested to me that the
interior heat of the earth may be sufficient to keep the bottom of the
 ice from freezing ; but this cannot apply near the sides, where the ice
 is shallow, and the freezing of a very small strip on each side would
 be sufficient to keep the whole mass from descending.         Moreover, this
 cause would apply to masses of suow as much as to ice.             But it is
 known that masses of suow, though lying on steep slopes, do not
 descend in this way, even in summer, but melt away where they lie.
     (5.) According to the theories of Tyndall, Croll, and others, the
  glacier moves not in the form of ice, but of water.     These theories aro
  based on the known fact that the freezing point of ice is lowered by
  pressure.   Hence it is supposed that certain parts of a glacier are con
  tinually being exposed to so much pressure that they melt.       The water
  escapes   downward,  and  the  pressure being   relieved, it freezes  again.
  The continuity of the glacier is further kept up by the process of
  regelation, according to which two pieces of ice if placed in contact,
  form into one solid mass.
      The advocates of this theory hardly seem to consider how very
   small the lowering of the freezing point is for any ordinary pressure.

212                            Mr. W. R. Browne.
 It is only '0070° per atmosphere.           In other words, it will require a
pressuro of 2,000 lbs. per square inch to liquefy ice at 31° instead of
32°.    This is equivalent to the weight of a column of ice about 5,000
feet high. It is needless to ask whether such a pressure can exist
within an ordinary glacier, while on the other hand glaciers un
doubtedly moTo at temperatures far below freezing point — in the
Arctic regions below zero.
    It seems to be generally supposed that the pressure in the lower
part of a glacier is due to the steeper upper portions : the glacier
channel is spoken of as a mould, through which the ice is forced by
pressure from behind.           But in the upper glacier, slopes of ice or
neee are not uncommon at angles of 30", or even more.                 Such slopes
usually do not even touch the more level parts of the glacier below
them, but are separated from them by a wide, deep crevasse called a
Bergschrund.        Of this the well-known ice wall of the Strahleck is
a conspicuous example.          In other cases such slopes do not end in a
glacier at all, but die away upon the mountain side. It is certain,
therefore, that ice or neve is able to maintain itself at a high angle
upon its slope of rocks, and therefore cannot possibly exercise pressure
upon the parts of the glacier far in advance of its foot.             The fallacy
of this idea may be further illustrated by referring, not to modern
glaciers, but to those of the Great Ice Age. Can we suppose that the
pressure of the snows about the sources of the Rhone was sufficient to
drive that glacier down the valley to Martigny, round a sharp angle
to the Lake of Geneva, through the bed of that lake, and on to the
slopes of the Jura, a distance of more than 100 miles, in which the
average slope was about 1 in 200 ; giving a propelling force per ton
of ice of about 11 lbs. only ?
    All these theories have this in common, that they regard gravity as
the sole and direct agent in the movement of glaciers, and the above
considerations seem to prove that it is an agent far too weak for the
work it has to do.*
    The only other agent which has been suggested, or seems likely to
be suggested, to account for the motion of glaciers, is heat.                   This
suggestion, as is well known, is due to the late Canon Moseley,             F.R.S.,
and was to some extent worked out by him in papers published in
the "Phil. Mag." 1809 and 1870.
    The mode of operation, on this theory, is well known.              Ice. is here
considered merely as a solid body, obeying the ordinary laws of expan
sion and contraction under differences of temperature.                  This it is
known to do, the coefficient of linear expansion, for 1° F., being
   * Another evidence against pressure from behind as a cause of motion is furnished
by the very small size of many glaciers. Some of these, notably those of the class
called " glaciers remanies," are only a few hundred yards long, and cannot be manv
feet deep.

                         On    the   Causes     of Glacier-Motion.                       213
-00002856
                      "
            (Moseley, Phil. Mag.," January, 1870), which is very high.
 When a mass of ice, such as a glacier, suffers a rise in temperature,
 either through conduction or radiation, it will expand ; this expansion
 will take place mainly in the direction where movement is easiest,
 that  is,down the valley.  If from any canse the temperature falls,
the glacier will again contract   but since the expansion
                                           ;                   assisted by is
gravity whilst the contraction             is
                                  opposed by  it, the latter will be some
 what less in amount than the former, and when the ice has returned
to its original temperature  its centre of gravity will have moved                        a
certain small distance down the valley.   By such alternate expansions
and contractions   the glacier moves gradually from the top to the
bottom of its course.
   That variations of temperature do take place in a glacier cannot
be doubted, whatever be the condition in which        lies.  This granted,
                                                              it
the fact that      should move in the way described appears to me
                    it
no more surprising than that the sheets of lead on which Canon
Moseley made his well-known experiments         did so move       and that      ;
the motion thus produced        of the character which answers to all
                                      is
the facts of the case, so far as they are at present known, can,                         I
believe,     be established.
   The controversy occasioned by Canon Moseley's articles was un
fortunately terminated by his illness and death, before the matter
had been fully cleared up.    The main objections urged to his theory
were two.     The first was that a glacier         not one continuous
                                                            is
body (as assumed by Canon Moseley in his mathematical investiga
tion), but    broken up into many parts by crevasses. But in the first
               is
place, the assumption above mentioned       merely one of convenience,
                                                      is
and not in the least necessary to the theory.  A detached piece of ice
would move in the same way as a glacier, or as the sheet of lead did
in Canon Moseley's experiments.        Secondly,     a glacier   if  any            is
where divided in its whole thickness by a crevasse, this       absolutely   is
fatal to the gravitation theories, since there can be no pressure
between the portions above and below this division.            The only
possible explanation of crevasses, on these theories,     that they aro
                                                                      is
due to the glacier bending over a convex part of its bed.        In that
case the bottom half will be in compression,  and only the top half in
tension, so that the crevasse cannot possibly extend more than half
way through the thickness.
   The second objection was that the conductivity of ice     low hence     is       ;
the effect of the heat would bo confined to the layers near the surface,
and could not account for the motion of the glacier as a whole.      This
 objection does not seem to be confirmed by careful reflection upon the
way in which such forces act. Let us suppose a glacier 100 feet deep,
of which each successive foot expands and contracts alike throughout,
but adheres with definite shearing resistance to the layers above and
                         a

214                         Mr. W. R. Browne.
below.     Let there  be a  rise in temperature, which does not extend
beyond the uppermost 10 feet.           This layer will expand, and if it
were free would expand to the          full amount due to the increase in
temperature.      But its lower  surface is not free.   In expanding it will
therefore drag the next layer after it, or in other words will cause it to
expand also.      The amount of expansion, however, will not be so
great, because there will be a certain shearing extension at the plane
of division between the two. The second layer will similarly cause
an expansion in the third, and so on to the bottom.          In consequence,
the energy which would all have been exerted on the top layer, had
that been free, will be distributed over the whole of the layers ; and
the extension of the top layers will of course be much smaller than it
otherwise would have been.           Should the temperature then remain
constant, the layers will retain their position, and adapt themselves to
the new circumstances.         If the temperature falls the layers will
contract ; but from the now opposing effect of gravity they will not
return to their original position. The top layer which has extended
furthest will be the furthest below its original position ; the second
layer next, and so on. If we suppose the layers to be indefinitely
thin, we have the condition of things in an actual glacier. The ice in
any vertical section will, on the whole, move down the slope, but the
 top will move faster than the middle, and the middle than the bottom,
exactly as it is known to do. The same holds with regard to a hori
 zontal section.   At the sides the ice will be held back, not only by
 the friction, but also by the protuberances of the rock, which compel
 the ice to shear over them.     Hence the velocity there will be retarded,
 and will be less than that in the middle, which is comparatively free.
    A more important objection remains to be considered, which is this.
 On the present theory the motion at any point on the surface of a
 glacier will be not continuous, but oscillating alternately downwards
 and upwards, and the nett distance by which it has descended, say,
 in a day, will be a mere fraction of the total distance through which
 it has moved in that period.     If so, this alternate motion ought to have
 been noticed in the various observations which have been made upon
 glaciers, and this does not appear to have been the case.            But, in
 reply to this, it may be remarked that most of the observations have
 only given the nett movement            of points on the glacier during
 intervals of a day or more, and therefore would not show the oscilla
 tions.    Again, such observations have always been at points near the
 end of a glacier.    Now the variations in temperature of a glacier will
  be very different at different parts, and the motion of the end of the
 glacier will, to a great extent, show the average result of these
 different advances and retreats in different parts of the higher
  regions.   This average result will, of course, be a steady progression
  down the valley, and the oscillatory movement at the end of the

                      On the Causes    of Glacier-Motion.                     215
 glacier may be so much masked          by this   as  not to be readily observ
 able.    Lastly, it may be suggested as possible that a certain amount
 of expansion by heat may have the effect of giving a set to ice, so that
it does not return to its original length when brought back to the same
temperature.      If this be so the oscillations would be much less marked,
and at the end of the glacier would probably be indistinguishable.
    I may now draw attention to some phenomena of glacier action,
which are explained by the heat theory, but which do not seem expli
cable on the gravitation theory.
    (1.) It is well known that glaciers, when they emerge from a narrow
gorge into a comparatively wide valley, spread out into a fan-shape.
The Rhone glacier is a well-known instance.               A still better one is a
small glacier in Norway, mentioned by Professor Sexa, which spreads
out to five or six times its previous width.         Now the effect of gravity,
acting on a mass as a whole, is to carry it in one single direction, that
of the steepest slope.       The only way in which gravity can produce
such a spreading out is by the parts of the glacier shearing over each
other in the manner of a viscous solid. Bat the phenomena of ice
cliffs, as mentioned above, show that ice does not spread from this
cause, so that the fact seems impossible to explain by gravitation alone.
On the heat theory it is, of course, perfectly easy : the expansion and
contraction will take place in all directions where there is freedom to
move.
      (2.) Connected with this phenomenon is that of the longitudinal
crevasses seen near the edges of glaciers, and particularly where they
spread out in the manner just described.              Now on the gravitation
theory, as remarked above, the only possible explanation of a crevasse
is that the ice is bending over a convex surface, and that its upper part
is thus placed in a state of tension, under which it breaks.            Since, on
the gravitation theory, every part of a glacier is exposed to a severe
pressure from behind, this explanation does not fit very well even for
transverse     crevasses ; but to longitudinal         crevasses it is clearly
inapplicable, since the bottom of a valley is seldom or never convex in
the direction of its width.        On the heat theory the explanation is
simple. We may suppose the heat energy communicated per square
foot of surface to be about the same, whether near the middle or edge
of a glacier.     This energy is expended        in producing an expansion
throughout the whole thickness of the glacier, as described above.
Hence the smaller this thickness, the greater will be the amount of
expansion, and the greater therefore the nett motion which results.
Hence the thinner parts of a glacier will always be tending to tear
themselves off from the thicker, and thus longitudinal            crevasses  will
frequently be found.
    (3.) The striae which are so marked a feature of glacier-worn rocks
 become more     easily explained on this theory.       I have seen such striae,
    V0L.  xxxiv.                                                      Q

216                    On the Causes    of Glacier-Motion.
even in the hard hypersthene of Skye, which were a considerable
fraction of an inch in depth.        When we consider the enormons force
necessary     to plough out such a furrow in hard rock, it is almost
impossible to believe that it was done by the simple passage over it,
once for all, of a stone imbedded          in the ice. If, however, the stone
descended by a series of      oscillations,  so that it passed many times over
the same spot, this difficulty is greatly lessened.
    (4.) In conclusion I may point out that the advocates of the gravi
tation theory are bound to explain what becomes of the heat energy
which is poured into a glacier. When the sun is shining this radiant
energy is always very large, although the temperature of the air may be
low. In such cases the glacier does not melt ; it is perfectly clear that it
must expand, as any other solid must expand under the action of heat.
If so, it seems uureasonable not to hold that the gradnal descent by
alternate expansion and contraction must follow, as it is known to
follow in the case of other materials.
   On the subject of the motion of Arctic ice, Dr. Bae, F.R.S., has
kindly permitted the publication of the following particulars : —
                                                         I
    " When in Greenland, in the autumn of 1866, was ice-bound at the
head of one of the fiords, and slept a couple of nights at an Eskimo's
house.      A glacier about half a mile distant was then in full activity,
the movement of which might,            I believe, have been as visible to the
eye as it certainly was audible to the ear.
    " My own idea is that Arctic glaciers must have a downward motion
more or less during the whole year, summer and winter. I believe the
alternations of heat and cold — or,        I should rather say, of temperature
— wonld of itself cause motion, especially near the upper surface.
    " We know that ice 2 or 3 feet or more thick, contracts very
considerably in a few hours by a sudden fall of fifteen or twenty
degrees of temperature.          I  have found cracks in Lake Winnipeg
3 or 4 feet wide, formed by this cause during a single night, almost
stopping our sledge journey. This gap soon freezes up. Then the
weather gets milder, the ice expands, and with the new additional
formation is too large for the lake, and is forced up into ridges. This
process goes on at every cold suap,'* alternating with milder weather.
                              '
Now supposing a glacier for 10 or more feet of its depth contracts by
cold, as lake ice is known to do, it will get a series of cracks probably
in its longest axis, say from inland seaward ; the first suow-drift
will fill up these cracks or some of them, and this filling up will to
some extent perform the same office as the freezing of the cracks in
the lakes.      The longitudinal extent of the glacier will be increased.
 A suow-storm always brings milder weather, which would expand the
glacier, but as this expansion would naturally tend downhill, instead
   •  " Cold suap," an American term meaning a rather sudden increase of cold.

                »      On Impact with a      Liquid Surface.                     217
of up, the whole motion would be downwards. But even if the cracks
I mention did not take place, the contraction by cold would pull the
ice downhill, not up, whilst the expansion by increase of temperature
would tend to push the glacier downhill, so that these opposite actions
would produce similar effects in moving the glacier, or such part of it
as could be acted upon by external temperature, downwards.
    "I may also add that when a crack, however slight, is formed by
contraction, the cold is admitted into the body of the glacier, and
increases the contracting power or influences."
a
   On   Impact with a Liquid Surface." By A. M. WORTHINGTON.
       M.A.       Communicated by Professor OSBORNE REYNOLDS,
       F.R.S. Received January 27. Read February 1 6, 1882.
                                                                    "              "
    [This paper is made up of the abstract already printed in the Proceedings —
here reprinted for the convenience of the reader — and a selection of the figures sent
in by the author, together with a description of them extracted from the original
paper.]
     The apparatus previously used* by the author for following the
 progress of the splash of liquid drops impinging on a solid plate has
 been improved.        The main principle of the method by which succes
 sive stages are isolated and rendered visible remains the same, viz.,
 instantaneous     illumination at any desired stage by means of the
 primary spark of an induction coil ; but the timing of the illumination
 is now effected by a timing-sphere let fall simultaneously with the
 solid or liquid sphere whose impact is to be observed.                The timing-
 sphere strikes a plate whose height can be adjusted, and thereby
 starts the mechanical action which results in the spark.
     The time interval between successive stages of the disturbance can
 be measured to within a few thousandths of a second.
     The significant portion of the whole series of changes in most of the
 splashes observed is comprised within about one-third of a second.
 The impact of both solid and liquid spheres has been studied, and is
 illustrated by several series of drawings which accompany the paper.
     Milk drops falling into water were found to produce a similar
 disturbance to that resulting from the impact of similar water drops,
 and were used for the sake of distinguishing the original liquid of the
 drop from that into which it fell.           With a drop about 5 millims. in
  diameter, falling from less than 1 metre, an annular rim is raised at
 the first moment of impact, bounding a hollow which is afterwards
 characterised     by regularly disposed radial ribs and arms, at the
                       * " Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 25, pp. 261, 498.
                                                                      Q 2

 218                      Mr. A. M. Worthington.
bottom of which the drop descends, passing below the surface and
 becoming completely submerged to emerge again at the head of a
 column of adherent liquid, but with its upper portion apparently
 unwetted by the liquid with which it has been covered.               The column
 then subsides, and the liquid of the original drop is seen to pass into
 the well-known vortex ring which descends through the liquid.
    The influence of velocity of impact in modifying the phenomenon
is shown by the drawings.
    When the drop is large, and the fall considerable, the rim thrown
up takes the form of a hollow crater-like shell of liquid, the mouth of
 which closes over the drop, imprisoning air which may remain as a
bubble on the surface.      This is the bubble seen when large rain drops
fall into water.    Observations of the bursting of this bubble confirm
incidentally   the explanation lately given by J. Plateau of the manner
of bursting of a soap bubble.
   The splash of a milk drop in petroleum and in olive oil is also
described.    The course of phenomena is very similar to that in water,
modified however by the greater or less mobility of the liquids in
question.
   The impact of solid spheres is then described.               The nature of the
disturbance produced, with a given velocity of impact, is found to
depend entirely on the state of the surface of the sphere.
   A polished and perfectly dry sphere of ivory or marble 1 to 3
centims. in diameter, let fall from a height not exceeding 1 metre, is
apparently wetted at once, and is seen to be sheathed with liquid
before the whole is below the average level of the surface.                   The
disturbance of the surface is very slight.
   The same sphere if rough or wet with the liquid in question, behaves
quite differently, making a very deep impression, similar at first to
that produced by a liquid drop, which finally becomes an almost
cylindrical column of air within the liquid, part of which afterwards
rises as bubbles while a portion descends in the wake of the sphere.
   The influence of roughness in hindering the spread of liquid over
the surface of the impinging sphere is then pointed out.
   At the close of the paper an explanation is put forward of the radial
ribs, arms, and striae which are a notable feature of all splashes.
Measurements of the annular rim bordering a thin central film into
which a drop falling upon a plate passes,* show that the number of
the lobes and arms which are subsequently observed, agrees well with
the number of drops into which such an annulus would theoretically
tend to split if unhindered by friction w-h the plate on which it
rests, and it is then pointed out that the effect of the connecting film
would be exactly such as to counteract the influence of this friction.
                   * " Proc. Key. Soc.," vol. 25, p. 500, fig. 4.

                      On Impact with a       Liquid Surface.             219
   In the same way the radial strice and ribs which characterise the
hollow formed round a drop or solid sphere impinging on a liquid
surface, are accounted for by the instability of the annular rim of the
hollow, which through its tendency to cleave into a definite number
of drops, determines a corresponding number of lines of easiest flow,
at each of which a rib or arm is developed.
   The author has observed that after the details have been once
revealed by the method of instantaneous illumination, it is not difficult
to identify the broad features of any splash that may occur by
attentive observation in continuous light.              Such observation may
afford valuable information as to the condition of the surface of an
impinging solid.
  [What  follows is extracted from the " Description of the Phenomena."]
                                     .Sebiks  I.
                                                         t=  0979.

220                      Mr. A. M. Wortkington.
                                     •
                                                  8= -1095.
                                     j
    Series I  shows the splash produced by a milk-drop '496 centim. in
diameter falling into water from a height of 8 centims., which differed
in no material respect from that due to a fall of 6 centims., which was
the lowest that I could observe.
    [In most of the figures of these and the succeeding series the dis
turbing drop or sphere is in the centre; the white parts round it
represent those raised portions of the liquid which catch the light.
The numbers at the side of each figure give the time interval in
seconds from the occurrence of the first figure.]
    In respect of the agitation communicated to the liquid the pheno
menon already differs from that which occurs with a fall of less than
1 centim.    A hollow is formed with a raised lobed edge, into which the
drop descends, at first flattened out against the bottom (fig. 2). The
hollow as the drop descends becomes wider and deeper, but finally
(fig. 3) closes over the drop, which, however, soon again emerges as
the hollow flattens out, appearing first near, but still below, the surface
(in fig. 4) in a flattened lobed form, and afterwards rising as a column,
somewhat mixed with adherent water, in which traces of the lobes are
at first very visible. The origin of these lobes is explained at the
close of the paper.
    The column which is elevated being nearly cylindrical is approxi
mately subject to the same laws of stability as a cylinder, and accord
ingly divides into drops before or during its descent again into the
liquid. As it disappears below the surface, the outward and downward
flow causes a hollow to be again formed, up the sides of which an
annulus of milk is carried, while the remainder descends, to bo torn
again a second time into a vortex ring, which however, is always liable
 to disturbance from the falling in of drops which once formed the
 upper part of the rebounding column. Thus it generally happens
 that, owing to these subordinate drops, no distinct vortex ring is
 formed.     Sometimes, on the other hand, two are formed in quick
 succession. It is, however, in the next series that the formation of the
 vortex ring is most clearly traced, and it is on the evidence there
 afforded that the interpretation just given is really based.

On Impact with a  Liquid Surface.
           Series  II.

222                     Mr. A. M. Worthington.
                          (t'n
   Series II  exhibits the splash of a drop of milk -502 centim. in
diameter, falling from a height of 43 centims. into water. All the
characteristics of the last splash are here more strongly marked. The
hollow is deeper and wider, the drop descending farther below the
surface before it is completely covered.     Rays, whose origin will be
explained hereafter, are shot out symmetrically from the centre. Their
number seemed to vary a good deal, and      I have made no attempt to
select drawings which are in agreement in this respect.        It will be
understood that these rays contain little or none of the liquid of the
drop, which remains collected together at the centre.
   The drop, after being completely covered and lost to sight (figs. 3
and 4), emerges as before (figs. 5 and 6), but the energy of the impact,
instead of being expended in raising the same amount of liquid to a
greater height, is now spent in lifting a much thicker adherent column
to about the same height.
   There was sometimes noticed, as is seen in fig. 9, a tendency in the
water to flow up past the milk, which, still comparatively unmixed
with water, forms the top of the emergent column.
   The greater relative thickness of this column prevents it splitting,
and figs. 10 and 11 show it descending below the surface to form the
hollow of fig. 12, up the sides of which an annular film of milk is
carried (figs. 12 and 13), having been detached from the central mass,

                    On Impact with a   Liquid Surface.               223
 which descends to be torn again, this time centrally, into a vortex
 ring.
    On increasing the height of fall to 1 metre and retaining the same
size of drop, no great change in the nature of the splash takes place,
but the emergent column is rather higher and thinner, and shows a
tendency to split into drops.   It does not, however, succeed in doing
so, and a well-defined vortex is produced as before.      But on letting
fall into water a drop of twice the volume (-625 centim. in diameter)
from the height of 133 centims. the splash of Series    III  is obtained,
which is beginning to assume quite a different character.
                               Semes   III.
                                                      t =0021.

224                     Mr. A. M. Worthington.
                                                      t=  0443.
                                                       t= -0482.
                                                       r= -0595.
                                                       8= -0707.
   The raised rim of the previous series is now developed into a hollow
shell of considerable height, which tends to close over the drop.
   This shell is a characteristic feature of all splashes made by large
drops falling from a considerable height and is extremely beautiful.
In the splash at present under consideration it does not always succeed
in closing, but opens out as it subsides and is followed by the emer
gence of the drop which is now accompanied by so considerable a
quantity of adherent liquid that the vortex ring which is formed is not
generally well defined. At other times the shell closed completely, but
soon opened again and the configurations (7) to (11) followed.
   At other times, again, the shell having once closed over the im
prisoned air never opened again ; the liquid composing it flowed down

On Impact with a  Liquid Surface.
           Sebies IV.

 226                       Mr. A. M. Worthington.
the sides, which thus became thinner and thinner till at last a large
bubble remained floating on the top of the water.                Series IV shows
the formation of sach a bubble.
    It will be observed that the flow of liquid down the sides is chiefly
along definite channels, which are probably determined by the arms
thrown out at an earlier stage. The bubble is generally creased by
the weight of the liquid in these channels.
    It must be remembered that the base of the bubble is in a state of
oscillation, and that it is liable to burst at any moment, when such
figures as (6) and (7) of Series III, &c., will occur. These figures are
in complete accord with the explanation lately given by M. J. Plateau*
of the phenomena presented by a bursting bubble.
    Such bubbles as those described are often seen when large rain
drops fall into smooth water.           No vortex ring is produced, and the
disturbance caused by such a drop is confined to a very small depth,
the liquid flowing off laterally in all directions down the compara
tively gentle slope of the sides of the shell.
    Series V shows the splash of a drop of milk '496 centim. in
diameter falling into olive oil from a height of 60 centims. The last
four figures are interesting, since they prove the lateral as well as
downward flow of the oil, which as it flows away from the vortex
drags with it the adherent milk, and, as it were, turns the drop inside
out till it recovers itself by irregular jerks under the influence of a
surface tension, which at length asserts itself.             This jerky recovery
may    be perceived by    attentive  observation    in continuous light without
the aid of any apparatus.
                            Impact of Solid Spheres.
    It has been already mentioned           incidentally that an increase of
viscosity in the impinging drop, produced by the addition of glycerine,
has its effect on the character of the splash, and it now remains to
describe the splash produced by the impact of a solid sphere.
    To my great surprise I found that the character of the splash, at
any rate up to a height of fall of 150 centims., depends entirely on
the state of the surface of the sphere.
   A polished sphere of marble, l-28t centims. in diameter, rubbed
very dry with a cloth just beforehand, and dropped from a height of
62 centims. into water, gave the figures of Series VI, in which it is
seen that the water spreads over the sphere so rapidly that it is
sheathed with the liquid even before it is below the general level of
   * " Quclques  Experiences sur les Lames Liquides Minces."          " Bulletins de
l'Academic Royale de Belgique," 3me serie, tome II, No. 7, 1881.
   t This or a similar sphere 1'55 centims. in diameter could be used indifferently.

On Impact with a Liquid Surface. 227
           Seeies V.

228                     Mr. A. M. Worthington.
the surface,    The splash is insignificantly small and of very short
duration.
                                Sebies VI.
   If  the drying and polishing be not so perfect, Series  VII  is pro
 duced  ; while if the sphere be roughened with sand-paper or left wet,
                                Sebies VII.
                              -o

                       On Impact with a   Liquid Surface.                   229
Series  VIII   is obtained, in which it will be perceived that the sphere
is followed by     a cone of apparently adherent air, while the water seems
to find great difficulty in wetting the surface completely.
                                  Semes  Till.
   Part of this column of air was carried down       to a depth     of at least
40 centims., and then detached only when the sphere struck the bottom
of the vessel.
   The last two figures show the side of the crater falling in, but this
did not always happen ; the walls often closed over the hollow, exactly
as in Series III, figs. 4 and 5.      Whether the air column meanwhile
splits into bubbles in other places below the surface,           I   could not
observe, but    it   is very probable  that it does so, since its  form   is too
nearly cylindrical for its equilibrium to be stable. When the fall was
increased to 151 centims., the figures of Series IX were obtained.
   The tube of fig. 1 corresponds to the shell of Series          III  and IV,
nnd is not only elevated to a surprising height but is also in the act

230                    On Impact with a      Liquid Surface.
of cleaving, the outline being approximately that of the unduloid of
M. Plateau.* Figs. (2) and (3) show the bubble formed by the
                                     Series  IX.
closing of this tube weighed down in the centre by the liquid at the
lip of fig. 1, and correspond to figs. (5) and (6) of Series IV.
   With other liquids, such as petroleum and alcohol, similar results
are obtained.
   •M.J.    Plateau has recently studied the formation of bubbles by the cleavage of
such a cylindrical film. Sec note, p. 226.

                   Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena.             231
  " Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena. I. On the Variations of
       the Daily Range of Atmospheric Temperature, as recorded
       at the Colaba Observatory, Bombay."           By Charles Cham
       bers, F.R.S., Superintendent.         Received May 30. Read
       June 15, 1882.
     The present investigation is on the model of one by Dr. Balfour
  Stewart, published in the " Proc. Roy. Soc." (vol. 25, p. 577), and
 dealing with similar records obtained at the Kew Observatory.      The
  records extend, in the present case, from June 1, 1847, to December
 31,   1880,   and   consist  of excesses of the highest temperature
 observed above the lowest temperature observed on every observa
 tion day of the period, and all are therefore necessarily positive
 numbers.     Until the end of the year 1851, the observation day was
 the Gottingen Astronomical day : since that time it has been the
 Bombay Civil day. The daily excesses were obtained for the period
 from 1847"42 to 1873'0, from hourly observations made on all days
 except Sundays and a few holidays, and for the period from 1873'0 to
 1881 '0 from daily readings of self- registering maximum and mini
 mum thermometers taken on all days without exception ; for all days
 previous to 1866'0 they are differences of uncorrected readings of the
 dry-bulb thermometer, but for all later days every individual thermo
 meter reading was corrected for the error of graduation of the
 thermometer before the differences        were taken.   The maximum
 thermometer is a mercurial one of the construction known as Negretti
 and Zambra's: the minimum is a spirit thermometer, of which the
 chamber at the top of the tube is bent upward, so as to prevent the
accumulation in it of condensed spirit ; the instrument was tested in
 1865, and again in 1881, and it was found on the latter occasion to
 have practically the same error as before.        The dry bulbs (up to
 1873-0)     were   mercurial  thermometers    by Newman, with scales
•divided to fifths of a degree.
                 A. Annual Variation of Temperature-Range.
                         B. Variation of Long Period.
    2. Table   I  exhibits the monthly and annual means of the daily
temperature-range.
    Changes were made in the mode of exposure of the thermometers,
of a character likely to affect the comparability of the preceding and
following observations, in 1851 and again on 1866'0 ; but the annual
means in the following table seem to imply that the state of things
holding in 1851 was maintained for some time longer, and as the only
event on record that would suggest a definite limit to that time is a
change of thermometers on the 31st March, 1852, we have divided the
    VOL. XXXIV.                                              E

232                                                     Mr. C. Chambers.
    Table I. — Containing Monthly and Annual Means of Daily                                                                   Tempe
              rature-Range expressed in Fahrenheit degrees.
                                                                                                                                       SI
                                                                                                                                       K
                                                                                                                     E % |J
                                                                                                   2a 1
                                                                                                                                      w
                                    February.
                                                                                                            .g '3
                                                                                                                              i
                        January.
                                                                                                                                      0
        Year.                                                                «                                        ¦
                                                                                                                               E
                                                 aa<
                                                          'c        iN       a     jf.
                                                                                   s
                                                                                        I           a.                •>              S
                                                                                                                                       •
                                                                     M            i-i     <        &                i         1
                                                                            81    7-3    8-2       8-7     12-2     15-4      16-2
                       17-6        15-4         13:8     li'U       101     8-2   7-4    6-8       9-5     11-0     15-4      15-3    li-i
                       14-9        13-9         13-2     11-9        9-9    8-2   7-2    6*7       7
                                                                                                   2       12-3     15-0      16-5    11-4
                                                            -7 -7
                       14-9        18-2         13-1     11         10-3    9-9   8-2    8-1       9-0     111      15-9      15-3    n-s
 1851                  15-8        15-2         13-4     P2         10-6    9-1   6-7    7-5       9-4     11-3     13-0      16-2    11-;
 1852                  16   0      14-8         14-1     13 -2      11-8    9-3   7-5    7-2       8-0     11-1     15-2      12-9    lit
                       15-8        15-<i        14 -7    12-6       11-9    8-5   6-5    8-5       8-3     13-1     14-3      161     u-i
 1854                  15-4        15-9         14-4     12-4       11-5    9-2   6-5    9 7       8-3     11-5     13-1      12-1    n-t
                       13 -8       12-6         12-8     12-2       11 -5   9-0   7-6    0 :i        ..j   11-2     13-9      14-1    9 -4
I 856                  13 -8       13-6         11-8     12-2       11 -2   8-8   6-6    7-8       8-4     I0'4     13-3      13-5    101
 1857                  12-6        14-8         141      12-2       10-8    9-7   7-4    5-4       7-3     11-2     13-2      14-9    ll-l
                       15-0        14-2         11 -8    12-1       10-6    9-4   7-6    7-2       8-3     11-4     13-5      13-1    111
 ISM                   13-8        12-9         13-5     11 -9      10-3    9-0   8-0    6-8       8-3     10-2     i-2 •;    14-0    101
 I860                  14-8        12-1         12-0     10-1       9
                                                                    6       9-1   5-9    7-4       7-7     10  0    IS -4     15-2    101
                       14 -3       15   3       12-5     11 -3      10-7    8-8   5-6    5-4       -'1      9-4     13   6    14-1    io--
 1862                  13-6        14-7         13-3     11-5       10-5    8-3   7-4    7'7       7-8     10-2     12-8      15-2    ill
 1803                  14-6        16-5         11-8     11-5       10-6    7-4   7-0    6-7       8-4     11-0     14-       13-9    in
 1864                  15-1        14-0         13-0     1--9       10-4    8-9   6-4    7-0       9-2     12-1     12-6      14-7    li-l
 1865                  14-6        13-3         12-6     11-3       10-2    9-5   7-0    6-3       9-2     11  -1   13-6      12-5    109
                       13-4        13-7         10-8     10-9        9-2    7-0   5-9    5-6       7-9     10-6     14-0      13-3    W-!
 1887                  13-0        13-7         11-6      9*5        8-7    7-3   6-0    5-6       6-8     10  0    12-3      13-2     91
 1868                  13-0        12-8         11-0      9-9        9-1    7-3   6-4    5-9       ;';     10-9     13-6      13-4    101
                       13   0      12-4         10-6     10 0       •J -2   7-3   6-3    6 6       6-6      9-5     12-1      10-6     91
 1870                  12 -5       12-9         10-9     10-5        8-7    7-5   5-3    -3 1      7-0      8-9     10-8      12-0     S'4
 1871                  12-8        12-4         11-7     ln-2        8-6    7-5   6-5    5-9       6-9     10-4     11-1      11-9     91
 1872                  13   5      14-2         111      10-4        9-0    7-3   5-3    6-2       7-1     10-4     13-4      11-1     91
 Ia73                  13-0        11-4         10-3      9-4        8-6    6-5   4-8    5-8       7-0     11-2     12-3      13-8     11
 1i74                  13 -5       13-3         11-2     10-0       8-4     7-1   5-4    6-3       6-5     10-4     12-1      12-5     9-J
 1875                  13-4        11-6         11-0     10-0        8-9    7
                                                                            2     6-7    6-4       61      10-1     12-4      12-6     9-7
 1876                  13-0        1.1-1        10-6     9-8         9-0    7-5   5-9    6-5       8-0     11-3     12-3      13 -r   io-i
                       12-3        12-0         11-5     10-6        9-3    8-1   7-4    7-2       8-4      8-8     12-3      10-9     11
 1878                  12-8        13-5         11-3     10-7        9-4    8-4   6-8    6-5       7-7     10-4     10-6      14-1    10-2
 1870                  14-1        12-6         12-6     10-6        9-0    7-2   7-0    6-0       7-8     10-4     13-8      13-3    10-5
 1880                  14-6        13-6         11-2     10 4        9-3    8-2   6-7    7-2       7-3     10-1     12-9      13-9    lot
Means fo- g-oups
   of years.
                                                                                                                                      11   •,
   1848 to 1851 ...    15-8        15-7         13-4     11-9       10-4    8-8   7-4    7-3       8-8     1
                                                                                                           1  -6    14-8      15-8
   1853 to I8ti5 ...   14-4        14-2         12-9    1
                                                        1   -7      10-8    8-9   6-9    7 -2      8-3     11-0     13-5      14-1    11-2
   1866 to 1872 ...    13-0        13-2         11-1     10-2        8-9    7-3   6-0    5-        7-1     10-1     12-5      12-      91
                                                                                         6-  5 9                                4 2
   1873 to 1880 ...    13-4        12 -6        11 -2    10-2       9
                                                                    0       7-5   6-3              7-3     10-3     12-3      13-     101
observations  into distinct series at the times 1852-25 and 1866-0 and                                                          ;
we have made       further division at 1873-0, because the records after
                             a
that time are absolute ranges for the whole day, whilst those of the
preceding years were derived from a register in which the intervals
between the hourly observations were all blanks.        The means at tie
foot of Table are for all the full years of the periods thus separated
                       I
to form distinct series of observations, and the general means for these
periods may, in the absence of immediate comparability of the records
of one period with those of another, and proceeding on a very rough
hypothesis, be used to reduce the whole series of monthly mean ranges
more nearly to a common scale, and thus to prepare them to exhibit,
though very doubtfully yet perhaps in the least objectionable manner
possible, any long-period variation with which they may be affected.
   The rough hypothesis      that the general mean temperatuie-ranges
                                                   is

                                                Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena.                                                                                                      233
  of the           full years of the several periods were really identical, and that
  the differencesfound are due to difference in the mode of exposure and
  in the fulness of the registers kept.   This    of course, objectionable                                            is,
  on the ground that    there be a real variation of long-period,
                                                    if                will                                                                                                       it
  affect the general means of our four series of observations in different
  degrees, and any result that we arrive at must accordingly be received
  with caution   but, on the other hand, the probability of our finding a
                                ;
 variation of definite character at all    thereby diminished, and    such
                                                                                          it is
                                                                                                                                                                               if
 a variation should still exhibit itself,   will be in spite of some ten
 dency in our mode of procedure to obliterate it.
       The general means for the four periods are 11°-8, 11°-2, 9°-8,
       3.
 and 10o-0.    Choosing the last as       standard period, the others are                 a
 reduced to its scale by multiplying the respective         monthly mean
                                                                        ^ -,
  ^
 ranees            of Table                I      by3
                                                         11         8   11      2'
                                                                                      and
                                                                                                   9   8
                                                                                                                  :     the values thus obtained,
 as well as the monthly and annual means — that is, the means of the
 several horizontal lines and vertical columns — are shown in Table la.
 Table la. — Showing the Monthly and Annual Means of                                                                                                      Daily Tempe
               rature-Range reduced to a Common Scale.
                                                                                                                                                                                 year.
                                                                                                                                                                                           Annual Means
                     January.       February.                                                           August.        September.             November.      December.          Mean of      smoothed.
  Year.
                                                           April.                June.
                                                i
                                                                                           July.
                                                 3                      s                          1                                 o
1847                                                                            6-9       6-2          6-9            7-4           10-3     13-1           13-7
1848               14-9         13-1             ii"-7    9-7           9-l     6-9       6 ';)        5-8            8-1            9-3     13-1           13-0               10-1
1849               12-6         11 -8            11-2    10-1           8-4     6-9       6-1          3-7            0-1           10-4     12-7           14-0                9-7
                   12-6         15-4             11-1     9-9           8-7     8-4       t)'!l        6-9            7-6           10-1     13-5           13-0               10-3        10-03
 1851              13'4         12-9             11-4    10-8           9-0     7-7                    6-4            8-0            9-6     11 -o          13-7                9-9        10-14
 1852              13-6         12-5             11-9    11-8           10-5    8-3       ii-7         6-4            7-1            9-9     13-6           11-5               10-3        10-32
1853               14           13-4             13-1    11-3           10-6    7-6       5-8      7-6                7-4           11-7     12-8           14-4               10-8        10-45
1854....           13   8 1     14-2             12-9    11-1           10-3    8-2       5-8      7-1                7-4           10-3    11     -7       10-8               10-3        10-36
1855               12-3         11 -3            11 '4   10-9           10-3    8-0       6-8      8-0                8-2           10-0     12-4           12-6               10-2        10-11
1856.              12-3         12-1             10-5    10-9           10-0    7-9       5-9      7-0                7-5            9-3     11-9           12-1                9-7         9-92
                                                                                8
1857..             11-3         13-2             12-6    10-9            9-6    •7        6-6      4-8                6-5           10-0    11-8           13-3                 9-9         9-87
1858               13-4         12-7             10-5    10-8            9-5    8-4       6-8      6-4                7-4           10-2    12-1           11-7                10-0         9-85
1859               12-3         11-5             12-1    10-6            9-2    8-0       7-1      6-1                7-4            9-1    11-3           12-5                 9-7         9-75
I860               13-2         10-8             10-7     9<0            8-6    8-1       5-3      6-6                6-9            8-9    13-8           13-6                 9-6         9-66
1861               12-8         13-7             11-2    10-1            9-6    7-9
                                                                                          5
                                                                                          0        4-8            7-2                8-4    12-1           12-6                 9-6         9-69
1862               12-1         13-1             11 -9   10-3            9-4    7-4       6-6      6-9            7-0                9-1    11-4           13 -6               9-9          9-80
leg]               13 '0        14-7             10-5    10-3           9-5     6-6       6
                                                                                          3        6
                                                                                                   0              7-5                9-8    12-5           12-4             9-9             9-89
1864!.             13"5         12-5             11 -6    9-7           9-3     7-9       5-7      6-3            8-2               10 -8   11-3           13-1            10-0             9-91
1865               13-0         11-9             11-3    10-1           9-1     8-5       6-3      5-6            8-2                9-9    12-1           11-2             9-7             9-97
1866               137          14     0         11-0    11-1           9-4     7-1       6-0      5-7            8-1               10-8    14-3           13-6            10-4           10-08
1867...            13-3         14-0             118      9-7           8-9     7-4       6-1      5-7            6-9               10-2    12-6           13-5            10-0           10-13
1868               13-3         13-1             11 -2   10-1           9-3     7-4       6-5      6-0            7-9               11-1    13-9           13-7            10-3           10-03
1869               13    3      12-7             10-8    10-2           9-4     7-4       6-4      6-2            0-7                9-7    12 -3          10-8             9-7            9-85
1870               12-8         13-2             11-1    10-7           8-9     7-7       5-4      6-4            7-1                9-1    11 -0          12-2             9-6            9-77
1871               13-1         12-7             11-9    10-4           8-8     7-7       6-6      6-0            7-0               10-6    11-3           12-1             9-9            9-83
1872               13-8         14     5         11 -3   10-6           9-2     7-4,      5-4      6-3            7-2               10-6    13-7           11-3            10-1            9-86
1873               13-6         11-4             10-3     9-4           8-6     6 -5      4-8      5-8            7 -n              11-2    12-3           13-8             9-6            9-77
1874               13'5         13-3             11 -2   10-0           8-4     7-1       -S4      6-3            6-5               10-4    12  1          12-5             9-7            9-72
1875               13 '4        11-6             11-0    10-0           8-9     7-2       6-7      6-4            6-1               10-1    12-4           12-6             9-7            9-80
1876™              18-0         131              10-6     9-8           9-0     7-5       5-9      6-5            8-0               11-3    12-3           13-8            10-1            9-!>4
1877               12    3      12-0             11-5    10-6           9
                                                                        3       K-l       7-4      7-2            8-4                8-8    12-3           10-9             9-9           10-08
                   12'8         13-5             113     10-7           !>-4    8-4       6-8      6-5            7-7               10-4    10-6           14-1            10-2           10-24
1879               14   1       12-6             12-6    10-6           B-0     7   -i    7-0      6-0            7-x               10-4    13-8           15-3            10-5
18S0               14-6         13-6             11-2    10-4           9 -.1   8-2       6-7      7-2            7-3               10-1    12-9           13-9            10-4
Jeans of
                                                         10-38          9-29        -66   6-21     6-34           7-38              10-06   12 -42         12-85           10-0
            Jf t   13-18        12-91            11-41                          7
olumni.
                                                                                                                                                            It           -J.

234                                                        Mr. C. Chambers.
  4. The annual means                                  in the last column are obtained from those in
the next preceding column in the following manner, the object being
to remove the irregularities in the progression of the latter numbers
and to substitute   for those numbers a smooth-flowing series that will
retain all the principal characteristics of any variation of long-period
that affects them : first, the means are taken of every two adjacent
numbers forming a new series the number of which is one less than
the number of years; second, the new series of numbers is treated in
the same manner, giving a second new series : and the process is
repeated a third and a fourth time, the last-resulting series of numbers
being those entered in the last column of Table la.          The annual
means and the smoothed annual means are curved in fig. 1, and the
latter curve shows distinct maxima in 1853 and 1867, and minima in
1860 or 1861 and between 1870 and 1874, times that imply a rough
general correspondence of ebb and flow with that of an inverted sun-
spot curve               for the same period.
  5.     The numbers at the foot of Table la we adopt as representing
  Table        II. — Exhibiting       the Proportional Temperature-range,                                                                    the
                         Normal for each Month being reckoned = 100.
                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                 September.               November.
 Year.
                           February.
                                                                                                                                      1
              January.                                                                                         October.
                                                                                                                                               -a
                                                                                      August.
                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                               s
                                        March.
                                                                    -.'
                                                                            X                                                                  c
                                                  April.    a
                                                                    I       3
                                                                    i-i    l-i                                                        1
  1847 ..                                                            90    100       110        100           102         106         107
  1848...    lii          102          10.1       93         98      90    102        92        109            92         106         102    loo
                                                                                                                                                      1
  1849...     95           91           98        97         90      90     98        90         82           103         102         109     95-4
  1850...     95          119           97        95         94     109    111       110        103           100         109         102    103-7
  1851...    102          100          100       104         97     100     92       102        108            95          89         107     9S-7
  1852...    103           97          104       113        113     108    108       102         96            98         no           90    103 -5
  1853...    107          104          115       109        114      99     94       121        100           116         103         112    107-8    ,
  1854...    105          110          113       107        111     106     94       113        100           102          94          84    103-2
  1855...     93           88          100       105        111     104    110       127        111            99         100          98    103 -3
  1856...     93           94           92       105        108     103     95       111        101            92          96          95     »-;
  1857...     86          102          110       105        103     113    106        76         88            99          95         10*     98-J
  1858...    102           98           92       104        102     109    no        102        100           101          98          91    100-7
  1859...     93            89         106       102         99     104    115        97        100            90          91          98     98-7
  1800...    100            84          94         87        92     105     85       105         93            88         111         106     95*
  1861...     97          106           98         97       103     103     81         76        97            83          98          98     94-7
  1862...      92         102          104         99       101       96   106       110         95             90         92         10S     99-4
  1863...      98         114            92        99       102       86   102         95       101             97        101          97     SS-7    1
  1864...    102            97         102         93       100     103     92       100        111           107           91        102    100-0
  1865...      98           92           99        97         98    108    102         89       111             98          98         87     98-1
  1866...    104           109           96       !H7       101       92    97         90       109           107         115         106    102-7
   1867...    1"1          109         104         93         96      96    98         90        93           101         102         liV.    99-a
   1868...   liil          102           98        97       100       96   105         95       107           110         112         107    102-5
   1869...   101            98           95        98        101      96   103         98        91             96          99          84    K-7
   1870...    97           102           "7      103          96    100     87       102         %              90          89          95    96-:
   1871..     99            08          104       100         95     100   106         95        95           105           91          95    98-6
   1872..    104           112           99       102         99      96    87        100        97           105         110           88
   1873..    103            -s           90        90         92      84    77         92        95            111          99        108     941
                                                                                                                                                      1
   1874..    102          103            98        96         90      92    87        100        88            103          98          98    96-;
   1875..    102           Ml            96         96        96      94   108        102        82            100         100          98     96-9   i
   1876..     98          Icl'j          93         94        97      97    95        103       108            112          99        108    100-5
   1877..     93           93           101       102        100     105   119        114       114             87          99          85   101-0
   1878..     97          IPS            99       103        101     110   110        103       104            103          85        no     i0S-S
    1879..   107           98           111       102         1t7     94   113         95       105            103         111        120    104-7
   1880..    111          105             98      100        100     106   108        114        99            100         104        109    104-5

                Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena.                 235
the  annual variation, combined with the annual mean value of tempe
rature-range, on the scale of the period 1873 to 1880.
   6. Arranging now the results in the manner adopted by Dr. Stewart
in following out his hypothesis that solar activity varies with the
temperature-range,    being inversely proportional to the mean range
in different months of the typical year and directly proportional to
the range in the same month of different years, we convert the several
monthly numbers of Table la into corresponding percentages of solar
activity, by multiplying them by 100 and dividing by the mean tem
perature-range of all the years for the corresponding month.  Table    II
has been formed in this manner.
   The numbers in the last column vary, of course, in the same manner
as, though not exactly proportionally to, the annual means of Table la.
                      C. Lunar Annual Variation.
  7.   The purpose of this section and the process by which it is served
may be described in Dr. Stewart's own words, which are as follows : —
   " It will be of interest to determine whether the temperature-range
has any reference to the relative position of the sun and moon.        For
this purpose the whole period of observation has been portioned out
into lunations, beginning with new moon.        Each lunation is divided
into eight parts, entitled— (0), (I), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7),— (0)
denoting new, and (4) full moon.
   " The various lunations with the
                                       corresponding values of the tempe
rature-range    are  exhibited  in Table   III. It will, however, be here
necessary to state how* these values have been obtained.         Take the
dates (civil time) of the four quarterly phases of the moon as given
by the "Nautical Almanac," and under each of these dates, as a
centre, group seven observations.        Each value in Table   III   corre
sponding to (0), (2), (4), (6) is thus the mean of seven separate obser
vations of daily range.
   " The
          half-quarterly phases (1), (3), (5), (7) are then interpolated
in point of time, so that sometimes their date will fall upon a given
civil day, and sometimes between one civil day and another.         In the
former case the mean of seven observations, and in the latter the
mean of six, is taken."
   The only special point that needs mention is, that only the observa
tions of the 33 full years 1847 75 to 1880 75, including 33 complete
winters and 33 complete summers, are made use of in the calculations
of lunar variations, those of the portions of a summer or winter,
1847 -42 to 1847 75 and 1880 75 to 1881      '0,being omitted.

236 Mr. C. Chambers.
                  0  l 2 5 4 5 f 7 0

                        8)ods-ung puv jvu,p9u.i9£ •vuduwu9ycf                            £gg
                                            •suoyyeuii-j
i°'°S.
 -TOllJ    uooni -mgsb         ).o(    •)I(    •)z(      •)8(   '(f)   ).5(     •)9(
  -a°F>   gura 'uoi}oani
       I  T^S        6  7f8I    ,0-¿    o2-8     08-8   01 8-   oI-0I   o7-6     »I-6  01 o9-
       2            8          9-2I   l-fl II 2- II f- II 6- 81            7-  81 0-     0-6
                                                                       fl 8            I\ 6-
                          tt
       8  'AOM       7         12 5-  9-91     61 I-    1-19    7-71           5-51
       f  MD         7
                          ii
                          iI   71 0-  5-51     7-71     I-9I II 2- 0-51        81  I-  Il 5-
       5  nsr        9 8*81    71 8-  81 9-    19 8-    2-0£    2-8I   91 9-   fi   6  51 8-
       9  b9.i       *    tt   7-91   71 I-    51 8-    51 2-   7-91   51 6-   81 I-   62I
       7             5         9-tI   51 7-    8-5[     81 2-   8*1    9-2I    12 9-   2\  0-
                                                                       f-ll II
                          tt
          lFdA       8    ii   81 e-  2I 9-    2-01     01 f-   t-2I               0-  0l  2-
      )8(
      )6( *«Jl       2         01 8-  01 0-      8-6    f-0l    01  I-   6-6   II   9- II  8-
   )01(                   ii     2-6    8-8      0-6      9-6     9-7    7-5     2-7     8-8
   )n(    9anx' 08        tt     0-6    7-8      7-8      7-8     5-7    5-5     0-9     2-7
   )2i(   A»r     62             6-9    2-9      5-9      59      1-7    8-9     f-9     0-8
   )ei(   -3nv     82            87-    9-7      9-8      2-6   01 8-  01  f-  01 9-     9-6
     fl           92
                           ii
                           ii    9-8  01 9-    01   I-    8-8     8-6    I-6     86    I2l
     51
          ')das
                   92      ii  9-fl   fl   8-  fl 0-    1-fl    0-91   8-51    9-n     f-2l
     9I    'AoK 52         ii  51 6-  81 9-    91   7-  7-U     51  5- 7-tI    9-81    91 0-
     71   'e«a 5s          ii  71 0-  fl I- 51 2-       51 6-   91  5- 0-91    I-tl    7-91
           a-f          6f8I          5-2I 2-2I         2-5I           I-8I    II 7- II 6-
                                                        ffl
     81           '82          81 6-                            91  7-
     61    ebj ss              12 9-  fl 2- 7-51                12  6- 01 6-   2l 6- 81 8-
                                               fl 9-                           II 5- 01 8-
                           tt
                  *2       tt  12 6-  81 7-             81 8-   81  8- 81 7-
    )o2(
   )I(2    njdv ss         tt  II I-  5-01       2-6      1-6   01  6- 01 0-     8-6   01  I-
   )22(
   )ss(
           •faW
          «nf
                   12
                   02
                   19
                           tt
                           tt
                               01 2-
                                 9-9
                                 f-6
                                      801
                                        6-9
                                        8-8
                                                 1-6
                                                 9-7
                                                 1-9
                                                        01
                                                          fl
                                                          5*
                                                             I-   2-6
                                                                  0-9
                                                                  2-5
                                                                         5-8
                                                                         2-7
                                                                         6-5
                                                                                 5-8
                                                                                 5-7
                                                                                 f-9
                                                                                         5-7
                                                                                         06
                                                                                         9-9
   (f2)    ^PVT            tt
    )5(2   '3nY    71      ii    6-9    5-7      0-7      6-¿     6-7    8-8     7-9     8-5
     92    'V^S    91            2-5     2-9     2-6      5-6    n 8-  8-2I      6-6     I-6
                                       II 8-
                           u
     27    '10O    51      Ii  001             51   I-   71  f- 6-tI   21 8-    2-81    0-81
     82            fl      ii  fl I-   51 9-   8-51      8-81    71 5- 71 2-    71 9    71 8-
     62    »a      fi      "   2-71    2-51    I6-I      91 6-   51 9- 81 9-    6-81    8-tl
     08    8of     '81 0581    2-fI    7-81    7-51      71 7-   6-51  6-81     G-81       -
                                                                                        02 8
     18    ba5     II      Il   8-81   n f-     8-91     fil f-  81 8-  19 9-   91 2-   81 6-
           «w     81            II 8-  01       II 8-    2I  8-  5-2I    5-6    2-01    2I
                                                                                        MI
                           ii               8-                                             8-
    )ze(
    )88(   2lWdY           ii  II 8-   II 9- II      5-  2I  9-  81 I-  II 8-   -0si
    )f8(   &m      it      it    9-6     f-6    20l      01 8-   01 0-   9-6     f-6     6-6
    )58(   oimr      6     ii  901       7-6      f-6     5-6     5-6   01 8-   *0I      f-6
    )98(             6      ii   8-6     5-8      2-7     9-7     9-5    0-7      t-8    f-I
    )78(   'ugy      7     '*    1-¿     f-l     9-8      6-7     2-s    S-6     6-8     8-8
            '1*iS    5      ii   f-S     2-8     7-8      1-6     2-9    F-6      7-6    66
    )88(
      68    9>-i0    5     Ii  II  8-  II 9- 2l f-       5-81   0-51   7-81       5-6   0I 0-
      Of    -Aok     8         2I  9-  5-81     7-51     71 0-   9-¿1   51 6-   71 0-   91 8-
      lf    ™<1      8
                            ii
                            ii 0-51    fl 8- fl 8-       6-51    51 0- fl f-    91 8-   5-91
      2f    naJ       'I I58I  51 6-   6-81    5-81      2-9l   7-51    81  I-  6-19    5-51
       8t   -i«f   18          91 2-   8I  7-  2I   8-   12 7-   n o-   8-71    8-81    0-91
                                                         fl
                            ii
            -"H      2         2I 8-   -081    9-81          8- 8-81   81 8-    8-2I    81 8-
     )5*(   lV&Y      I
                           tt
                            ii fl f-   5-2I     t-2x     2I 8-   8-81  81 7-    II 5- I-si
     )9*(   08IHdA             8-2I    2-01    01 8-     II  8-  01 6-   6-6    01 2-   f.\\
     (If)   ayM 08          ii 01 5-     7-6     1-6      1-7     5-8    9-6    01 8-    5-6
     )8t(   8nnf 82         u    0-8     8-8      6-8     6-7     1-9    1-5      t-9    9 7-
     (6f)   Anf     82      Ii   2-5     2-9     89       I-7     7-8    I-8      5-7    7-9
     )05(   -ugy    92      ii   2-9     8-¿      1-8     7-8     1-6    5-6    01 9-   11 0.
       15   'tdag f2           2-II      1-6      1-8    01 8-   01 5-  01 5-   f-0l    II 8-
                                                         n
                            u
       25    1c0 f2             2I 7-  81 8-    8-n          6-  21 I-  01 6-   2l f-   zi  o.
       85           22
                            U
                            ii  21 f-  fl   0-  81 7-    fl I-   5-91   71 0-   9-71    en

   'OK    jo             MOD
    -ouiij     uooui -uiegb    •)0(    •)I(    •2)(    )S(      •)t(    •)s(    )9(     •)i(
    'UOTI    gum •uonimii[
       ts
       SS
             -oeD '22 IS8I
             traf 1,S 2S8I
                              91
                              91
                                   06
                                   6
                                      SI
                                      hl
                                            J
                                           9-
                                              91 o-0  81 08
                                              tl 0- tl 2-
                                                               tl  c9-
                                                               SI i-
                                                                       tl  cS-
                                                                       91 8-
                                                                               SI oi-
                                                                               SI 5-
                                                                                       T8S-5l
                                                                                       8-tr
       9S    -eb! 02 ii       15  9-  81 6-   12 9    7.1 9-   SI i-   I-6I    SI i:'  £1 0-
      )iS(   --"«H  IS        12  9<  12 i_'. SI 6-   81 0     tl *• 0tI       2l i-   SI  8-
      )8S(   l!jdA  19        12  9-  81 0-   81 0-   7-1 8-   13   t  i-12    IL I-    Il 8
                                      II t-
                          II
             ^-K    19        II  e.          11 8    II   8   8I  6-  I-SI    01 6-   oi e-
      )59(
             onnf   Il
                          ii
                               8        9  I-  9   f:   9 i-    i I-     i-9     i 5-    S-i
                    il
      )09(
      )19(   £\nC              i i-     8  6-  8 1      S 8     9        8-9     f 8-    St
             -ugA Sl      ii   9 9          6   8 8-    6 t-    6 5-     6 S-    8 8-    88
                                               i
      (S9(
       S9    '^"S   tl    «I    l I-    9 S-       2    8  t    8  I-    t-6   n I-    01  8
       t9    ct0    81         0   I    6 f-  II I-   12 i-    81 6-   tl S- tl 1. n        8-
                    II                                tl
                          tt
       S9                 *i  SI   S  91 0-   SI I-        2-  91 8    SI  S-  II   n-   i-9
       99    -^D    11        11 0    tl i-   ci i-   91 0     SI 6-   0-81    SI  9-  06-1
       i9    '««f     '6 CS8I SI I    SI   2- 9I 0-   91 f.    91 5    91 S-   !l[ 8-  fi-51
       89    -baj     8   ii  SI 6    91 0-   tl 7- 81 t       81 8-   6-81    51 8-   -7Sl
      )69(   JOH    01        tl 8- tl i- tl i- tl I-          £1  I-  I-13    2l  t:-  tl 9
      )0i(   IHdA     8   ii  SI   6  12 9<   12 9-   12 8-    81 0    12 8-   71  0-  st e-
      )Ii(            8   ii  12  5.  12 S-   11 5    II    8  II 7- II 6-     11 29   01 S-
                                      II I-     i
             -^OJS
     )2il                 ii  11  6-              8     9 5     5 8      8-9    8  I-    I-l
      )Si(   Anr      9   ii   9   6    e   l   9 8-    9 9-    5 5<     I-9    9  i-    5-i
             -ugy     5        8   0        t  6 8-     6 S-    6 2-     8-8    8 6-     S  8
                                               ii
      >ti(                ii            (i
      5)i(   *ldag    8   ii   t   9    9 6             6 8-    6 6-   01 t-    8 2-     0-6
       91    PO       8   "   10  i-  10 S-   11 8-   12 9-    tl I-   SI 9-   ti 8-       8
       ii
                                                                                       13
             -AOK     I       SI  0-  tl i-   II  5-  SI 5-    13 8    i-12    tl 2-   SSI
       8i    MD       I       15 e-   9L 0-   91 8    91 y.    tl l tl 8-      91 *•   81  f-
       6i    c3D    08        il i-   91 8-   51 9    tl   6-  SI  2-  9I 8-   91      tl 6-
                              tl 9            SI t    il       fl      091             tl S-
                                                                       iti
       08                                                   7,                 51 5-
                                                                                       Iti
                                      51 8                          7
       18    'bai iS      ii  tl 8- tl     0- 91   0  91   8   tl 8-           tl 5.
      )S8(   ''«1M 82         8I   g  81    I 12 8    SI   2   2l 8    81 0-   81 0-   2I 8
                                                  i
                          ii
      )88(   IHdA i2      ii  LI  i-  11    C 11      11 8     11 i-   -7II    II I    01 8
      )ts(          iS    ii  U    f  01   i- 11 5    01 9-     8 e      6 S-   6   7    8 S-
      )58(
             ^«K
             «nif   SS    ii   8   0    i   8  9 8      i  0-   6   I    0-8    5   6    S i-
             A*PP   S2         S  6-    !» 0    e 8-    S  8    9 6      8 S-   8   *    6-8
                                                        i
      )98(                '*
      )i«(   'ugA   SS    ii   6   S    8 8     i 8-       8    9        8-t    9 o      6 e-
  ,    88    9>das  SS    ii   6   9  oi 9-   11 8    II I      6 t      0-6    6 fi   S12
       68    '100   SS    tt  tl S- n t-      2l   0    6 8    11 9    tl 6-   81 6-   812
       06    'AON   0S    ii  tl * 51 9       71 6-     6 8    II   0  I13     2l 9    2l 0-
       16    'aoD   0S    ii  11 5    II 9-   71  *'  SI    s  12 9    I12     2l   !1 SI  -7
       S6    -uojT  '81 SS81  91 8-   iJI     11   I  SI   0   tl 2-   SI t-   2l   8  12 t-
                    il
                                           9-
       86    -b?tf            n i-    11 e-   12   t  12 5     II i    I-12    81   ^  81 t
                                                      II       II 8 SI S- 21
                          u
      (te(   --aiW  81    'I  81   0  tl f    13   9       6-                       8  i-2I
      )S6(   B-xiY 91         12   0  Sl    8 II 6-   II   9   II 8- II 9- Il       ci 11 6-
      )96(   ^aM 91           10  8-  10 6-   II 9    12   0-  II   8  01 S-    6        8-6
      )i6(                     6  6-    8  i-  8  e-    8   0   9  I-    0-9    i   5    89
                                                                                i
                          «I
      )86(   ^Pif   tl    ii   9   8    8  0-   8 9-    6   0   6   I    i-8        e,   88
      )66(   *iA    81    "   10  I-    6  8-   6  8    6   5   6   8    0-6    8 i•     9-i
     001     'idag  II    ii   8  2<    6  5-   6 9-    6  6   01  2-  01 S-   01 e    II 8-
     101     -ct0   11    ii  12  6-  01   9- 01  S-  01 5-    01  S-  II  8-  tl   K  -0SI
     S10     '-»ON 01     ii  2I  5-  12   5- 81   2  tl 1•    81  5-  81 9-   tl f-   2l  ti-
     801     'oaD 6           10  i-  II   9- 8I  6-  91 0     SI t-   i-Sl    il   <" 7SI
     toi     .'n«J    9S8I«8  tl  0-  tl   S- tl *'   tl 2-    2l 8-   II 0-   81    1 SI S-
     S01     bfä      9       81  u 12 9-     12 5    tl 5- tl 8-      I-12    2l   9  I-ll
                      i                                        II 6-
                          u
    )90l)    ;«w              11  5. 11. 6-   11 5-   2I   0-          SI t-   2l      11 ti-
    )ioi(                     12  I. 12 6-    7:1 5,  2I i-    Sl  8-  Sl 0    11 e    01 8
    )801(                 ii  11  0-  II   5. 01 6-   01 8     II   9  SI S-   01 e.   Il  S-
             aunf     g         6       8 1'    8 8     8 9-    8 9-     6 2-    8 i-    8-8
                                                        i
    )601(                  a      8<
1
    )0li(    Jfpif    S    U    9 S-    i-9     & 8-       S-   i  9.    8-9     5 5-    9 8-

-os jo    81o(I JO AV88
-mm[      noora -niegb              •)o(               •)I(             •2)(               •)8(                'w                      ).5(      •)9(       ).7(
•uoi}    guiu •uoi}ounj
1)II)    -anT 'I 9S8I                9 .8              9 oS              I .8-              8         oC        8 .8                    oS-8      .I-8       8 J-
)12I(    -ugy IS                     7 5                I       S        6 0-               6 8-                8 6-                    f-9       96-        6 %.
 £11     '»das e2                    6 g               6 8              01 9               10 f-               01 6                    7-01      01 2-      01 2
 *II                                II &                                                                       SI 7                    SI 8-     f-fl
                                                                                                                                                                    9 0 -7 '-•
         '130 62              ii                      01 8              01 8               12 8.                                                            12
 SII                                                                                                           fl
                                                                                           9I
                                                                                                                                                 in
                                                                                                                                                 8-81       CI
                                                                                                                         8•
                                                               e 6-
                  72          ii    12      8         81                81                       I-                                    12 9-
                                                                                9 0 8
 911     aaD      72                81 2-             01                                   01
                                                                                                     6 -7
                                                                                                               12                      2l 9-                fl
                                                                                           ll
                              ii                                        6                                        I
 711     -«af     92         7S8I   81      9-        SI       0-       81                                     1         6-            0-15      SI   6-    21
                                                                        ti
                                                                                                               1
 81I     bsj ts                     51 0-             91                                   ex 8-               81                      S12       7-51
                                                                                                                         8- 6
                                                               2 s 0
                                                                          f                                                                                 1        8
                                                                                                                                       II
                              tt
                                                                                                                                                            I
(6II(    -JOK     92                      Ir          81                                   7-1 6-              2I                            01 f-
                                                                                                                                            S-              7\
                                                                             g. I-
                                    81                                  81
                                                                                                                                       II 0- 0il
                                                                                                                                                                    *•
)02l(    I«dA f2                    SI       e        12                10                 6         6-        10 8-                                        01
                                                                                                                                                                   7 9 7 6
                                                                                                                                       II a 01 9-
                              **
                  S2                                  2I                2I                                               g.
                                            9 8- 9-
)I12(                               10                                          2'         11                  10
                                                               6- 1
         A9bi«i
         ennf     22                                                            f-                                                      8-7       -18
                                                                                                                     I- -7
)212(                               8
                                                       9 9 9
                                                                        I                  8
3)12(    A>f I2               ii    I                          5        f                  f         9-        fI                       9-8       8-S               8-
                                                                                »
                                                                                                                                                                       6 & c
)tsi(    'ugy  19                         I-                                                         f-        6 7                      1-9       9-9
                                                                                                                                                            9 6 5- 8
                              ii                               0
S12                                 S 5                        a        6 9                6 U       f-        -1 -7                    5-6  \l 2-          I1
         •Qdos 81                                                               0-
                              Il
                                     f
                                                      II                                                                               II 8- it
                                     I
912      PO 81                      10      6-                          SI      0-         2I        1>-       2I                                      £•   2l
i12            91
                              «
                                    II 2-             SI                fl                                     81 6-                   -0SI      i-fx       81
                                                                                6- 5- 9-
                                                               0-                          81 0-
812      aaD 91
                              Ii
                                    81 9-             SI
                                                               g c
                                                                        15                 HI g.               II I                    SI 8-     fl    -7   91 s-
62I      -uof 'gi 8S8I              91                SI                81                 2I        0-        I1        9-            S-8I      81 9.      SI       0
                  fl
                                          I
013      -baj                       SI                tI     8                             CI                                          01 9-     S01        11 s-
                                                                                                     6- -7
                                                                        81 9-                                  11        5
                                    ll
                                            6
                                                                                           II
                              '*
)ISI(    --aiK SI             ii                      12 8-             2I                                     2I 6-                   8-21      sl    8-   It
                                                                                                                                       SII                           1 8
                                            8
)281(    mdA      II          ii    2l      2         12 0-             12 0-              12 8-               2I I-                             20I        10
)S8I(    i'-K SI              ii    10      6         10       9        6
                                                                        10                 10        6-        11 s-                   01 2-     01    f-   10 6-
         aunf     Il          "     01
                                            8 8
                                                      01       f-       6 s.                  0-                         s-             0-8       S-8
                                                                                                                                                               6 9 8
                                                                                           8 8 8 8
)181(
                                                                                                               8 7 7 7
)sex(    At II                                               I-                 8-            2-                    i-                  9-9       7-9
                                    6 7 9
                                                       8 9
                              tt                                        I
                                                                                                                                        6-9       8-8
                                                                                                                                                            (i 8- S 2
)9SI(    -3nY                 ii            2-                 0                              0-                         e-
                   7 7 6
                                                                        8
                                                                        2
         'ptas                              f-                 f.                                 I-                                    *-8       0-6       01
                                    ll 0-
                                                                        I                                                8
                                                                                                                                                            fi 2-
)781(                                                 I                 I
         ct0                                                                                                   2I f-                   81 9-     o-n
                                                                                                     6- -7
 8S1                                                  10                6       2-         10
                                                                                                                                       II
                                                                1
 681                                fl 0-             81
                                                             I- 7'
                                                                        15   I-                                81    8                    9-     601        zi      9-
0tl      oaD                        II                2I                fl 2-              2l                  fl 0- f\                   9-     ei         II      2-
                                          l- I- 9-
                   g                                                                                                                              l
in       -ntii-   'f         6S8I   SI                SI       6        fl 2- fl                               SI
                                                                                                                         7' 7
                                                                                                                                       fl 6-     g-II       71      I-
                                                                        fl 6- L\ 0-
                                                                                               I
2tl      -ba^                                         2I                                                       SI                      01 f-     01 6-      01       1-
                                                             I- I-
                                    81
                                                                                                               fl 8-
                   e 3 5 £
 en                                         8-                          2I                                                             VI        2l 0-            8
                                                                                                     0 6-
         •reW                       10                11                        2-         81                                               S-              12
                                                                                                               II 6- II 2- II t-
                              tt
(ffl)                               81 o.             2I                2I                 2I
                                                                                                                                       III                  1I 9'
         IHdA                                                   A-           I-
                                                      II
                              tt
(m)                                 II      8-                 8                6-                   9-                  6-                      01 I-              6-
                                                                                                               6 7 8 6 8 6
                                                                                                                                                                 6 8 s 8 e
                                                                                           6 9
                                                                        0 8 8
         ^"iie                tt
)9fl(    eanr                       II      8-        01     s                                       0-                  f-             S-8       z-s
                                                                                A- 9
                  I           U
)«I(     *""ir    08                        s-         5 6                                 10        f-                  8-             6S        B-S               8-
                                    5 5 6
                              tt
(Stl(    Anf      0£          it            0-           7'    s'        t,0-              8         9-                                 7-8       -79
                                                                                                               g.  8-
                                                                                                                                        2-S       2-8
                                                                                                                                                            7' £   8-
)6tl(             82                        0-                             2-                     I-                     9-                                         2-
                                                                                                                                                                       2
         '3nA                 iI                      I   t             I                  I
 0SI                                                                                                                                    9-6       6-6
                                                               8- se
                  92                                                       8-                 9-                                                            01
                                          l- I-
         'tdss                U     10                10                6                  8
1SI      l^o      92          ii    11                81                2I 6-              12 9-               12 8-                   £11       II 8-      81
2SI      -AoK     f2          II    ei      8-        12I               81 8.                        6-        81 6-                   81 8-     I-tl *I 0-
                                    fl                                                                                                           ti S- 81 2-
                                                                                           I
                                                      SI
                                                                                                                         5- 7' 6- 8<
SSI      oaD      v-s                       0-                          91 A.              15 0-               SI                      91 2-
                                                       8 6
                                                                                                                                                            II f-
                              Ii
tsi               S2 0981           8I6
                                                      '.'I              fl   I-            81     I-           2I                      8-81      i-81
SSI      baj ss                                       10                12                 81 f.               si                      I11       £-01       01 8-
                                                                                                               II    II S-
                              tt
         ••ifK 22                   8 6- 6                              2I                 2I 0-                                                 S-01
                                                       1 0- 5- 8 ¿• 8
                                                                        6 8 9 6 6 8
)9SI(                               12                12                                                                                                       6-
                                                                                                               II 0- 2-10                                   6 6
)751(    I«<lA    I2          tt    (II     a                                   2<         10                                                     8-6
         i«K      I2                                                                       10                  01                       6-6       7-6
                                                                                               8 8 5 7
)RSI(                                                                                                                    0
                                    9 S 6
                                    I                                                                                                                       i
                                                                        8 8 5- 9-
         8i™f                                         01                                                                                5-5       £•9
                                                                                                                         1 -7
)6SI(             19
                                                                                                                                                              B 9 7 9
                                                                                                               8 8 5 5
                                                        I
                                                                                                                                        9-9
                                    6- 9 1' 9
)09I(    A"!1     81          ii                       5       8-                                                                                 •7  9
                                                                                           8 8 -7 I. 7' 7 8-
                                                                                                                                                  t-S
                                                                                                                                                            7 9 I I- 5
)I9I(    g.iA     71          tt                      I        f-                                                    t                  7-9
29I      'ptas    SI                        5-        6      I-                                                          0-             9-8       f-6
                                    II
                                    I
                                                      II
                              tt
£91      -10O 'VI             "             5-                          01                 01                  01        (5            tl 0- SI        8«   SI
                                                               7 8 g
t9I      'A<iii 81                  SI      9         91                        8 8        ti                  91 c                    Il 8- 2-9I           91  i
 S9I     f8D si                     12                II                     *             91  f               SI
                                                                                                                         1' 9
                                                                                                                                       ft 2- ti 0-          2I    8
 991
 791     boj      01
                             1981
                              tt
                                     f9I
                                    SI
                                    12
                                                      2I f-
                                                      81I
                                                                        81
                                                                        6I
                                                                         I
                                                                                0          Il
                                                                                           Il        8 6
                                                                                                               91
                                                                                                               •51       6
                                                                                                                                       fl 9- I-fl
                                                                                                                                       9-fl      12I
                                                                                                                                                            2l
                                                                                                                                                            n     I-
                                                                                                                                                                    *•

                                   ,*K '0   •saaqraxjqQ
-on jo    at«D  jo   Aon
 -o8tl[   uoouz -ui^ab      •)0(      •)I(    '(s(   ).8(   '«      )5(    )9(     'w
        gum 'uoi^oanj
 )89l(  «K 'll 1981        51 06     81 ,G   ot-2l  12 ol- 21   o0 21     12 =0   12
 )691(  IHdA    01     ii  12   I    II 8 II 2-     01 8-  01   e  01  8  11 5    912
 )071(  A9«H    01    it   11   0     6 9      8-6  01 9-  01   7  II   I n     1   7-6
 )171(
        eunj 8        ii     6 9     01 0      5-6    I t•   7  9    I  8   9 0     8f
 2)71(  A-f       8   ii     9 5       7 8     2-9    g      5  8    s  e   S 6     99
 )871(  -ugy      9          7 f-     9 8      1-5    8      f  7    S  5   5 9     95
 )f7l(  'ld-is 5             9 0       7 2     2-6   6   1   8 9     8  f   8   f   87
   571  -wo       f          8  I      6 8     f-6    8 f;   8 8     6 6  (H    I S2I
   97l   -Aom     2    ii  fl I- fl       7  81 8-  11 8-  11 7    n f fl ¿•      s-ti
   771   -8aD     2    K   51   I    fl  8-  fl  0- 81 2   81   I fi f    81 9-   I 8-f
   871   aea    18         SI   8    fl  9-  11 9-  f:i 0- fl t fl I      81 "    SI   8-
   671  -"'f    '08 2981   fl 0-     91 9    81 8-  51 0   21 0-   81 6-  SI I-   6-81
   081  'baj    82         2I 8      12 6    f-2l   fl   9 fl   s: 81 6-  21 8-   812
 )181(  '^K      08        21 8-     II f-   01 8-  II  5. II 2- II 0-    II   6- II    6
 )28I(  I»dy    62     "   II   9    II 8-   01 f-  01 0-  01 s    II   2 01 8-     S-6
 )881(           8^    ii  10 0-      6 8      7-6    6 I-   9 ¿•    9  1   8 9-    8-8
 (f8l(  8unf     7S    ii    8  g     9 7-     87-    8 8-   7 -7    7      7 6-    7-7
  )S8l( A»f     27     ii    9  f      9 8-    97     7 6-   7 6-    9 6-   9 5-    I-8
 )981(  -snA    S2     ii    8 I-      8 2-    1-8    7 I-   8 t'    8 I-   8 I-    f-¿
   781  'idag   f2     "     8 2-      7 2-    86-    8 I-   6 0     6 I-   6     II 8
   881  tc0     82         2I  8-    II   7  f-2I   7-1 8- CI 5-   81 2-  fl 9-   8-fl
   681   'AOX   I2         12 (l       6 9-  II 5-  12 2-  81 9    SI  2- '.'1 g- ei   s-
   019   xia    is         71   0    71 6-   SI 6-  SI 8-  51 9-   91 0-  11   6- 81 8-
   119  nT      '19  89fiI 81 8      H I-    SI I-  81 8'  fl I- fl *'    11 6-   2-SI
   S19  •batf    si        91 8-     GI  f-  02   f SI 8   II 8    01  5- II 6-   881
 )819(  --"iK   19         81 0      71 0-   II 2- II   0- II  f-  ni  6- S1 ¿•   Sll
                           II
                      M
 )f6l(  l!-idy 81      ii       9    11  I-  01 5-  01     01 7    (ii -7 II   0- toi
 )S6l(  £*n      71    "   ill 5-    11 8-   f-0l   01  f- 01 2-     6 5-   8 0-     0-7
 )919(  aunf    91           9 7       5 8-    f-9    l I-  8  I.    8 0-   9 9-     8-7
 )719(  ^inf     91    ii    8         7 8     8-9    5 8-   5 6     9  I   7 I-    0-9
 )819(  §nA     1 f   ii     5 8       7 0     27     t -1  7  5-    *  8   7 I-     f-7
   661  'idsg   81     ii    6 0-      6 8     8-6    8 5-  8   f    6 7  01 0-   001
   ons  te0     81         11   I II      9  11  8. II I-  01 2    12 e   81 e-   81 I-
   10S  AOJf    11         fl   11   81 7    Sfl fl 2-     51 0    SI   8 91 9-   0-12
   S0S  eaD     11         II   i:   81 8    fl 0- fl 6    SI 0    81 9   81    *  f-n
   80S  'UMf      '6       9I    1   fl   8  fl 6- fl 5.   51 I    91 0   51 I-    SI  7-
   f0S  -b^       7   ii   71 -7     91   5  12 8-  II  2- 12 £'   81 *   81 7     I 8-f
 )50(2  'J«K      8   "    81   f    12   8  12 I-  12 -7  12 2    21 8   II    2 Ml
        judy      9        II   6         2  01 I-  II     II               6   I 001
        %
 )90(2                ii             10                 8-      6  01
 )70(2            9        10 0        6  9    6-6  01 7.  01 1    II   0 II   6  0il
 )80(2  8unf      ^        01 2      II   0  01 6-  01 *.    7 8     9 0-   5 6      8-9
 )60(2  ^I"f      ^          8 2       7 8     99     S 8-   fI      f -7   9 '-     8-¿
 )01s(  -ugy      2   ii    9 8        9 9     99     9 2.   7 5     8 9    7        4-9
 )II(2  -idag     I   ii    9   5      7  f    9-8    8 8    6  I    6 9    8 5-  MI
   122  1-0       I   ii   12 I      II f    8-11   II f- 12   s*  fl   8 II    6 12 7
   812  ctO     08     ii  81 8      II 9-   11 0-  II 6- fl    8  91 I-  81   I-  iei
   fI2          6S    ii   II   5    11 f-   8-81   SI  2- 91 7    SI 8-  fl 8-   SI I-
   SI2  '-9D    62     ii  fl   0    fl f.   8-fI   51  a  91 2    91   f SI   2-  2-tI
   912  n«f     '27 S98I   81   li   II 2-   21  I. 21  I. 21 f-   SI     81 8    61   f-
   712  -baj    92    ii   81   1    21  -1  11 2-  II 6. fl f- n 5-      81 o.   0-SI
 )81(2  JiM     27    ii   12   I    12  5-  12 9-  2I 8- II       II * II     9- 01 7-
 )19(2  I!-idA S2 ii         6 7'      6  8  01 8-  II 8- 01 8- 8 9- 8 f-         01 S-
 )oss(  £«m 5s        ii   01  8-    01   9    86   II 8-  01 5-     8 *•   8 t-    6-6
 )1SS(  eunf    S2    "     6   f      6 I-    S-8    5 I.   5 2-    7 2-   7 -7     87
 )sss(  Anf     22    ii     7            6    1-8    8 f-   8         6-   5 2-    2-f
 )82(2  'ugA I2             f I        5 9-    0-7    7 8-   8 8-    8 5-   7 I-    7-8
                                                                                  MI
                      M
   f22  -tiJiis 02    ii   01 6      10 8    01 8-  01 8.  01 5.   01 6-  01 6-

                               8}odg-ung puv                               jvujs9M9£ •vu9tuou9nr[                                                                                                                     'jfrg
ox jo           jo «98
         uooia -uiegb                  )0(                          •)I(       •fe(                    ).8(                  •)t(                   )5(                     •)9(                              •)7(
•uoij
        3ara •uoinrani
 252            598I'6I               12 7°                         2l   o2-   01 o9                   01 JS                 01 08                  11              ,6      81 o5                             15
 922    'AOK 81                       ?1 9                          Sfl fl                      9      2l         8          01             e       10               I      11                 8              fl
 722    'ecD 8I                       8I            8-              2Sl fl                      8      51          I         81             f       8I 0-                   10                  f             2l *
 822    -nor 9981*71                  tl I                          9-fl       8I 7                    sl         8          15             8       81 6                    11 8                              15 8
 622    -ebj    51              ii    8I 8                          92I        11 9                    2l         6          6l             l       01 7                    10 8                              11                     I
                                      01 6                           5-6       10 2                    2l         I          11             f       11
                                                                                                                                                                    n '.'
                                                                                                                                                                            11                                11
                                                                                                                                                                                                              7 7 5 9 8 8             8 9
        •"1TC   71              ii
                                                                                                                                                                            9 8 6
)082(
                                                                    II 9-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5 6 6
        1«dA    51                    11                                       10                                                          ?:       10
                                                                                                       8 9 5 5 8 6
                                                                                                                             8 7 5 9 8 6
                                                    9
                                                                                                8 8
)18(2
        £bH     tl                                  f-               7-8       8                                                           6
                                                                                                                                                                              6 7 5
                                                                                                                                                    8 9 8
                                      6 7 8 9 A 6
)28(2
        sunf 81                                     9-
                                                                     II
                                                                     0-5                                                                   *•
                                II
                                                                               f                                                                                    9                         9
)882(                                                                          f
        A^f 2I                                      I.
                                                                                                             6 0 9
                                                                                                                                      *                                     f               9                 f
                                                                                   8 9 9                 I fl                                                       1 8 7
)18(2                           ii
        'ugA    10                                                   2-9
                                                                                                                                                                            6 9
                                                    6                                                                                      1        I                                         5
)582(                           U
                                                                     f-¿
                                                                               8 5 5 I 8
 982    t.^S
                                                                                                                                                                                            s 8 8 6 8 8 8 0
                                             t                                                                                                      6
                                Il
                                                                                                                                                                            fl
                 9 7 7 8 6
 782                                                0-               9-6 10   II                                             21 0-                  81                                                        81
                                                                                                                9 8 0
                                                                    fl 0- ti  fl                                                                                    8 c     fl                                fl
        13*0                    M
 88S    'AOJJ                   "     2l 8-                                                                                  81            z        8I
 682    *>a                           fl                            62I II 9. II                                             2l f-                  fl                      fl                                2l
                                                                                                                                                                    7 0 8
                                                     6
                                                                     0f 81
                                                                                                                                                                                                              8 0 9 S g 6 9 2 0 8 6 8 6 9 7 8 0 A 9
                                                                                                                                                    2l                      2l
                                                                    Ifl
 012    ««r                    7981   12                                      81                5-        f                  81                                                                               81
                                                                                                                                           7- 0
                                              f
                                              I
 112                                  Tl                                       81 0-                   8I                    81                     15                      81                                2l
                                                                                                       9     7 7 6 8
        '"1K    9                     81                            2-8I       11               5-     10                                  5-       10              t-      11                                10
                                                                                                                             8 6 6 6
2)12(                           ii                   £
        I«<ir                                       V-               9-6                        (1.                                        I-       8 fl
                                                                                                                                                                            6 9 9 9 5 8 6
                                       'J 8 8 6
                                                                                8 9 5 7 7 8 6
)81(2             5
)m(                             ii              If                   7-8                        8-        I                                I-       9- 8                                      8
                                                                     6-8
                                                                                                                   6 7 5
         sun     g                                  9-                                                                                     0-                       2-
                                                                                                                                                    5 5 5 9
5)1(2
        f                       ii
                                                                                                ./ 8
                                                                                                       6- 9- 8 5-
)91(2   ^Pf       2             M                   9-               5-5                                                                   7-                       5-
               18                                    5-              1-5                        I.                           f  8-                                  *•                      6
                                      i f
)71S(   A9lnP                   M
                                                                                                       f
        'gnA 62                 ii                  T-               i-9                        6-                              2-                                  9-                         9
                                                                                                                             II
                                                                                                                              9
)81S(
 612    'Itl8S 82               ii      8       I.                   f-9                        9-     01  f                    0-                  10              f-         0-                             10                  1
 025    PO 27                   ii    II             g.             II 5-      81 f.                   12        7-          81 0-                  ex                      12               7-               81         I
 125    'AON 92                       10 -1                          7-6       81 5-                   fl 0-                 Zl            9-       2I              0-      81 0-                             2l                 0
                                      8I                            6-U                                8I                    81 I-                                                           f-               81
                                                                                                                                                                    1- 7-
                                                                                                                5-                                  <"I
                                                    8- s 0 7- 7-
 S25           92                                                              "•I 6-                                                                                       81
                                                                                                                                                                            II    II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
 825    'i"if 25               898I   12                            21 9-      81                e     II       8-           21 0'                  01                                        7-
 *25    ebj 82                        <"1                           t-5I       sl               7-     2I                    II 5-                  10 1•                   II 8- 11
                                                                                                       II 9- II
                                                                                                                 9                                                                                                                7
                f2                    10                            201        01 2-                                            g.                                  8'                       6-               10             I-
                                                                                                                                                    8 A 5 8 9 6 6
                                                                                                                                                                            5 5 6 6
)525(
        IHpA   82                                                    7-8          2'                       f                               8-                       8-                       s'
                                                                                                                                                                                                              5 9 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9< 8- 8 6
                                                                                7 7 5 8 7 8
                                                                                                                             8 9 9 7 6 8
                                                                                                       5 7 8 6
)95(2
                                      8 5 9 9 6 6
                                                                     9-8                                                                                            8'
                                                                                                                                                                                             fi g
               22                               t                                 8-                                                   I-
)57(2
        ™f     02                                   2-               8-7
                                                                                                       7 8 5-
                                                                                                                                           f-                       0-
        ¥f
)825<                           M                                                      f
)65(2          02               ii
                                                I-                   8-9                                                                   6-                       8-      f                2-               f
                                                                                7-  i_•
        Say 81                  lI                  6-               9-9                        8                                          6'                  I-            9              s                   7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T. 8 5
)09(2
                                                                                                       I  I
 19S    •1'IaS 91                                I-                  97-                                                                   8-                       5-      10                                81
                                                                                                       9 8 8 6           8
                                ii
                                                                               II                                                                   lI 0-
                                                                                                                                                                                I
 292    l^O 91                        81 2-                         901                                01                    ox            f-                               81                                81
                                                                                                                                                                                            0 8 2
                                      fl                                                               fl                    fl 0- n                                        fl                                fl
                               '                                                    I
 892    •«i{! 1I                                    2*              51 8-      51                                                                                   5-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9 8 8
                                *'
 192    aaD                     M     2l             7-             2l 6-      81        I. I          2l                    7.1 9-                 2l   f                  81                                81
 59S            '81 6981              81 2-                         8-81       81 6-                   2l                    II       I-            11
                                                                                                                                                                    8 0
                                                                                                                                                                            11        *                       2l
99S     -baji   tt                    15 0-                         I-2I       11                      2l                    81 0-                  10                      10 0-                             si
                                                                                                       8 g 5   7 8 5 0 8 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                               6 7 7 5 7 8 6 6
                                M
        JoK 8I
                                                                                                                             9 8 6 6
                                      11 9-                         01   7-                                                                         01     f                10                                01
                                                                                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                           f
                                                                                                                                                                                                              6 9 5 9 9 7 6
)792(                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                        e 5 7 9 8
        V.idV   2l                       8-                         t-0I                                                                            11              8       10
                                                6
                II
)89(2                           a
                                                    9 9 9 7 7 6 6
        &n                               t•                          7-6                                                                   f-
                                                                                                                                 7- It-
                                ii                                                                                                                             *
                                                                                                                                                    9 5 9 S 8
)69(2
        aunf                                                         8-8                                                                   2-
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I- 0 * 8 8 g 6 2
)07(2           01              a                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                               6 8 5 8 8 8 9- 6- f:
)17(2   Anf                    ii                                    6-5                               t                     *             6-                       !)
                8 t• 5 9 8 6
                                                                                                       I
        'ugA                                                         9-9
                                                                                                                                                                            8 5 1 7 2 5 8 5 0 * 9 7 8
                               ii                                                                                                          0-
                                                                                                                             5 5
)S7(2
                                                                                                       9 9
                                                                                                            I                                                       8
        -ptas                             f                          f-U                                                                   8-
                                                                                                                6 8 7 8
                                                                                                                                                                    8 5
)87S(
                                                                     f-I
                                                        2 * 6
t27     1c0                                                                                            01                    11                     11                      10
                                                                                                                                           0 5- 8
                                      II                                                               II
                                      8 7 2 8 8 6 8 2
527                             i<                                  2l 5-      11           0                                21                     2l     f                11                                0I       f
927     oaD                                                         2-8I       81                                            6                      01                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8- 6- 6
                                                                                                       8
                                                                                                                                                    fl                                                        Il
                                                                                   I                                                                                6
742                                   01                            21 7-      81                      2l                    2l  f                                          2l
                                                                                     6
827     -tref   18                    21                            II 6-                              II       5 8
                                                                                                                             n             8        fl   fI                 51                                11
672     J«K                    "      21                            II 8-      10                               8            10       *             10                      10                                01 8-
                                                                    2II 'II
                2                                                                                      6                                                            7
)082(   l«dA    I              ii     01
                                                                               8 0 7 6 0
                                                                                                       III                   01
                                                                                                                                                    8 6
                                                                                                                                                         f                  01 0-                             01 f-
)18(2   U^A     08             ii     6                             I-l '8                             6
                                                                                                       6                     8
                                                                                                                             6                                      8-       6               0                  8            I-

242                            Mr. C. Chambers.
 No. of  Date of new
 luna    moon begin      (0).     (1).   (2).    (3).    (*)•    (5).    (6).   (')'
  tion. ning lunation.
 (282)  May   30,1870     8 8°     8 8°   8  3    8 4.0   8  4°   6 2°    6 1    7  :r
 (283)  June  29          7 1      7 1    6  1    5 7     5 2     4 8    4 -5    5 2
 (284)  July  28          4 9      5 '4   6  3    7 '1    6 0     5 •9   6 •6    6  5
 (285)  Aug.  27    -     5 9      6 0    5  9    7 -7    8 0     7  6   6 0     5  0
  286   Sept. 25    )i    6 5      8 •2   8  8    7 '4    7 '6  10  •1   9 •3    9  y
  287   Oct. 24     tt    9 1      8  1   9  8    9 '6    8 '5  10  •9  12 '7  12   9
  288   Nov. 23     ')  10 8     10  '2 12  -5  12  •2  12  '3  13  '4  12 '4  11   8
  289   Dec. 22     „   12 1     11  •0 10   4  12  -4  10  '9  12  '4  11 •4  12   4
  290   Jan.   21,1871  i;i '8   14  •8 14  '2  12   1  15 •9   14  •8  12 0   10 3
  291   Fob.   19       12   0   11  '8 11   0  10  '4  11 •6   11 3    18 0   13 '8
 (292)  Mar.   21   iI  12 '5    11  '2 10  -5    9 '6    9 '3  10 '8   11 •3  10 '6
 (293)  April 20    ii  10 •6    10  -5   9 •6    9 '3    9 •1    8 '4    8  1   9 2
 (294)  May 19      )i    8 '4     8 •2   7 •8    8 -7    9 •8  10 1      8 1    7 '3
 (295)  June 18     ii    7 1      6 '8   5 •6    5 '8    6 '7    6 -7    6 1    6 2
 (296)  July 17     ii    7 1      6 '8   6 '4    6 1     5  3    4 '4    5 '2   S 6
 (297)  Aug. 16     M     5 9      6 '3   6  6    6 '6    6   1   6 •6    6 •6   6 1
  298   Sept. 15    n     7  0     7 '7   7  3    6 •9    7 -7    8 -7    8 •9   8 I
  299   Oct. 14    n      9  8   11 2   11    1 11  -4  12   5  14  •6  14 'o  12 •4
  300   Nov. 12     it    9  4     8 4    9  2  10   8  10  -7  10  '9  11 •6  12   1
  301   Dec. 12.   ij   12   3   11 3   11   6  11   3  13   0  12   (i 12 9   15 0
  302   Jan.  10,1872   15   2   13 7   14 3    13   1  13  •1  11  '2  11 0   13 2
  303   Feb.    9  ij   15   1  15    2 15   2  13  •8  15   2  11  '8  11  '4 11 '8
 (304)  Mar.    9  )j   10   3     9 '8 10   6  12   2  12  •1  10  •2  11 3   11 0
 (305)  April   8  ii     9 •9   10   0 10   4  10  -7    9 -7    9 •8  11 2     9 '7
 (306)  May     7   -     8  3     9 '3   9 '8    9 'o    8  5    8 •0   8  •2   7 9
 (307)  June    6         7 -5     9 •1   8 '8    6  9    6 '8    6 '2    5 •8   5 4
 (308)  July    5         5 '7     6 0    5 '7    4 '8    4 3     5 '1   6   1   7 ii
 (309)  Aug.    4   -     6 '6     5 '5   5 -5    6 •2    6 •8    6 •6   6 •6    5 9
 (310)  Sept.   3   M     6 '5     7 '6   8 '5    7 '7    5 -7    6 '7   7 '6    7 '6
  311   Oct.    2         8  0     7 -7   9 •3  11 •9   10  '9    9 '9  11 0   13 •2
  312   Nov.    1   ii  13  '5   13  •6 13  •8  13  '7  14  •6  15 '3   12 '8  11   4
  313   Nov. 30 n       10  '3     8 '2   9 -5    9 -4  10  '4  11   9  13 1   13  '4
  314   Dec. 30     n   14  '5   13  -4 13  '1  16  •6  17   2  13   0  12 3   12  '2
   315  Jan. 28,1873    11  -7   12  •6 12  '4  10  '5  11  '1    9  8  10 •8  12
                                                                                   •
                                                                                    2
  316    Feb. 27 ii     11  -7   10  -5 10  -5  10  -5  10  •1  10  '7  10 6   10   8
 (317)   Mar. 28 ii     10  '7     9 '2 10  '5    9  0    8 '3    9 '4  10 1     9 -7
 (318)  April  27   »     8 -7     8 -5   9  0    8 •9    8 0     7  8   8 1     8 '8
 (319)  May    26   ii    9 '8     8 -7   5 '6    6 •4    6 '2    6  1   6 6     6  8
 (320)  June  25    h     7 •9     6 '9   5 '3    5 •2    4 •2    4  2   4 3     5  1
 (321)  July 24      'i   5 '6     5 •0   4 •3    5 -5    5 '4    6 '4   6 9     7 •4
 (322)  Aug. 23     u     5 '8     4 -7   4 -7    5 '5    5 •9    6 8    7 5     7  7
  323   Sept. 21    ii    7 '7     7 '8   8 0     8 '4  10  -7  11 8    10 '8  10   3
  324   Oct. 21         11 •2    11  -2 12 •9   13  '4  11  -7    9 '7  10 9   12   5
  325   Nov. 20     ;i  12 -5    13  '4 14  •6  14  •9  15  '2  13  '2  12 2   14 7
  326   Dec. 20    ii   14 '7    13  •2 13  '6  13   •t 13   5  13   4  14 '5  15 0
  327   Jan.  18, 1874  14 5     12 •8  11  •8  11  •1  12   6  12   8  11 4   14 0
  328   Feb. 17 ii      15 •8    12  •6 12  '4  14   4  12   5  10   6  12 •2  12   5
 (329)  Mar. 18         10 8       9 '9 10  '8  12  •1  10   9  10   5   9 1   10 1
 (330)  April 16 ii     10 •1    10   2 10  '2    9 •4    9 '6    8 •4    7 9    8  4
 (331)  May 16 )i         7 '7     8 •1   8 '8    8 •6    9 '7  10 '3    8 1     7   1
 (332)  June 14 M         6 9      5 '8   4 '9    5 •4    7 •8    7 '4    6 •9   5  6
 (333)  July 13 I)        5 0      4 0    3  8    4 •8    5  3    3 8     5 -5   6  5
 (334)  Aug. 12 ii        6 0      5 '8   6  1    7  0    8 0     8 2    7  '3   6  4
  335   Sept. 10 M        6 •1     G •2   5 -7    6 '8    7 '1    8 4    8  '8   8  6
  336   Oct. 10 t?      10 2     10 '1  10  '8  11  •8  11 '4   11 4    11  '8 10   9
  337   Not. 9          12 •2    14 •2  13  '2  11  •9  12  '6  12 •1   11  '5 12   S
  338   Dec.    9   -   11 •9    12 -7  11  '2  13  '8  15 '8   13 2    12 -7  14  8|

                        gjodg-ung puv foyj,%HJU9jj 'trnguiougyj                      gj>g
0& jo      £*}oQ JO M.38
-'ounj     uooui ob -ni."      )0(     -)I(    •)2(   •)8(   ')(4   •)5(    •)9(    •)¿(
 -uoij   guia •uoiisun^
  688    -n«f       '¿ S¿81   c¿tl    o82I    o9II   o6-11  o¿-2I  o2-8I   o6-8I   «e-si
  ote     bsj       9    "    21 8-   ¿'12    ¿•II   II 8-  01 9-  S01     II 8-   2-2I
 )ite(    '-""Pl    8    "    t-2I    21 2-   II 6-  t-01   01 8-   8-6      ¿•8     9-6
 )2te(    judA      g    "    I-01    ¿01     t-01   01 8-  S01      5-6     ¿'8     ¿'8
 )ste(    Lvw       g    "      9-8     8-8     t-6    9-6    S-6    9-8     0-8     S¿
 )tte(    9anj[i    f    "      I-8     6-8     8-8    0¿     t-9    6-9     5-9     29
 )ste(    ¿v*r s         "      2-¿     I¿      ¿•9    0-9    99     8-9     9-9     ¿'9
 )9t€(    'any x         "      S-9     9-5     6-t    8-5    9-9    0-¿     8-¿     2I
          ugA i8                I-9     St             8¿            I-9             I¿
 )¿te(
   ste     -V^S 62
                         "
                         "      0-8     t-6
                                                6-t
                                                2-6  III ¿-2I 2-9
                                                                   t-2I
                                                                             8-9
                                                                           01 9-     1-8
   6te     9PO 62        "      9-8   01 9-   81 8-  ¿2-1 ¿II      II 5-   021     ti 8-
   ose     --"iíí 82     "    ¿'81    II  6-  II  8- -02I II    8- S2I     8-81    81  I-
   ise                        t-81                          t-8I   8-2I    Sil     2l
                                                     2-tl Itl
           '33D 82       "            81 9-   ¿•81   8-81                              8-
   2se     8of    9¿8I'92     9-81    0-12    S2I                  12 6-   t-2I    6-12
   ese     •b-u s2       "    ¿2I     I-2I    01  I-   8-6  ¿01    01 8-   01 8-   II 8-
 )tse(     'ioJÍ   92    "    t-II    01   I-   56     8-6    2-6    8-6   II   0- 01 8-
 )see(     iHnA t2       "      6-6     6-8     ¿-8    t-6    1-6    6-8     6-8     S-8
           ¿«w e2         "     9-8     8-8     0-6    8-8    9-8    8-¿     ¿•5     t-9
 )958(
           sunf   22     "      ¿¿      I¿      8¿     0¿     t-9    t-9     2-5     0-5
 )¿se(
 )858(     Anf 12        "      8-9     9-5     I-5    8-9    8-9    9-9     I¿      11
  )6S8(    -ugA 19       "      5-9     t-9     8-9    5 c.   8-9    6-5     ¿•8     2-8
    098    •1claS 81     "      2-¿     8-¿     ¿-8    2-6  t-01   II 2- toi         6-6
    198    TOO ¿I        "    01 8-   II 8-   ¿•21   281    8-sI   8-2I    s-n     01 6-
    298    AOÍI 91       "    II   8- II 9-   9-81   ti 8-  081    t-2I    21 6-   81 t-
    898            si "        2-8I   9-81    SI  8- SI  2- t-Sl   SI   9- 0-91    t-2I
    t98    'n«r 'ti ¿¿si        6-6   -0II    -0II   II I- II 6- II 8-       ¿•6   II 6-
    598     -baj 81 "          81 8-  t-2I    8-21   21 9-  S-II   I-2I    21 5-   II 8-
  )998(    "H SI "             2-2I   I-2I    II 2-  01 5-  t-01   82I     ¿II     ¿01
  )¿98(    IHdA    81     "     8-6   t-01    001      5-6    6-6  01 9-   I-01      2-6
  )898(     -í*rc  Si     "      t-8    ¿•8     ¿8     0-6    t-6    0-6     9-8     9-6
            aunf   \\     "     5-6   001       0-8    9-5    8-9    6-9     ¿•¿     6¿
  )698(
  )0¿8(     ¿\nC 11       "      ¿•9    5-9     9-9    2-¿    8-¿    9¿      l¿      8¿
  )I¿8(     -3ílY 6       "      9¿     9-8     0-8    S¿     6-9    ¿•5     8-9     S¿
  )2¿e(
    8¿B
            -ídag ¿
            -130     ¿
                          "
                          "
                               sI
                                 ¿•¿
                                 6-9
                                        2-8
                                        t-8
                                                9-8
                                                2-8
                                                       8-8
                                                       6-8
                                                              5-8
                                                              2-6
                                                            8-2I
                                                                     2-6
                                                                     6-6
                                                                   II 8-
                                                                           til
                                                                             8-8
                                                                           6-2I
                                                                                     6-9
                                                                                   t-2I
                                                                                   t-8I
    t¿8     'AOÜ     g    "        0- 12 5-   21 6-   ¿•21
    5¿8     MQ       5    "    -0II   I-10    ¿II     001     6-6  II 8-   01 8-   I-2I
    9¿8     <"if     '8 8¿8I   5-tl   12 t-    II 8-  t-2I   I-81  0-81    II 2-   s-2i
    ¿¿8     'b8á     2    "    ti I-   II 6-   t-tl   s-tl   0-15  ti 8-   0-81    82I
            -ívji              II 6-   II 6-   II S-  -0II   II 2- II t-
    8¿8
  )6¿8(     njdT
                     f.
                     8
                          "
                          "    8-01
                                 6-6
                                       II 5-
                                        2-6
                                               S01
                                                 8-6
                                                      IIII-  S-2I
                                                               9-6
                                                                    01 8-
                                                                      8-6
                                                                           2-11
                                                                             ¿•6
                                                                             I-6
                                                                                   ¿•01
                                                                                     8-6
                                                                                     6-8
  )088(     ¿«K      2    "                           01
   )188(    xmf       x   "      ¿•8    8-8      2-6   8-8     8-6    t-8     9-8    6-9
   )288(    8unf 08       "      St     9-5      0¿    8-9     5¿     6¿     2-¿     I-9
   )888(    ¿Inf   08     "      8-S    9-9      0-9   ¿-S     8-t    0-9     t-9    2-¿
   )t8e(    -ugT 82 "            8¿     t-8      ¿•¿   5-9     9¿     8-¿    8-9     6-9
                                                                    toi
     588
     988
            -idas 92 "
                   92     "    III
                                 0-8 I-01
                               2-II III
                                       2-II
                                               01 8-
                                                 9-6
                                               t-2I
                                                       9-6
                                                       6-6
                                                             S01
                                                             S01
                                                      t-tl t-tl
                                                                    01 5-   til
                                                                              5-6    t-6
                                                                                   Il 9-
                                                                                    ti 8-
     ¿88
     888
            -*°íí tz "
            •¡»D t2
            ™f
                          "    1-81
                               SI 8-
                                       t-2I    2-tl
                                               tí 5-
                                                      ti 5- I-2I
                                                             8-2I
                                                                    Iil
                                                                    6-ti    8-51
                                                                            0-8t
                                                                                    ¿II
                                                             Itl
    688            6¿8l'22             9-51           8-81          9-81    21 5-
     068     ebj   i2     "    22I     II 8- II 0-    81 5-         2-2I    0-21    6-81
   )168(     •"1W  82     "    S2I     II 6-   22I    S01    01 9-  II 9- ¿II       -0II
   (868(
             I2TFOy       "    8-01      6-6     8-8   9-6   t-01     ¿•6     8-8     08
                    12    "      t-6   201       8¿     9-9    I-¿    ¿'¿     9-8     2-6
   )868(
   )t68(
             ¿«W
             antif 02      "     t-¿     8-S     8-5    8-5    9-9    5-9     2-9     I¿
   )S68(     -f^r   61     "      9-¿    I-8     8-¿    ¿•9    8-5    6*      8-5     9-5

                                          Mr. C. Chambers.
  No. of      Date of new
  luna        moon begin           (0).      (1).    (2).    (3).     (4).     (5).       (6).       (V).
   tion.    ning lunation.
  (396)      Aug. 18, 1879          6 3°      5-9°    6-8°    7-7°    6-8°      7 1°      88-°       s-r
   397       Sept. 16    „          8-4       7 9     75      7 5     7 8       7 0       7 3        91
   398      Oct. 15 „            10 5       12-2    12   8  13 0    12 3      101       12-8        16 0
   399      Nov. 14 „            14-7       13   8  13   5  14-6    16 6      151       13 6        15 0
   400      Dec. 13 „            15 1       13   5  15   6  15 4    131       14-2      14 7        14-2
   401      Jan. 12,1880         13 4       13   8  12   6  15 6    17 6      15 0      13   1      12-9
   402      Feb. 10 „             14 4      12   1  12   1  1-82    14 2      14 8      12-5        1-I8
  (403)     Mar. 11 „            118-       1-I5    10   4    9 4   10 9      12 3      12-5        11 -5
  (404)     April 9 „             10 0        8-8    9 9    10 6    101        97         9-9       10 0
  (405)     May      9    „         9-5      91      98-      9 3     9 0      8 4        7-9        9 1
  (406)     June     8   „          9 0       7-9     75      7 8     8-7      82         6-6        6 6
  (407)     July     7   „          71        6 9     6 0     7 3     6 9      6 6        6-6        71
  (408)     Aug.     6    „         65        6 2     6-5     6 8     8 0      8-4        7 9        7 3
  (409)     Sept.    4    „         7-1       8-3    9 0      6 6     6-2      7-4        71         7-7
   8.  The whole series of 409 lunations gives the following result : —
                                      (0)      (•)     (2)    (3)    1*;     (5)      (6)      (7)
                                     10-69    10-67 10-67   10-73  10-77   10-66    10-61    10 -66
    A  series which, like that found by Dr. Stewart from the Kew tem
perature-ranges, has two maxima and two minima, but every turning-
point in the Bombay series occurs somewhat later on in the lunation
than the corresponding turning-point in the Kew series, and the range
(0°-16) of the Bombay series is less than that (0°-46) of the Kew
series.     The sum of the four left-hand numbers (42- 76) is also lai^er,
as in the Kew series, than the sum (42-70) of the four right-hand
numbers.         Series (A) is curved in fig. 2.
    Dividing the whole series into two parts, we obtain —
                                       10)      (1)    0-2)   (3)    (*)     15i      (6)       (7)
   Range (1847-75 to 1863-75) ...    11 -32   11-36 11-42   11-53  11-49   11-82    1-I30     11-25     (B)
     „    (1863-75 to 1880-75) ...   10-10    10-01   9-96   9-98  10-10   10-05     9-96    10-11      (Q
    Upon which it may be remarked that, though possessing, of neces
sity, points of similarity to the series (A), these two series are far
from being identical with it or with each other.
                            D. Semi-annual Lunar Variation.
   9.   In dividing       the lunations into winter and summer lunations, we
had inadvertently chosen the 21st March and 23rd September, instead
of the 31st March and 30th September, as the dates between which,

                          Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena.                                  245
if  the middle of a lunation occurred, the lunation should be considered
a summer lunation,                   and the serial numbers of such lunations in
Table     III    are enclosed         in parentheses to distinguish them from the
others, which are to be considered as those of winter lunations.                                The
average      date     of   new    moon       will  be about the 22nd of each         month,    and,
accordingly, in eliminating the residual effect of the annual variation
upon the lunar variations for the winter and summer half-years, the
beginnings of the several months have been taken to correspond with
the average time of first quarter of the moon, and the respective half-
years have been made to commence after the lapse of three-quarters
of the months of September and March. The numbers at the foot
of Table la having been curved on a large scale, the ordinates of the
curve were measured for every eighth of a month, and the averages
were taken of the six sets of eight numbers corresponding to the
winter lunations, and of the six sets corresponding to the summer
lunations.         These were then multiplied by l-069, the ratio of the
average scale of the 409 lunations to the scale of the period 1873 to
1880 (that is, of Table la), and the variations were then taken — with
the results that will now be made use of.
   The values of temperature-range found for the eight phases of the
winter lunations, of which there are 199, are — ,
                                        (0)     0)      (2)     (3)    <4)    (5)   (6)    (7)
                                      12 -5O  12-54   12-73   12-89  13-00  12-92 12-91  13-02   <D1
   Correction   applicable   to win-
                                      + -33   + -25   + '13   -  -01 -  -00 -'15  -  -20 -  -24  (B)
   Correct value oi winter lunar
                                      12-83   12-79   12-86   12-88  12-91  12-77 12 -71 12-78
and for the eight phases of the summer lunations, of which there are
210, they are —
                                        (0)     (1)     (2)     W      (4)    (5)   (6)    C)
                                       8-98    8-89    8-72    8-69   8-66   8-52  8-42   8-43   <8>
   Correction applicable    to sum-
                                      - -30   -•21    -  -12  - -04  + -04  + '12 + -20  + '27   (H1
   Correct   value    of   Bummer
                                       8 -08   8-68    8-60    8-o5   8-70   8-64  8-62   8-70   (I)
    Fig. 3 represents the corrected variation for the summer months,
and fig. 4 for the winter months.                           The winter curve, like that of
 Kew, is mainly a single period curve, and its maximum and minimum
phases both occur somewhat later than at Kew. The summer curve is
of smaller range ; again, like the corresponding curve at Kew, bnt
unlike the latter, it is a very regular double period curve.
    10. The excesses of the two series (F) and (I) above the series (A),
 that is, the semi-annual inequalities of the lunar variations, are —

246                                        Mr. C. Chambers.
                                        (0)        (1)     (2)       (a)      w         (5)     m      (7)
                                      +2-U      +2-12   + 2-19    +2-15     +2-14 +2-11      +2-10 +2-1!     W
                                      -2-01     -1-99   -2-07     -2-08     -2-07    -2-02   -1-99   -1-96   (K)
    Curves representing the series (K) and (J) form figs. 7 and 8
respectively, and they are, necessarily, nearly opposite to each other
in character, and, like those of Kew, they are in the main single
period waves, but with the maximum and minimum phases occurring
later at Bombay than at Kew.
    11. The next two series (L) and (M) are the winter lunar varia
tions for the periods 1847'75 to 1863'25 (sixteen winters), and
1863- 75 to 1880'25 (seventeen winters) obtained in the same manner
as series (F).                They are curved in figs, 5 and 6, which though
possessing        little    likeness      to each other, have, of course, each points of
similarity with fig. 4.
                                         (0)        (1)     (2)       (3)      (*)      (0)    («      (?)
                           16yean!- -  13-43      13-58  13-69     13-79     13-62    13-43   13-46   13-36
   Winter lunar (Firat
      variation.
                   \Lut „ years        12-26      12-03  12-06     12-01     12-23    12-15   12-00   12-23
    It  may be noted that the series (L) and                               (M) bear nearly the             same
relation to the series (F) that the series                                 (B)     and     (C)  respectively
bear to the series              (A),    a    fact which, combined with the knowledge
that the summer lunar variation is of small extent, implies that the
winter months contribute nearly the whole of the irregularity which
distinguishes one half of the period of thirty-three years from the
other.
   E. Possible Variation of                 the   Lunar Effect with              the Sun-spot       Period.
    12. In order to examine the relation of the winter lunar variation
to the sun-spot period, the winters chosen as corresponding to the
minimum and maximum respectively, of solar activity, are 1854-55 to
1856-57, 1861-62 to 1866-67, 1872-73 to 1874-75, and 1857-58 to
1860-61, 1867-68 to 1871-72.                         These groups of winters give results as
follows:      —                                                 '
                                        (0)        (1)    12)       (3)       1*)      (a)     (6)     (7)
   Winter variation (minimum
                                      12-90     12-67   12-49     12-35     12-54    12-62   12-71   12-89
                                      12-83     12-79   12-86     12-88     12-91    12-77   12-71   12-78 1
   Supposed     effect  of    solar
                                      + -07      -'12    -  -37   -    -53  -'37     - -IS      •00  + •11 j

                         Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena.                                          247
  and
                                    (0)     (1)        (2)      (3)    (4)     (8)     (6)       (7)
    W1nter variation (maximum
                                   12 14   12 -S5    12-51     12-31  12-44   12 -22 12-04     12-15
    Deduct (F1                     12-83   12-79     12-86     12-88  12-91   12-77  12-71     12-78
    Supposed   effect   of  solar
                                   -'69    -44       --35      -  -57 -  -47  -  -55 -'67      -'63
                                                   1
     13. For the sake of comparability with Dr. Stewart's results for
  Kew, which may possibly refer to winters a year later in every case
  than those named above, we have repeated these calculations on that
  supposition, and have obtained, in lien of series (N) and (P) the
  following : —
    Phase oi lunation                (0)     (1)        (2)      (3)    (*)     (3)    (a)       (7)
    Supposed
       minimum
               effect   oi  solar
                                   --10    --21      -•34      -  -45 -•27    -  -25 -   -12       -00  on
    Supposed    effect   oi solar
                                   -•58    --44]     -   -41   -'63   -  -53  -  -38 -   -ri2  -   -51
     The series (N), (N7), (P), (P') are curved in figs. 9 to 12. Con
  trary to the Kew series, they show that the temperature-range is
  somewhat less when sun-spots are excessive than when they are
  defective, the mean valnes of the several series being — "17, — '21,
   — '54 and — '50 respectively.                  Figs. 9 and 10 are much alike, and
  imply that the general winter lunar variation found in this way is
  subject to a pronounced change of character during the time of
  deficient sun-spots, having superimposed upon it a variation of single
  period and of greater range than its own.                               This affords a partial
  explanation        of   the   great    difference          between      the   curves of winter
  lunar variations for the first sixteen and last seventeen years (figs. 5
  and 6), the latter period being made up of years of deficient suu-spots
  in greater degree than the former period.
  "
    Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena. II. On the Variations
         of the Daily Range of the Magnetic Declination, as re
         corded at the (Jolaba Observatory, Bombay."                                 By Charles
         Chambers, F.R.S., Superintendent.                                 Received May 30.
         Read June 15, 1882.
     The present, like the preceding, investigation is on the model of one
   by Dr. Balfour Stewart, dealing with similar records obtained at the
'
      VOL. xxxiv.                                                                            s

 248                                Mr. C. Chambers.
 Kew Observatory.* The records extend, in the present case, from
 June 1, 1847, to December 31, 1872, and consist of differences (always
 taken to be of positive sign) between the highest and the lowest
 values of easterly declination observed by Grubb's declination mag-
 netometert on every observation day of the period. Until the end of
 the year 1865 the observation day was the Gottingen astronomical
 day ; after that time it was the Bombay civil day.                 The daily differ-
 ences were obtained from hourly observations                   made on all days
 except Sundays and a few holidays in each year.                Grubb's declination
 magnetometer is of the well known form described in the Report of
 the Committee of Physics of the Royal Society, 1840 (p. 13).                   Up to
 1868-00 each individual entry in the register of the scale-reading of
 the instrument was at once converted into easterly declination in
 minutes, and the daily ranges are the differences of such converted
 readings, but after the date named the differences of the scale-
 readings were first taken, and then converted into minutes.                      The
 ranges    include   the  effect  of disturbance.
                    A. Annual Variation of Declination-R-ange.
    2.   The year being divided into forty-eight equal parts, commencing
with the midnight between the 31st December and 1st January,                 J means
were taken of the ranges for the fifteen days preceding and fifteen
days following the nearest midnight to the commencement of each
48th part of the year.           Attributing four of the 48ths of a year to each
month, and designating as " monthly means
                                                          "
                                                              the thirty-day means
thus obtained, the following table exhibits each of the forty-eight
results for each year, and on the average of all the years : — (See pp.
250 and 251).
    The numbers in the last column are taken to represent the annual
variation — combined with the annual mean value — of declination-
range.
                             B. Variation of Long Period.
    3. Proceeding now on           Dr. Stewart's hypothesis       as to  the relation
between       declination-range and solar activity, we divide the numbers
in each line of Table         I by the mean number (in the last column) of
 that line, and multiply the quotient by 1000, thus obtaining a table
" exhibiting the monthly means of declination-range (forty -eight
points to each year), the mean value of the range for the whole series
   •   "Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 26, p. 102.
   t   On the rare occasions when this instrument    was under adjustment, the b'anks
in  its register were filled up from the register of a small declination magnetometer
which was used as a subsidiary instrument.
   J   Leap-years were taken to contain 366 days, and other years 365 days.

Sun-spots anil Terrestrial Phenomena. 249
250                                                           Mr. C. Chambers.
Table            I. — Containing Monthly Means (48 to the year) of the Diurnal
                 which the Middle Date is the very commencement of the Year,
                             1847.      1848.       1849.      1850.      1851.     1852.     1853.     1854.     1855.      1856.       1857.    1858.
January           f0)                   4 22        3-20       2 '62      3-04      2-56      2-80      3-05      2-45        2-85       2-44     3-37
      „           (1)                   3 :•»       3-54       2 '98      3-30      3-15      2-87      3 -22     •J -51     2 ''.t9     2-58     3-28
       ,,         (2)                   3 Ti        3-81       3 '11      3-29      8-11      2-86      3-27      2 '50       3-02       2-49     3 -38
   ii             (3)                   3 65        3-85       3 -SI      3-34      3-19      2-79      2-96      2 -58       'j •80     2-43     3-01
February          (0)                   3 '37       3-75       3 '85      3-07      3-26      2-70      2-91      2 '49       2 58       2-45     2-65
                                         :i         8 -(;.'l   3 -56      2'8»                                                -i 30      2-43
       *          (I)         ...                                                   3-45      2-65      2-70      2 -47                           2-74
                                        3 20                                                                      "
       ii         (2)                               3-77       3 '88      2-50      3-31      2-47                   '41     2 21        2-39     2-74
                                        8 25        3-76       2 '55      2-47                2-47      2-67      •i          2 17       •t..i2
      ti          (3)                                                               3-51                             '47                          2-99
March             (0)                   8 67        3-86       2 80       2-65      3-52      2-66      2-58      2-64       2 18        2-04     3-56
       ii         (1)                   3 96        3-98       8 '11      2-86      3-31      2-95      2-68      2-61       2 •30       2-19     3-84
       ,,         (2)                   4 42        4-31       8 '67      3-19      3-63      8 '27     3-04      2 -96      2 56        2-29     4-06
   „              (3)                   4 69        5-10       4 '01      3 -55     4-06      3-87      3-44      3 45       8 35        2-56     4-53
April             (0)                   4 66        5-52        1 3!i     3-92      4-37      4-57      3-87      8 57       8 ai        2-91     4-69
  „               (1)                   4 '66       8 -70      4 65       3-99      4-80      4-71      4-39       1 27      4 '21       3-26     4-78
                  (2)                   4 -91       5-45        1 '67     4-08      5-41      4-92      4-87      41 40      4 17        3-67     5-03
  „               (3)                   fi 28       5-15       f. '11     4-34      5-43      4-86      4-61      4 '60      3 ill       4-10     4-97
May               (0)                   5 49        5-13       5 '49      4-41      5-37      4-56      4-84       1 82      3 57        4-58     5-07
                                        ."i   45
  ii              (1)                               5   '57    5    '56   4-42      5-57      4-93      4-86      4    69    3     60    5-02     5-36
  ii              (2)                   5     45    5-75       5    94    4-82      5-33      4-96      5-09      4    fil   3     72    5   0J   5-49
  ii              (3)                   fi    45    6-11       5    79    5-00      5-35      5-13      5-11      4    58    3     S0    4-88     5-42
June              (0)                   fi    -89   6-13       5    07    .ill      5-51      5   '65   4   '99   4    '41   3     90    4-73     512
  ii              (1)                   S     52    5-84       5    75    5-45      5-48      5-57      4-90      1    39          «8    4-18     4-8S
                             5-22              16   5-78            -78       '72       42    5-86                     60    4 3   20    4-23
  ii              (2)                   5                      fi         5         5                   4-78      4                               5-02
  „               (i)        5-46       fi    55    5-53       5    '81   -S75      5-39      5-94      4-89      4    65    4     '04   4-34     5-16
July              (0)        5-19       5     92    5-80       8    -97   6-00      5-20      8   -78   4-86      4    42    4     06    4-37     5   -S3
 tt               (1)        5-34       6     24    5-78       5    -81   5   '85   5-40      5-89      4-62      1    42    4     26    4-52     5-42
 ti               (2)        V01        6     '40   5-89       5    '65   5-45      5-38      5-82      4-57      4-21       4-30        4-26     5-43
't                (3)        4-85       6           6-10       5    -52   5-10      5-37      5-95      4-44      4-12       4-53        4-30     5-41
August            (0)        4-72       6     62    5-90       fi   '20   4   -75   5-74      5-97      4-43      4-28       4-90        4-30     5-84
      ,,          (1)        4-97       6     -71   0-11       fi   -87   4-81      5-86      6-24      4-74      4    31    4-97        4-58     6-16
      ii          (2)        5-62       6           6-21       8    '43   5-10      5-95      6-44      5-02      4-53       8     00    4-93     6-21
      ti          (3)        6-07       7     *l    6-26       5    '91   5-60      6-18      6-91      5-18      4    88    5-47        5-32     6-32
                             6'64       7     •21   6-37       6    '10   5-58      5-98      7-09      5-22      5    62    5     '51   5-70      6-22
                             6-55             8t;   6-16            '40   5-88
            tt    (1)                   6                      6                    5-14      6-88      5"15      5    '91   5     '49   6-06      6-06
        tt                   6-54       6     •52   6-09       li   '18   5-63      4-82      6-42      5-05      5-48       .i    25    6-12      6-02
                  (2)
        tt        (3)        6-19       6     '0H   5-47       5    '74   5-42      4-19      5-38      4-61      'i   '13   4-40        5-67      5-58
                                  '44    ,' •49     4-89       4-00       5-00
October           <ai        5                                                      3-57      4-34      4-02      4    16     3-71       4-87      5-02
       „          (1)
                             ii   -07   4     98    4-13       4-05       4-61      3-55      3-41      3-74      3    59    3-09        3-95      4-54
       •t         (2)        4-33       1     ,11   3-29       3-48       3-54      3-27      2   '75   2-85      3-09       2-52        314       3-71
                                                                                                                             •i
  ii     (3)                 3-71        3-34       2-66       2    '78   2-87      2-96      2-64      2-41      2    '74         36    2-J8      3-26
November (0).....            8-32             ,58   2-50            •56   2-63                                                                    3-0l
                                        2                      2                    2-84      2-54      2-14      -j   55    2-05        2-18
            ti    (1)        3-04       I     -76   2-37       2    '37   2-52      2-54      2-48      2-04      2    38    1     8'J   2-30     2-98
            „     (2)        2-95        - •80      2-80       2    '18   2-89      2-52      2-36      2-16      2    39    2-00        2-30     2-»
            ii    m          2•88       3     -11   2-93       2    -24   2-50      2-74      2-44      2-34           33    2     •23   2-50     2   48
December                     2-91       .;    -17   2-84
                  (0)                                          2-31       2-42      3   '15   2-52      2-45      2-49       2     '39   2-82
            tt    (1) . ..   3-77        - '83      2-79       2    iis   2         8-10      2-55      2-40      2-40       2-40        2-76     2-3S
            n     (2)        3-69             -76   2-89       2    72    2-38      3-17      2-63      2-35      o l7       2-38        2-98     2-68
            tt    (3)        3-85        2-93       2-49       2    '76   2-41      3-09      2-80      2-26      2-81       2-50        3-24     2-n

                                   Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena.                                                                                251
 Declination- Range, thus : — January (0) gives the Monthly Mean of
 January (1) that for one Week after the commencement, and so on.
      1859.     1860.     1861.   1862.        1863.   1864.           1865.      1866.      1867.       1868.     1869.   1870.   1871.     18         Mean.
      3-17      3-08      2-65    2 79         2-91     2 '14          3 00       2 71       2 38        2 '00     2-32    3-23    3-15      2 92       2-84
      3-42      3-09      2-90    2 70         2-96     2 -41          8 15       2 95       2 90        1 '82     2-69    2-96    3-28      2 99       2-96
      3*60      3-18      3-05    2 89         3-02     2 *53          8 34       2 S3       2 St        1-90      2-94    2-95    3-32      3 -08      3-04
      3-39      3-19      3-05    3 19         3-02     2 '66          8 -24      2 -93      2 79        o '18     2-97    2-86    3-21      8 89       3-08
      3-44      3-20      3-02    3 29         2-85     2 82           2 95       2 -90      2 75        2 '09     3-03    3-21    3-24      8 97       3-03
      3-3-      3-19      2-86    3 -05        2 *72    2 '66          2 '94      2 -98      2 29        2 •21     2-69    3-36    3-07      8 -90      2-94
      3-12      3--4      2-97    2 97         2-65     2 '69          2 69       8 -10      2 •06       2-17      2-48    3-40    3-18      8 '96      2-86
      3-15      3-26      2-95    2 53         2-60     2 '69          2 '50      2 -83      2 13        2 '04     2-39    3-36    3-32      3 '42      2-79
      3-57      3-36      3-26                 2-65     o              'j 53                                                                 8 62
                                  2 '51                   -87                     2 '87      2 '18       2 '80     2-60    3-12    3-40                 2-92
      3-81      3-61      3-54    2 -99        3-07     3 'IT          2 '83      2 -92      2 '20       2 '52     2-84    3-48    3-90      4 '25      3*16
      4-33      4-35      3-90     3 '72       317      3 •28          3 '13      3 '18      2 '84       2 '85     3-35    3-93    4-43      4 '66      3-53
      4-83      4-63      4-58    4 '30        3*31     3-84           3 '35      3 56        3 •07      3-45      3-86    4-75    4-73      4 '41      3 97
      5-37      4-ae      4-72     1-84        3 '79    4 '10          3 -62      4 '08      3 '44       8 '81     4-39    5-31    5-18      4 '68      4-35
      6-14      5-12      4-80     4 '88       4-11     4 •23          3 '86      4 '12      3 '97       4-60      4-75    5-57    5-76      4 '98      4-65
      6-29      5-15      4-84     4 '75       4-23     4 '44          4 '30      3 li :;    4 •12       5 '09     4-57    5-66    5-98      5 '41      4-79
      7-0-      5-46      4-77     4-66        4-82     4 '33          4 •67      3-96       4 '48       3 '11     4-52    5-24    6-01      6 '06      4'94
      6-98      5 -77     4-80     4 '28       4-97     4 925          4 '78      3 '81      4 '46       5 '05     4-94    5-37    5-86      6 •27      4-99
      6-87      6-01      5-09     4-47        519      4 •42          4 •75      3 '76      4 -38       4 '82     5-21    5-61    5-82      6 '38      5-11
      6-58      5-99      5 10     4 18        5*56     4 •94          4 '68      3-93       4 21        4-55      5-49    6-05    5-85      6 43       5 '22
  1 6-55        5 -97     5-33     5 •11       5*57     5-37           4-60       3 •98      4 14        4 •78     5-77    6-32    6-21      6 '07      5-29
      6-34      5-90      5-75     a '41       5•42     5 '72          4 '66      3 '90      4 •03       4 '99     6-01    6-50    6-52      6 '04      5-35
      6   -8    6-13      5-80    .-i    '42   5-11    5       •'.<I   4   •75    4   •04    4     11    4-88      6-11    6-ti5   6-17      5   '83    5-31
      6-17      6-77      5-70     5-64        5-02     5-47           4   '93    4   --5    4     29    4-86      6-15    6-71    6-5!      5    35    5   37
      5-77      7--5      5-78    5      '42   5-15            '35     4   '98    3   -90    4     '37   4   '60   6-09    6-68    6-26      5   '49    5-36
      5-88      6-74      5-85           '31   5-22    5       '18         •60        '79    4     '50       '35   5-86    6-60    6-01      5    54    5-32
                                  .1 5
                                                                       4          3                      4
      5-84      6-69      5*57           '13   5-37    4       '87     4   -38    3   '73    4     *59   4   '22   6-01    6-94    6'44      5   '58    5-34
      5-84      6   34    5-76    5      -00   5-46    4       '67     4   '16    3   58     4     '76   4   •15   6-10    6-67    6-31      5   '85    5-26
      a   -55   6-50      5-98    5       In   5-23    4       '63     4   -45    3   '57    4     '62   1   '06   6-09    6-96    6-09      6   '16    5-28
      5-31      7   *52   6-05           •47   5-31            -87         '71        '62          49        •14   6-33    7-03    6-55          '28    5-40
                                                       .-i 4
i                                                                      4          3          4           4                                   6
      5-65      7   *D9   6-62           '84   5-05            '23         !i5        •71          62        '68   5-85    7-19    6-82      6    23    5*59
! 1
                                                                       4          8          4           4
      6-4«      8-47      7-04    •
                                  «      '80   5-12    5       -82     5   01     4   13     4     50    5   25    5-92    7-62    7'13      6    46    5-85
I     8-81      8-36      7-15    6      '08   5-18    6       '06     4   76     4   39     ,4    70    a   90    5-93    7-70    7-45      6   '46    6-16
!     9-0-      7-67      7-11    6      •01   5-19    6       '18     4   77     4   4:;    4
                                                                                             7
                                                                                             'J          6   36    6-25    7-60    7-44      6   '61    6-25
,     8-82      7-12      7-05    5      '82   4-96    5       '92     4   82     4   59     4     47    5   S3    6-35    7-64    6   87    7   •07    6-15
      6-84      6-63      6-41    a      '40   4-62    5       '45     4   82     4   09     4     16    5   31    5-89    7-45    6-38      6    95    5-79
      5-56      6-14      5-62           '20   4-29    4       '61     4   50     4   15     3     80    4   94    5-50    6-86    5   -82   6    45    5*28
      5-06      5-82      4-90    4      '80   3'67    3       -82     4   2.'i   4   01     3     36    4   16    4-30    6-27    5-04      5    3s    4-64
      4-65      5-02      3-83    4      -18   3-46    3       '17     3   84     3   '75.   3     19    3   70    3-59    5-37    4-47      5    13    4-07
      4-44      4-02      3-29    3      68    2'98    2       -87     8   33     3   56     8     •08   3   18    3-21    4-55    3-94      4    25    3-48
      4-00      3-34      2-93    2      -85   2-67    2       '68     3   •24    8   14     2     63    2   45    2-71    4-22    3-53      3    62    3   -CO
      3-37      2-78      2-69    2      62    2-53    2       '40     3   •13    2   82     2     57    2   18    2-53    3-83    3-17      8    15    2-72
      2-89      2-52      2-60    2      34    2-49    2       '12     2   87     2   51     2     21    2   11    2-53    3-43    3   00    2   '74    2-54
      2-66      2-35      2-40    2      30    2-58    2       '03     2   71     2   51     2     33    2   14    2-40    3-11    2-83      2    66    2-48
      2-73      2-21      2-34     2-41        2-65    2       '13     2   39     2   59     2     39    2   81    2-45    2-76    2-50      2    75    2-51
      3-24      2-37      2-53     2-43        2-62    2       '26                                 35    2   45    2-57    2-48    2-48      2   '72    2-58
      3-43      2   42    2-81     2-51        2-45    2       '94     2   •27    2   '49    ..«   41    2   •29   2-70    2-46    2-47      2   '94    2-62
      3-50      2-45      2-89     2-64        2-27    2       '56     2-41       2   '36    2     09    2   17    2-91    2-51    2-47      8   '03    2-65
      3-52      2--4      2-89     2-67        2-15    2       95      2-59       2-26       2     •00   2   34    3-32    2-7     2-76                 2-75

252                                               Mr. C. Chambers.
for each point being reckoned =1000," which table contains in all
1,225 numbers.     A second table is formed from this by taking the
mean of twelve successive numbers and moving onward a step {i.e.,
by one number) after each operation : a third table is formed from the
second by taking means of pairs of successive numbers : the third
table contains 1,213 entries, or six less at the beginning and six less at
the end than the first table : the numbers in the third table — called
" three-monthly values " — will be made use of further on, in the
inquiry into planetary variations. Next all the numbers in the third
table, except those opposite to the divisions (0) of the several months,
being rejected, the means are taken of sets of three of the 304 remain
ing numbers, selected in the following manner, viz.: — the means of the
1st, 4th, and 7th entries, of the 2nd, 5th, and 8th entries, and so on, the
result being placed opposite the middle number of the three in each
case.   Finally, means are taken of pairs of the successive numbers
thus found, the final means being called " nine-monthly values," and
corresponding in time to the division (2) of the several months.
These final means are shown in Table II, in which the entries are
reduced to 297.
              Table    II. — Declination-                        Range, Nine-monthly Values.
                                                                                                          8ep8ember (2).
                                                                                                                                            (2).       B
                       (2).       (2).
                                                                                                                           Oc8ober (2).
                                                                                                                                                       u
                                                    Apr-9 (2).                             Augu-9 (2).
                                                                                                                                           November
      Year.                                                                 (2).
                                                                                                                                                      s
                                  February
                                                                     ST            w-
                                             -i
                       January
                                             V.                      -.             <U+25BA>i                                                                ¦E
                                                                                                                                                       •
                                                                           June
                                                                     OC            3
                                                                     S-3           i-a                                                                2
  1847                                                                                                                                    1153        1166
  1848                1176       1170        1166  116-          1144      1130    1123   1122           1134              1160           1182        119
  1849                1171       1165        1161  1155          1141      1118    1089   1061           1052              1053           1041        103i
  1850                1036       1043        1050  1047          1048      1038    1018   1017           1017              1003            981         963
  1851                 956        957         959   958           958       957     957    963            978              1000           1--6        1013
  1852                1028       1031        1031  1034          1027      1015    1010   1010           1001               984            977         973
  1853                 974        995        1016 1020           1013      1008    1013   1019           1022              1015            997         97«
                       957        945         938   927           910       892     884    883            873               862            857         860
                       865        863         859   855           857       866     876    887            891               882            878         87b
  1856                 869        853         842   836           822       806     809    817            821               824            819         815
  1857                 815        815         -'io  823           833       844     863    905            935               953            983        1010
  1858                102.'.     1025        1036  1047          1041      1044    1043   1033           1039              1056           1083        1114
                      1141       1153        1151  1169          1193      1200    1207   12-2           1179              1159           1159        1167
  1860                1161       1157        1172  1181          I187      1189    1175   1152           1134              1122           1109        ion
  1861                1047       1028        10-27 1045          1062      1065    1060   1050           1048              1045           1039        1025
  1862                1003        993         992   990           988       984     980    977            976               975            965         957
  1863                 959        961         960   953           937       926     928    927            918               911            906         900
  1864                 !UK        927         934   932           933       933     927    929            943               942            927         922
  1865                 918        914         916   910           896       892     898    905            914               922            929         926
  1866                 919        906         872   838           821       818     821    821            825               829            834        ¦
  1867                 864        867         856   833           812       807     819    822            8-6               797            801        9)
  1868                 830        843         842   839           854       874     888    892            887               883            891        i0
  186!)                929        949         977   998          1-09      1014    1020   1033           1042              1-47           1051        1054
  1870                1065       1094        1130  1163          1189      1219    1230   1216           1207              1204           1200        1191
  1871                1181       1169        1152  1
                                                   1
                                                   1             1162      1170    1154   1140           1134              1145           1148        1147
  1872                1146       1140        1135  1140          1160      1166    1148
                                                                                                                                                           l
  The numbers in the table are curved (in a strong line) in fig.                                                                                           1.
and the comparable numbers obtained by Dr. Stewart* for Kew and
                 * " Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol.                           26, p. 109, and vol. 28, p. 84.

                    Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena.                 253
  Trevandrum are curved on the same form — the former in a weaker and
  the latter in an interrupted line.
     4. On these curves we may remark that they present such a general
 correspondence of movement, and approach to simultaneity, that any
 conclusions as to the relations of the declination-range to solar
 activity that may he drawn in respect of one of them will apply
 generally in respect of the others also.           The sun-spot period is
 distinctly   followed  by  them    all — three  showing the maximum of
 1859-60, and two the minima about 1856 and 1866-67.                     The
 general correspondence       of the curves will perhaps be    most   readily
 apprehended by noting the most marked cases of departure from it :
 these are — (1) that the elevation, in the middle of 1859, in the Kew
 and Bombay curves, has no counterpart in that of Trevandrum, but
 only a slight inflection of a continued rise; (2) that the depression, at
 the beginning of 1861, at Trevandrum and Bombay, is all but absent
 at Kew ; and (3) that the elevation, near the end of 1862, at Kew and
 Trevandrum, has no counterpart at Bombay.
    Features of the Trevandrum and Bombay curves that are perhaps
 worth noting are that the great rise from 1856 to 1860 begins earlier
and ends later at Trevandrum than at Bombay, that it begins lower
and ends higher, and that the turnings at beginning and end are
sharper    in  the same case.
                    C. Lunar Annual Variation.
                    D. Semi-annual Lunar Variation.
    5.  The processes by which the lunar variations of declination-range
 have been    brought out were the same as were applied to the tempera
ture-ranges in paragraphs 7 to 13 of the preceding investigation ; but
the observations made use of in the case of the declination-ranges
are those for the twenty-five winters and twenty-five summers em
braced between 1847•75 and 1871'75.             In this case a lunation was
taken to be a winter one if the middle of it occurred between the 1st
October and 1st April, and the remaining lunations were taken as
summer ones ; and — in correspondence with this — the elimination of
the part of the winter or summer lunar variation due to the annual
variation of the declination-range was effected by the same division of
the year in respect of summer and winter. The following table shows
the mean values of the declination-range for each of the eight phases
of each of the 309 lunations of the period, and the summer lunations
are distinguished in it by having their serial numbers enclosed by
parentheses.

254                                                         Mr. 0. Chambers.
Table        III. — Exhibiting                         the Declination- Ranges grouped according                                                                                   to
                                                                               Lunations.
 Run
               Lunation commencing
 ning                                                                    (0)            (1)           (2)             (3)           (4)         (5)           (6)           (7)
                            new moon.
  No.
       1      October 8,                        1847          5 -439             4-126            3-542      3-617           4 -937       4-039        3-005         2-8S0
       2      November 7,                        M            2'553              2 -4:«>          2 -352     2 -393          3-651        4-309        2-758         2 -215
       :l     December 7,                                     2-587              2 -774           3-285      7-905           7-108        2-747        2-719         3-331
       4      January              t»,          1848          3-187              3-613            3-989      4-656           4-046        3-594        3-519         2•850
              February
      1 :<
                                    4,                        3-0r1              2-630            2-621     3   441          4-544        4-744        2-576         2•702
              March          5,                               3-228             3  -359           4-183      4-498           -S218        5-407        4-714         4•133           ,
              April
                     1, 2, 3,
   (7)                                                        4-171              4-203            4 -326     4-646          5  -592       5-248        5-316         5-654
   (8)        May                                             5-482              5-706            5-774     5  -242          5-642        5-087       5  -051       5  -528
   (9)        June                               ,,           6-134                -453             -037     4-986           4-905        5-900        5-614         5-446
                                                                                5 5
                                                                                                  8
  (10)          » 30,                                         6-009                -866           6-004      6118            6-542        7-096        6-616        6  -296
  (11)        July   2tl,                                     6-519              7-376            6  195     5-941           7-342        8-571        6-822         6-840
  (12)        August 28,                                      7-440              6-908            7-171      6-772           7-079        7-307        5-758         5•454
   13         September 26,                                   6-022              -S687            5-242     4   409          4-P57        4-945        3-989         8-257
   14         October 26,                                     3-211              2-398            1-940      1-827           1-907          -343       4-029         3•639
      I5      November 25,                                 3    -4.17            3-102            2-589      2-867                        2 2
                                                                                                                                            -294      2-578            -022
                                                                                                                             2-787                                  3
      ie      December 25,    M                               2-5il              2-913            3-348      3'490           3-194        2-940        4-298         4-418
      17      January 23,   1849                              4-304              4-052            3-732      3-619          3  -422       3-104          ->53       3  -890
                                                                                                                                                      5 3 2
      18      February 22,                                    4-628              4-512            3  966    3  -639          3-570        3 -245          1X3       4-578
  (19)        March 24,      ti                               4-985             5  -488           6-296      6-908           6-370        5-402           053        5-150
  (20)        April 22,                                       5-322              4-951            4-635      5-034          5  -569       5-957        5-116        5       -09-5    ,
  (21)        May 21.                                         7-034              6-833            5-417     5  -372          7-148        6-908       8   093       5-417            |
  (22)        June 20,        ti                           6    -i)42            5-775            5186       5-262           6-136        5-797        6-135        6 -099
  (23)        July l!l,      »                                6-249              5-562            5 -276    5  -563          6-319        6-496       5  -574       5•671            l
  (24)        August 17,                                      5-986              6-821            6-078      6-127           6-484        6-854        6-061                -701
                                                                                                                                                                    3 5
                                                                                                                                                                                     :1 ; i
  (25)        September 16, M                                 5-564                -256           6-307      5-329           5-150          -.168      3-411          -474
                                                                                3 6
                                                                                                                                          4
    26        October 15,                                  3      153               090           2-964      2-605           2-468        1-871       J  -752       2•678
    27        November 14,                                    2-816              2-486            2-483      4-161           4-26H        2-567        2-236        2 -420
    28        December 14,                                  2   -328             2-357            2-419      2-823           2-706        2-454        2-534        2-483            .
    29        January 13,   i850!!!!!!!!!                     3-284                -598           3-589      3-757           3-519        3-282        5-699           <i31
                                                                                2 3
                                                                                                                                                                    4
    30        February 11,                                    2-758                -288           2-437      3-179             -506       2-182        2-494         3•066
                                                                                                                            4 4 2
    31        March 13,       H                               3-439              4-127            4 -006     3-941             -326         -639       4-142         5-151
              April 12,                                                                                                        -;'i7s     4 3
                                                                                                                                            "710         •413               •U6ti
  (32)
                                                                                                                                                                    5 5 6
                                                                                                                                                      5
  (33)        May 11~'                                        6-994              6-547            5-013     5-162            5-746        5-851        5-894                -449
              June      9,    ,,                                -472             6-071            5-803        665                        5-975        5-826                -576
                                                            C 5
  (34)                                                                                                      5                5-757
              July 9.
                                                                                                                                                                                     1 ,|
  (35)                        „                                 -558             6-261            6-124     5-442            4-887        5 -563       5-608         4-72S
  (i6>        August               7,                         4-888             5  -S0I           5 -442    4-715            5-574        5-940        6-089         6-427
  (37)        September                  5,                   6-839              6-964            6-249       -593           6-249          -032       5-230         4-732
                                                                                                            2 2 6
                                                t                                                                                         6
    18        October              5,            „            4-892
                                                                                1 3
                                                                                   "04        s   3-410       -964             -952       3-117        2-906         2•683           11
                                                                                                                            2 2 2
    39        November                                        2-413
                                        3, 3,
                                                 ,t                                -944           2-018       -328             -231       1 -648       2-059         2-458
    4li       December                                        2-437              2-025            2-174     2-857              -770       2-643        8-392         3-605
    41        January               1,          1851        2    -691            2-842              -536    3-694            3-336        3-462        3-783         3-O.-50        i .
    42                                                        3-101                -(i66          2 3
                                                                                                    '557      -374                        2-689                      2-582
                                                 M                              2                           2                2-609                     2-323
    43        March          2,                               2-649              2-528            2-614     2-856           3  -330       3-406        3-582         3-479
  ,44>        April     1,                             -      3-902              3-694              -057    4-429            4-910        4-429        3-560         3•937
                                                 M
                                                                                                  5 4
                                                                                                                                                                                    I
  (4.-,,                                                      4-143              4-543              -242    4-910            4-898        4-120        3-754         5-207
   (4*l       May 30.'                           „            0-146             6  -0N5           5-528       -273           5•287        5-356        4-887         5•322
                                                                                                            5 3 5 5
  (47t        June  2b,                                         -348             7-406            5-860       -493           5-298          -986       4-395                -ok:
                                                           5 7
                                                                                                                                          5                         5               ,
  (48,        July 28,                                          -654             5-173            4 -2.14     -765           4-875        5-310        4-475         5•122
   (49)       August 26,                         „            6-376              6-676            5-482       -825           5-883        5-597        5-608         5-974
    50        September 24,                                   -S860             5  -675           5 -530    4-658            4-040        3-674        3-159         2-980
    51        October 24,                                   2   -928             3-185            2-759     1 -751           2-226        2-661        2•255        2  -530
    52        November 22,                      t             2-907              2-571            2-209     2-306            2-775        2-402       1  -80S        1•895          1
    S3        December                                          -224             3-158            2-849     2-470              -676       2-334        3•009           •024
                                                            4 2
                                                                                                                            2                                       4
    .14       January 20,                                       -223             3-239            2-884     2-610            2-702        2-495        2•953         5-150
    .*tf»     February 10,                       y,           4-887              2-679            2-439     3-434            3-674        3-077        8'400         3-903
   i-„;       March 20,                                       3-788              3-571            3 -823    4-037              -379       5-013       4•772          5-026
              April 19,                                         -373             6-242            6-243     5-788           5 5-561         -533      4•383          4-664
                                                           5 6 5 5
                                                                                                                                          5
   (48)       May 18,                                           -837             6-215            8-601     5-379            5-299        5-459       4-818          5-631
   (59)       •Tune 17,                                         -415             5-700            5-139     5•288           5  -357       5 -343      4•876          4-452
   (60)       July 16,                           tt             -339             6-270            6-123     5-054            4-854        4-904       5-711          6-375
              August 1"),                                     6-479              6-810              -672    5-503                         6-123       5•551          5-494          1 ,
   (61)                                                                                           6                          5-402
   (62)       September 13,                                   5-444                -063           3-731     3-777            4-017        3-828       3-576          3•955
                                                                                2 2 8
    63        October 12,                                       -666               -993           3-799     3-319            2-998        2-460       2-300          2-211
    64        November 11,                                 2 2  -335               -280           2-380     2-678                         3-387                        -525
                                                                                                                            2  -678                   3-124         3
    6S        December 10,                                    3-994              2-994            2-162     2-513            3-722        3 -599      2-815          3•036
    6<;       January               9,          1853            -723             2-431            2-656     2-816            3-360        3-249       2-633          2-761
                                                           5 4 5 3 2 2
    67        February                  7,                                                                                                                                          1 1
                                                t               -278             2-164            2-610     2-484            2-188        2-383       2-657          2-789
    68        March          9,                                 -365             2-815            2-907     3-873            4-137        8-262       3-445          4-884
              April
                     5, 6, 7, 8,
   (69)                                                         -872             5-590            5-109     4-715           4  -263       4-147       4-726          5-424
   (70)       May                                               -727             3-857            4-441     5 -699           5-928        5-310       4-840          5-184
   (71)       June                                              -299             6-037            6-357     6-191            5-917        5-758       5-894          5-894
   (72)       July                                            5-580              5-688            5-688     5-919            6-363        5-315       5-184          6-237

                                       Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            255
Run      Lunation commencing
ning                                                                 (0)                                                       (1)                                                                         (2)              (3)         (4)                                                  (5)                                                                               (6)                     O>
                      new moon.
No.
 (73)   August 4,        1853                           6-123                        6 221                                                                          5-837                                           5 -528         6 -523                   7 187                                                              6                                                     787     7 -291
 (74)   September 3,                                    8-035                        6 948                                                                          6-536                                           7-196          6-821                    6 500                                                              5                                                     505     5 -093
  75    October 2,                                      3-868                        3 166                                                                          2 672                                           3-022          2-725                    2 599                                                              2                                                     553     2 "322
  76              31,     ,,                            2 -843                       2-706                                                                          2 610                                           2-552          2 -386                   2 301                                                              2                                                     015     1-841
  77    November 30,                                    2 -095                       3 -296                                                                         3 022                                           2 -838         2 -895                   2 506                                                              o                                                     623     2-321
  78    December 29,                                    2-300                        3 077                                                                          4 155                                           4 -280         3 -238                   3 123                                                              2                                                     847     2-208
  79    January 28,      1854                           2 -694                       2 955                                                                          -i 904                                          3 147          3-333                                                                                                                                                     2 -080
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8 338                                                              2                                                     086
  80    February 26,      ,t                            2-672                        2 494                                                                          2 '675                                          3 -052         2 -935                   2 764                                                              2                                                     540     3 -082
 (81)   March 28,                                       4 -057                       3 433                                                                          4 •124                                          4-407          4-737                    4 505                                                              4                                                     522     4-819
 (82)   April 26,                                       4 -236                       4 282                                                                           I '759                                         5 -382         5 -628                   5 165                                                              4                                                     765     5-107
 (83)   May 20,                                         5-278                        4 914                                                                          5 •041                                          4 -824         4-913                    5 142                                                              4                                                    -508     4 -599
 (84)   June 2fi,         ,;                            5 -040                       4-537                                                                          4 '988                                          5-303          5-835                    5 402                                                              8                                                    '941     3 -570
 <S5)   July 24,          ct                            4-1 13                       4-440                                                                          4-395                                           4-531          5-505                    5 168                                                              4                                                    '480     4-538
                                                                                                                                                  2 1 2 5 4 a 3 3 1 2 2 a 2 2 :', 5 4 4 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 1 5 ,'.
 (i6)   August 23,        ,,                            5-134                        5 574                                                                             '396                                         4-819         5  -686                     822                                                                                                                   -988     4-405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2 2 2 1 2 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2 I 2 4 4 4 4 3 8 8 2 2 2 1 2 3 5 a 4 1 4 3 2 2 2 1 1 'j 4
  87    September 21,                                   4-760                           217                                                                            -195                                            142         3-879                      951                                                                                                                   '625     2-643
                                                                           5 .rj2 2 2 2 2 2 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2 1 4
  88    October 21,       ,, ...                        3-001                           730                                                                            -968                                           -807         2-087                      973                                                                                                                   -528     1-738
  89    November      19, „                             2-471                           .ml;                                                                           '323                                           -722        2  -764                     415                                                                                                                    979   1   -889
  90    December 19,                                      -204                                                                           -198                          '651                                         2-507          2-321                      400                                                                                                                    689     2-883
                                                       2 2 2
  91    January 17,      1855                             -528                                                                           •480                          '707                                         2-349          2-288                      277                                                                                                                    477     2-712
  92     February 16,                                     -732                                                                           •269                          •322                                         2-292          2-571                    o 489                                                                                                                    821     3-444
 (!«1   March 17,          „ .                          3-167                                                                            -206                          •746                                       3   -639         4-970                      473                                                                                                                    841       -757
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1 2 2 2 1 2 6 5 5 4 4 a 2 2 3 2 2 2 3 5 4 4 4 4 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3 4 4 3
 (94)   April 16,         ti                            4-744                                                                            '128                          •302                                         4-610          5-114                      573                                                                                                                    748       -956
        May 15.                                         5-137                                                                             000                          '896                                           -073         3-857                      416                                                                                                                    108       -005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3 4 4
 (95)                     n
 (96)   June 14,                                        4-588                                                                            '690                          '655                                           -599         5-142                      853                                                                                                                    257       -556
                                                                           2 2 2 3 a 4 3 3 3 1 2 2 a 1 2 a t; 1 4 i
 (97)   July 13,                                          -649                                                                           -873                          •598                                           -855         4-301                      593                                                                                                                    922     3-951
                                                       2 2 3 7 4 3
 (98)   August 12,                                        -245                                                                           •4.-:.                        •553                                         4-514         5  -703                     633                                                                                                                    009     5-827
 (99)   September 10,                                     '252                                                                           '555                          '502                                         5-134          4-691                      954                                                                                                                   m        3-615
 100    October 10,                                       -398                                                                           •866                          '603                                           -907           -586                     209                                                                                                                    014     2-242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2 2 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
        November                                          -204                                                                            -08                          •74li
                                  8, 9,
 101                      ti                                                                                                                                                                                          -527         2-196                      271                                                                                                                    96s     1-859
 102    December                                          -420                                                                             *ll                         '883                                           -678         2-449                      827                                                                                                                    623     3-27>8
        January               7,          ism""!!!!'    3-071                                                                             185                          '320                                                          -033                                                                                                                                                    1-921
                                                                                                     T
 103                                                                                                                                                                                                                2-883                                     136                                                                                                                   -504
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2 3
                                                                                               fi
 104    February                  5,      ii           2  -207                                                                            442                          '286                                         2-127            -039                     047                                                                                                                   '287       -099
 105    March          0,                               2-046                                                                                                          '378                                         2-703          2-778                      869                                                                                                                   -281   4 2 -208
        April                                             -539                                                                            802                          -882                                                        4-368                                                          '7%
                                                                                               1
               1, 2, 4, 4,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -527                                                                                                                                                          -030     3-142
                                                       3 3 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5 3 3 3 4
(106)                                     it
(107)   May                                               -704                                                                            024                          '693                                           -327         4-024                          '270                                                                                                              -787     3-499
(108)   June                              it              -956                                                                           -921                          -567                                           -876        4  -574                          322                                                                                                              -174     4-638
(109)   July                                            4-551                                                                            -479                          '247                                           -864         4-322                           091                                                                                                              -997     4-953
                                                                                               1
(110)     „    31,                        ,
                                                       5 5
                                                          -030                                                                            551                          -585                                           -488         5-776                           516                                                                                                              -734   4   -734
(111)   August 29.                                        -225                                                                            996                          -397                                         5-461         6  -298                         '072                                                                                                              •939     4-196
 112    September 28, „                                 4-162                                                                            -396                          •389                                         2-497          2-881                          -881                                                                                                              '675       -607
  113   October 28,                                     1-880                                                                            -195                          •926                                         1-646            -693                          694                                                                                                              -988   1 2 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -360
                       M                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
  114   November 27,                                    2-367                                                                            '648                          •916                                         2-182          2-355                           456                                                                                                              •172       -727
 U5     December 26,   M                                2-135                                                                            -987                       3-267                                           2-824          2-321                           510                                                                                                              '173     2-161
 116    January 25,   1857                              2-310                                                                                                                                                       2-923          2-818                           332                                                                                                              •173     2-184
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4 5 7 5 a 5 ii 4 3 4 a 1 3 (i 5 5 6 5 4 5 8 2 4 2 2 3 6 4 4 4 5 3 1 2
 117    February 24,                                    2-149                                                                            058                               '829                                     2-081            -852                         '726                                                                                                              -898     3-087
                                                                           5 6 7 4 3 3 3 2 2 3 5 6 5 4 5 4 4 2 2 4 3 2 6 5 4 3 4 4 2 2
                                                                                                                                                      4 2 1                                                                       5 3 1
                       M
(ll»)   March 25,      ti                              3  -087                                                                           305                               -745                                     3-444            -087                       2-957                                                                                                               -967   4   -024
(119)   April 23,                                       4-185                                                                            226                               -255                                     4-883            -043                       5-088                                                                                                               '203     5-672
(120)   May 23,        M                                5-626                                                                            820                             3-974                                      3-685          4-631                        5-207                                                                                                               •379   3   -924
        June 21,                                        3-671                                                                            897                               -454                                       -522         4-516                           042                                                                                                              '619     4-070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7 t a a 2 2 4 6 6 6 6 5 4 4 3 2 2 2 1 4 6 5 5
                                                                                                                                                    4 a 4 4 5 7 6 3 3 3 2 2 3 6 5 4 4 5 4 4 2 2 1 2 2 5 5 a 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4 4
(121)
        July 20,                                        4-128                                                                            208                                590                                       -445        4  -733                          050                                                                                                              •775       -944
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2 2 3 6 3
(122)
(123)   August IS,     ii                               5-122                                                                            603                                282                                     4-760          5-797                           765                                                                                                              '221       -202
 124    September 17,                                   6-877                                                                            455                                637                                     4-962          4-871                           276                                                                                                              -785       -005
 125    October 17,    ii -'                            2-758                                                                            687                                355                                     2-085         1  -761                          578                                                                                                               023       -435
 126    November 16,                                    2-704                                                                            218                                698                                     2-149          2-006                           339                                                                                                              •498       -407
 127    December 15,                                   4  -539                                                                           036                                969                                     2-375         2  -950                          964                                                                                                              •008     4-013
 128    January 14,                                     3-648                                                                            939                                733                                     3-030          3-316                           836                                                                                                              '332     2-264
  129   Fibruary 13,                                      -664                                                                           847                                538                                     2-978            -609                          115                                                                                                              -408     3-979
                                                       5 4 2
 130    March 15,                                         -745                                                                           654                                082                                     3-774         4 3-323                          309                                                                                                              '477     6-051
(131)   April 18,      ti                                 -297                                                                           313                                265                                     5-180          5-448                           665                                                                                                              -881     5-996
(132)   May 12.                                         5-914                                                                            324                                248                                   5   -969         5-443                           306                                                                                                              -019     4-556
(133)   June 11,                                        4-413                                                                            665                                836                                     4-654          5-111                           289                                                                                                              '095     5-134
        July 10,                                        4-836                                                                            259                                871                                       -026         6-009                           254                                                                                                               580     5-145
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2 2 3 5 6 5
(134)
(135)   August               8,            „            6-449                                                                            838                                991                                       -339         6-696                           504                                                                                                              -912     6-450
        September                  7,                  5  -900                                                                           801                                103                                       -340        5  -957                          613                                                                                                              -048       -365
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1 2 5
(130)                                     ,
 137    October              6.            ti           4-413                                                                            293                                499                                       -064         3-121                           036                                                                                                              •789       -026
                                                          -470                                                                           985                                733                                                                                                                                                                                                     -932       -496
                                  4, 5,
 138    November                           n           2                                                                                                                                                              -940         2-928                          -012
 13!l   December                                        2-196                                                                            786                                321                                       -470         2-607                          -566                                                                                                               293     3-773
 140    January               3,          1859          3-472                                                                            145                                328                                     3-554          3-156                           842                                                                                                               860       -755
        February                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5 2 3
 141                              2,                   2  -509                                                                           362                                292                                     2-493          2-344                           453                                                                                                              -519       -525
 142    March         4,                                2-758                                                                            500                               -945                                   5   -230         5-314                           336                                                                                                              -413       -180
        April                                           4-848                                                                            871                               -552                                     7-067            -490                          098                                                                                                              '066     5-797
(H3)           2, 2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7
        May                                            7  -342                                                                           850                                296                                     6-834          7-341                        - 055                                                                                                               -104   5   -625
(144)
               31,                                      7-113                                                                            628                                547                                     5-000          6-221                          '626                                                                                                               237     5-901
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5 7 5 5 5
(145)    ..
(146)   June S0,                          t            6  -758                                                                           774                                654                                     5-683          6-895                          -855                                                                                                              -489   4   -837
(147)   July    29,                        tt           5-571                                                                            036                               '722                                     5-049          5-818                           757                                                                                                              -038     8-153
        August 27,                                     9  -043                                                                           162                               '517                                     9-011            -305                          102                                                                                                              -478   5   -324
                                                                           4 4
(148)                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7
  149   September                 26,                   5-180                                                                            748                                231                                     4-494          5-649                           I'.'.ii                                                                                                          •042     3-780

256                                Mr. C. Chambers.
  Run
            Lunation commencing
  ning                                (0)     (1)    (2)    (3)     (4)    (5)    (6)      (7)
                   new moon.
  No.
    l5O   October    25,   1859.   3 -802  3-819  3-282   2-710  3-030  2-658  2-352    2-579
    151   November 24,           . 2 -653  2 -573 2 -298  3 -361 3-853  5 -284 4*289    3-046
    \wi   Decembe-     23,   ,, .  3-114   2-621  3 -376  3-281  2 -744 3-076  3-454    3-557
    153   January 22,      I860.   3-213   3-133  3-327   3-142  3-259  3-541  2-813    2'882
    154   February 21,       „ .   3-143   2 -47- 2 -209  3-310  4-693  4-700  3-476    3'45c
  (155)   March 22,          „ .   4-769   4-914  5 -467  5 -751 5--37  4-858  4-803    4 -i8
  (156)   Ap-il 20,              . 5 -032  5-216  5 -799  5 -947 6-199  6-261  6-124    6-45-
  (157)   May 20,            „ .   5-846   4-859  5-635   6-035  6-610  6-450  5-6S4    5-4-1
  (15S)   June 18,           ,, .  6-370   7 -274 7 -525  8-289  8-657  7-045  5-167    4-802
  i15di   July   18,         ,, .  6 -256  6 -90S 5 -867  6-560  7 -095 8-242  9-320    8-330
  (KiO)   August 16,         ,, .  8-440   8-166  8 -097  7-918  9-057  8-462  7 -39-J  5-696
  (161)   September 14,      „ .   5-410   5 -833 6-713   6 -805 6-427  6-461  4-62-    3-898
    162   Octobe- 14,        ,, .  4-278   4-008  3-170   2-610  3 -306 3-418  2-425    2-299
    163   November 12,       „ ,   2-005   2-018  2-196   2 -375 2 -498 2-197  2-071    2-883
    I HI  December 12,       ,, .  2-710   2 -306 2-539   2 *553 2-649  2-832  2-855    2 -924
    1i;5  January 10,      1861.   2 -723  2-928  3-191   3-786  3-374  3-054  2-776    2-445
    lt;«  Feb-ua-y 9,        ,, .  2 -69a  2-618  2-733   2-902  3-416  3-691  3--65    2-786
    167   March 11,          ,, .  3 -651  3 -923 3-705   4-186  5 -404 5-404  5-730   5 -412
  (Itii)  April 9,           „ .   4-677   4-318  3 -792  4 -584 5 -329 5 '352 4-963   5 'IOl
  (HW)    May 9.             „ .   4-483   4 -426 4-643   5 -078 6-299  6 '385 5-665   5-490
  (170)   June 8,            ,, .  5-158   5 -855 6-106   5 -523 6-186  6-026  5-032   5 --13
  (171)   July 7,            „ .   6-719   7 -554 5 -653  4-312  4-904  5-6-0  5-851   7-096
  (172)   August 6,          ,I ,  6-939   6-964  6 -585  5 -341 7-436  8-228  7-5-9   6-641
  (173)   Sepiembe- 4,           . 7 -520  6-683  5 -895  6-690  7-041  6-539  5-580   4-971
    174   Octobe- 3,         ,, .  4 -394  4-670  3 -937  3 -093 2 -853 2-372  3-057   3 -O70
    175   Novembe- 2,        ,, .  2 -758  3-030  2-825   2 -276 2-481  2-154  2-161   2-140
    176   December 1,        ,, .  2 -684  3-331  2 -984  3-064  3-190  3-373  2-154   2-222
    177        „       31,   ,, .  2 -684  3-046  2 -733  2-561  2-584  2 -469 3-178   3-114
     178  January 29,      1862.   3-075   3 -853 3-980   3 -373 2-607  1-976  2-1-4   2-315
    179   Feb-uary 28,       ,, .  2 -909  2-662  2 -264  2 -374 3-361  3-727  4-093   4-642
   (18U)  March 29,          „ .   5 -225  4-994  4-607   5 -433 5-995  4-966  4-198   4--2C4
   (181)  April 28,          „ .   4-665   4-814  4-151   4-007  4-038  4-887  4-981   5 *36.i
   (!a-)  May 28,            „ .   5-812   5 -637 5 -465  5 -499 5-293  4-857  5-077   5-671
   (183)  June 26,           „ .   6 -254  6 -329 4-985   4-857  4-709  4-786  4-447   4 -0-26
   (184)  July 26,           „ .   6-471   6-071  4 -745  4-870  5-955  6-151  5-511   6---25
   <185)  August 24,         ,, .  6-574   5-891  5 -594  5-584  6-661  6-089  5-396   5-271
     i86  September 23,      „ .   5-511   4-762  3 -544  5-639  5-589  3-485  2-948   3-114
    1-7   October 22,        ,, .  3-814   2-710  2 -492  2-2-6  2-378  2-2-6  2-332   2-675
    188   November 21,       ,, .  2 -355  2-218  2-321   2-790  2-447  2-149  2-367   2-355
     18!) December 20,       „ .   2 -732  2 -893 3-241   2-621  2-543  2-8-6  3-190   3-266
    190   Janua-y 19,      1863.   2-916   2-868  3 --22  3-110  2-584  2-579  2 -481  2-53*
     191   Feb-ua-y 17,       „ .  2 -209  2 -538 3-010   2-819  2-640  2-250  2-367   3 156
   ,192)  March 19,          „ .   4-013   4 -253 3-704   3 -430 2-936  3-032  3-853   4-9*38
          April 17,                4-977   5-156  5 -065  3 -921        5-397
   (193)                      „                                  4-665         5-705   5 133
           May 17,                 6-107   6 -082 5-774   5-118  5-374  5-737  4-643
   1194)
   (105)  June 15,            ,,   5-396   5 -145 i  -482 4-7-6  4-985  5-529  6-059
                                                                                       4-473
                                                                                       5'499
   (196)   July 15,                5 -2-2  5-877  4-882   4 -692 5-510  5-133  4-836   5-706
          August 14,          ,,   5 -453  5 -365 4 -390  4-116  5-488  5 -872 5-424   4*893
   (197)
   (198)   September 12, ,.        5-511   5 -044 3 -727  3-853  4-413  4-150  3-796   3-937
     199   Octobe- 12,        ,,   3 -253  2 -387 2-630   2 *758 2 -424 2-344  2-629   3-018
    200    November 10, ,,         2 -223  2 -277 2-481   2-648  2-790  2 -895 2-973   2-593
    -01    Decembe- 10,      ,,    2-561   2 -003  1 -944 1 -892 2-139  2-349  2 9222  2-154
    202    Janua-y 8,       1864   2-126   2 -099 2-515   2 -972 2 -927 2 *870 2 -608  2-634
    203    Feb-ua-y 7,        ,,   3-098   2 -950 2-150   2-447  2 -538 3-086  2-480   2 -368
    204    Ma-ch 7,                3-215   3-636  3 --99  3-510  4-218  3-348  3-378   5-014
   (205,   Ap-il 6,           „    4-871   •1-747 4-310   3-830  4-551  4-4X6  4-103   4-307
   ,206)  May 5,              ,,   4-390   •1-379 3 -967  4-665  5 -365 5 -968 6-288   6-399
   <207)   June 4,            ,,   6-004   5 -488 5-431   5-735  5-762  6-256  5-170   4-473
   <208)  July 3,            „     5-168   5 -363 4-94    4 -898 5 -237 5-076  3-899   3-464
   <2H0)  August 2,           ,,   4-333   5 -545 5 -64S  6-191  6-778  6-448  5111    5-351
   (21ii,            31,           6-833   6 -334 6 -265  6-476  6-036  5-427  4-797   3- 956
    211   September 30,       .,   3-586   2 -786 2 -875  3-183  3-080  2-964  2-836   2-618
    212    Octobe- 30,        ,,   2 -470  2-031  1 -635  2-072  2-538  2-1--  1 -669  1-864
    213   Novembe- 28,        „    2 -275  2 -222 2 -035  2-195  3-110  3-236  2'7-5   2'662
    214    December 28, . , .      2-182   2 -864 3 -759  3-471  3-178  3-807  3-461   2-8*4
    215   Janua-y 26,       i860   2 -866  3 -312 3-358   2-915  2 -058 2-832  3-392   2-785
    216    February 25,             1-838  1 -880 1 -989  2 -675 3-430  3-279  3-830   3-316
   (217,  Ma-ch 26,           ,,   2-858   2 -881 2 -893  3-647  4-196  4-418  4-413   4-692
   (218)   April 25,               5 -740  4 -528 4-047   4-836  4-745  4 -569 4-825   4-373
   (219,   May 24                  4-913   4 -885 4-061   4 -253 4-893  4-950  4 -665  4-973
   (220,  J  une 22,          ,,   5 -042  5 -385 4 -493  4-791  4-642  4-002  3*602   3-361
   (221)  July 22,                 4 -002  4-253  5-419   5 -968 5 -442 5-351  4-447   4-157
   (222,   August 20,        ,,    4-905   4-816  4-756   5-159  5 --65 4-448  4-036   4 653
    223   September 19, ,,         5-019   5 -453 5-019   4-157  3-716  3-501  3-443   3-544
    224   October 19,         „    3-677   2 -497 2 -630  3 -350 3-647  3-238  3-419   3*030
           November 17, ,,         2-389   1 -841 2-332   2 -332 2 -355 2-207  2-287   2'515
    226    Decembe- 17        ,,    1 -944 1 -962 2-580   2 -950 3-224  2 -835 2-710   3*247

                                      Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         257
Run
             Lunation commencing
ning.                                                 (0)           (1)                                                              (2)                   (3)             (4)
                       new moon.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (5)                                                                                (6)                                                                                            (7)
 No.
 227        January 17,                          2-777      2-976                         3 464                                              2 -552               2-104                                            3 •156                                                                                   3 -167                                                                                  2 •456
 228        February 15,                         2-772      3-847                         3 856                                              3-163                2-738                                            2 '027                                                                                   2 043                                                                                   2 '824
 229        March 17,                            3-488      3 -557                        3 682                                              4-013                3-910                                            3 '819                                                                                   3 -567                                                                                  4 '065
(230t       April 15,                    ii      5-282      4 -250                        8 654                                              3-223                3-258                                            3 '819                                                                                   3 647                                                                                   4 •242
(231)       May 14,                      ii      4-573      4-510                         8 276                                              2-881                4-150                                            4 -573                                                                                   3 601                                                                                   a i136
(232;       June 13,                             4-288      4-473                         3 840                                              3-546                4-183                                            4 020                                                                                    3 442                                                                                   a •129
(233)       July 12,                             4-161      3-510                         3 187                                              3 -556               3-469                                            3 '615                                                                                   3 281                                                                                   a 673
(234)       Amust 10,                            3-948      3-990                         4 196                                              3-639                4-380                                            5 '609                                                                                   5 164                                                                                   4 "71
<285)       September            9,              4-135      4-249                         4 346                                              4-501                3-934                                            3 988                                                                                    8 990                                                                                   4 •418
 236        Ocuber 8,                    ii      3-951      3 -752                        3 441                                              3-224                2-961                                            2 881                                                                                    8 -327                                                                                  3 0s7
 237        November             7,              2-031      2-301                         2 095                                              2-127                2 -435                                           2 '991                                                                                   2 612                                                                                      652
 238        December             7,      „       2 -921     2-499                         2 149                                              1 -825               1-564                                            2 '264                                                                                                                                                                           2 771
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               333
 239        January 6,                   1867    2-150      2-561                         3 -430                                             3 -830               3-315                                            2 '652                                                                                   2 161                                                                                      309
 240        February 4,                   ,,     2-275      2-264                         2-618                                              2-140                1 -989                                           1 -976                                                                                   1 452                                                                                   1 •113
 241        March 6,                             2-689      3-018                         2 -584                                             2-212                2 -264                                           2 '618                                                                                   3 487                                                                                   3 '944
(242)       April    5,                          3-762      3 -293            ,'i            476                                           4   -722               5-063                                               550                                                                                     -379                                                                                     567
                                                                                                                                                                                 2 it 4 7 7 7 8 8 5 4 2 2 3 2 2 4 a 6 & 5 4 4 2 3 8 2 l 4 6 3 4 A 4 4 2 2 2 2 2 3 4 4 4 4 3 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i a a 4 4 8 3 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3 4 4 4 3 a
(243)       May 4.                               4-459      4-884                         4-310                                              4-184                4-214                                              -965                                                                                      353                                                                                     549
(244)       June    2, 2,                ti      4-061      4-665                           •550                                             3-784                  -390                                                                                                                                      -967
                                                                          2 1 3 4 3 4 4
                                                                                                                                                                 4                                                   -253                                                                                                                                                                             •267
(245)       July                          »      5-316      5-168                           -185                                             4-184                4-904                                               570                                                                                      653                                                                                    '717
(246)         „     31,                   ,,     5-271        -865                          -871                                             4-377                4-157
                                                            5 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -859                                                                                      951                                                                                     37:t
(247)       August 29,                           4-814         265                          -453                                               -727               4-516                                              '157                                                                                      887                                                                                    -718
 248        September 28, ,,                     3-636      3-403                           -350                                           2 3 -824               2-572                                                                                                                                        201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -064                                                                                                                                                                              96                                                           1
 249        October 27,    ,,                    3-389      2 -346                           921                                             2-035                  -332                                             ,298                                                                                      830
                                                                                                                                                                 2                                                                                                                                                                                                           1                         932
 250        November 26, ,,                      3-373      2-847                           -024                                             2-182                2-149                                              -044                                                                                      092                                                                                    '411
 251        December 26,                           -099     2-031                         1-550                                              1-811                2-127
                                                2 2                                                                                                                                                                  '104                                                              I                       966                                                           1                        '592
 252        January 25,   1868                     -069     2-085                           •103                                             2-730                  -360                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Iss
                                                                          5 :; 3 2 2 2 3 7 .". ;"t5 5 8 3 2 3 1 2 3 :i 5 3 4 3 4 :; 1 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     •133                                                                                      012
 253        February 23,   t*                    2-017      1-995                           -898                                             2-135               2 2-8C7                                             •908                                                                                      761                                                                                                                                                 915
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1 4 6 4 4 a 4 r, 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
(254)       March 24,                            3-367      3-348                           '693                                              4191                4-644                                              '624                                                                                      202                                                                                                                                                 900
(255)       April 23,      ti                   5  -802     5  275                          •830                                              4-678               5-013                                              '665                                                                                                                                          -no                                                                                             950
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4 7 7 5 e a 6 4 8 8 2 3 8 7 7 6 a 6 a 4 3 2 2 2 2 4 5 5 a a 4 a 2 2 2 1 1 2 6 5 4 s 4
C»6)        May 22,        ti                    5-241      4-236                           •939                                              4-973              5  -562                                             -288                                                                                                                                           059                                                                                            it97
(257)       June 20,       tt                    4-796      4  651                          •041                                              3-813               4-419                                              '579'                                                                                                                                          036                                                                                            116
(258)       July 20,                               -613     4-779                           '670                                                                  4-035
                                                6 4
                                                                                                                                                -578                                                                 •979                                                                                                                                           167                                                                                             131
                                                                                                                                           5 3
                                         ,
(259)       August 18,     ti                      -883     6-476                           •808                                                -631             6   551                                             -763                                                                                                                                           357                                                                                           -391
 260        September 16, „                      5-608      4-534                           •739                                              3-416               4-773                                              •281                                                                                                                                           001                                                                                            64s
 261        October 16,                          2-415        -709                          •264                                              2-550                 -989                                             '674                                                                                                                                           498
                                                            2 2 2
                                                                                                                                                                 1
 262        November 14,                         2-178        -687                          •372                                              2-401               2-510                                              '511                                                                                                                                           932                                                                                           955
 263        December 14,   ti                      -383       -201                          '996                                                -723              2-346
                                                2 2                                                                                        3 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -293                                                                                                                                           892                                                                                           389
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2 :; 2
 264        January 13,   1869                     -246     2-795                           •407                                                -238              3-438                                               164                                                                                                                                           028                                                                                           M0
 265        February 11,   ,,                    2-319      1-675                           -132                                              2-744               2-717                                              "675                                                                                                                                           498                                                                                            827
 266        March 13,                            2-999      2-721                           '167                                              3-756               4-813                                               985                                                                                                                                           025                                                                                            162
(267)       April 12,      „                       -214     3-821                           ,904
                                                6 * 5
                                                                                                                                              4-720               4-413                                               034                                                                                                                                           059                                                                                            756
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3 4 6 8 2 8 5 7 6 6 6 a 6 4 4 8 2 3 4 7 7 7 a 6 a 4 2 2 8 2 2 4 a a 5 a 4
(268)       May 11,        ,,                      -551     6 -528                          •842                                              5-762              5  -063                                              362                                                                                                                                           636                                                                                           •848
(269)       June 10,       ,,                        963    7-299                           •882                                              6-318               6-471                                               528                                                                                                                                           842                                                                                           •708
(270)       July    9,
                                          <i     5-768      5 -570                          •928                                              6-922              6  -843                                              163                                                                                                                                           694                                                                                           "722
(271)       August          8,                   6-414      6-934                           •945                                           4    -836              5-810                                               202                                                                                                                                           728                                                                                           -<i22
(272)       September             6,             6-746      8-348                           •340                                              6•185               5-196                                               676                                                                                                                                           082                                                                                            081
 273        October         5,                  4  -270     4-102                           •310                                              3-030               2-498                                               830                                                                                                                                           893                                                                                            366
 274        November                      „      2-401
                                 3, 4,
                                                            2-367                           •326                                           2     595              2-578                                              -284                                                                                                                                           389                                                                                            (i10
 275        December                            2  -704     2 -309                          '412                                              3-081               3-127                                              -430                                                                                                                                           327                                                                                            88I
 276        January         2,           1870    3-855      3-996                            681                                                 641              2-315                                              -435                                                                                                                                          -561                                                                                            88I
 277           .,           31,           n      3-739      3-458                           •773                                           3 2  -950                -293                                             -778                                                                                                                                           807                                                                                            13S
                                                                                                                                                                 5 3 3
 278        March      2,                 ii       "265     3-304                           '161
                                                5 3
                                                                                                                                              3-395                 -958                                             •315                                                                                                                                          -293                                                                                           T>62
(279)       April    1,                   ti       -465       -323                          '236                                              6-431                 -907
                                                            6 4 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     •019                                                                                                                                           145                                                                                           -111
i280)        „       30,                  ,,     5-482        -527                          '625                                                -608              7-060                                               980                                                                                                                                          -263                                                                                           •781
                                                                                                                                           3 4 7 6 6 5 5
                                                                          i
            May 30,                       „      6-814        -088                          •808
                                                                              2 3 6 7 7 5 5
(281)                                                                                                                                           '722              7-146                                              -386                                                                                                                                          -871                                                                                            825
(282)       June 29,                               -397     6-448                           '659
                                                8 6 7
                                                                                                                                                -201              7-409                                               285                                                                                                                                           283                                                                                            854
(283)       July  28,      i*                      -3.14    7-217                           •008                                                -839              6-921                                                                                                                                                                                            '169                                                                                           '798
(284)       August 27,                               380    7  980                          •192                                                -357              7-117                                                                                                          403                                                                               '855                                                                                            895
 285        September 25,                        7-443      7-484                           '660                                                -825              4-459                                                                                                          916                                                                                350                                                                                           •965
 286        October 24,                          5-241      4-270                           •127                                                -350              3-716                                                                                                          316                                                                               -258                                                                                           •073
 287        November 23, ii                     2  -789     2 -470                          •115                                              2-389              2  -532                                                                                                        -098                                                                                389                                                                                            7s9
 288        December 22,   ti                    2-653      2-785                         2-687                                               3-306               3-601                                                                                                          718                                                                               •887                                                                                            636
 289        January 21.   1871                     -967     3-156                         2-761                                                                   2-996
                                                2 2
                                                                                                                                           2    -967                                                                                                                             087                                                                                087                                                                                           •841
                                                                                                                                                                                                e a 3 2 2 ;} 5 7 6 7 (. 5 5 3 8
 290        February 19,                 '         -565     2-738                         3-076                                               2-401               3-883                                                                                                         •896                                                                                202                                                                                            390
c291)       March 21,                            4-791      5 -282                        4-870                                               4-308                 -836                                                                                                         839                                                                                031                                                                                            854
                                                                                                                                                                 7 6 5 4
(292        April 20,                            7-180      6-088                           '757
                                                                              2 2 2 2 3 5 7 5 5 ft 5
   .                                     •                                                                                                    4-617                  111                                                                                                        '682                                                                                757                                                                                            980
(293)       May 19,        ti                      -665     5 -995                          '392                                              6-092                 "626                                                                                                        '819                                                                                814                                                                                            562
                                                8 6 5 *
(294)   »   June 18,                               -002     5-105                           ,648                                              6-220                 -101                                                                                                         117                                                                                151                                                                                            528
e*5)        July 17,       ti                      -557     6-871                           •585                                                -728              5-989                                                                                                          345                                                                                648                                                                                            203
(296)       August 16,                              -100    8 -321                          '157                                           6 5  -565                -500                                                                                                        '563                                                                                546                                                                                            769
(297)       September 15, „                     '6'945      6-397                           ,413                                              3-876              5 7 402                                                                                                        '362                                                                                019                                                                                            87I
 298        October 14,    „                         047      -073                                 '401
                                                2 2 4
                                                                                                                                              3-519               3-139                                                                                                          859                                                                                413                                                                                            041
                                                            3 2 3
 299        November 12,                           -922        154                                 '630                                       2-595               2-435                                                                                                         '361                                                                                126                                                                                            099
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8 4 7 3 2
 300        December 12,   M                       -898        128                                 '315                                       2-305                  374                                                                                                        '476                                                                                375                                                                                            653
 30
  1         January 10,   1872                   3-510      3-011                                  '669                                       2-915              2 2 858                                                                                                        '178                                                                                042                                                                                            265
 :1U2       February             9,      -i      4-345      3-341                                  '841                                    2    -675              2-721                                                                                                          538                                                                               '482                                                                                           •493
 303        March      9,                        4-356      4-133                                4-550                                        5-099               4-891                                                                                                          016                                                                                622                                                                                             185

2o8                                     Mr. C. Chambers.
  Run
            Lunation commencing
  ning
                  new moon.               (0)         (1)        (2)        (3)        (4)       (i)       (6)        (7)
   No.
  (304)    April 8,         1872        5 036       5-185      -S534      6-325      6 562     6-922     5-745      5 -762
  (305)                                 6-431       6 814      6 082      6 139      7 -127    6-832     -S894      5 202
  (306)                                 5 -168     6 157       -S837      -S824     5-734      4-651     4 368      8 -145
  (307)                                 -S774       7-443      5 579      5 -162    5 -888     5 -694    5-797      6 071
  (308)                                 6 -957      7 374      6 545      5 -687    5 -825     5 -76.1   5 -985     6-717
  (309)                                 7 380       7 347      7-032      7 114     7-620      6-860     6-037      6-3S0
   6.   The whole series of 309 lunations of Table                                     III gives         the follow
ing results : —
                                     (0)        (1)         (2)        (3)        w          (5)       <a)
                                                                                                             {
                                                                                                                 (7)
                                    4 34       4-30        4-07       4-11       4-34       4-29      4-06      4 12       A '
a series which          like that of Kew has a decided double period, having
maxima about new and full moon and minima about first and last
quarter. The sum of the four left-hand numbers (16"82) is the same
(sensibly) as the sum of the four right-hand numbers (16'81).
   The winter lunations by themselves, of which there are 153, give —
  Phase of lunation   .              (0)        (1)         (2)        (*)        (4)        (5)       (6)       (7)
  Value oi nmtie ....               3-14       3-05        2 -95      3-01       3-09       3-00      2-37      3-03
  Correction applicab e to win-
    ter months                     --08       -   -04     -  -01     + -01      + -03      + -03     + -02        '00
I Corrected value o        winter
                                    3-06       :)-01       2-94       8-02       3-12       3-03      2-99      3-03
and the summer               lunations by themselves,                         of which there                   are 15ti,
give—
                                     (0)        w           (2)        (3)        W)         (5)       (6)       (7)
                                    5 -52      8 -52       5-18       5-18       5 "56      5 -56     5-13      5-19
  Correction applicable   to sum-
                                   + -07      + -03       - -01 - -02 - -03 - -03 - -03                           '00
  Corrected   value  of Bummer
                                    5-59       5-55        5-17       5-16       5 -53      5 -53     5-10      ,V1!i
   The series       (A), (C),      and      (E)       are curved             in figs.        2, 3, and 4.              The
three curves        are all double            waves of              regular and similar form and
agreeing in phase, and the two waves have about the same ampli
tude ; but the range of the winter curve is much less, and that.of the
summer curve much greater, than that of the annual curve.                                                              The
summer variation is very similar to that of Kew, but the winter vari
ations, though agreeing in being of less range than the respective
summer variations, are quite unlike each other, that of Kew being
mainly a single period variation.

                         Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena.                                         259
  D'. Possible Variations of               the   Lunar Effect w-h the Sun-spot Period.
    7.  The groups of years taken, in this case, as years about the times
of maximum sun-spots, and as years about the times of minimum sun-
spots, were the same as were used in the similar inquiry respecting
temperature-ranges (paragraph 12), except that here the records under
discussion stop at 187T75 and both sets of winters include that of
1870'75 to 1871-75.               The results given by the lunations of the first set
of winter half-years are — for minimum and maximum sun-spot times
respectively : —
                                       (0)      (1)     (2)     (3)       (4)    (5)      (6)    (7)
  Winter   variation    (minimum
                                     2-83     2-89     2'84    2-77     2-74    2-66     2-63   2-76     (*•)
  Deduct (o)                         314      3 05     2 -93    3-01    3-09    3-00    2-97    3-03
  Supposed effect of sola- mini-
                                   -0-31    -0-16    -0-11   -0-24    -0-35   -0-34   -0-34   -0-27      (0)
and
                                      (0)      (1)     (2)      (3)      (4)                     (?)
  Winter variation (maximum
                                     3-35     3-19    2-98     3-04     3-22    3-29    3-27    3-18    (H)
                                     3-14     3-05    2-95     3-01     3-09    3-00    2-97    3-03
  Supposed effect of solar maxi-
                                   +0-21    +0-14   +0-03    +0-03   +0-13    +0-29   + 0-30  + 0-15     (I)
and those given by the second set                   of winter half-years are : —
                                      (0)      (1)     (2)      (3)      (4)     (5)     (6)     m
  Winter variation     (minimum
                                     2- 93    2- 90   2-77    2- 77    2- 77    2- 71   2-70    2- 81
                                     3- 14    3 -OS   2-95    3- 01    3- 09    3- 00   2-97    3- 03
   Supposed effect of solar mini-
                                   -0-21    -0-15   -0-18 -0-24      -0-32    -0-29   -0-27   -0-22    (
 and
                                     (0)      (1)     (2)      (3)      (4)     (a)      (6)    O)
   Winter  variation (maximum
                                     3-30     3-21    3-07    3 10     3-27     3-35    3-31    3 21   (H')
                                     3 14     3-05    2 -93   3-01     3-09    3-0O     2-97    3-03
   Supposed effect of solar maxi-
                                   +0-16    +0-16   +0-12    +0-09   +0-18    +0-35   +0-34   +0-18     (10
    The selected lunations of the summer half-years                           give — for minimum
 and maximum            sun-spot times           respectively : —

260                                      Mr. C. Chambers.
                                      (0)      0)       (2)     (3)     (*)     (5)    (6)      (7)
   Summe- variation (minimum
                                     4'83      4-77    4 '39   4 '46   4 '83   4 '85   4 'SO   4-47
   Deduct fD)                        5-52     5-52     5-18    5 '18   5-56    5 *56   oIS     5'19
   Supposed  effect of sola- mini-
                                   -0-69    -0-75    -0-79   -0-72   -0-73   -0-71   -0'63   -0-72
and
                                       (0)      (1)      (2)    (3)     (4)     (5)     (6)     (7)
   Summer variation (maximum
                                      6-11     6-17    5 '79   S'79    6-23    6'21    5-77    5-81
                                      S '52    5 *52    5-18   5'18    5*56    5 *56   s'13    5-19
   Supposed  effect of sola- maxi-
                                    + 0-59   + 0-65  + 0'6I +0-61    +0-67   + 0-65  +0-64   + 0-62
    8.  The series (G), (I), (Or'), (I'), (K), and (M), are curved in figs.
5  to  10   in order, and their respective mean values are — '26, + -16,
— •24, +-20, — '72 and +'63.                      These numbers imply that the result
already     found,      that   years    about     the time of maximum sun-spots have
;i larger declination-range than years about the time of minimum sun-
spots, holds also for the winter and summer half-years separately.
    The amplitude of the variation corresponding to the sun-spot varia
tion is like the absolute declination-range, and even in greater propor
tion, much greater in summer than in winter.                                 On the other hand,
the supposed sun-spot effect on                   the  lunar   variation is greater in winter
than in summer, the winter curves (figs. 5 to 8) being much bolder
than the summer curves (figs. 9 and 10) : the former are, indeed, of
greater range and equally definite, though different, in character with
the absolute winter variation shown in fig. 2.
      E. Variations which            seem to depend on            Planetary Configurations.
    9.  The periods chosen for examination with respect to variation
of declination-range are the same as were selected by Dr. Stewart in
our model paper, viz : (a;) the period of conjunction of Venus and Mer
cury, (/3) the solar period of Mercury, and (7) the period of conjunc
tion of Mercury and Jupiter. Assuming with Dr. Stewart, that as the
periods differ little from three months,* three-monthly values of the
phenomenon will be nearly free from any inequality depending on the
periods, and that differences between the monthly and the three-monthly
values will exhibit any such inequality as may exist, we have sub
tracted the three-monthly values from the monthly values referred to
   * The assumption,         as regards the period of conjunction of Venus and Mercurv,             is
not very exact, and this may be the reason why the variation found in this case                     is
of less simple character than that of the other two periods.

                        Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena.                              261
 in paragraph 3, thus obtaining a table of differences (48 to each year)
 to be re-arranged successively in three new tables, in lines correspond
 ing to the respective periods — one line to each period.
    The dates of conjunction and perihelion respectively having been
taken from the " Nautical Almanac," the differences were divided into
sets in such a manner that the mean dates of the first and last differ
ences of each set never encroached on the preceding or following
period.       The number of differences in a set were, for the periods (/3)
and (7), always either twelve or eleven, and when only eleven they
were increased to twelve by repeating either the last difference of the
preceding se| or the first difference of the following set, whichever
was the nearer in point of time to the intervening period.                       The period
(a)  is so   variable    that   the    number   of  differences     in  a   set varied  from
seventeen to twenty-one ; when seventeen they were increased to nine
teen by repeating the preceding and following                            differences; when
eighteen they were increased to nineteen in the same manner as eleven
were increased to twelve in the case just described ; when twenty the
two first or two last numbers were replaced by the mean of them —
whichever was furthest in point of time from the middle of the inter
vening period ; and when twenty-one the two first and the two last
differences were both replaced by their mean values.
   The results (the algebraical sums of the columns) given by the
several periods are as follows : —
  Table    IV. — Period      of Conjunction of Venus and Mercury (0° denotes
                                         Conjunction).
                                           62 periods.    First  31 periods. Last 31 periods.
    Between      0°      and                 + 839              + 637             + 202
        M
        M
                 (¥„")                       + 741
                                             -221              -+ 453
                                                                   87
                                                                                  + 288
                                                                                  -814
        tt                                   -545               -331              -214
        it     4(?..")    „   HW)            -564              -595               +  31
        M                 .,  efosy-j        -267              -604               + 337
        t*     6(W)           7(W)           + 448             -261               + 709
        tt     l(W)       .,  8(Vff"-)       + 398              +  46
                                                                                  -
                                                                                  + 352
               s(-W)                         + 51               + 130                79
               f (¥,"-)   „ io(^wi-)         -700              -347               -353
        n
        »                 „  ii              -311               + 120             -431
                          »  12(W)           + 252              + 388             -136
        ii                .. 13(W)           + G37              + 390             + 247
        »-
        ii    U(\%°)
                          „ 14(^W-)
                          „ 15(Y,0-)
                                             + 855
                                             -264
                                                                + 484
                                                               -261               -
                                                                                  + 371
                                                                                      3
        tt
        •i
              15(W)
              16 (W)
                          » 16(W)
                          ,. 17
                                             -976
                                             -426              -
                                                               -516
                                                                   91
                                                                                  -460
                                                                                  -335
                                                                                  -201
        ii
        »
              1l
              mm
                          ii 18(^„°-)
                          M     (W)
                                             +  81
                                             + 196
                                                                + 282
                                                                + 234             -  38

2<52                                 Air. C. Chambers.
Table V. — Period of Mercury about the Sun (0° denotes Perihelion).
                                                                                           '
                                         104 periods.      First   52 periods.   Last 52
                                                                   -
  Between      0° and       30° .
                                            -
                                            -1133                       64
             80
             60
                            00
                            90              -   538
                                                 37
                                                                   + 193
                                                                   + 155
             90            120              +   142                -230
            120            150              +   843                -167
            150            180              +   953                -117
            180            210              +   512
                                                                   -
                                                                   -176
            210            240
                                           -+   375                     71
            210            270
                                           -     22                + 179
            270            300
                                           -    484                + 175
            800
            330
                           330
                           360             -    389
                                                828
                                                                   +
                                                                   + 138
                                                                        63
       Table   VI. — Period          of Conjunction of Mercury and               Jupiter
                                  (0° denotes Conjunction).
                                         102 periods.      First'51 periods. Last 51 periodl
  Between      0-i   and    30°             -    34                +    50           -     84   A
             30      ii     60              -130                   -223               +    9rfB
             60      -      90              -224                   -602               +   378
                                            -395                   -628                       M
             90
            120      i)
                           120
                           150              + 285                  + 163
                                                                                      +
                                                                                      +    is»,J
                                                                                          233
            150      n     180              -350                   + 132
                                            -651                                     -661
            180
            210
                     ii
                     ii
                           21(1
                           240              -    73
                                                                   +
                                                                   + 158
                                                                        10
                                                                                     -231           "fl
            240      ii    270              +   401                +   318            +
            270      ii    800              +   690                + 291              +   399
            800      V     330              +   415                + 389              + 26         ^
            330            860              +    57                + 136              — 79
                     ii                                                                    .^^B
   The numbers in the several columns of Tables IV, V, and VI are                              Ii
graphically represented by figs. 11 to 19 in order.
   10. The most marked feature iu the Venus and Mercury period                                  i
treble wave which repeats itself consistently in both halves of the
series of observation, and has one of its maximum values at the time of
conjunction. The variation given by the solar period of Mercury                                      is
nearly all due to the last 52 periods it    represented by a single wave,
                                                :     is
which  is similar to the corresponding Kew curve when inverted.      The
curves of the first 51 and last 51 periods of the conjunction
Mercury and Jupiter are very unlike each other, and they
unlike the corresponding curves for Kew and Trevandrum.
   The several curves in weak and interrupted lines for Kew and
Trevandrum repectively are made for comparison with those for
Bombay, which are drawn strong.         In the planetary results    must                  it


 204              Sun-spots and Terrestrial Phenomena.
be observed   that the variations are for different numbers of     periods
at the different stations as follows :—
                -
                                  Bombay.        Kow.       Trevand-um.
                                     62           39
                                    104           65             47
                                    102           63             43
   11. It may.be remarked that, as at Kevv, there is some resemblance
between    the curves of lunar variation of temperature-range and
declination-range, and that it exhibits itself both in summer and in
winter separately.     [Compare tigs. 2, 3, and 4 of declination-ranges
with figs. 2, 3, and 4 of temperature-ranges.] Comparing also fig. 1
of declination-ranges with tig. 1 of temperature-ranges,   there is seen
to be a remarkable inversion of movement between 1859 and 1872,
but the same rale does not hold good for the earlier years.

    1882.]           On  the Nerves  of the Frog's Lung.               2IJ5
                             November 16, 1882.
                     THE PRESIDENT in         the Chair.
      In pursuance  of the Statutes, notice  of the ensuing Anniversary
   Meeting was given from the Chair.
      Professor Valentine Ball, Mr. Charles Baron Clarke, Mr. Richard
   Tetley Glazebrook, and Professor John C. Malet were admitted into
   the Society.
      General Boileau, Mr. W. H. M. Christie, Mr. W. De La Rue,
  Mr. Or. Matthey, and Dr. W. J. Russell, having been nominated by
  the President, were elected by ballot Auditors of the Treasurer's
  Accounts on the part of the Society.
      The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered for
  them.
      The following Papers were read : —
  I. " On the Nerves of the Frog's Lung."            By William Stir
        ling, M.D., Sc.D.       Communicated by Professor T. H.
        Huxley, F.R.S. Received June 17, 1882.
                                 (Abstract.)
     The author has re-examined the lung of the frog with special
 reference to its nervous apparatus.     Arnold, several years ago, gave a
description of the nerves of the frog's lung. Amongst the nerve-
fibres be found bell-shaped nerve-cells provided with a straight and a
spiral fibre. He was unable to find any nerve-cells in the apex of the
lung.      Kandarazki has more recently examined these nerves. He
was unable to find any trace of a spiral fibre in the nerve-cells, and he
considers the appearances which have been figured as such, to be due
to folds in the capsule of the cell. After giving an account of thu
methods used for exhibiting the course, relations, and structure of the
nerves of the lung, the author gives an account of the result of his
observations.
     The pulmonary branches of the vagus enter the lung at its root
or near its attached end. The branches contain medullated and non-
medu Hated nerve-fibres, and amongst these fibres before they enter the
                                                               t 2

2(56                On   the   Nerves   of   the   Frog's Lung.    [Nov.   16,
  Inng are ganglionic cells.   More than forty medullated nerve-fibres
 were counted as they entered the lung, but they were even still
  more numerous, while in addition there were many non-medullated
  fibres whose number it was not so easy to ascertain.              The main
 trunks of the nerve were traced into the lung under the serosa,
 where they give off larger and smaller branches — containing medul
 lated and non-medullated fibres — which could be traced across the
 alveolar wall, giving off finer branches in their course.           The main
 trunks exchange a few nerve-fibres, but the number of fibres so ex
 changed is not large.   Many of the finer branches, which may contain
 just one or two medullated fibres, could be traced to the muscular
 septa of the alveolar wall ; they dip into            it,
                                                      lose their myeline, and
 form a plexus of non-medullated fibres with elongated meshes.          From
this plexus   finer branches   are   given   off  which dip down between
the non-striped muscle-cells.      The non-medullated nerves join and
form a wide-meshed plexus of nerve-fibrils upon the alveolar wall
in relation with the thin layer of non-striped mnscle which occurs
there.    From this plexus fibres are given off which seem to form
a second plexus with finer meshes.           This plexus      isquite distinct
in its characters from that which occurs in the alveolar septa. Some
non-medullated fibres occur on the walls of the blood-vessels.            The
nerve-cells which occur along the course of the nerve-fibres are
very numerous.      They are most numerous where a branch           is  given
off from one of the main trunks, but they also occur along the
course of the nerves,    itmay be at the side or amongst the nerve-
fibres, but always within the sheath of the nerve.              These nerve-
cells present the characters      of  the   cells  described by Arnold and
Beale, and in the fully developed condition at least are provided
with a straight and a spiral process. They are to be found even in
the nerve-branches in the apex of the lung.        More than three hundred
nerve-cells were counted in each lung disposed amongst the nerve-
fibres, so that they are relatively far more numerous than the medul
lated nerve- fibres which enter the lung. The arrangement of the nerve-
fibres which supply the muscular coats of the arteries and veins are
then, described and figured. The paper              illustrated by accurate
                                                     is
drawings, which show     the exact    distribution    of the intra-pulmonary
nerves, the structure of the nerve-cells, and the plexuses of nerve-
fibrils which occur in relation with the muscular coat of the lung and
the pulmonary blood-vessels.

   1882.]       On the Great Horned Saurian     of Australia.          267
  II.  " Motice of Portions     of the Skeleton of the Trunk and
        Limbs of the Great Horned Saurian of Australia (Megalania
       prisca, Ow.)."    By Professor Owen, C.B., F.R.S., G.S., &c.
        Received June 19, 1882.
     Former communications on the subject, admitted into the " Philo
 sophical Transactions," related to the skull and terminal caudal
  vertebrae, from a river-bed at Toowoomba, Queensland ; and in the
  discussion on those papers, a doubt was expressed whether they had
 been correctly referred to the genus and species founded upon trunk-
 vertebrae from other and remote localities, which had been the subject
 •of a former paper, communicated to the Royal Society June '17th,
 1858, and published in the volume of the " Transactions," 1858, p. 48,
 Plates VII and VIII.
     My correspondence with Dr. Bennett, F.L.S. of Sydney, New
 South Wales, and with his son, George Frederic Bennett, Esq., of
 Toowoomba, Queensland, has been unintermitting ; and         I  have been
 recently favoured with the reception of a consignment of fossil
 remains from the petrified drift formation of the same river-bed in
 which the subjects of the " communications " of April 15th, 1880,
 and of February 3rd, 1881, were found.
    The most instructive of these is a dorsal vertebra, so closely corre
sponding in size and characters with the subject of Plate VII (torn,
cit. 1858) as to render further description and figures unnecessary.
    Coming from the same formation, locality, and vicinity, as the parts
of the skull (restored in Plates 37, 38, of the " Phil. Trans.," 1880), no
further doubt as to the Saurian affinities of that part seems admissible.
No trace of a Chelonian reptile has been found or indicated by any
of the numerous fragmentary remains of Megalania from Mr. Ben
nett's locality of that genus.
    In the last transmission, received June 16th, 1882, are portions of
the pelvis, including part of the sacrum and of the right iliac bones.
The sacral fragment indicates two vertebrae, with the foramina for the
transmission of the nerves of the hind limbs, in two pairs.           The
corresponding vertebra have coalesced, and there is a small portion of
a third vertebra in like osseous attachment.
    The portion of a right iliac bone shows a greater relative expanse of
the upper part than is seen in existing Lacerlilia, and a corresponding
departure from the cylindroid character of the body of the ilium in
Chelornia. On the probable hypothesis that the above fossil fragments,
like the associated dorsal vertebra, are parts of tho skeleton of
Megalania prisca, the pelvic fragments suggest an approach to a
Dinosaurian character.
    Of the corresponding limb a fragment of the shaft indicates a large
                        i

268         Mr. D. D. Cunningham.          On the Relation  of   [Nov. 16,
relative size.    Not any of the above named fossils appear to me to call
 for a Plate.
 III. "On      the   Relation of particular Structural Features in
       certain Leaves to the Phenomena             of Nyctitropism and
       Movements incident on Stimulation by Concussion."                 By
       D. D. Cunningham. Communicated by Sir J. Hookeb.
       K.C.S.I., F.R.S. Received June 29, 1882.
                                  (Abstract.)
    The leaves forming the subjects of special study were those of the
following species : — Mimosa pudica, Neptunia oleracea, Pith e col obium
 Saman, Albizzia Lebbek, Leucaena glauca, Cassia alala, and Cassia
sumatrana.      In all of them nyctitropic movements occur, and in all,
save those of Albizzia Lebbelc, in which the point has not yet been
determined, movements also follow stimulation by concussion.            The
movements in individual instances, however, differ greatly in cha
racter, in degree, and in persistence in relation to the life of the
leaves.    The differences in regard to the rapidity and extent of move
ment incident on concussion are specially marked.        In Mimosa pndica
and Neptunia oleracea such movements are very extensive and rapid ;
in the two species of Cassia they are very slight and gradual, and
those in the leaves of Pitltecnlobium Saman and Leucaena glauca are
of an intermediate character.        In some cases both classes of move
ments persist from the period at which they first manifest themselves
until the death of the leaves, but in others they diminish with
increasing age, and disappear long ere death ensues.
    The paper is divided into three principal sections.        The first of
these deals with the structural features of the individual leaves, the
second with the phenomena of movement, and the third contains a
comparison of the structural and motorial phenomena with a view to
determine how far these are essentially related to one another.
    In the first section it is shown that the contractile organs which are
the chief determinants of movement are, throughout the entire series
of leaves, specially characterised by the porous nature of their com
ponent tissues.      The porosity is very various in degree in different
cases, and, according to the extent to which it prevails, converts the
entire pulvinar organs, to a greater or less degree, into masses of a
spongy texture, specially fitted to allow of the ready redistribution
of fluid contents.      In those cases where it is most highly developed,
as in Mimosa pudica and Neptunia oleracea, the pulvinar parenchyma is
composed in greater part of finely porous cells, and in some portions
contains masses of cells which, in addition to the fine pores, are

    1882.]        Structural Features    to Nyctitropism,    8.C.          2(l<t
   provided with one      or more large ostiola — rounded openings with
   thickened margins.     Here, also, an enormously developed system of
   very large intercellular spaces is present in the deeper layers, commu
   nicating freely on one hand with the cavities of the porous cells and
   on the other with a system of channels traversing the epidermal
   tissues of the petiolar organs.    In less developed cases, such as those
   of the other species treated of, pores alone are present in the cells,
   ostiola are entirely absent, and the system of intercellular spaces is
  feebly represented or almost        entirely suppressed.        The vascular
  bandies are in all cases characterised by an abundance of porous
  elements, both in the bast and very especially in the wood, where a
  system of large porous ducts almost entirely replaces the spirals of
  the axial and petiolar tissues.
      Another very important structural feature in the contractile organs
  is the existence of very marked inequalities in the strength of the
 formed elements of the tissues of different areas, as well as local
 variations in the amount of protoplasm and specially of chlorophyll
 corpuscles in different portions of the superficial parenchyma.
      In the second section of the paper special attention is drawn to the
 fact that the maximum nocturnal position appears in all cases to be
 normally attained at a relatively early period after the onset of dark
 ness, and that, after this, a reverse movement, tending more or less to
 the resumption of the diurnal position, sets in independent of any
 renewed incidence of light.       In connexion with this it must be noted
 that the movements incident on concussion              by stimulation tend
 towards the assumption of the initial nocturnal position.
      The third section of the paper contains an attempt to demonstrate
 the existence of an essential connexion between the special structural
 and motorial phenomena in individual leaves.           It is pointed out that
the occurrence    of movement   incident   on stimulation   by concussion is in
all these cases associated with the existence of structural arrange
ments in the contractile organs specially calculated to facilitate redis
tribution of fluids in the tissues, and that the rapidity and magnitude
of the movements in individual cases bear a direct relation to the
decree of development of such structural features.            For example, in
Mimosa pudica we find very rapid and extensive movements associated
with extreme porosity of the cells of the pulvinar parenchyma, and
with the presence of a very highly elaborated system of intercellular
spaces.     In other cases, such as that of Pithecolobium Saman, we have
more limited and gradual movement along with less elaboration of
porosity and diminution of the intercellular system, and in the case of
the two species of Cassia we encounter minimum development of the
special structural features with minimum development of concussion
movements.       This appears to indicate that rapidity and extent of
concussion movement may be ascribed rather to structural than func

 270        Mr. D. D. Cunningham.         On the Relation of    [Nov.   16,
tional peculiarities in the tissues.     The movements in such cases do
not necessarily imply the presence of protoplasm specially endowed
with sensitive and contractile power proportionate to the magnitude
and rate of movement ; they rather appear merely to indicate the
degree to which structural arrangements permitting of movement are
present.    They appear to indicate the degree to which arrangements
permitting of massive redistribution of fluids throughout the tissues
at large, as distinguished from mere redistribution of cell contents,
such as may occur in any tissue composed of closed elements, are
present.    In other words, the movements may be mere indices to the
common sensitive and contractile function of vegetable protoplasm,
appearing in dependence on certain structural peculiarities of tissue,
and not indices to the presence of specially endowed protoplasm.
   While, however, structural peculiarities of tissue, according to this
view, appear to be essential determinants of the occurrence of move
ments, the presence of a contractile and sensitive protoplasm is, of
course, necessary in order to the actual occurrence of movement— in
order that the apparatus for redistribution of fluid, and consequent
redistribution of tension throughout the tissues, shall be called into
play. In connexion with this, too, it is important to bear clearly in
mind that, while porosity of the tissue elements appears in these
cases to be their most important structural feature in relation to the
occurrence of movement, an extreme porosity of tissue may coexist
with an entire absence of movement even where an active protoplasm
is still present.    For example, in mature leaves of Albizzia Lebbek
movements are entirely suppressed, although the porosity of tissue
remains unimpaired, the abolition of movement being associated with
thickening and altered consistence of the cell-walls of the pulvinar
parenchyma,     increased   lignification of the vascular bundles, and
excessive cuticularisation of the epidermis.      In order to the normal
occurrence of movement there must, then, be an active protoplasm,
and conditions of structure not merely providing means for ready
transfer of fluid, but allowing of ready alterations in the calibre of the
tissue elements.     In connexion with the subject of concussion move
ments, it is also pointed out that in those cases where a distinct pro
pagation of stimulation from one part to another, as in Mimosa jmdica,
occurs, special structural means are present, which may serve as a me
chanical substitute for a nervous conducting apparatus.      These means
consist of a continuous system of definite air-passages uniting the
intercellular spaces of the different contractile organs, and calculated
to serve as channels for the propagation of impulses arising from the
sudden injection of liquids from the cells of the contractile tissue into
the spaces normally occupied by air.
.   In regard to nyctitropic movements, it is shown that the parenchyma
of the pulvinar organs consists of portions differing from one another

 1882.]          Structural Features to Nyctitropism,     fye.         271
in mechanical and physiological strength, the mechanically strong ones
being characterised by the nature and amount of formed materials,
the functionally strong ones by relative excess of protoplasm, and
specially of chlorophyll corpuscles.     Every pulvinus, in fact, consists
of different portions, in some of which functional, and in others
mechanical power is present in excess, and, as from their localisation
the functionally and mechanically strong portions are opposed to one
another, the position of the leaf as determined by the pulvinus must
vary with the relative strength of these. But it can be further shown
that the mechanically stronger portions constantly tend to cause the
leaf to assume the nocturnal position, while the physiologically strong
ones act in the reverse direction. Hence, there must be constantly
recurring fluctuations in the relative strength of the different areas,
corresponding with the recurring variations in position of the leaves.
But these variations in relative strength must be ascribed rather to
changes occurring in the physiologically strong than in the mechani
cally strong portions of tissue, to elevations and depressions of strength
connected with functional rather than structural conditions.           The
functionally stronger    areas,  accordingly,  must  be  regarded  as con
stantly becoming relatively stronger diurnally and weaker nocturnally,
and this recurring fluctuation of strength may be fairly ascribed to
variations in tension, due to variations in the absorption of liquids
oonnected with the specific diurnal functional activity of the proto
plasmic elements of the tissues, and specially of the chlorophyll
corpuscles under the influence of light.
    When the varying kinds and degrees of nyctitropic movements
exhibited by the leaves of the individual species at various stages of
their development are compared with the coexisting structural features,
additional evidence is found of the essential dependence of the former
on the latter. The positions of the leaves in the bud and at later
stages, and the assumption and persistence of special movements, are
clearly related to the varying degrees of development and the condi
 tion of particular portions of the contractile organs.
    The phenomenon of reverse movement towards the diurnal position
during the latter portion of the night, and independent of any renewed
incidence of light is not necessarily opposed to a belief in inequalities
of functional activity and tension of particular areas of the pulvinar
tissues under the influence of light as the essential cause of nyctitro
pic movements.     The nocturnal reversion may be ascribed to another
agency than a rise in functional distension independent of light. It
may arise from alterations in relative tension of the different portions
of tissue due to differences in structure. Those areas in which diurnal
functional activity and the incident increased absorption and tension
must attain a maximum are also those in which the greatest facilities
for the redistribution of fluids are provided by the nature of the

                                                           '
272          Mr. W. Gardiner.       On  the  Continuity of the    [Nov.  1<3,
structure. Granting that light ia the cause of distension propor
tionate to functional activity and in excess of the passive properties of
the tissue, the pulvinar tissues throughout during the incidence of
light will contain a functional excess of liquid, and the withdrawal of
light will lead to a general diminution of distension — the non-illnmi-
nated tissues parting with the functional excess of fluid, and retaining
merely the amount proportional to their diminished activity.             But
those portions of tissue providing the greatest facilities for redistribu
tion of fluids must, other things being alike, tend most rapidly to
arrive at their passive condition of tension.     In the pulvini, then, it is
quite possible that those portions of tissue which are characterised by
excessive diurnal activity and functional distension may attain their
 passive condition sooner than the others do, due to their respective
 structural peculiarities.    But from the period at which the one part
 of the pulvinus has attained its passive condition until the other has
 also done so, a continuous alteration in their relative tensions must
 take place.    Those portions of tissue which tend to the assumption of
 the diurnal position will, according to this, on the onset of darkness,
 rapidly attain their maximum relative weakness, and after this will
 become relatively stronger until the opposing portions have also
 arrived at their passive condition of tension.      An early development
 of the maximum nocturnal position, and a subsequent reversion
 towards the diurnal one, such as actually occurs, might therefore be
 looked for on a priori grounds.       Nocturnal reversion may probably
  in great measure be thus explained, but, as indeed in the case of
 other movements, other factors such as variations in the absolute
  weight and consequent leverage of various parts of the leaves con
  nected with variations in amount of respiration and assimilation no
 .doubt come more or less into play.
  IV.    On the Continuity of the Protoplasm in the Motile Organs
        nf Leaves." By Walteb Gabdineb, B.A., late Scholar of
        Clare College, Cambridge.            Communicated by Dr. M.
        Fosteb, Sec. U.S. Received November 11, 1882.
     In  a preliminary    note published    in the " Quarterly    Journal of
   Microscopical   Science," for October,   1882, I stated   that I had suc
   ceeded in demonstrating that the continuity of the protoplasm of
   adjacent cells in the pulvinus of Mimosa pudica was maintained by
   protoplasmic filaments, which passed through pits in the cell wall.      I
   have since then shown that the same occurs in Robinia and Amieia.
   hi Phaseolus the connexion is much less pronounced, and as yet           I

 1882.]        Protoplasm    in the Motile Organs of Leaves.             273
 must withhold any definite decision upon it.         I cannot, however,
 doubt that protoplasmic continuity is of very frequent occurrence,
 both in pulvini, stems, roots, and tubers, and  I regret that some short
 time must elapse before      I can publish any detailed   account of      my
 farther researches.
    Since the winter season was rapidly advancing,      I instituted other
experiments    with  fresh  material, with a view  to confirm,  if possible,
 results obtained by strong reagents, whose action was necessarily
attended with grave alteration of the tissues.       As a consequence of
 these experiments,     some new and important facts bearing on the
 phenomenon of Plasmolysis have come to light. Hugo de Vries, in his
work on cell turgescence, has shown that by treating fresh uninjured
cells with progressively stronger and stronger solutions of a neutral
salt, e.g., 4 per cent, and 6 per cent, of nitre, the           protoplasm
(primordial utricle) will undergo more and more contraction, until
 with a 10 per cent, solution, it will entirely separate from the cell
wall, and appear as a much contracted vesicle lying freely in the cell
cavity.
   In repeating these experiments I have, however, found that in a
very great number of cases — I dare not at present say in all — the
contracted    primordial utricle is connected to the cell wall by fine
strings of protoplasm.      The phenomenon is very distinctly shown by
the cells of the main pnlvinus of Robinia psetidacacia, in which      I  first
made the discovery.        Very frequently, instead of there being one
main mass connected to the cell wall by the fine threads above-men
tioned, the cell protoplasm becomes divided into two or three
globular masses, all of which are united to each other, and to the cell
wall.    The connecting threads very generally exhibit nodal thicken
ings,  each node presenting a most perfect spherical form.
   Since the sections examined must be somewhat thick to avoid
cutting into the cells, observations as to the relation of the threads
with the pits present some difficulty. However, in several well-defined
instances   I  have seen clearly that many threads do go to pits, and
ulso that in two adjoining cells, many threads on different sides of the
common cell wall are exactly opposite one another.        When saturated
salt solution is added, some of the threads may give way.         Each free
end immediately contracts : the one to the main mass, and the other
to form a minute sphere lying on the side of the cell wall.         I   have
succeeded fairly well in fixing and staining these plasmolytic figures.
   The above plasmolytic phenomena are apparent in all the pulvini I
have examined, e.g., Desmodium, Mimosa, Oxalu, Robitan, Amwia,
Phoseolus, Apios, &c.      I have also observed it in stems and roots,
notably in the Beet.
    I should also mention here that I have succeeded in showing the
passage of the protoplasm through the cell wall when the wall is

             Dr. A. Ransome.       On   Bacilli in Phthisis.            16,
274                                                             [Nov.
left intact, and not swollen by reagents,   the method consisting       in
treating thin sections of fresh material at once with saturated picric
acid, washing with alcohol, and staining with aniline blue.
V. " Note on the Discovery of Bacilli in the Condensed Aqueous
    Vapour of the Breath of Persons affected with Phthisis.9
    By Abthub Ransome, M.A., M.D. Communicated by Dr.
    W. Robebts, F.R.S. Received November          1882.8,
   In the year 1869 communicated to the Literary and Philosophical
                    I
                                "
Society of Manchester a paper On the Organic Matter of the Human
Breath in Health and Disease   "
                                  (Memoirs, vol. iv, 3rd Series, p. 234).
   The method employed was to condense the vapour of the breath         in
                                                                         a
large glass globe, surrounded by ice and salt; and the fluid so collected
was then examined chemically and microscopically. The vapour             in
condensing was found to carry with       itall the organic matter con
tained in the breath. Certain chemical variations in this fluid wen'
noted, and in addition to epithelial scales, which were also found       in
health, the breath of diseased persons was found to contain certain
organised bodies.
   It appeared probable that the breath of persons in advanced stages
of phthisis would contain the bacillus of tubercle, and that this
organism could be rendered visible by the method of staining.
   The aqueous vapour of the breath of certain cases of advanced
phthisis was accordingly condensed in above-mentioned manner, and
each specimen was separately examined.          In order to carry down the
organic particles, and to afford a basis by which the substances
obtained could be made to adhere to the microscopic cover-glasses,      -
was necessary to add some glutinous material to the condensed fluids.
In some instances      used for this purpose fresh white of an egg,
                                                                         by in
                    I
others mucus from the mouth, that had been separately examined
staining, and which had been found free from bacilli. No attempt
was made to sterilise any of the fluids, the ordinary bacteria of putre
faction being left unstained in the process used.
   The method of staining employed was that suggested               by Dr.
Heneage Gibbes, in which magenta and aniline are first used, and then
after discharging the colour, from all but the bacilli, by dilute nitric
                                                                "
acid, chrysoidin is  used to throw them into relief.      (See Brit. Med.
Journal," August    5, 1882.)     It
                                  is    affirmed that by this method only
the Bacillus tuberculosus is  stained red.
I    have now to state that in the aqueous vapour obtained from two
persons suffering from phthisis,I      have fonnd specimens of a bacillus,
which   takes the staining in   the  same   manner as the bacillus found in

   1882.]        Dr. A. Ransome.        On  Bacilli in Phthisis.        275
  phthisical sputa and in tubercle, and which is indistinguishable from
  that organism.       In several cases of acute phthisis the search for the
  organism    was  unsuccessful,   and none were found in the aqueons
 vapour condensed from the waiting room of the Consumption Hospital
  in Manchester.
     Koch has shown that the dust from dried phthisical sputa is capable
 of conveying the disease, but the above-mentioned discovery of the
 bacillus in the breath renders it probable that particles contagious to
 susceptible individuals are constantly being breathed in with the air,
 and it is possible that at some future time, the bacillus of tubercle
 may, by careful cultivation of the vapour of crowded rooms, be-
 obtained from this source.
                               November 23, 1882.
                       THE PRESIDENT in         the Chair.
    In  pursuance of the Statutes, notice was given from the Chair of
 the ensuing Anniversary Meeting, and the list of Officers and Council
 nominated for election was read, as follows : —
    President, — William Spottiswoode, M.A., D.C.L.,      LL.D.
    Treasurer.  — John Evans, D.C.L., LL.D.
    Secretaries     /I Professor
                       Professor
                                 George Gabriel Stokes,M.A.,D.C.L.,LL.D.
                                 Michael Foster, M.A., M.D.
    Foreign Secretary. — Professor Alexander William Williamson, Ph.D.,      •
LL..D.
    Other Members of the Council.     — Professor W. Grylls Adams, M.A.,
 John Ball, M. A.; Thomas Lauder Brunton, M.D., Se.D. ; Professor
Heiurich Debus, Ph.D. ; Francis Galton, M.A. ; Professor Olaus
Heurici, Ph.D. ; Professor Thomas Heury Huxley, LL.D. ; Professor
E. Ray Lankester, M.A. ; Professor Joseph Lister, M.D. : Professor
Joseph Prestwich, M.A. ; Professor Osborne Reynolds, M.A. ; Pro
fessor Heury Enfield Roscoe, B.A., LL.D.; Marquis of Salisbury,
 K.G., M.A.; Osbert Salvin, M.A. ; Warington W. Smyth, M.A.,
F. G.S. ; Edward James Stone, M.A.
    The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered for
them.
    The following Papers were read : —

276                    Sir G. B. Airy.   On  the             [Nov.   23,
I. " Monthly Means of the Highest and Lowest Diurnal Tem
      peratures of the Water of the Thames, and Comparison
      with the corresponding Temperatures of the Air at the
      Royal Observatory. Greenwich."         By Sir Geobge Biddell
      Aiby. K.C.B., F.R.S., late Astronomer Royal. Received
      September 15, 1882.
   In presenting   to the Royal Society a partial reduction of the
thermometrical observations   made in the water of the Thames daring
a period of thirty-five years, I commence with a brief history of the
undertaking and progress of this work.
   The observations were instituted at the suggestion of the con
ductors of the Medical Department in the Ofiice of the Registrar-
General of Births, Deaths, and Marriages, with the view of supplying
some knowledge of an element which may possibly affect the sanitary
condition of the Metropolis.    The plan of observations was arranged
at the Royal Observatory of Greenwich ; and the instruments were
procured and mounted, and repaired, when necessary, under the care
successively of James Glaisher, Esq., and William Ellis, Esq.,
 Superintendents of the Magnetical and Meteorological Department of
the Observatory. The self-recording instruments were attached to
the Hospital Ships successively     anchored   in the Thames, nearly
opposite to Greenwich : and their records were read and registered by
the medical officers of those ships, and these written registers were
transmitted every week to the Royal Observatory.      And I cannot too
strongly express my sense of the care with which the observations
were made, the fidelity with which they were recorded, and the order
and regularity with which they were transmitted to the Royal
Observatory. The weekly register, when received at the Observatory,
was combined with the brief record of other meteorological facts
observed at the Royal Observatory, and (with the medical record)
was published every week by the Registrar-General.
   I have been favoured by Mr. Ellis, who, at my request, has kindly
superintended the preparation of the results of observations of
thermometers in the water of the Thames, with the following remarks
ou the nature of the observations and the elements for their reduction.
   " The observations, from the commencement of the series in Mav,
1844, until April, 1870, were taken at the 'Dreadnought' Hospital
Ship, moored in the river a little above Greenwich. The thermo
meters were inclosed in an upright wooden trunk attached to the side
of the ship, its lower portion projecting into the water ; the trunk
was closed at the bottom ; the closing plate and that portion of the
sides which was under water being perforated with holes, to allow the
water easily to flow through.    The thermometers were suspended in

  1882.]       Temperatures   of the   Water of the Thames, 8fc.        277
 the  trunk  so as to bo about 2 feet below the surface of the water and
 1 foot above the bottom of the trunk.
    "In 1870, April, the observations at the 'Dreadnought' termi
 nated ; in 1871, January, observations were recommenced at the police-
          Scorpion,' moored in Blackwall Reach (between Greenwich
        '
ship
and Blackwall), the thermometers being mounted in the same way as
previously at the 'Dreadnought'; in 1874, May, the wooden trunk
                                                  '          '
and thermometers were removed from the              Scorpion to the police-
ship 'Royalist,' moored in the same place.            In 1879, October, the
             '
                                                  coming into collision with
'
   Royalist    was  damaged by    another  vessel
                          '          '
her ; after repair, the     Royalist    was not again moored in the river,
bnt was placed on the river bank near high-water mark, in which
position no further observations of the temperature of the water could
be made.        The observations have not, to the present time, been
resumed in any other position.
    "The instruments employed throughout were one for highest tem
perature and one for lowest temperature.            For highest temperature
two constructions have been successively used ; the earlier, in which
the mercury, with rising temperature, pushes up a steel index, leaving
it detached when the temperature falls ; the later, in which tho
column of mercury becomes divided on fall of temperature, the
principal portion of the column being left in the tube.           For lowest
temperature a spirit thermometer was employed, its index being con
tained within the column of spirit.           The index-errors of the two
thermometers in use were properly determined, and corrections for
them were applied when necessary.
    "The thermometers were read every morning at 9 A.M."
    In the first steps of publication of these observations in the
Greenwich Meteorological Table, given in the Registrar- General's
 "Weekly Report of Births and Deaths in London," the printed
readings, in early years, were referred to the civil day preceding that
on which the instruments were actually read ; in later years they
were referred to the civil day on which the instruments were read.
    The observations of atmospheric temperature at the Royal Obser
vatory were made with the maximum and minimum thermometers
in ordinary use, at the elevation 4 feet above the ground ; readings
 adopted here are those which correspond to the civil day preceding
that on which the Thames thermometers were read.
    It will be remarked that the indications of the thermometers in the
Thames were read only once in each day.           I could have wished that
 a greater number of readings could have been taken, sufficiently
 numerous to exhibit the dependence of the temperature of the Thames
 water upon the phase of the tide.        But under the circumstances this
  was impracticable.     To establish a self-registering apparatus was out
 of the question ; and if on a few occasions we had gone through the

278                      Sir G. B. Airy.    On the                [Nov. 23,
labour of making observations at every hour of day and night, the
conclusions deduced from those few instances might have been
vitiated by accidents.      But I  am able to assert positively, as a result
from the reductions to be exhibited in the following pages, that
nothing has been lost from the restriction of the plan of observation.
It will be seen that the daily change of temperature, produced by the
aggregate of strictly diurnal change (depending on the solar hour)
and tidal change (depending on the moon's apparent position) is so
small, that it is impossible to attach with any certainty a sensible
value to either of these causes. •
   I now proceed to describe the principal steps in the reduction of the
observations.
    In the weekly publication of these observations by the Registrar-
General, the weekly means of each observed element were also
exhibited. In preparation for a detailed publication of the whole,
I had the entire series of these weekly means collected, each being
accompanied with notes of the principal phases of the moon, the
occurrence of remarkable storms, &c., occurring within the week.
 (This resume exists, and is available for any discussion which might be
suggested ;   I propose to offer it for deposit at the Royal Observatory.)
But on general examination of the collected means, I did not perceive
that any result could be expected which would justify the labour and
 expense of printing the whole.         For instance, if there were any
remarkable dependence on the phase of tide, different values for the
 " excess of mean temperature of the water above mean temperature
 of the air," would occur in the weeks which included respectivelv
new moon, first quarter, full moon, third quarter; and these would
recur with little alteration for several months.           But on general
 examination I do not see anything which would justify more technical
 discussion directed to this point. Finally,       I decided on exhibiting
 only the means of deductions as to temperature for each calendar
 month, and omitting all other phenomena.            As the succession of
 weeks and the succession of entire months do not generally coincide,
 the rule was established, to adopt the first entire week in each
 calendar month as the first of the weeks to be used, in conjunction
 with three or four weeks following, to form the monthly mean.
 Thus, some months contain four weeks and some contain five weeks.
 For instance, the month of 1846, March, contains the five weeks.
 March 1—7, 8—14, 15—21, 21—28, 28— April 4; but the next
 month contains only the four weeks, April 5—11, 12 — 18, 19 — 25,
 26— May 2.
    By this system, the results, as far as they appear to possess any
 value, are brought into the compass of five convenient tables of
double entry, which, with their columnar and lateral means, appear
 to give all the information that can be desired.       The contents of the
 several tables are  : —

 1882.]        Temperatures  of the Water of the Thames,   Sfc.       279
    Table  I. — Monthly Mean Temperature of the Water of      the Thames.
    Table II. — Monthly Mean Atmospheric Temperature at the Royal
'Observatory.
    Table  III. — Monthly Mean    Excess of Thames Temperature above
 Observatory Atmospheric Temperature.
    Table IV. — Monthly Mean of Diurnal Range of Temperature of
the Water of the Thames.
    Table V. — Monthly Mean of Diurnal Range of Atmospheric Tem
 perature at the Royal Observatory.
    And the following appear to be the legitimate epitomized inferences :
    (1.) The mean temperature of the Thames water is higher than
 that of the Observatory thermometers by l°-5.        But the locality of
 the Observatory thermometer is, in hypsometrical elevation, about
 160 feet above that of the Thames thermometers.          It would seem
 probable, therefore, that the mean temperature of the water is higher
 than the climatic temperature by only a small fraction of a degree.
    (2.) This difference is not uniform through the year. With some
 irregularities, the greatest excess of Thames temperature occurs in
 October and the least in February.        But the autumnal difference
exceeds the spring difference by only l°-8.    It seems not improbable
that this is the effect of a slight communication with the sea, whose
surface-waters have accumulated in autumn the effect of solar radia
tion through the summer ; with contrary effect at the opposite season.
    (3.) The mean range of temperature through the day is 2°-1, and
this expresses the numerical change from the lowest solar tempera
ture, or the lowest temperature in the first tide, or the lowest tem
perature in the second tide (whichever may be the lowest), to the
highest solar temperature, or the highest temperature in the first tide,
•or the highest temperature in the second tide (whichever may be the
 highest).    It is evident that the change of temperature due to the
 diurnal change of solar action, and the change of temperature due to
each of the tides, must each, individually, be very small.
    (4.) It appears to me that the fundamental inference must be this :
 that the material water is very little changed at Greenwich by the
tide. Although a vast body of water rushes up at every flow, running
 with great speed, and sometimes raising the surface by 20 feet, yet
 nearly the same water runs down at ebb, and is again brought up,
 with all its contents, at the next flow.   These expressions are to be
 taken as modified by the descent of fresh water from the land ; but
 the amount of that water must be small in comparison with the mass
 which it joins in the Thames at London.
    (5.) I  do not imagine that the tidal action has any beneficial effect
 on the climate of London, except that probably the agitation of the
 water produces mechanical agitation of the air, and thus destroys
 injurious stagnation.
      vol. xxxiv.                                                 u

      280                                                            Sir G. B. Airy.                            On    the                                             [Nov.          23r
     Table                I. — Monthlj Mean Temperature of                                                          the             Water of the Thames at
                                                                                      Greenwich.
                                                                                         Month.
                                                                                                                                                                '.       Sums
                                                                                                                       September.                 November.
    Year.
                                     February.
                                                                                                                                                               s                     1
                    January.                                                                                                          October.
                                                                                                                                                                 =
                                                                                                                                                                                           c
                                                                April.
                                                  I
                                                                            May.      June.     July.
                                                                                                         I  s                                                                              m
                                                                                                                                                                                           »
                                                   a                                                        <                                                  1                          S
                    o             0                            0           0          0         0           0          0               0            0           e           a              e
     1844
     184.',     39'3             34-4              38'8        49-6        529       63        63'6        601        56-8            50-9        461           40'6                     43-7
                                                                                          0                                                                               595-1
     1846       433              43'9              474         50-9        60-4      73-  1    671         67-  1     65-9            5>9         44      4     36-9      553-3           544
    1847        365              38-2              429         471         59'4      632       68'9        64-6       562             52-8        46-5          41   4    517-7          514
    1848        355              42-7              45j         51-7        64-2      631       65-5        62-  1     59"4            52-3        42'9          41-0      625-7          52-2
    1849        41-8             43'5              45-2        47-9        58-2      641       675         63-9       59-3            501         44-8         373        523-5          52D
    1850        330              41'6              41-5        49-4        540       63-8      64'8        63-3       575             48-4        46-3         39    6    503-2          50-i
    1851        41     0         401               42-8        497         54-3      619       55    0     65-7      58-9             54-6        41-3         41-5       5l5-8          514
    1852        40 '9            410               422         48-3        SSs       612       706         66-2      601              48-6        467          46'3      527-5           52-1
    1853       40-0              87-1              42-4        48'6        55-5      62'6      63'4        523       58-l             53-5       435           380       5050            50-4
    1854        391              41-8              46-2        52' I       561       59-4     64-8         63'8      629              53-6       44-7          41-8      525-8           52-1
    1855       899               34-6              4l4         49-1       53-2       59-7     66-4         661       60-9            541         44-2          38-5      50S    't       50-7
    1856       40      5         42-4              43-5        50-7       540        63-0     65-4         66'6      58-2            54'5        44-1          42-6      525-5           521
    1857
i
    1858       892               37-8              41'7       500         56'5       67-9     651          654       621             56-7        421           41-9      525-4           52-2
    1859       41      4         44'8              479        49-7        55'3       65-4     711          67-2      61-2            602         44-7          38'8      5477            S4-C
    1860       40'8              36'9             42-9        470         56-9       58-8     62-5         60-8      57-6            51-1        45-1          39-8      500-4           50-0
    1861       35'0              431              44-9        49-4        56-5       63-4     65-3         65-7      61-1            57-0        43-7          414       525-5           5!-2
    1862       89-7             43-4              46-4        51-0        58-3       60-2     62-5         63-4      60-0            547         43-6          42-7      525'q           5«
    1863       41-2             43-2              456         531         56-5       631      66-2         65-3      60-2            54'8        48'   1       43'5      540-8        53    4
    1864       39-8             37-5              43-7        60-5        58-8       61-7     660          63-2      60-5            82-9        44-4          42-5      52r5         51-8
    1865       38'5             382               396         539         60-6       65-7     65-7         64-3      65'9            54'0        43-9          43-  1    5334        S2-S
    1866       422              393               41-8        506         53-7       62-9     65-2         61-5      58-2            53-7        44'7          41-5      5l53        51    3
    1867       35-   1          44-2              40-5        49   9      55-2      620       62   7       C37       596             40  7       43-8          36'8      503-9       50-2
    1868       376              415               4S'9        500         596       64'5      68'3        651        602             50-4        43-3          43-8      530-2       .v:-i
    1869       416              44-4              40-4        511         539       572       65-1        624        579             511         42'8          37   9    505-8       so    5
    1870
    1871       35    '9         41'8              45-6        496         55-1      58-8      63-8  1     66-6       611             51-9        41-3          37-7      509-2
    1872       40-2             44-5              47    0     51-71       54-7      62-6      68-1  1     65-  1     605             50-3        45-8          420       5J2-5
    1873       41'9             360               43-5        49-2        53-9      ei-3      66-4        65-  1     57-7            52-7        44'4          42-4      5l5•l       51   -n
    1874       41-1             40-3              44    3     51-3        561       62'7      67-5        630        600             544         49-3          84-4  1   524   4
    1875       41-2             as   1            43-1        48'9        590       62'8      627         661        C3-2            51-2        425           38-9  .   5i7-7       51-5
                                                                                                                                                                                            1
    1E76       39'4             42-  1            422         501         54   1    61-9      679         66-9       592             55-5        460           43-2      528-5
                                                                                                                                                                                          -1 4
    1877       42-9             443               42-0        492         53-5      640       65-0        65-8       57-8            51-6        471          41-4   1   5252        ..<•-'
    1878       411              42'5                          51-0        59-4      C2-5      677         661        602             54-7        42-2          365       529-3            8
                                                  45-4]
    1879       33                                                                             607         023        58-2            530
                                                        i
                    9           38-8;             43'3                                                                                           39'3                    5*4-7       4-   :
                                                                                                                                                                     1
Sums       l  300-5            344-l             438-9      l649'5 i     l857V     1057-3 21585          2l25-8 .9755 1745-9 '453-5                           33i-5 2047 -8
                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                          "
MeanB          89-4             40-7             43'6         50'0        563       62-6      65-7        64   4    599              52-9        44-3          40-4                  M
                       1                 1              |          1
       Puring the years 1844, I857, and 1870 the observations   were incomplete,   the results for thorn
    year* have in consequence been altogether omitted.  The monthly values in 'liffrrent Apvrt* are eso-
    mation», inserted in order to complete the numbers for the particular years in which they occur, lor
    the purpose of taking means.

     1882.]                  Temperatures                  of   the        Water         of       the       Thames,                  fyc.                   281
          Table       II. — Monthly                 Mean Atmospheric Temperature at the Royal
                                                    Observatory, Greenwich.
                                                                 Month.
  Year                                                                                                                                    k       Sums.
                                                                                                   ber.
                                                                                                                            a ber.
                       K                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                          S
                       OS
                                 A
                                                                                                                                        Dece a
                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                             4)
                                                                                                  1 S1
                                 B
                                                      X
                                                                                                               Octol
                                                                                                                                                               9
             Janu
                                  03        April     0t
                                                                Juno         July.                                                                            s
                                 A                   S                                  <          to
             0         o          o         0        o           0           0                ,    0          0               O           0         0
  1844
  1845       38   2    32-8      370       48'6      49'4       610        598         573         53-9       48-7         45-0         41-1       57i-8     47-7
  1846       447       44' 1    1    1-3   47-7      86-7       683        680         63-4        63-3       49-9         41-8         36-   1    5283      52-4
  1847       357       360       42-5      46-5      58-1       57-8       66-6        61-2        54-9       526           460         41-2       599-1     49-9
  1848      35-8       44'0      453       49-1      586        60     2   62-4        89-2        569        50-6         43-4         412        505-7     506
  1849      42-5      43-3       432       46-3      559        58'6       63-6        64-7        88-5       51-5         43-3         38-1       509-5
                                                                                                                                                             508
  1850      346       44'6       421       497       53-6       61-7       53-6        61   0     56    3     47-5         46-1         41'4       502'2     50-2
  1881      42'3       40-7      43-9      45-6      520        59-4       620         631         561        52   6        38'3        40-2       5952      49-7
  1852      429       40-7       42-5      46-8      530        59-7       69-5        63-7       'ri0-7      502          47     5     48-1      52 -3
                                                                                                                                                   J         51-8
  1853      37-7       34  1     40'3      46-7      53-0       60-2       61-4        60-3       561         52-7         408          337        575   7   48-1
  1854      393       40-7                           53-6       58-3       61-9        63-3       59-5        50           40-3         42-6      5055       50-5
                                 463       50-2                                               1                        6
  1855      32-1      29-0                 471       51-6       58-9       63-7        63-2       57-9        49-8         42-0         36-5      570-2      47-5
                                 38-4
 1856       385       43-  1     41-0      46'9      51-8       601        04-   1     63-5       571         519          40-0         41-8      599    8   500
1   -ST
  1858      37'8      34-5                 48-4      55'4       65-7       63-3        63-7       61-3        52-0         39-8         40-3      5054       50-5
                                 44-2
 1859       40-4      46-4                 48        85-2       63'3       69-0        64-8       58-1        56'6         40'3         37-0      525-8      52-2
                                 46-2           5
 1860       394       37                   45-8      85-6       56'8       60-6        59-2       54-3        50-4         40'8         37-7      5799       48'3
                           0     42'3
 1861       35S       441        45   0    45-9      57-0       61-2       63-2        64   8     59-4        541          40-7         40-9      5l1
                                                                                                                                                    8        51   0
 1862       379       41-2      45-3       50-1      57-4       58-3       61-5        60-4       58-9        52-3         40-8         42-8      505-9      506
 1863       41-7      42   7    447        51-1      55-1       60-4       61-8        63-0       541         52-2         45-5         41-7      5l4-0      51-2
 1864       37-2      36-7      42-3       48-1      54-7       60-2       65-8        59-5       57-8        51-6         43-4         40-8      598-1      498
 1865       37-1      37-1      37-4       54'6      57-2       62   0     63-8        62-5       650         51-3         45-7         42-4      5151       51-3
 1866       41'9      39'3      42-5       50-1      532        62-7       62-6        607        579         50-7         429          39-7      504-2      50-4
 1867       37-1      44-4       41-2      50-9      551        602        598         64-3       883         50-0         41-2         37-9      500-4      500
 1868       38'S      432       45-4       50-1      58-7       64-5       69-3        653        59-3        48'3         42-5         44-9      530-3      52-5
 1869       42-7      439       392        52-7      53-1       57-0       663         61-7       61-0       48-9          406          38-8      5059       50-5
 1870
 1871       339       441       45-8       500       :.3-7      57-8       63-3        67-5       583        49-9          36-5        39-2       5oo'o      50-0
 1872       41'8      460       451        81-5      52-1       618        661         62-8       58-0       48-2          455         432        522-  1    51-8
 1873       41'5      353       44'3       48-2      52-
                                                       1        61   0     65-5        63-2       56-2       46-9          44-2        40-  1     598-5      49   9
 1874       416       39'2      45  0      51-6      S4-5       595        66-4        615        58-6       52-4          45-3        306        5052       50-5
 1375       427       353       42-6       476       57'5       60-4       600         640        t;0-7      48-7          394         399        598-8      49-9
 1876       373       42-4      416        48'2      522        60-5       671        649         57-1       52-3          14-ii       439        5l2-1      510
 1877       420       435       415        46'2      524        632        62-2       636         53-3       48-6          45-2        41-0       502-7      50-2
 1878       393       434       420        52-1      560        61-2       lil-7      64-3        576        50'6          39-5        33-5       504-2      50-3
 1879       309       38'8      426        440       499        58'2       602        606         568        48'8          36-3        34'9       552-0      46-8
Sums                                                                                                                                  i3l3-2 i9895-8
                                                                                            '
          l282-8               14t3-0 1505-9 i795-4 2GOO-J 2l09-1                    2055-2 l909-2          l573-4 i394        9
Means       38'9      40-4      42-8       48-7      54-4       606        C3-9        62-6       57-9       50-7          42-3        39-8                  502
   The results for the years 1844. 18n", and 1870 have been omitted,                                      in order to render the table entirely
comparative with that giving the Thames temperatures.
                                                                                                                                        u
                                                                                                                                        2

  282                                                                 Sir G. B. Airy.                                On      the                                                 [Nov. 23,
  Table III. —Monthly Mean Excess of Thames Temperature at Green,
                                                                                                                                                    |
    wieh, over Atmospheric Temperature at Royal Observatory, Green
    wich.
                                                                                         Month.
 Yemr.
                                                                                                                                                                         -        Sums.
             January.       February.                                                                                        September.                 Noreml'r.
                                                                                                                                                                        H
                                             March.          April.     $               June.
                                                                                                          i                                   1                     I                                 §
                                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                      a
             0              0                 0              0             a            0             O          0           0                          0               0              0               °
 1844
               M                                1-8 + 10                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                  -
 1845    +                     1-6                                         3-5            2-0         3-s        2-8          2-9 + 2-2 + 1-1
                                                                                                                                    0-5                                          +                 + 1-9
         -
                        +               t-                             +         +                +         +            +                23-3
 1846          1-4      -     0-2       +       1-1 + 3-2              +   3-7     '' 4-8             0-9 + 3-7          +    20 + 0-8 + 24-0
                                                                                                                              2-6 + 2-0                                                            +2-0
 1847
             1i
                        + 2'2           (-     0-4 + 0-6 + 1-3                            ,V4     +   2-a + 3-4 + 1-3 + 0-2 + 0:. + 0-2 + lS-5                                                     +1-6
                        -                                                                                                                           -               -
         1   8
 1848    -    0-3             M         + 1•0 + 2-6 + 5-6                                         + 3-1     +    2-9 +                    +   1-7                        0-2 +        20-0 '+1-7
         -
                                                                                                                                                          o-5
 1849         o-; + 0-2 + 2-0 + 1-6                                    +   2-3 +                  + 3-9     -    0-8     +    0S          -   1-4         1-5       -    0-S +         t+t         + 1-2
 1850    — 16           -               -      0-6    -       0-3 + 0-4 + 21 + 1-2                          ^    2-3 +         1-2 + 0-9 + 0-2                      -    l-« +             tiO     +0-1
                        -               -
                              3-0
 1851    -     13                               1-1              2.i + J-o + 2-6 + 2-8 + 20 + 30
                                                              4-1 + 2-3 +                                                                                                1-3 +        28-5         + 1-7
                                        -             +' +
                              0-6                                                                                                                                   +
 1852    -    •j0       + 0-3                  0-3   •5 + 3-5    l-fl + I-1 -    ++      1-6   o-s               2
                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                             ;i
                                                                                                                             1            -         -               - is         +        5-3      +0-5
 1853    + 23 +               3-0              2-1 + 1-9 + 2-5 + 2-4    2-0   j-o + 2•0  0-8 + S-o                                                                       43 +         283
                                        -
                                        +                                                         +                                       +                         +                              +1-4
 1854    -    0'2 + 00                         0-1 +           1-9 +       2              11 + 29           t-   0-5 + .'St + 3-0 + 4-4                             -   08       +     l9J         + 16
                              5-6 + S-o + 'I'O +                                 <' 1                                    -
 1855                                                                      1-6            08 + 2-7 + 2-9                      3-0         +   4-3   +     2-2                    4-   379          +3-:
                        -
              7-8
                                                                                                                                                                        2
         +                                                                                                                                                              0
 1856    + 2-0               0-7        +      2-5 + 3-8               +   2-2   +      2
                                                                                        9         +   1-3   +    3-1 +          11        +   2-6 +     4
                                                                                                                                                        1           +
                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                    s            +    iS7          +2-1
 1857
 1858    +     1l            33         -      25              1-6 +       1-1                        is         1-7 + o-s                +   4-7 + 2-3 +                10      + 20'0
                        - It -
                                                      +                                   2-2     +
                                                                                                                                                                                                   +1-7)
 1859                                           1-7 +          1-2         01 + 21 + 2-1 + 2-4                                31          +   3-l! +                +    1-8 +        2i-9
                        -
         +     10                                                      +                                                 +                              4
                                                                                                                                                        4                                          +1-8     1
 1860          14            0-1 + 0-6                         1-2 +       1-3 +         20       + 1-9          1-6 + 3-3 + 0-7 +                        4-:. +                 +    205          + 1-7
                        - -
         +                                            +
         -
                                                                                                            f                                                           2
                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                        1                                   |
 1861         or.             1-0              0-1 +
                                                             3             0;» +                '2 + 21     +    0-9          1-7 + 2-9 +                           + O5         + 14
                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                         +                                                                         +1-2
                                                             .'.                        2                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                        0                                   7               1
 1862    +     1-8 + 2-2 +                     11     +       0-9 + 0-9          +        1-9 + 1-0 + 30                 + 1-1 + 24 + 2-8                               0        + t9-0            +
         -                                                                                                                                                                                             l-6|
                                                                                                                                                                        1
 1863         0-5       +     o-s       1      0-9    +       2-0 +        1-4 + 2-7 + 4-4 + 2-3 + 6-1                                    +   2-6   +     2-0       +    rs + 258                  +2-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
 1864                         0-8 +             1-4           2-4 + 4-1                         -5 + 0-2    +    3-7 + 2-7 +                  1-3 +         1-0 +        1-7 +        234          +T0
                                                                                                                                                    -
              2-6       +                             +
                                                      -
                                                                                 i      1
 1865          1-4      +     1-1 + 2-2                       0-7 + 3-4                   3-7 +       1!> '      1-8 + 0-9                +   2-7          1-8 + 0-7 +                 .73         + 14
                                        -
         +                                                                        +
         + 03                u                                                            0-2 + 26                                                                           s   4-   tl-l         +o-i
                                                      -
 1866                                          0-7 + 0-5 + 0-5                   +                          + 0-8 + 0-3                       3-0 +        1-8 +
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                        1
         -                              -
                                   3
                        -                                                                                   -                                 0-1! + 2-3            -
                                                                                                                                                                                 -
              20                                              1-0 + 0-1 +                 1-8 + 2-il                                                                     1-1 +            3-S
                        -                                                                         -
 1867                        0-2               0-7                                                               0-8 +         1-3                                                                 +0-2
         -                                            -                                                     -                                                       -                     0-l
                                                                                                                                                                                 -
 1868                         17        + 0-5                 0-1          0-9            o-o         1-0        0-2 + 0-11 +                 2-1 + o-s                  11                            0-0
         -
               1-2                                                     +
                                                      -                                           -                      -                                          -
                                                                                                                     !
 1869          M        + 0-5 + 1-2                            1-6 + 0-8          +       0-2         1-2   +    0-7          .-1-1       +   2-2 +     2
                                                                                                                                                        2               0-3               o-i          0-0
 1870
 1871    + 2'0          -     23        -       0-2   -       0-4 +        1-4 + 1-0 + 0-5                  -    0!>     +   2R           +   2-0 +        4-s      -    IS      +        9-2     +0-S
 1872    -     16       -      l'fi + 1-9 + 0-2 + 2-6                                                 20 +               +    -.-.-i + 2-1 +              0-3       -    1-2 +                    +o-s
                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                      10-4
                                                                                        0
                                                                                        s
 1873    + 0-4 + 1-3                           0-8    +        ro      +   1-8 + 0-3                  0-9 +      1-9 +         1-5 +          frs + 0-2 + 2-3 + 155                               + 1-4
                                        -
                                                                                                  +
         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
 1874         05 + 11                          0-7    -       0-3 + 1-6                   3-2     +   1-1   +    1-5 +         1-4 + 20 +                 40            lis      +    tS-2        + 1-5
                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                           i
         -     1-5 + 2-s + 0-5 +                               1-3         I5     + 2-4 + 2-7 + 2-1 + 2-5 +                                         +     HI             10      +        - -     + 1-*'
                        -
 1875                                                                  +                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                              5                                       :     1
 1876    + 2-1              0
                            3           + 0-6 + 10 +                       1-9 + 1-4 + 0-8 + 2-0 + 2-1 + 3-2 +                                             1-4          0-7 +         l54         + 1-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
 1877    +
             (t
                              0-s +             1-1           30 + 11                     o-s     +   2-s   +    2-2 +                    +
                                                                                                                                              3     +      1-9      +   04       +    225         +   !-i
                        -
             !i         +                             i                                                                      4                0
 187*    + 1-8              0
                            9           + 3-4         -       1-1          3-4 + 1:l + 30 +                      1-8     +   2-6 + 41               + 2-7           +   30 +          25i         +S-1     1
 1879    +    30              00 + 0-7 + 3-2 + 2-4 + Ml                                           >   05 + 1-7           +     14         + 42      +     -V.
                                                                                                                                                                    - tc         + 22-7
                                                                                                                                                                                                  +.-ii
                                                                                                                     1
Sums.    + l7-7 + 125                   +259 +42                  -5   +522 +572 + 59'4 +505 +57-4 +73-5 +68-5                                                      +   l8-4 + 576-O
Meant    + 0-5          + 04            +0-8           + 13            + 1-9       +20             + 1-8    + 1-8        +   20           + 22      + 21            + 06              ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                 |+i-s1
     During the years 1844, lts"i7, and 1870 the observations oi Thamea temperature  were incompl^t?, tiif
results for those years have in consrquence been altogether omitted.     The monthly values in dig&tm•
pturt* arc estimations, inserted in order to complete the numbers for the particular yean in which they
occur for the purpose of taking means.

 1882.J              Temperatures                    of   the      Water        of      the Thames,                            8fc.                    283
 Table    IV. — Monthly Mean of                               the    Diurnal Range of the Temperature
                           of the Water of the Thames at Greenwich.
                                                              Month.
                               1
Tar.
               February.                                                                 8ep8ember.    Oc8ober.    Nov9mber.      December.
         ia                                                                   Augu-8.
          m                 March.    Apr-l.               June.     Ju9y.                                                                     8um-.
                                                                                                                                                       j
         -a                                     -.                                                                                                      a
        0     0              O        0                              0        0           0             0            0              0           0       0
1844
1845    0-8   0-4           10        10        0-5        01       0-3       04         0'4          0'4          11            21             9-2     0*8
1846    21    2-7           11       2-1        21         11        11       1-7        11            i'5        2*2            2'6           23-8     20
1847    11    1-5           --6      0-7        21        3
                                                          6         41        11         0'4          0'4         0*7            11            18*4     1*5
1848    1-0   IS            i*5       1-1       1-3        0-9       10       1-1        ro           2*9         2*5            3-4           192      11
1849    l-e   1-6           11       3-7        30         2-3      2-2       21         2*8          3*2         31             3*5           306     2*5
ISM     2-7   31            33       33         42         4-0      31        3-4        31           3'3         3*5            3'4           408      3'4
1851    36    37            35       3-5        44         31       2*0       21         2'3          20          2*7            2*7           36-3     3*0
1852    23    27            20       2*0        2-0        21       2-7       33         30           1*0          1*7           1*5           25*8    2-2
1853    0-6   --9           2-4       11        21         21       22        2*5        2*0          1*7          •5            11            ars      11
1854    1-0   1-8           2-7      3-4        34         34       31        32         8*2          2*9         20             11            31*6    21
1855    27    11            2-o      2-5        21         3'4      2-9       21         30           2*7         3*2            2-7           3«'3    21
1855    17    1-9           1*2      30         30         31       21        21         21           21           11            1*9           28*4    2-4
1857
1858    0-7   0*8           1-0      3-2        31        2   -2    30        21         11            13         0*2            o-o           20*5     1*7
1859    00    0-3           0-5      08         1-7        1-9       11       11         1'3           11         01             00            io*9    0-9
DM      0-9   1-8           1-8       11        11         10        10       10         1*0           10         10             10            142      1*2
18C1    10    1-            1-0       10        10         10        10       10         1*5          20          5*9            3-9           213      11
Hn      3-0   2-3           2-8      22         22         2*2      21        2*2        2*2          2'3         2'3            3*0           28*8    2-4
1863    2-7   2-5           2-5      21        2-2         2*2      2-2       2*2        2*2          2*2         2*2            2*2           27*4    2'3
1864    3-2   32            2-2      31         25         11       20        11         2*2          2*2         11             11           27*0     2'3
IsoS    11    1-7           10       10         11         10       05        0'3        0*5          0'3         1-J            1'3           12*2     10
1866    2-2   2-0           1-0      1-2        11         1-2      0-9       0*8        0*7          11          2*2            2'3           17-5     1*;,
i-t.;   2*4   2-4           28       2-6        21         11       20        1*9        11           2*2         2*2            20            26*2    2-2
1868    11    11            11        11        11         1*4      0-5       11         11           1*5         11             11            17*0     1-4
1869    1-7   1-8           1-5      23         2-1        11       22        11         11           1'4         1'4            20            2i*7     1'8
1870
1871    3'0   3-5           31       31        41          31       35        30         3'6          2*7         3'3            2*7           394     3-3
1872    2*2   2-0           27       2-8       22         21        21       2*5        2'3           2'3         2-4            2*1           29*2    2-4
1873    21    20            2-4      2-7        3-1        25       21        1*9        11           2'4         30             2'3           28*4    2-4
1874    2-3   24            27       31         2-3        11        11       11         11           11          11             21           25-9     2*2
1875    2-6   20            1-9      22        2-4         1-8      1-7       11         1*7          2*0         11             11           23'5     2*0
1876    2-2   11            1-8      27         2-7       2-8       2-5       2*5       2*1           2'4         2'4            21            28*0    2-3
1877    24    1-9           2-3      2-2        2-7       2-5       2-1       11         1*7          20          2*0            21           25*8     2*2
1878    2-3   21            23       21         2-3       2-3       2-5       2*5        2*0          21          2'3            2*5           289     2'4
1879    1-8   2-3           2-3      27         32         31       21        2*8        21           2*9         2*5            2*5           30-8    21
Sums    537                648       75-3      79'5       74-2      691      65*0       63-2          651         695           68-7          822*5
taa     19    2-0           20       2-3       24          2-2      21        20         1-9          2*0         2*1            2*1                    21
  During the years 1844, 1857, and 1870 the observations were incomplete, the results for those years
have, in consequence,   been altogether omitted.    The monthly values in different figure* are esti
mations, inse-ted in order to complete the numbers for the pa-ticula- years in which they occur,
fo- the pu-pose of taking means.

 284                    1 emperatures                     of      the       Water        of    the          Thames,                  fyc.                [Nov. 23,
         Table V. — Monthly Mean of the Diurnal Range of Atmospheric
               Temperature at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich.
                                                                        Month.
                                                                                                                                                          Sums.
                                                                                                     September.
 Year.
            January.     February.               April.    May.                                                    October.     November.    December.
                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                     aia                            June.
                                                                              "3   i                                                                                     e
                                                                                         <                                                                              s
           0            a             0          0         0                  0           0          0                           0            0             0           e
 1844
 1845         7-2          9'4        151       15'8       13-9     180       141        14'5        I6'9          13'6        10-7          100           i59-2       13'3
 1846         7-0          78         12-3       132       190      23'3      20-8       165         19-0             9-6           7-3         63         162-  l     13-S
 1847         7'6       101           15-9       15-3      19-2     14'4      215        17   7      15-6          120         11-0             6-8        157-  l     13-9
 1848       8
            1           109           150       19'3       27-0     18-2      206        17-1        20-     1     141         13-4             9-9        i93•7       161
 1849      11-6         14-5          13   2    16-9       15-4     20-6      24-5       19-7        16-6          15-4        12-5           9
                                                                                                                                              2            l90-l       »H
 1850        8-8        11-4          16-2      17-3       18'9     23-2      19-5       189         170           140         11-4             85         185-  i     15   4
 1851      10'3         13-4          12-3       16-7      20-3     21-6      17-9       19-8        20-2          13-1        11-3             8-1        185-0       15-4
 1852      U-7          133           16-3      23'6       18-9     18'4      25-5       18-6        16-5          14-6            9-7          9-2        i90-3       16'4
 1853        8-7        10-6          16'3      141        200      19'0      161        181         18'6          14-7        124              8-9        i7"-5        14'8
 1854      111          155           19-5      22-4       201      19-0      20-6       22-8        25-3          17-4        12-1          10-2          2l5-i       18-0
 1855        8-1        100           14-5      216        171      20-8      191        19-5        19-8          12-5            9-3          9-8        182-i        15-2
 1856        86         100           13-8      18-5       16-6     20'8      20-8       18-9        15-9          13'9        12-3             91         179    z    14-*
 1857
 1858      11'6         11-5          18-6      19-7       21-5     25-1      22-5       22-8        18-8          156         11-7             8-2        207-5       173
 1859      105          157           13-7      17-7       190      21-0      24-4       21-1        17-9          13'9        13-3          100           198-8       16-6
 1860        98         14-1          13-9      191        19  9    16-5      190        15-6        18'2          141         10-6             7-9        178-7       14-9
 1861      110          111           161       18-7       220      19-7      18-9       21'8        19'5          158         13-2          10-5          '98-3       16-5
 1862        9-4        101           U-7       168        18-5     181       20-5       191         17-0          14-4        111              9-5        175-2       14-7
 1863      10-5         13-8          19-0      20-8       21-9     191       25-3       19-5        170           13-0        11-3          109           202-l       16-8
 i9i;i       99         111           15-8      161        195      208       25-6       23-5        17-8          14-2        121             9-2                     161
                                                                                                                                                           195-5
 1865        86         10-6          12-7      24-9       206      241       21-3       19-5        230           16-9        13-8            91          2°53        171
 1866      11-2         12-5          140       18'5       210      21-2      19'8       170         131           13-5        12-2          11-3          1853        15-4
 1867      10-1         110           12-7      16-6       20-2     207       19-9       20-3        177           15-2        11-8          100           lS62        15-5
 1868        90         131           168       18-5       24-3     25'3      27-3       210         18-2          17-2        10-4             9-7        2l88        17-6
 1869      10-2         123           12-6      199        17-7     20-7      23-2       20-  1      15-2          151         11-0            8-7         1857        15-6
 1870
 1871        80         13-2          17-2      17-8       22-2     181       196        25-4        16'8          15'5        10'9             8-3        i93-0       161
 1872        9-3        12-6          15-9      20-9       19'2     21-9      22-5       20'  7      18-9          151             9-6          8-4        '95-0       16-2
 1873        86           87          16-*      19-7       19-7     190       23-5       19-6        19-4          161         108           10-7          1924        16-0
 1874      lit          11-5          15-9      21-4       23'4     21 -S     25-4       21-7        180           13'5        12-7            7-9         204-  1     17-0
 1875        94           92          139       20-4       22-7     20-0      17-8       200         18-5          12-7            9-7         8-9         1832        15-3
 1876      11-3         10-6          14'5      19-5       22-1     21-7      24-9       23-4        16-8          12-8        101             7-7         '95"4       163
 1877      11-7         lit           140       15-2       17-0     25-5      20-5   -   190         19-3          16-8        121             9-6         19l-9       16-0
 1878        97          9-6          14-7      175        17-5     20-4      19-7       17-3        18-6          12-7           91           8-9         .757        14*
                                                                                                                                                                       EM
                                                                                                                                                                       iI
 1879        6'2         8-7          14-8      16-1       18-2     172       16-0       171         150           12-8        10-6            99          152-7,
Sums      3l5't        379'   t      495   °   5l0"5      5553     574-9     5985    547-5        5952            4718        37!'5         301-3         6218-5
Means       9-6         11-5          150       18-5       19-9     205       21-2       19-6        181          14-3         11-3           9-1          ...         ,5-7
                                                                                                                                                                   |
   The results ior the years 1844, 1857. and 1870, have been omitted,                                                     in order to                       the tahle
 entirely comparative with that giving ranges of Thames temperature.

 1882.]            R. Shida.   Magnetic Susceptibility.              285
II. "Experimental       Determinations of Magnetic Susceptibility
      and of Maximum Magnetisation in Absolute Measure."              By
      R. Shida, Thomson Experimental              Scholar, University
      Glasgow.      Communicated    by  Sir William   Thomson, F.R.S.
      Received October 10, 1882.
                                (Abstract.)
   This paper contains the results of a series of experimental de
terminations of the magnetisation, magnetic susceptibility, &c., of
different specimens of iron and steel, in centimetre gramme second
units, by means of the direct magnetometric method shown to me by
Sir William Thomson, as founded upon a method originated by Coulomb
and mathematically discussed by Green.
   A number of thin wires (from No. 20 to 22 B.W.G.) of soft iron
and steel were tried in the first elaborate series of investigations.
The experiments were varied by varying the strength of the mag
netising force through a wide range ; and for each magnetising force,
and for each wire, the experiment was commenced by subjecting the
wire to the application and removal of a longitudinal stress a certain
number of times in succession (that is, "ons and offs "), while the
magnetisation     and magnetic susceptibility of the wire were deter
mined for each degree of magnetising force, and both while the wire
was actually under the influence of a constant pull (a case to be
denoted by
              " on "), and while it was free from a pull
                                                           (a case to be
denoted by " off ").    In the case of soft iron wires, the effects of
                                                   " ons and offs " after
suddenly reversing the magnetising force, and of
the reversal of the force, were also investigated.      Some interesting
and remarkable results followed from these experiments ; and the
evaluations, made from these results, of the intensity of magnetisa
tion and magnetic susceptibility, are carefully tabulated, and also
represented graphically, for the sake of comparison,      in two sets of
curves — one, which shows the intensity of magnetisation, that is to
say, in which the abscissae are proportional to the magnetising force
and the ordinates to the intensity of magnetisation ; and the other,
which shows the magnetic susceptibility, that is to say, in which the
abscissae and ordinates are respectively proportional to the force and
the  susceptibility.
   The curves of the intensity of magnetisation show that the effects
of " ons and offs," in augmenting the magnetisation of soft iron
wires, are astonishingly great for low magnetising forces, and that, as
the latter is gradually increased, the wires seem to lose their reten-
tiveness gradually, so much so, in point of fact, that when the
magnetising     force exceeds a certain value (60 c.g.s. or so) the
operation of
                 " ons and offs " produces no permanent magnetisa

 '286                    R. Shida.    Determinations                 [Nov.    23.
 tional effect ; whereas, for a magnetising force below that value, the
simple reversal of that force is not so effective as to annnl the per
 manent effects of " ons and offs," or even to reverse the magnetic
polarities of the wires. But an eqnally, if not more, remarkable result
is found in the fact that the intensity of magnetisation of soft iron
wires is greater or less while it is pulled than while it is unpulled,
according as the magnetising force is below or above a certain critical
value — a result which confirms that given in Sir William Thomson's
                   " Electrodynamic
paper on the                           Qualities of Metals," Part VII. It
is quite evident, however, that this critical value is different, not only
for different kinds of soft iron wire, but for different amounts of the
pull to which the wire is subjected.        The singularity of the existence
of a critical point in a soft iron wire is only intensified by the fact
that, whilst the permanent magnetisational effects of " ons and offs
                                                                                "
on a wire of soft iron and of steel (pianoforte wire at least) are
similar in kind, there is found no such thing as a critical point in the
latter, in which the magnetisation is greater in the case of " off
                                                                          " than
in the case of "on " for every degree of magnetising force.
    For high magnetising forces the curves of the intensity of mag
netisation all become asymptotes parallel to the line of abscissae,,
proving that there is a limit to the magnetisability of iron and steel,
as was first shown by Joule.          In the case of " off," the maximum
 intensity of magnetisation is found to be approximately 1420, both
in the soft iron wires and in the steel pianoforte wire, and in the cases
of " on," it is more or less below that value, the minimum magnetising
force corresponding to that magnetisation being in each case roughly
 80 units ; while in the glass-hard-tempered steel wire, to which no
weight was applied at all, the maximum magnetisation is found to be
slightly lower.
    The steepuess of the commencement of the curves of magnetic sus
ceptibility in the case of the soft iron wires is striking, owing to
retentiveness ; indeed, the magnetic susceptibility of these wires
varies through a vast range.           Taking, for example, the case of the
soft iron wire of No. 22 B.W.G., in which the weight used for " ons
            " is 8 kilos., the
and offs                          susceptibility for the magnetising force
 (about '545) of the earth's vertical component ; is roughly 730 for
" on "                             " off," it is about 65 at the critical
         (8 kilos.) and 330 for                                             point
                                                                                "
(about    15),  while  it is only  about   17  and  17£ in the cases   of  "on
      "     "
and     off    respectively for the minimum magnetising force (about 80)
corresponding to the maximum magnetisation.               On the other hand,
the susceptibility-curves for the steel wires are        neither  so steep nor
so regular as those for the iron wires, but have a few maxima and
minima. ; it is, however, all but certain that by using a heavier weight
 than the one actually used for " ons and offs," these irregularities in
the curves can be got rid of, and at the same time, the magnetic sus

  1882.]                      of Magnetic Susceptibility.                        287
 ceptibility  of the steel wires for low magnetising forces can be greatly
 increased.     Further details regarding these interesting points are-
 difficult to describe in a few words, but can readily be understood on
 reference to the paper itself.
    The results of the experiments performed upon the magnetisation
 of somewhat thick bars (from -9 to -95 square centim. in section) of
 malleable iron, hard-tempered steel, and cast-iron, are also recorded
fully in this paper.       The intensity of magnetisation of each bar for
 various magnetising forces under different circumstances, is shown by
means of curves, of which the
                                          " direct-curves "
                                                              represent the results
obtained by beginning with a low magnetising force, which was
gradually increased to such a high degree of strength as to magnetise
the bar to saturation ; while the
                                          " return-curves "
                                                               represent the results
arrived at by coming down from                  a   large magnetising force to
smaller and smaller forces, passing through the zero, and gradually
going up to a large magnetising force on the negative side of the zero.
The direct-curves prove that the intensity of magnetisation of the
steel bar is slightly greater, at least for high magnetising forces, than
that of the cast-iron bar, but is vastly smaller than that of the malle
able iron bar for all magnetising forces.              The maximum intensity of
magnetisation      of   the  soft iron,  steel, and   cast-iron  bar, is found to be
approximately      1,330, 860 and 770 respectively ; while the smallest
magnetising force giving that magnetisation is roughly 190, 450,
and 400 respectively.          The difference in the intensity of magnetisa
tion of these bars is, no doubt, due to the fact that the soft iron bar
is far superior in respect to magnetisability to both the hard-tempered
steel bar and the cast-iron bar ; although the difference that exists
between the soft iron bar and the wires in the intensity of magnetisa
tion for all magnetising forces is probably due mainly to the effects
of the dimensions of the bar, as has been mathematically demonstrated
by Green.      But the chief point of interest lies in the return-curves ;
they   show   that  in the case of each bar the magnetisation does not
reverse until the magnetising force exceeds a certain negative value,
and that this value is considerable even in the case of the soft iron bar,
considerably greater in the case of the cast-iron bar, and still greater
— enormously greater — in the case of the steel bar.
    An illustration of the beauty of this magnetometric method by
means of curves showing the change in the distribution of magnetism
in a wire corresponding to the change in the magnetising force
to which it is subjected,         draws the paper to a close.            The curves
 decidedly show that tho magnetisation of the wire for a low magne
 tising force is far from being solenoidal, being stronger towards the
 centre, but that as the magnetising force is made higher and higher
 the distribution of magnetism          in the wire tends more and more to
 uniformity,   until  it attains  nearly, if indeed not quite, a solenoidal state

 288                       Prof. A. R. Forsyth.               [Not.  23,
 when the magnetising force is so high as to give the wire the maxi
 mum magnetisation ; thus confirming heyond all doubt what has been
 pointed out theoretically by Thomson (" Electrostatics and Magne
 tism," § 667) and indicated experimentally by Rowland.
 III.  " On Abel's Theorem and Abelian Functions." By A. R
       Fobsyth, B.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, Pro
       fessor of Mathematics in University College, Liverpool.
      Communicated by Professor Cayley, F.R.S.                Received
       October 28, 1882.
                                 (Abstract.)
    The present paper is divided into two sections.      The object of
          I
 Section is to obtain an expression for an integral more general than,
 but intimately connected with, that occurring in Abel's theorem.
 The latter, as enunciated by Mr. Rowe in his memoir in the Phil.
 Trans., 1881, is as follows : — If
                                  x(x, y)=0
 be a rational algebraical equation between x and y, then an expression
•can always be found for
where f{x) is a function of x only, U is a rational algebraical integral
function of x and y, and the upper limits of the series of integrals are
the roots of the eliminant with regard to y of x(zt y)=® and a func
tion 0(x, y).
    In the case here considered two equations of the degrees in and
n respectively between three variables
                               ¥m(x,y,z)=0
                               *\.0, y, *) =0
are given (these alone being treated, as subsequent generalization to
the case of r equations between r— 1 dependent variables and one
independent is obvious) ; and an expression is obtained for
                            2f       ™         ,
                                      \  y,z /
the upper limits of the integrals being given by the roots of the
equation arrived at by the elimination of x and y between ¥m ¥,
and an arbitrary equation
                               Fii0,2/, z)=0,

 1882.]         On AbeVs Theorem and Abelian Functions.                 289
or, what is the same thing, by the co-ordinates as of the points of
intersection of the three surfaces represented by Fm, F„, ¥p.
   Some preliminary considerations (in connexion with §§92 sqq. of
 Salmon's Higher Algebra) are adduced in reference to the eliminants
of the three equations in each of the variables ; thus if X be the equa
tion in x obtained by eliminating z and y, it is expressed in the form
                           X= B„FW + B„F„    -(- BpFp,
which afterwards proves useful. Then the ordinary case (above
referred to) of Abel's theorem is treated on the lines laid down in
Clebsch and Gordan's treatise on the Abelian functions ; and under
the guidance of this the more general form is investigated with the
result
                      \  y,z  J
G being the symbol introduced by Boole.
   The remainder of the section is occupied with the discussion of two
examples of this theorem.        In Example I, by the assumption of suit
able forms for FM, F„, Fp, it is proved that
where   E is  the second elliptic integral and    A, B, C are given by
                              Asl + Bcl + Cdl = l,
                              As2 + Bc3 + Cd3=l,
                              Asa+Bcs+C^l,
and  s, c, d stand for sn u, an u, dn u respectively.     The corresponding
expression for the third elliptic integral is stated.
   In Example     II  an expression is obtained for
                             E(«i+«s+            +«7;-
   In  Section   II the addition theorem for the functions presented in
Weierstrass's memoir in Crelle, t. lii (1856), p. 285, is investigated.
It may be pointed out that the fundamental equations in the theoiy
occur as natural examples of the more general form of Abel'b theorem
proved in Section I; but the equations so obtained are identical with
those used by Weierstrass, and this case, therefore, does not belong
distinctively to the form of Abel's theorem connected with the curve
of double curvature. On this account the simpler form is used on
the two occasions (in §§ 14, 19) when required.
   The theory is worked out at considerable length, and the necessary

 290              On AbeVa Theorem and Abelian Functions.                           [Nov.  23,
 formulae   are obtained     in a manner somewhat                  different from      that of
 Weierstrass.
    The fundamental equations being
            ya-P(x)=y8-(a!-a1)(a;-c-,)                          (x-a„) =0,
            22—   Q(a;)=*2— (x— a,+l)(z—          ap+2)    . .  (i— a2p+1)=0,
                      0=My + Nz
where                M=a;(' +
                               M1xi'_1 +    ....    i-M^x+M^
                     N=        NjaP-»+
 the equation giving the roots x is
                                  My-w=o.
 The Sp roots are denoted by x1, x2, . . . , xp; fj, f2, . . .              , ^   ; pv p*, ' ' ,
y? ; and there are obviously p relations between them.                         Writing
                                 R(x)=F(x)Q(x),
and
                  ^=^j—j—
                        wpA         V(x)dx
                                                     ^=1,        2,  . . . ,  „),
 and  «, w corresponding functions of f, p,          it is    shown that
    Writing, with Weierstrass,
                      0(aO  = (a!-Zl)(a;-a!o)               (x-x„),
                   -Q(ar)=lr           (r=l,    2,             P),
                   P(ap+,)=«P+J        («=1, 2,    . . . .  ,  p+x),
then   2p + l   of the functions of the theory are given by
                                    lralvi=<j>{ar)
for values 1, 2,          , 2p + lofr.       Then     if
                                      ,x=p f*A  P(x)dx
it is proved that
                                   Z^aZ^,2       eZTJ
                                 P'(a/«)         cZm/»
   If V, W are respectively the same functions of the                      f 's and jj's as 0
is of the  a;'s, then the theorem
                 V + V+W="z-^--alm(u)alm(v)akl{u+v)
                               „=i  P   (am)
is obtained in § 21, a verification            being furnished by expansion                 in

1882.]             On the Recent and Coming Total Solar Eclipses.             291
terms of the it's and v's.             From this equation is deduced the addition-
theorem for the functions.
  In § § 25 and 26 is given the discussion of a particular case of the
above, viz., that in which the functions are of the order 2, the fifteen
functions being the quotients of all but one of the double theta-
functions by that one.   The addition-theorem in these functions
has already formed the subject of a paper by Cayley in Crelle, t.
Ixxxviii (1878), p. 74.
IV . " Note           on the Recent and Coming            Total Solar Eclipses."
           By    J. Nobman    Lockyeb, F.R.S.            Received November 17,
           1882.
  The following note has been drawn up in anticipation of the detailed
accounts   of the work done by me in Egypt on the eclipsed sun of 1882,
May 17, which I am preparing to lay before the Royal Society, because
as the next total eclipse occurs next May, there is no time to be lost if
any attempt is to be made to secure observations, and I am of opinion
that such observations are most important.
   I have prefaced the statement of the work done by a reference to
the considerations which led me to undertake                 it,
                                                      and have added
                                                                   I             a
scheme of observations which, in the present state of our knowledge
is,
 I    think, most likely to produce results of value.
  1.   In order to understand the recent change of front in solar research
which has followed the introduction of the view of the possible disso
ciation of elementary bodies at solar temperatures, and suggested the
later laboratory, and especially the later eclipse observations with
which we are now chiefly concerned, we must first consider what facts
we may expect on the two hypotheses.           In this way we can see
which hypothesis fits the facts best, and whether there are any
inquiries possible during eclipses of a nature to throw light on the
question.
     On the old hypothesis the construction of the solar atmosphere
      2.
was imaged as follows —       :
  (1.) We have terrestrial elements in the sun's atmosphere.
  (2.) They thin out in the order of vapour density, all being repre
sented in the lower strata, since the solar atmosphere   at the lower
levels      is   incompetent to dissociate them.
   (3.)      In the lower strata
                            we have especially those of higher atomic
                                so-called " reversing layer by which
                                                           "
 weight, all together forming            a
 chiefly the Fraunhofer spectrum    produced.is
        The new hypothesis necessitates
       3.                                 radical change in the above
                                                   a
 views.          According to      the three main statements
                                  it                               made   in para
 graph      2    require to be changed as follows —  :

 292                         Mr.  J. N. Lockyer.                 [Nov. 23,
     (1.) If the terrestrial elements exist at all in the sun's atmosphere
 they are in process of ultimate formation in the cooler parts of it.
     (2.) The sun's atmosphere is not composed of strata which thin
 out, all substances being represented at the bottom ; but of true
 strata like the skins of an onion, each different in composition from
 the one either above or below.        Thus, taking the sun in a state of
 quiescence and dealing only with a section, we shall have (as shown in
 fig. 1) C say containing neither D nor B, and B containing neither
 A nor C.
                                     Ftg. 1.
    (3.) In the lower strata we have not elementary substances of high
atomic weight, but those constituents of all the elementary bodies which
can resist the greater heat of these regions.
    4. The conditions under which we observe       the phenomena of the
sun's atmosphere have not, as a rule, been sufficiently borne in mind,
and it is quite possible that the notion of the strata thinning out has,
to a certain extent, been based more upon the actual phenomena than
upon reasoning upon the phenomena.
    5. Take three concentric envelopes of the sun's atmosphere, A, B, C
(fig. 2), so that C extends to the base of A, and B also to the base of
A, that is, in both cases to the photosphere.     Then, whether we deal
with the sphere or with a section of it, the lengths of the lines in the
spectrum of the strata C, B, A will give the heights to which the
strata extend from the sun, and show where B and A respectively
thin out. As the material is by hypothesis continuous down to the

  1882.]     On the Recent and Coming          Total Solar Eclipses.         293
                                     Fig.  2.
 sun, the lines  will be continuous down to the spectrum of the sun
seen  below  as shown.
   6. Now take three concentric envelopes, A, B, C (fig. 3), so that
 only A rests on the photosphere, B rests on A, and C on B. The
                                     Fig.  3.
phenomena     will in the  main be the same as     in the former case, i.e., the
line C will still appear to rest on the spectrum of the photosphere, for
it will be fed, so to speak, from     C    and C", though absent along the
line CBA at B and A. So also with B.
   7. Thus much having been premised with regard to the observations
as conditioned by the fact that we are observing a sphere, we can now
proceed to note how     the two hypotheses    deal with the facts.
          Old Hypothesis.                             New Hypothesis.
   1. The spectrum of each ele-                The spectra should not resemble
ment as seen in our laboratories          each other,
should be exactly represented in
the solar spectrum.

294                         Mr.  J.  N. Lockyer.                      [Not. 23,
       Fact. —There is a very wide difference between the spectra.
    2.  Motion in the iron vapour,           Motion    should    be   unequally
e.g., in a spot or a prominence,           indicated, because the lines are
should be indicated by the con            due to divers constituents which
tortion of all the iron lines             exist in different strata according
equally.                                  as   they can resist the higher tem
                                          peratures of the interior rejrions.
             Fact. — The indications show both rest and motion.
    3.  The spectrum of iron in a             The spectrum of iron in     a pro
prominence should be the same as          minence should be vastly different
the spectrum of iron in a sun-            from the spectrnm of iron in a
spot.                                     sun-spot, because a spot is     cooler
                                          than a prominence.
   Fact. — The spectra are   as dissimilar   as those of any two    elements.
   4. The spectra of spots and pro-          The spectra should vary, because
minences should not vary with the        the sun is hotter at maximum,
sun-spot period.
                             Fact. — They do vary.
    5. The spectrum of the base of           The spectrum of the base shoulJ
the solar atmosphere should most         least resemble the Fraunhofer spec-
resemble the ordinary Fraunhofer         trum, because at the base we only
spectrum.                                get those molecules        which can
                                          resist the highest temperatures.
Fact. — As a rule the lines seen at the base are either faint Fraunhofer
    lines, or are entirely absent from the ordinary spectrum of the
    sun.
    6.  Quit the same element the             Qud the same element the lines
lines    widest in spots should           widest in spots should vary enor
always be the    same.                   mously,     because    the   absorbing
                                         material is likely to originate in
                                         and to be carried to different
                                          depths.
                    Fact. — There is immense variation.
    7.  The spectra of prominences            The spectra of prominences
should consist of lines familiar to       should be in most cases unfamiliar,
us in our laboratories, because           because prominences represent out
solar and terrestrial elements are        pourings from a body hot enough
the same.                                 to prevent the coming toget her of
                                          the atoms of which our chemical
                                          elements are composed.

  1882.]      On  the Recent  and Corning     Total Solar Eclipses.         295
 Fact. —When we leave H, Mg, Ca, and Na, most of the lines are
    either of unknown origin or are feeble lines in the spectra of known
    elements.
    8. From the above sketch, hasty though it be, it is        I think easy to
 gather  that  the  new view   includes the   facts  much better  than the old
 one, and in truth demands phenomena, and simply and sufficiently
 explains  them, which were stumbling          blocks and paradoxes      on the
old   one.
    This being so, then, it is permissible to consider it farther.
    9. Let us first suppose, to take the simplest case, that the sun
when cold will be a solid mass of one pure element, i.e., that the evo
lution brought about by reduction of temperatures shall               be  along
one line only.       Let us take iron as the final product. Then the
oun's atmosphere on the new theory qua this one element may be
represented as follows : —
                                     Fig.  4.
                        —[ —
                                          ~
                              K                ^
                              '
                                                       Strata
                                                    Incandescent
                                                     Abnotphen
            ^^^^e            Sun     ^^^i-
   Assume strata A — L. Then —
   (1.) The Frannhofer spectrum will integrate for us the absorption
of all strata from A to L.
   (2.) The darkest lines of the Frannhofer spectrum will be those
absorbed nearest the outside of the atmosphere.
   (3.) We shall rarely, if ever, see the darkest lines affected in spots
and prominences.
   vol.. xxxiv.                                                     x

296                         Mr.   J.   N. Lockyer.               [Nov.   23,
    (4.) The germs of iron are distributed among the various strata
according to their heat-resisting properties, the most complex at L,
the least complex at A.
   (5.) Whatever process of evolution be imagined, as the temperature
runs down from A to L, whether A, 2A, 4A; or A + B, 2[2(A+B)],
or X-f-Y + Z, the formed material or final product is the work of the
successive associations rendered possible by the gradually lowering
temperature of the successive strata, and can therefore only exist at L.
   10. Now at this point a very important consideration comes in.
It was stated (in 6) while discussing the conditions of observation,
that whether we were dealing with strata of substances extending
down to the sun or limited to certain heights, the spectral lines would
always appear to rest on the solar spectrum, and that the phenomena
would in the main be the same.
   11. This, however, is true in the main only, there must be a
difference, and this supplies us with a test between the rival hypotheses
of the greatest stringency. The stratum B, being further removed
from the photosphere than the stratum A, will be cooler, its lines
therefore will be dimmer, and the lines of C will be dimmer than the
lines of B, and so on. So if we could really observe the strata. th»
longer a line    is,i.e., the greater the height at which the stratum
which gives rise to    it lies, the dimmer the line will be.
   12.  Now   our  best  chance    of making such an observation as this   is
during a total eclipse.       We do not see the lines ordinarily in conse
quence of the illumination of our air. As during an eclipse before
totality the intensity of this illumination      is rapidly diminishing-, the
lines first visible should be short and bright, and should remain short
while the new lines which become visible as the darkness increases
should be of gradually increasing length, so that the spectrum should
become richer in the way indicated in fig.      5.
    13. Further, the lines in     1   should be lines seen in prominences,
and not in spots, and relatively brighter in the spark than in the
arc, while the longer lines added in        and should be lines affected in
                                            2   3
spots, and   not in prominences.
    14. All these phenomena were predicted for the Egyptian eclipse            a
year before its occurrence, and were verified to the letter for the lines
of iron over purposely limited region.
             a
    15. The actual observations of the rron lines made at Sohag are
 shown in the accompanying map, and these actual observations are
 contrasted with the lines thickened in spots, the lines observed in the
 prominences by Tacchini, those intensified on passing from the arc to
 the spark.      The Fraunhofer lines are also given according to
 Angstrom and Vogel, and the iron spectrum of the arc and spark
'according  to Angstrom and Thalen.   The observations during the
eclipse   were made    minutes,
                        7         minutes, and
                                        3          minutes before
                                                       2

  1882.]      On  the Recent and Coming Total Solar Eclipses.           297
 totality  as  the   air was gradually darkened, by which darkening
 successive veils, as it were, were lifted so that the more delicate
 phenomena could be successively     seen.
                                    Fig. 5.
    16. We begin with      one short and brilliant line constantly seen
 in prominences,    never seen in spots.    Next, another line appears, also
 short and brilliant, constantly seen in prominences, and now, for the
 first time, a longer and thinner line appears, occasionally noted as
widened in spots, while last of all we get very long, very delicate
relatively, two lines constantly seen widened in spots, and another
line not seen in the spark and never yet recorded as widened in the
spots.
    17. The procession from the hot to the colder is apparent, and the
simplicity of the spectrum as opposed to the Fraunhofer spectrum
even yet, is eloquent of the gradual approximation which would be
still possible if the darkness could be greater and our attack more
complete.
    18. It will be noted over what an excessively small range the
observations extend.       We want similar observations over a wider
range during future eclipses, and to do this work properly many
observers armed with similar instruments must divide the whole or
part of the solar spectrum amongst them, preferably that part
between F and D, which has been most closely watched in pro
minences and spots by Tacchini and myself.
                                                              x 2


  1882.]        On  the Recent  and Coming Total Solar Eclipses.            209
    19.   I next  pass to another point on which an observation was made
 in Egypt.
    20.   In fig. 4 we considered the sun's atmosphere, taking the simplest
 ease,  that  of one element ; when the sun cools it will be a very complex
 mass chemically.        If the laws of evolution hold we need not expect
 that this   will largely increase the complexity of the hottest layers A
 and B, but higher up, say at H — L, the complexity of chemical forms
 produced by evolution along the fittest lines will bo very consider
able.
    21.  These strata     H— L   may be taken to represent the corona.       Its
spectrum, therefore, should not be a continuous one, but should con
sist of an integration of all the radiations and absorptions of these
excessively complex layers.
   22. The spectrum of the corona            as I  saw   it in Egypt exactly
answered      to this description.    Instead of the gradual smooth toning
seen, say in the spectrum of the limelight, there were maxima and
minima producing an appearance of ribbed structure, the lines of
hydrogen and 1474 being, of course, over all.           This observation, how
ever, requires     confirmation,  for  the look I had  at  the corona spectrum
was instantaneous        only.
   23. This observation should certainly be repeated during future
eclipses with the proper instrumental conditions, i.e., small, intensely
bright image on narrow slit and spectroscope of small dispersion.               I
believe that, under these conditions, photographs could readily be
obtained     with the new plates.
   24.   Now an eclipse occurs next May at a critical time of the sun's
activity, for, so far as we can see, we shall be nearly at sun-spot
maximum, and I hold that it will be a disgrace to our nineteenth
century science if efficient steps are not taken by those who are
regarded as the leaders of science in this and other civilised countries
to secure adequate observations.
   2o. So      far I  have only referred to those special observations under
taken     this year to discriminate between two rival hypotheses, but
both hypotheses         may be wrong in many points, so that we must not
limit ourselves to such observations, but collect facts over the whole
field, as has always been the custom in eclipse expeditions.
   26. In my opinion the following scheme shows the observations
which, in the present state of our knowledge, it is most desirable to
secure.      The scheme, I am aware, is by no means exhaustive.           I give
the observations in the order of importance          I attach to them, having
regard to the present position of solar theory and the conditions of
eclipse observations.
    (1.) 6-inch equatorial of long focus, perfect clockwork, spectroscope
with dispersion of at least five prisms of 60°.
    Clamp point of disappearance of sun at base of normal slit, and

  300      On the Recent and Coming Total Solar Eclipses.        [Nov.  23,
 record phenomena observed from ten minutes before totality to actual
 totality.
     a. Order in which lines appear.
     b. Brightness and length when first visible.
                          \
     The spectrum from 4800 to X 5900 should be distributed among at
 least five observers.
     Repeat observations after totality on point of reappearance.
     (2.) 6-inch photographic lens of four feet focus, perfect clock, same
 dispersion as above.
     Clamp point of disappearance of sun on centre of tangential slit and
'record phenomena observed from ten minutes before totality to actual
 totality.
    a. Order in which lines appear.
    b. Brightness and length when first visible.
    Repeat observations after totality on point of reappearance.      Same
 part of spectrum, same distribution as in (1).
     (3.) 6-inch photographic lens as in (2).
    Photographic phenomena        before and after totality on slowly
 ascending or descending or rotating plate, taking care to expose only
 narrow strip of plate.
     (4.) Ditto.   Spectroscope of small dispersion, long slit.
    Photograph spectrum of corona during totality on both sides of dark
 moon.
     (5.) Prismatic camera. 6-inch photo, lens as in (2), but with grating.
     Use first order spectrum on one side and second order on the other.
     Commence two minutes before totality.      Continue till two minutes
 after totality on gradually ascending or descending or rotating plate.
     (6.) 6-inch photo, lens as in (2), monnted on alt-azimuth. Fine slit.
 One prism of 60°.     To observe spectrum of corona.
     (7.) Photographs of corona of short, medium, and very long exposure
 to determine form and true solar limit of apparent corona due to the
 illumination of our air, using for the latter purpose the photographic
 intensity of the image of the moon.
     I  am aware that because Solar Physics is a new subject, and one
 so entirely in the domain of pure science, the above scheme may
 appear ridiculous to many, for if carried out in its completeness its cost
  would perhaps amount to the sixtieth part of the sum expended on
 the Transit of Venus in 1874. I have, however, felt myself bound to
  put it forward as an ideal scheme and one which, if several civilised
  Governments do each a little, concerted action may help us in part to
  realise.   I am informed that the French and Italian Governments are
  already making preparations for observations, and my desire is that
  we may be represented on an occasion which, having regard to the
  duty which is incumbent upon us to secure observations for the use
 of those who come after us, is one of high importance.

1882.]                    Anniversary Meeting.                     301
                            November 30, 1882.
                      ANNIVERSARY MEETING.
                    THE PRESIDENT         in the Chair.
   The Report of the Auditors of the Treasurer's Accounts on the
part of the Council was presented, by which it appears that the total
receipts daring the past year, including balances of £2,259 4s. Id.
carried from the preceding year, and the sum received from the Acton
Estate, amount to £40,350 12s. 2ii!. ; and that the total expenditure in
the same period, including purchase of stock, and deposits, amounts
to £38,409 17s. l1d., leaving a balance at the Bankers' of £1,929,
and £11 14s. 3d. in the hands of the Treasurer.
   The thanks of the Society were voted to the Treasurer and Auditors.
   The Secretary read the following Lists   : —
               Fellows deceased since the last Anniversary.
                            On the Home    List.
Adams, Andrew Leith, LL.D.             Jevons, William Stanley, LL.D.
Alderson, Sir James, Knt., M.D.        Llewelyn, John Dillwyn, F.L.S.
 Ansell, Charles, F.S.A.               Newmarch, William.
 Balfour, Francis Maitland, M.A.       Parish, Sir Woodbine, K.C.H.
 Binney, Edward William, F.G.S.        Robinson, Rev. Thomas Romney,
 Budd, George, M.D.                       D.D.
 Burton, Decimus, F.S.A.               Russell, John Scott.
 Darwin, Charles, M.A.                 Smith, Col. John T.
 Dickie, George, M.D.                  Thomson, Sir Charles Wyville,
 Gulliver, George, F.R.C.S.               LL.D.
 Harrowby, The Right Hon. Dudley       Thwaites, George      Heury Ken-
   Ryder, Earl of.                        drick, C.M.G.
                           On the Foreign List.
           Decaisue, Joseph.                   Schwann, Theodor.
           Liouville, Joseph.        |         Wohler, Friedrich.
                                Defaulter.
                    Armstrong, Heury Edward, Ph.D.
                                Withdrawn.
                    Farr, William, C.B., M.D., D.C.L.

302                       Anniversary Meeting.                     [Nov.  30,
                 Fellows elected since the last Anniversary.
                  H.R.H. The Duke of Edinburgh, K.G.
Ball, Valentine, M.A. (Dubl.).          Godman, Frederic Ducane,      F.L.S.,
Brady, George Stewardson, M.D.,            F.G.S., M.E.S.
   F.L.S.                               Harcourt, Right Hon. Sir William
Bramwell, Right Hon. George                George      Granville    Venables
   William Wilshere, Lord.                 Vernon, Knt., M.A.
Buchanan, George, M.D., F.R.C.P.        Hutchinson, Jonathan, F.R.C.S.
Clarke, Charles Baron, M.A.,            Liversidge,     Archibald,    F.G.S.,
   F.L.S., F.G.S.                          F.C.S., F.L.S.
Darwin,     Francis, M.A., M.B.,        Malet, John, C., M.A.
   F.L.S., F.Z.S., F.R.M.C.S.           Mundella, Right Hon. Anthony
Dittmar, William, F.C.S., F.R.S.E.         John, F.R.G.S.
Fawcett, Right Hon. Heury, M.A.         Niven, William Davidson, M.A.
Gaskell, Walter Holbrook, M.A.,         Palgrave, Robert Heury Inglis,
   M.D.                                    F.S.S.
Glazebrook, Richard Tetley, M.A.        Weldon, Walter, F.C.S., F.R.S.E.
    The President then addressed the Society      as follows : —
    Our anniversary is in one sense the opening of a new year, in
another it is the close of an old one.         With one hand we welcome
the coming, with the other we bid farewell to the departing guest.
 In  the later  parts of my present address I shall have to speak,
us on   former occasions, of our prospects and hopes for the future.
 At our more festive gathering in the evening we shall recount
some of the victories which have been won over difficulties in the
extension of knowledge, and shall rejoice at the gathering of old
 comrades and friends after our usual period of dispersion.           But at
 the moment of taking my place in the chair to which you have now
 for the fourth time elected me, I must confess that the sadder side of
 the picture is the most prominent.     We seem almost for the moment to
 enter the Valley of the Shadow of Death, or, like Dante, to descend
 to the place of Departed Spirits, and to commune with them once
 more after they have vanished from the upper world.               Each year
 during my   own   term of office the numbers lost to us have been greater
 than the numbers gained ; but this year, although the list of deaths
 is long and comprises not a few distinguished Fellows, they all seem
 overshadowed by two prominent figures. One of these died in the
 fulness of years, of honours, and of world-wide reputation ; the other
 in the strength and buoyancy of youth, a buoyancy which appears to
 have even contributed to his end.
    Of Darwin and his works it is not for me to speak. Others, with
 wider knowledge, after longer intercourse, and with greater authority,
 have said what was possible at the moment, and the full story of

1882.]                     President's Address.                       303
his life is now being written by faithful hands.          I
                                                      But consider it no
common piece of fortune to have lived within easy distance of his
house : to have been able by a short pilgrimage to enjoy his bright
welcome, and his genial conversation, and to revive from time to time
a mental picture of that my ideal of the philosophic life.
   Of Balfour I knew far less, and his works are beyond my range
of knowledge. But such was the fascination of his speech and his
demeanour that to have seen him was to desire to know him better.
To have been selected at his age as one of the Secretaries of the
British Association, a post usually reserved for men of more advanced
years and of longer experience, to have been appointed to a professor
ship founded almost on the basis of his own work, and thereby to have
become the coadjutor of his own great master in the Physiological
School at Cambridge, and all this without one word of cavil or of
criticism, was a high testimony to his scientific eminence.       But far
wider afield, it will be remembered of him, not so much that he was
brilliant in intellect, or keen of insight, or varied in his attainments,
but that he always found himself among friends, whether in college
or in the laboratory, in his own home over the northern border, or on
the wild mountain side where he breathed his last.
   The list of deceased Fellows comprises other eminent names, many
of whom will receive mention in our obituary notices. The list, more
over, serves again to exemplify the variety of qualifications which
have opened our doors to election.       In Decimus Burton we find an
architect of refined taste and cultivated mind ; in Stanley Jevons and
William Newmarch statisticians of weight, and the former already an
authority on political and other philosophy ; in Sir Woodbine Parish
a geographer, and more than a geographer, a man who by service as
well as by study in foreign lands had acquired an unusual amount of
first hand and accurate information ; in Scott Russell an engineer
whose brilliant early strokes of work will be remembered when the
difficulties which entangled his later efforts have been long for
gotten ; in Dr. Robinson a veteran and mentor in science, whose work
and whose judgment were alike sound.           Of Sir Wyville Thomson
mention will be made elsewhere.
    To this list of names there was well nigh added yet another,
namely, my own.      An accident, under circumstances which the issue of
events and more mature reflection have shown that I was hardly
justified in incurring, has for some time past interfered materially
with my usual avocations in life, and thereby, as I fear, with my use
fulness to the Society. But the ready and efficient assistance of the
other officers has, I doubt not, gone far to supply the deficiency.   For
myself,    I am  consoled   by the   kind  expression of sympathy   from
 many, some even unknown, friends ; and by the consideration, ever
 present to my mind, that, except through a combination of circum

                          Anniversary Meeting.                    [Nov.  30,
stances over which   I had certainly no conscious control, the result to
myself might have been far more serious.
   The total number of Fellows lost to our ranks during the past year
is twenty-two on the home list (one of whom has withdrawn on account
of growing infirmities), and four on the foreign list ; a result, on the
whole, not very different from that of last year.
   Of these two fell young, and by accident.        Of the remainder, two
died between   the ages  of 50  and  60, four  between  those of 60 and 70,
six between those of 70 and 80 ; and the remaining five attained ages
between four score and 90.
   In Liouville we have again lost a veteran mathematician; is
Wohler, a chemist whose years, numbered from the beginning of the
present century, reach to a period almost prehistoric in the records of
his science.
   I am happy to report that the sale of the Acton estate has been
completed ; and that of the proceeds, amounting to £32,250, £17,00)
has been invested in preference or guaranteed railway stock ; and the
remainder will be expended in the purchase of ground rents, partly in
the city of London, and partly in the western suburbs.          The income
from the latter source, already representing a very fair interest on the
outlay, may be expected materially to increase at the expiration of the
existing building leases. Some additional expense was incurred this
year in painting a portion of the Society's apartments.       A considerable
portion still remains to be painted, either next year, or at some not
very distant period.
   While on the subject of property, I should mention that Her
                            " the continuance of the
Majesty has sanctioned                                     occupation of the
Royal Observatory     at Kew    by the  Royal Society," upon certain con
ditions, which have been accepted.         The building will be devoted, as
heretofore, to the use of the Kew Committee, whose work, it must be
remembered, is provided for in the main by the Gassiot Fund.
   Last year the Society accepted a portrait of Sir J. D. Hooker,
painted by Mr. John Collier, at the request and at the expense of a
considerable number of Fellows.       I  trust that the Society will approve
the action of myself and a few others, in this year offering for onr
collection a portrait, by the same artist, of Mr. Joule.
   Mr. A. Le Gros has presented to the Society a bronze medallion
head, executed by himself, of the late Mr. Darwin ; and Mr. Budge9
has again euriched our funds by a gift of £100.
   The Library has received many valuable contributions both from
our Fellows and from others.         Among the latter    I  may mention the
completion of
                " The Lepidoptera of Ceylon," from the Government of
Ceylon ;   G.  Retzius'   " Gehororgan der Wirbelthiere," from the
author; a new edition of Abel's works, from the Norwegian Govern
ment ; and facsimile lithographs of some of the late Professor

 1882.]                    Presidents Address.                         305
•Clifford's mathematical  fragments, and the catalogue in two handsome
volumes from the Public Library of Victoria.
   The printing of the general part of our library catalogue is in pro
gress, and has reached the letter W ; and although, owing to un
foreseen difficulties the hope expressed last year, that it would have
been now finished, has not been fulfilled, yet there seems little doubt
that early next year it may be in the hands of the Fellows.
   On the completion of this work the Library Committee contemplate
resuming another decade, 1874-83, of the great Catalogue of Scientific
papers ; and the President and Council trust that the success which
has attended the publication of the eight volumes already in existence
will justify the Treasury in undertaking the printing of the second
supplement when the MS. has been prepared.
   In the staff of the Society I have happily no change to report. Of
the existing members my own feelings would impel me to say much
more ; but, while they would probably wish me to be silent, trust    I
they will pardon me in this one remark : that while recent changes
make me less apprehensive of any future alterations, they at the same
time make me hope that any alteration may be long postponed.
   Although the number of papers presented to the Society during the
past year, apart from their contents, does not convey any very im
portant information, yet in continuation of past practice           I  may
perhaps carry    on  the ten  years' table.  It   is as follows, showing a
slight diminution in the past year :   —
                1873                     92 papers received.
                1874                     98             h
                1875                     88             ii
                1876                    113
                1877                     97             ii
                1878                    110    it
                1879                    118
                1880                    123
                1881                    127
                1882                    109
   Among the papers of this year, I may notice the elaborate research
by Dr. Debus on " The Chemical Theory of Guupowder," forming the
Bakerian lecture ; the careful and long-continued investigations by
Professors Liveing and Dewar on the spectra of water, and of carbon,
and of mixed vapours.
   Nor must I omit mention of Dr. C. W. Siemens' bold and original
theory of the conservation of solar energy, which has already given
rise to so much discussion.      It will be sufficient for me here to say
that upon the questions therein raised the last word has been by no
means said   ; and that, whether the theory be ultimately established,  or

306                        Anniversary Meeting.                     [Nov.        30,
whether, like a phoenix,       itshall hereafter give rise to some other
outcome from its own ashes,         itwill ever be remembered as having
set many active minds at work, and will always have a place in the
history of Solar Physics.
   In Mathematics, definite integrals, and elliptic and the higher
transcendents continue to occupy much attention, and in particular
our " Transactions " contain an excellent contribution to the theta-
functions of two variables, by Mr. Forsyth, of Liverpool. To the
theory of invariants, Professor Malet, of Cork, has given a happy
extension in the direction of linear differential equations         but
                                                                    ;        it   is
unnecessary to speak in detail of papers which either already are, or
will shortly be, in the hands of the Fellows.     I   will only add that the
" Philosophical Transactions " for 1882 will probably exceed in bulk,
and not yield in interest to, those of any former year.
   Looking outside the circle of our oivn publications, there has been
one step gained during the past year, which, although in some sense
a matter of detail,  isreally of great importance and interest.        allude
                                                                        I
to the paper by Lindemann, " Ueber die Zahl it
                                                         "    Mathematische
                                                           ("
Annalen," Band xx, p. 213). It had long since been shown that both the
numbers ir and 7r2 are irrational    ;but hitherto no proof^ existed of the
impossibility of effecting the quadrature of the circle by means            of
                                                                           the
straight line and circle, and ruler and compasses.        Regarded from an
algebraical point of view, every such construction must depend upon
the solution of a quadratic equation, or rather of a series of quadratics
 whereof the first has for its coefficients rational numbers, and the
 succeeding members of the series only such irrational numbers as
 occur in the solution of their predecessors.        This being so, the final
 equation can always be transformed,         by transposition of terms and
 squaring, into an  equation  of an even   degree with rational coefficients.
 And, consequently,   if   can be proved that w cannot be
                          it                                    aroot of any
 algebraic equation whatever with rational coefficients, the impossi
 bility of the quadrature of the circle will be thereby also proved.
 Starting from Hermite's researches        (" Comptes Rendus," 1873),             in
 which he established the transcendental nature of the number                      e,
 Lindemann has supplied the proof required with reference to the
 number jr. It must be admitted that the proof        is neither very simple
 nor very easy to follow and
                           ;         remains only to be hoped that
                                    it                                    it
                                                                          may
 some day assume such a form as may influence the minds which still
exercise themselves upon the hopeless problem of squaring the circle.
  A most important change in the relations between the Society and
the Government      in respect of State aid to science has been         made this
year.   It   will
               be in the recollection of the Fellows that an experiment
was made for a period of five years, during which the sum of £4,000
was annually voted to the Science and Art Department, to be distri
buted at the recommendation of the Government Fund Committee                      of

 1882.]                    Presidents A ddress.                      307
the Royal Society. That experimental period terminated, as then
mentioned in my address, last year. The grant to the Science and Art
Department has been discontinued, and in place of it an addition of
d63,000 per annum has been made to the Government grant, making
£4,000 in all. In concluding this arrangement the following stipula
tions were agreed to. The increased grant is to be administered by a
Committee identical with the late Government Fund Committee ; a
portion may be devoted to personal grants, subject, however, to special
recommendations to the Treasury ; and, lastly, unexpended balances
may be carried forward from year to year, as has hitherto been the
case with the old Government grant only. To the stipulation that the
increased fund should be administered by the more extended com
mittee the Society felt that no reasonable objection could be offered,
because upon it the President and Council are represented in full, and
the ex officio members are in the majority of cases Fellows of the
Society.    The object of the second stipulation was, so far as the
Society  is concerned, to secure at the outset for the personal grants
the consent and support of the Treasury, and thereby to preclude the
chance of objection being subsequently taken to any of our proposals
under this head. The President and Council, however, recognising
the importance of great caution in respect of personal grants, have of
their own motion appointed a special sub-committee (in addition to
the three previously existing), to which all personal applications
recommended by any of the other sub-committees              are specially
referred, and without whose recommendation none can come before the
General Committee.       To the third mentioned point, viz., the power of
retaining unexpended balances, the President and Council attach
great value, because that power may enable the Committee to devote
more of its funds than heretofore to some of the larger undertakings
in scientific enquiry, leaving more of the smaller grants to the special
funds already in existence in the hands of the Royal and other
societies. The meetings of this Committee will probably take place
twice a year, in May and November. In the present year it will not
be possible to hold the second meeting before December, but there
will be advantages in holding it hereafter in November, as the
entire annnal grants will then be made by the same Committee, and
under the sanction of the same President and Council. In concluding
these few remarks on the new arrangements,        I cannot refrain from
expressing my sense     of  the obligation under which the Society and
Science at large are laid by the sympathetic and intelligent attention
bestowed upon the subject by the then Financial Secretary of the
Treasury, the late Lord Frederick Cavendish.
   Among other subjects referred to the Royal Society by Public
Departments, I may mention a request from the Board of Trade for
advice upon the question of improving the existing means at the

 308                       A nniversary Meeting.               [Nov.  30,
 Standard Office for the purpose of comparisons.       At the request of
 the President and Council, Sir George Airy, Colonel A. Ross Clarke,
 and Professor Stokes acted as a Committee, and drew np a verj
careful report, the value of which was fully recognised by the Board
 of Trade. The report suggested certain improvements in the present
arrangements ; but, having reference to the duties of the Standard
 Office as defined by Act of Parliament, it was not considered neces-
sary to insist upon extreme scientific accuracy, such, e.g., as that
                                              "                          "
attained by Colonel Clarke himself in his Comparison of Standards
made at the Ordnance Survey Office at Southampton in 1866.
    The arrangements for the observation of the Transit of Venus have
been steadily progressing.      The parties have now all started for their
stations, after their period of training under the superintendence of
Mr. Stone at Oxford. An adequate supply of instruments has been
secured at moderate cost, and all the accessory parts have been pro
cured and applied by the indefatigable care and forethought of onr
directing Astronomer.
    The English Expeditions for the observation of the approaching
 Transit of Venus are organized as follows : —
                          Accelebated Ingbess.
    Madagascar Observers. — Rev. S. J. Perry.
                              Rev. W. Sidgreaves.
                              Mr. Carlisle..
                                  —
    Cape Observatory Observers. Mr. Gill and Staff.
   Aberdeen Road Observers. — Mr. Finlay, First Assistant of the     Cape
                                    Observatory.
                                 Mr. Pett, Third Assistant of the    Cape
                                    Observatory.
                              —
    Montagu Road Observers. Mr. A. Marth.
                                 Mr. C. M. Stevens.
                             Retabded Ingbess.
    Bermuda  Observers. — Mr.  J.  Plummer.
                           Lieut. Neate,  R.N.
                           Capt. Washington, R.E.
   Jamaica Observers. — Dr. Copeland.
                          Capt. Mackinlay, R.A.
                         Mr. Maxwell Hall.
   Barbadoes Observers. — Mr. C. G. Talmage.
                           Lieut. Thomson, R.A.
   Besides the observers    at these stations, the Canadian Government
has arranged to place   three  6-inch and some smaller telescopes in the
field. Lieut. Gordon of Toronto was sent by the Canadian Govern

1882.]                       President's Address.                      309
ment     to England to make himself master of the proposed        arrange
ments, and to secure the necessary instrumental equipment.
                             Accelerated Egress.
    The stations for Retarded Ingress are also available for Accelerated
Egress.
                               Retarded Egress.
    Brisbane   Observers. — Captain W. G. Morris, R.E.
                           Lieut. H. Darwin, R.E.
                           Mr. Peek.
    New Zealand Observers. — Lieut.-Col. Tupman, R.M.A.
                                 Lieut. Coke, R.N.
    Besides   these observers   sent specially from England, the Observa
tories at Melbourne and Sydney are most favourably situated for observ
ing tho Egress. The Directors of these Observatories, Mr. Ellery and
Mr. Russell, have promised their co-operation, and their Governments
have placed funds at their disposal to cover any necessary expenses.
    Unless unfavourable weather should prevent the transit being seen
at some of the stations, we may expect some nine or ten pairs of
corresponding observations, both at Ingress and Egress, from the
British expeditions alone. These observations are certain to be largely
supplemented by those made by the observers of other nations ; and it
is hoped, from the close agreement between the instructions issued to
the different observers, that the whole may ultimately be available for
combination in one general discussion.
    The American astronomers, encouraged by the partial success which
attended the plan they adopted in 1874, are relying chiefly upon the
photographic method ; they have sent expeditions to South America
and the Cape of Good Hope.
    Austria does not take any active part in observing the Transit.
    France sends out eight well equipped expeditions, full particulars of
 which have been published in the " Comptes Rendus " for October 2.
    From Holland no special expedition will be sent out, but Lieu
 tenant Heyming, of the Dutch Navy, will observe the transit in the
 "West   Indies, probably at Curacoa.
    Italy will confine its operations to observatories in that country.
     Russia, also, has decided to send out no expeditions of its own,
 but it has aided the efforts of other countries by lending a 6-5-inch
 reflector to the Danish Government, and has placed two excellent
 4'3-inch heliometers in the hands of the French astronomers, MM.
 Tisserand and Perrotin.         The considerations which led the Russian
 Government to this conclusion have been explained in the following
 paragraphs of a letter from Mr. Struve to myself : —
     "
       Experience since 1874 has sufficiently proved that there is no
  prospect whatever, even with combined international efforts, of

310                       Anniversary Meeting.                [Nov. 30,
obtaining by the present transit a geometrical determination of the
parallax of the sun, which would not soon be surpassed in accuracy
by other recent methods (for example, that suggested by Mr. Gill),
methods which are capable of being repeatedly employed, and that
without any costly expeditions.
    " Further, although it must be admitted that so rare an opportunity
of studying the atmosphere of the planet ought not to be neglected,
yet it seems certain that many and excellent data will be obtained
through the agency of the United States, as well as by other
countries having well provided observatories in the southern hemi
sphere, as well as by other seafaring nations."   Under these circum
stances Russia has not considered it incumbent on itself to organise
any observing parties.
    Spain has sent two parties of naval officers, well equipped with
6-inch equatoreals and other instruments, to the Havana and Porto
Rico.
    Last year I expressed a hope that the difference of longitude
between Singapore and Port Darwin in Australia would be deter
mined by Commander Green of the United States' Navy in concert
 with Mr. Todd. This operation, however, in consequence of some
incorrect information furnished to Commander Green as to the
intentions of our home authorities in the matter, was not carried
out. After various proposals, extending over a period of not less
than two years, I am happy to say that it now appears likely that
the work will be performed.       Through the liberality of the Secre
tary of State for War an extension of leave has been granted
to Lieutenant Darwin, who accompanies Captain Morris to Brisbane
to observe the transit of Venus, enabling him to undertake the
work. He has received instructions to arrange with Mr. Todd all
details of the operation. The publication of the results obtained
by Oudemans and Pogson for the difference of longitude between
Madras and Singapore has now left only one link wanting, namely,
that between Batavia and Port Darwin, to connect Australian with
English longitudes. Lieutenant Darwin is eminently qualified for
the work ; and it seems a happy coincidence • that it should fall
to his lot to connect astronomically the distant port named after
his father with the furthest ascertained point in that direction.
I  should not omit to add that Mr. Todd has placed all the telegraphic
appliances under his command at the disposal of this service, and it is
to be hoped that the determination will prove as useful to the Austra
lian colonies as it will be valuable for the purposes of the transit
The best thanks of the Committee have already been given, but I am
glad here publicly to recognise the valuable assistance rendered to
the Committee in these long negotiations by the Great Eastern
Telegraph Company.

1882.J                     President 8 Address.                      311
   In  the course of last year the Treasury made known to the Society
that in consequence of Sir Wyville Thomson's ill health, their Lord
ships proposed that his chief assistant, Mr. Murray, should under
take the general editorship of the Reports of the " Challenger "
Expedition ; so that Sir Wyville might devote himself more exclu
sively to the personal narrative. At the request of their Lordships
a small Committee, with whom Mr. Murray might consult from time
to time, was appointed, consisting of the President and Officers, Sir
Joseph Hooker and Professor Huxley ; but before the Committee
could meet the lamentable death of Sir Wyville Thomson occurred.
They met, however, shortly afterwards, and having added Professor
Moseley to their number, they received from Mr. Murray, who
attended, a detailed statement of the existing condition of the whole
arrangements connected with the Report.          Prom this statement it
appeared that,   in addition to the original estimate of £20,000 given
by Sir Wyville Thomson, the work actually in progress and entrusted
to the several authors required a further sum of about £20,000, and
that if the series should be completed, by describing on the same scale
groups as yet unallotted, an additional expense of about £6,000 would
be entailed.      In forwarding this statement to the Treasury, the
Committee stated that, in their opinion, Mr. Murray's estimates were
drawn up with great care and judgment, and that in view of the
remaining Reports being carried out on the same scale as those
already published, they were reasonable and sound.      As to the cause
of the great discrepancy the Committee felt themselves unable to offer
any explanation ; the conduct of the whole business having been left
in Sir Wyville's hands, without reference to the Society. They
further were of opinion that Mr. Murray might safely be entrusted,
under the control and supervision of the Committee, with the entire
future management of the undertaking.
   After some further correspondence        it was suggested that Mr.
Murray should furnish the Committee with a statement of the ex
isting condition of the Reports and their management, which should
form a starting point for the responsibility of the Committee ; and that
 he should keep the Committee well informed from time to time of
 the progress of the undertaking.      These suggestions were cordially
accepted by their Lordships, and with the general statement which
 Mr. Murray submitted in October, the special duties and responsi
bilities of the Committee have begun.
   Since last year, three more volumes of the Report have been pub
lished, making six in all. The new volumes form volumes iv and v
of the Zoology, and volume ii of the Narrative.       The latter volume
comprises the magnetic results, the meteorological observations, the
report on the pressure errors of the thermometers, and the petrology
of St. Paul's rocks. Vol. i of this section, containing the narrative
   VOL. XiXIV.                                                Y

312                        Annivertary Meeting.                 [Nov. 30,
proper, is partly in type ; and will, it is hoped, be issued during
the summer of 1883.        Other volumes also will appear from time to
time.
    In connexion with this subject,  I may mention that the collection of
specimens from the
                        " Challenger " Expedition  are being received at
the British Museum, as the particular portions are released by the
progress of the publication of the Report.       Those derived from the
" Alert " Expedition to the South Pacific Ocean, have been deposited
in the Museum by the Admiralty, and are now being arranged and
described.     Dr. Giinther hopes to be able to produce a printed
descriptive catalogue of the collection before the expiration of the
present year.     And I desire here to acknowledge the service rendered
to science by the Admiralty in commissioning Dr. Coppinger to
accompany that expedition for scientific purposes.
    I am indebted to Mr. Murray for the following interesting account
of a cruise made last summer to complete some part of the
" Challenger " work.
    H.M.S. " Triton was engaged, from the 4th of August to the 4th
                      "
of September, in a re-examination of the physical and biological con
ditions of the Faroe Channel.
    The chief objects of the cruise were to ascertain by actual sound
ings, the character of a ridge running from the north of Scotland to
the Faroe fishing banks, and separating, at depths exceeding 300
fathoms, the cold Arctic water with a temperature about 32° from the
so-called Gulf Stream water on the Atlantic side with a temperature
of 47° F. This ridge was traced in considerable detail by means of
cross soundings directly across the channel, and the top was found to
be on an average about 260 fathoms beneath the surface.            In the
northern half of the ridge, however, a small saddle-back was found
with a depth of a little over 300 fathoms, through which some of the
Arctic water seemed to flow and to spread itself over the bottom on the
 Atlantic side of the ridge. The top of the ridge is entirely composed
 of gravel and stones, but mud and clay are found on either side at
 depths exceeding 300 fathoms.      Many of the stones are rounded, and
some of them have distinct glacial markings.       They are fragments of
 sandstone, diorite, mica-schist, gneiss, amphibolite, chloritic rock,
micaceous sandstone, limestone, and other minerals.       The ocean cur
 rents  here  appear  to  be strong enough,  at a depth  of between 250
 and 300 fathoms, to prevent any fine deposit, such as mud or clay,
 being formed on the top of the ridge. All the indications obtained
of the nature of this ridge, seem to imply that it may be a huge
 (terminal ?) moraine.
    It is worthy of notice that the " Wyville Thomson Ridge " is only a
little to the east of the position marked out by Croll from the observa
 tions of Geikie, Peach, and others, as the probable limit of the perpen

1882.]                     Presidents Address.                       313
dicular ice cliff formed in North Western Europe during the period of
maximum glaciation.
    The dredging captures show the same marked difference as had
previously been pointed out in the fauna of the two areas ; those in
the cold area being of a distinctly Arctic character, and these in the
warm area resembling the universally distributed deep-sea fauna of
the great oceans.     A fair proportion of new species were also found.
                                   " took
    The last trip of the " Triton          place from Oban, on the 11th
September, to the deep water in the Atlantic westward of Ireland.
The object of this trip was to get directly a determination of the
pressure unit of the gauges employed in testing the "Challenger"
thermometers. The original determinations were made indirectly by
the help of Amagat's results as to compression of air. The observa
tions taken are not yet reduced, but several successful trials were
made at depths of 500, 800, and 1,400 fathoms.
    The subject of the Circumpolar Observations mentioned in my
address of last year, was since that time brought more formally
before our Government by that of Russia. At the request of the
 Treasury, the President and Council, after consultation with the
 Meteorological Office, advised as follows : —
    " The object of the undertaking is to throw light on the influence of
 the great inaccessible region surrounding the pole on the meteorology
and magnetism of the earth. With this view it is proposed to take
simultaneous observations at a chain of circumpolar stations for a full
year at least.
    " A chain of not less than eight stations will be occupied indepen
 dently of any co-operation by this country. This chain, however,
leaves a gap of 90° in longitude in the northern part of America, the
 centre of which would be advantageously occupied by a station in the
 Dominion of Canada.       The value of the results will be greatly en
 hanced by the addition of this link to the chain.      Independently of
this, such a station would be of great value as being of a continental
 character, in contrast with the other stations, which are in close
 proximity to the coast. By choosing for the station one of the forts
of the Hudson's Bay Company, no great outlay need be involved in
 its occupation."
     The point first proposed was Fort Good Hope, near the month of
 the Mackenzie River ; but it was found too late to erect the necessary
 bats and to transport the party and its provisions there during the
present season. Fort Simpson, on the same river, was next sug
 gested.    Guided by considerations of facilities of access and susten-
 tation, the Committee came to the conclusion that either Fort Rae or
 Fort Providence, on Great Slave Lake, is to be preferred to Fort
 Simpson, with which the former forts nearly agree in latitude ; and
 accordingly the President and Conncil recommended one of these.
                                                             t 2

314                       Anniversary Meeting.                 [Nov.   30,
   " In framing  an estimate,  it was thought well to assume that      the
expedition might last a year and eight months, so as to allow a suffi
cient margin for travelling to and from the station, and for possible
detention   in waiting for the Hudson's. Bay Company's brigade.       It is
calculated that the cost might be safely estimated at £3,000, which
would include salaries of one officer and three men ; journey of the
party from England and back, including reasonable baggage ; rations,
allowances, and all other expenses."
   To this communication the following reply was received : —
   " My Lords have to thank you, and the Committee whom the Council
appointed to advise them in the matter, for the valuable information
contained in Dr. Michael Poster's letter of the 16th ultimo.       Acting
upon that information and upon the advice of the Royal Society,
Her Majesty's Government have decided that this is an object on
which public money may properly be employed, and they are pre
pared to ask Parliament to provide a total sum not exceeding £2,500
for the purpose.    My Lords understand that there is good reason to
hope that the balance required to make up the total estimated cost of
£3,000 will be forthcoming from other sources.
   " I am to ask whether the
                                  Royal Society would be so good as to
take charge of the Expedition under similar conditions to those under
which the Transit of Venus Expedition is being conducted ; accounts
of the expenditure chargeable to the Parliamentary grant being
rendered to this Department.       The choice of stations, the appoint
ment of observers, and the methods of procedure           would be left
entirely  to the Society, subject to the condition that the total amount
chargeable on public funds does not exceed £2,500. My Lords under
stand that it is expected that not more than £1,500 of this amount
would come in course of payment during the present year, and they
will present estimates to Parliament for £1,500 and £1,000 at the
proper times."
   The Canadian Government has since promised a contribution of
4,000 dollars towards the expenses of the expedition.
   A committee, consisting of the President, Dr. Rae, Sir George
Richards, Mr. R. H. Scott, and Professor Stokes, was accordingly
appointed to superintend the expedition, which, comprising Captain
H. P. Dawson, R.A., in command, Sergeants J. English and F.
Cookesley as observers, and W. Wedenby, as artificer, left England
on May 11, for Quebec, was heard of at Fort Carlton on 27th June,
and was about to proceed the next day for Green Lake, on the way
to Portage La Loche.        It was still not quite certain whether it
might not be necessary to push on to Fort Simpson, on account of
insufficient accommodation, as well as lack of time and materials for
building at Fort Rae.
   Two parts of " Mittheilungen dor Internationalen Polar Commis

 1882.]                  President! s Address.                       315
sion" have been published, containing full particulars and instructions
relating to the whole circumpolar scheme.
   The geological, mineralogical, and botanical collections, formerly
in the Museum in Bloomsbury, have been properly arranged in the
new building in Cromwell Road, and are on exhibition in their respec
tive galleries.  A commencement has been made in the transfer of
the zoological collections.    The osteological specimens, hitherto packed
out of eight in an obscure vault in the basement of the old Museum,
have been safely removed to the new building, and are now exhibited
in a large and well lighted gallery. The collection of shells, which
occupied the floor space of the long eastern gallery in Bloomsbury,
is now suitably exhibited at South Kensington.          Some of the corals
have been removed, in order to clear the way for the removal of
other specimens ; and many of the stuffed quadrupeds and mammalian
skins which had been stowed away in the old Museum basement are
now in the new repository.
   The removal of the general collection of mammalia, of the birds, of
the entomological specimens, and those of British zoology, will not be
undertaken until after the coming winter.             The fittings for the
galleries prepared for them are not fully completed.          The detached
building designed     for  the  specimens preserved    in spirit cannot be
made ready for their reception before the opening of next spring.
It  is,however, expected that the whole of the zoological collections
will have been transferred to the new Museum by the end of June,
1883.
  The subject of Technical Education has continued to be prominently
under the notice of the country during the past year. The appoint
 ment of a Royal Commission on Technical Instruction, to which         I
 have previously referred, has done much towards awakening the
 interest of manufacturers, and exciting curiosity in regard to the
 efforts that are being made abroad to improve the education of
 artizans.  The Commissioners issued in March last their first Report,
 •which dealt exclusively with primary education and apprenticeship
 schools. The Commissioners expressed an opinion adverse to the
establishment of apprenticeship schools in this country and in this
                                                            ;
view they are supported by nearly all our large manufacturers,
and by the action of the City and Guilds of London Institute
for the Advancement of Technical Education.       At the request of
the Executive Committee,   I  myself gave evidence before the Com
mission, explaining generally the objects of the City Guilds and
Institute, and describing the progress already made towards
their attainment. As a member of the Executive Committee of
this Institute,
              I   have watched its progress with interest, and have
observed with satisfaction that its scheme of Technical Instruction
is being gradually matured. The general Examinations in Tech

316                          Anniversary Meeting.                [Nov.  30,
nology     undertaken by this Institute, were held in May last at
147 centres in 37 subjects.        Of the 1,972 candidates who presented
themselves for examination, 235 passed in Honours, and 987 in the
Ordinary Grade.         In 1881, 895 candidates passed, showing an
increase of 307.       The -Examinations were held this year for the
first time under the revised Regulations, which appear to have
worked very satisfactorily.       Two points deserve notice with respect
to these Examinations.        In the first place, the Institute experiences
very great difficulty     in  obtaining properly qualified teachers. The
applicants are either practical men working in the factory, or at their
trade with no scientific knowledge whatever, or men possessing a very
elementary science knowledge, and little or no practical acquaintance
with the details of the industry, the technology of which they profess
to understand. In order to indicate the kind of qualifications required
in an ordinary technical teacher, the Institute has inserted in its pro
gramme a paragraph to the effect that persons who are engaged in
teaching science under the Science and Art Department, and who at
the same time have acquired a practical knowledge of their subject in
the factory or workshop, may be registered as teachers of the Insti
tute. The second point calling for consideration is the fact referred
to in the Report of the Directors, — that of the 1,222 candidates who,
this year, passed the examinations, most of whom are workmen or
foremen in various branches of indnstry, not more than 450 are quali
fied to receive the full Technological Certificate, by having previously
passed the examinations of the Science and Art Department in certain
science subjects.     This fact clearly indicates 'that widely beneficial as
has been the action of this Department of State, there is still a large
 field for its influence among the population who are engaged in manu
facturing processes, and desire to receive Teohnieal Instruction.
    One of the most satisfactory results of the Examinations of the City
 and Guilds of London Institute is the impulse they have given to the
 establishment, in different parts of the country, of properly equipped
 technical schools.      At Manchester, Preston, Dewsbury, Hawick,
 Sheffield, Leicester, and other places, -efforts have been made during
 this year towards organising schools for the technical instruction of
 artizans and others in the application of science and art to specific
 industries. At Nottingham, a grant of £500 has been made by the
 Institute, to be followed by an annual contribution for a limited
 period of £300, towards the establishment of technical classes in con
 nection with the University College; and at Manchester a subscription
 of £200 a year has been promised to assist the funds now being
 raised for the conversion of the Mechanics' Institution into a
 Technical School. The attention of the Council has been greatly
 occupied of late with the arrangements            for the opening of the
 1'insbury College.     Classes in Electrical Engineering and in Technical

1882.]                      President's Address.                          317
Chemistry, have been carried on for nearly three years in temporary
rooms belonging to the Cowper Street Schools.            The attendance at
these classes  has  been eminently satisfactory,   much  more  so than could
have been anticipated.      During the past session 960 class tickets were
sold at fees varying from 5s. to 12s.         The staff of the College has
recently been doubled by the appointment of a Professor of Mechanical
Engineering, and a Head Master to the new Department of Applied
Art, the establishment of which, as I stated last year, was then under
the consideration of the Committee.          In January next, it is antici
pated   that  the  new   building   in  Tabernacle  Row, which is already
nearly completed, will be opened for the reception of students.           The
programme     of  instruction,  prepared by    the  Director  and   the  Pro
fessors of the College, has been for some time under the consideration
of the Committee, and it is hoped that in the instruction given in this
College will be found the realization of a very important part of the
Institute's Scheme of Technical Education.
    Grants to the Technical Science Classes at University College and
King's College, London, to the Horological Institute, to the School of
Art Wood Carving, and other institutions, have been continued
during the past year.
    The Technical Art School in Kennington Park Road, established
and maintained by the Institute, has been satisfactorily attended ; and
a proposition is to be brought before the Committee for supplementing
the teaching of this school by technical science classes, with the view
of establishing in the south of London a Technical               College for
Artizans, similar to the one about to be opened in Finsbury.
    The building of the CeDtral Institution or Technical High School
in Exhibition Road, the foundation stone of which was laid by
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, President of the Institute, in July,
1882, is rapidly advancing and promises to be completed             within a
year. It is not expected, however, that this school will be ready for
 the reception of the students         before the commencement         of the
session 1884-5.       Meanwhile, the Council and Committee are fully
occupied   with  the development    of other parts of their scheme.
    In forwarding the Report of the Meteorological Council to the
Treasury in December last, the President and Council took occasion
to remind their Lordships that the arrangement for the organisation
of the Meteorological Office generally, in May, 1877, would terminate
with the then financial year. The Treasury, in reply, asked the advice
of the Royal Society. After consultation with the Meteorological
Council on various points connected with the subject, the President
and Council reported fully to the Treasury, and concluded with the
 following general recommendation :
                                          " The President and Council
                                                                          beg
 leave to express a hope     that  the constitution of the Meteorological
 Council may remain unchanged, and that the same gentlemen who have

318                       Anniversary Meeting,                [Nov. 30,
hitherto performed its duties and administered its funds with such
intelligence and judgment may be disposed to continue their labours."
To this recommendation the Treasury cordially assented ; deciding at
the same time that no period should be fixed to the Meteorological
Council for their tenure of office, but that it might be terminated by
either party at any time on twelve months' notice.
     The Meteorological Office has completed during the past year a
series of charts of sea surface temperature, for the three great oceans
of the globe, and for the representative months of February, May,
August and November. The work, which is now in the course of
publication, will consist of twelve large charts, for the Indian,
Atlantic, and Pacific Oceans respectively; and of four on a reduced
scale, showing, for the four months, the isothermal lines of sea sur
face temperature over the entire globe.      In the preparation of these
charts, all the observations existing in the Log Books of the Meteoro
logical Office, and in the Remark Books of the ships of Her Majesty's
Navy, have been employed, as well as the information which has
been already rendered accessible in scientific memoirs, and in the
narratives of the great scientific voyages.    The isotherms agree sub
stantially with those which have been already given for the months
of February and August, in the wind and current charts published
by the Hydrographic Department of the Admiralty ; but as the
present series is founded on a much larger number of observations
than have ever before been available for a similar purpose, it may
fairly be regarded as a valuable contribution to a not unimportant
part of terrestrial physics.     Between the limits of 50° north and
 50° south latitude, the mean annual surface temperature,      so far as
it can be deduced from the data now available, appears to be 74° -9 F.
 for the Indian, 69° 5 F. for the Atlantic, and 68°-6 F. for the Pacific
 Ocean.    The North Atlantic is 4°-6 F. warmer than the South
 Atlantic Ocean; the corresponding difference in the case of the
 Pacific Ocean is only lc-8 F.
     Among other contributions to Ocean Meteorology, which the past
 year has producod, I may mention (1) the Physical Charts of the
 Atlantic Ocean, published by the Deutsche Seewarte, at Hamburg ;
 (2) the second volume of the narrative of the voyage of H.M.S.
 " Challenger," containing the magnetical and meteorological observa
 tions; and (3) a report by Captain Toynbee, F.R.A.S., on the Gales
 of the Ocean District adjacent to the Cape of Good Hope, which com
 pletes the discussion by the Meteorological Council of the meteorology
 of that tempestuous part of the sea.
     The meteorology of our own country has been actively studied
 during the year. The Scottish Meteorological Society have given
 in their Journal a series of monthly pressure charts for the British
  Isles, together with a revised edition of the temperature charts

  1882.]                    Presidents Address.                         319
  already published by them in 1871.            The charts now embody
  the results of observations extending over a period of twenty-four
  years ; the revised edition, as well as the original publication, are due
  to the indefatigable activity of Mr. Alexander Buchan, F.R.S.E.,
  the Secretary of the     Scottish Meteorological Society. An atlas of
  convenient size, intended for the use of observers in the United
  Kingdom, and conveying similar information derived from data partly
  different, and quite independently discussed, has been already pre
  pared by the Meteorological Office, and will immediately appear.
     It is a fact now universally recognised that the greater part of the
  changes of weather which are experienced in the British Isles are
 occasioned by travelling areas of excessive or defective atmospheric
 pressure, which arrive at our shores from the Atlantic Ocean.          The
 importance     of a systematic study of the weather of the North
  Atlantic being thus indicated, the Meteorological Council have
 resolved to undertake the preparation of synoptic weather charts for
 the thirteen months beginning 1st August, 1882, and ending 31st
 August, 1883, and have issued a special appeal to the British shipping
 interest for active co-operation during that period.     It is satisfactory
 to know that this appeal has not been fruitless, and that there is
 every prospect that the number of observations available for the dis
 cussion will exceed 200 per day.
     This is, perhaps, the proper place to make mention of some results
 having an important bearing on meteorology, obtained by Professor
 Tyndall in the course of a larger research on the action of radiant heat
 on gases.
     By methods which he has applied to gases and vapours generally,
 Tyndall has established anew the action of aqueous vapour upon
 radiant heat, and the sensibly perfect diathermancy of dry atmo
 spheric air. The phenomena of solar and terrestrial radiation are
 profoundly modified by the presence of aqueous vapour in the earth's
 atmosphere, the temperature of our planet being thereby rendered
 very different from what it would otherwise be.
     The celebrated experiments of Patrick Wilson, wherein were
observed a rapidity of radiation and a refrigeration of the earth's
surface previously unknown, are explained by the fact that when
they were made the amount of aqueous vapour in the air was in
finitesimal, the unhindered outflow of heat towards space being
correspondingly great.       The sagacious observation of Six and Wells,
that the difference between the surface temperature and that of the
air a few feet above the surface, on equally serene nights, is greatest
in cold weather, is explained by the fact that, when the temperature
is low, the agent which arrests the surface radiation is diminished in
quantity.       Wells, moreover, found that the heaviest dews were
deposited on nights when the difference between air temperature and

320                       Anniversary Meeting.                    [Nov. 30,
surface    temperature   was small ; while the greatest difference be
tween the two temperatures was observed on nights when the deposi
tion of dew was scanty.      The explanation offered by Tyndall is this:
— copious dew indicates abundant vapour        ; and abundant vapour, by
arresting the terrestrial rays, prevents    the refrigeration observed in
drier air.    Strachey's able discussion of observations made at Madras,
point distinctly to the action of aqueous vapour on the radiation both
of the sun and of the earth ; while the experiments of Leslie,
Hennessey, Hill, and other distinguished men, which were long con
sidered enigmatical, are readily explained by a reference            to the
varying quantities of vapour with which the atmosphere is charged,
on days of equal optical transparency. The interesting observations
of Desains and Branley, made simultaneously on the Rigi and at
Lucerne, are well worthy of mention here. The difference of level
between the two stations is 4,756 feet, and within this stratum 17'1
per cent, of the solar heat was proved to be absorbed.        This absorp
tion being due to aqueous vapour, is tantamount to the transmission
of the sun's rays through a layer of water of a definite thickness.       A
sifting  of  the rays would  be the consequence,  and  on  a priori grounds
we should infer that the percentage transmission through water at
Lucerne must be greater than on the summit of the Rigi. This was
the exact result established experimentally by Desains and Branley.
Mr. H. Wild, Director of the Central Physical Observatory, St. Peters
burg, basing his statement on experiments made by himself according
to Tyndall's method, has expressed the opinion " that meteorologists
may, without hesitation, accept this new fact in their endeavours to
explain phenomena which hitherto have remained more or less enig
matical." The correctness of this statement is illustrated by the fore
going examples, to which, if necessary, many more might be added.
    At the recommendation of the Committee on Solar Physics of the
 Science and Art Department, a grant of £350 was made from the
 Society's Donation Fund to Captain Abney and Mr. Lockyer in aid of
their proposed observations of the total eclipse of the sun at Thebes in
May last. Unfortunately the state of Captain Abney 's health precluded
his taking part in the expedition ; but Dr. Schuster generously under
took the conduct of his observations, and, notwithstanding the short
time remaining for preparation, he carried them out in the most
satisfactory manner.
    Three photographs of the corona itself were obtained during the
eclipse.    They show that the corona had the characteristic features
observed during the time of the maxima of sun-spots.               The long
streamers in the plane of the ecliptic seen during sun-spot minima
were absent, and the corona showed much disturbance.               A bright
comet appeared in all the photographs at a distance slightly less
 than a solar diameter.

 1882.]                     President's Address.                          321
    A  complete   photograph of the spectrum of the prominences and
 the corona was     for the first time obtained.     The prominences give a
spectrum in which the lines of calcium bear a conspicuous part by
their intensity.      The ultra-violet hydrogen lines, photographed in
star spectra by Dr. Huggins, were seen, as well as a number of un
known lines.
    The corona gives a very complicated spectrum.           Close to the limb
of the sun the spectrum was so nearly continuous and so strong as to
hide any lines which might have been present.              Further away the
continuous spectrum fades off, the region of the solar group G appears
occupied by an absorption band, and a large number of coronal lines
hitherto unobserved      appear in the ultra-violet.
   In  addition to these photographs one was obtained         in a camera, in
front of whose lens a prism was placed without a collimator.             This
photograph allows us to study the spectra of different prominences.
As the picture was produced on one of Captain Abney's infra-red
plates,  all the tints of the prominences    ranging   from the ultra-red to
the ultra-violet made their impressions, and some interesting differences
in the spectra of different prominences can be noticed,
   But, beside taking part in this expedition, Mr. Lockyer has continued
with unwearied perseverance his observations on the spectra of solar
prominences and spots, and has recently combined with these the
results obtained by him during the late eclipse.          During this eclipse
he made naked eye observations, which he considers to be of a crucial
character between the two rival hypotheses regarding the nature of
the sun's atmosphere.        The results of this investigation have in his
opinion considerably strengthened the views which he first put for
ward in 1873 on the constitution of the solar atmosphere.             A state
ment of these views will be found ia a paper by him recently read
before the Society.
   In the present state of the questions there raised, it must think  I
be admitted that, after giving all due weight to the facts and reason
ings adduced by Mr. Lockyer, additional and varied observations are
greatly to be desired ; and that no opportunity reasonably available,
for adding to our knowledge of the subject, should be neglected.
And, therefore, without committing myself or the Society to the
support of any particular proposal or expedition, I think that it may
be fairly claimed as a prima facie duty on the part of the present
generation to obtain as many faithful records of the various pheno
mena occurring during solar eclipses as possible.
    From a discussion of the meridian observations      of Mars made during
the favourable opposition of 1877, at Washington, Leiden, Melbourne,
Sydney, and the Cape, Professor Eastman has deduced the value
8"'953 for the solar parallax — a value which, though considerably
larger than any of those found by other methods, agrees closely with

322                      Anniversary Meeting.                [Nov. 30,
that obtained by Mr. Downing, in 1879, from the meridian observa
tions of Mars at Leiden and Melbourne, as well as with the values
found from similar observations in 1862. In this investigation. Pro
fessor Eastman rejects the observations at Cambridge, United States,
as they were made in a slightly different manner, and gives (in combi
nation with Melbourne) a very large value for the solar parallax, viz.,
9"-138.
   The detailed account of the British Observations of the Transit of
Venus, 1874, was published at the beginning of the year, and the
observations of the transit made at colonial observatories have been
recently printed in the Memoirs of the Royal Astronomical Society.
   The Transit of Mercury last November was well observed in
Australia and other places, and the resnlts are of special interest in
connexion with the coming Transit of Venus.       The discordances in
the times of internal contact recorded by different observers seem to
show that such observations are subject to much uncertainty.
   An important memoir on astronomical refraction has been lately
published by M. Radau, who, after a discussion and comparison of
previous theories, gives formulae and tables for refraction, in which
allowance may be made for difference in the rate of decrease of tem
perature with the height above the earth's surface at different seasons
of the year. M. Radau also discusses the case in which the surfaces
of equal temperature in the atmosphere are inclined to the earth's
surface.
   A  new map of the solar spectrum, containing a much larger number
of lines than are shown in Angstrom's classical normal spectrum, has
been published by Professor Vogel in the publications of the       new
Astrophysical Observatory at Potsdam.         In this work Professor
Vogel has bestowed great care on estimates of the breadth and inten
sity of each line.  In the same volumes are given the results of Pro
fessor Sporer's sun-spot observations at Auclam from 1871 to 1879, in
continuation of those for the years 1861 to 1870, previously published.
From a comparison of the rotation-angles for 78 spots with the
formula, Professor Sporer finds that the larger deviations are always
towards the west, indicating that a descending current has brought
down with it the larger velocity of the higher regions of the sun's
atmosphere.     The law previously deduced by Professor Sporer, that,
about the time of minimum, spots commence to break out in high
latitudes, and that the zone of disturbance gradually approaches the
equator till at the next minimum it coincides with it and dies away,
to be replaced by a new zone in high latitudes, is confirmed by the
recently published Auclam results, comprising (with Carrington's
series)  two complete spot-cycles.
    In astronomical photography an important advance has been     made
by the successful  application of the new processes to the nebula; as

  1882.]                    Presidents   Address.                       323
 well   as to the  comets.   Professor Heury Draper and Mr. Common
 have obtained photographs of the great nebula in Orion, showing
 considerable detail, and Mr. Hnggins and Professor Heury Draper
  have succeeded in photographing its spectrum.         Mr. Huggins finds in
 his photograph a very strong bright line in the ultra-violet at wave
 length 3730, in addition to the four nebular lines previously discovered
 by him in the visible portion.     Professor H. Draper's photographs do
 not show this bright line, though they have faint traces of other lines
 in the violet, and he thinks that this may be due either to the circum
 stance that he had placed himself on a different part of the nebula or
 to his use of a refractor with glass prism, while Mr. Huggins used a
 reflector and Iceland spar prism.      The most striking feature of Pro
 fessor Draper's photographs is perhaps the discovery of two condensed
 portions of the nebula (just preceding the Trapezium) which give a
 continuous spectrum.
    Professor Schiaparelli has recently called attention to a peculiar
 feature on the planet Mars. In 1877 he remarked a number of
 narrow dark lines, which he called " canals," connecting the dark
                     " seas " of the southern and northern
 spots or so-called                                            hemispheres.
 He now finds that these lines are each doubled, so that according to
 his view the equatorial regions of Mars are covered by a network of
 pairs of parallel straight lines.     It is to be remarked that though
 the appearance of Mars as depicted by Professor Schiaparelli differs
greatly from previous representations,         indications of these double
 " canals " are to be found in the sketches of other observers.
    The two bright comets of this year possess more than usual interest.
The bright comet discovered at Boston by Wells, on March 18th, was
the first comet since the spectroscope was applied to these objects,
 which presented a spectrum unlike the hydrocarbon type common to
all the other comets which appeared since 1864. The eye observa
tions, as well as its photographic spectrum (taken by Mr. Huggins),
showed an absence of the hydrocarbon spectrum, which was replaced
by a brilliant continuous spectrum and bright lines, including those of
sodium.
    In   September, a very brilliant comet appeared near the sun.         It
seems to have been discovered independently by Ellery, at Melbourne,
Finlay at the Cape, Mr. Common in this country, and also by Thollon
and Cruls. This great comet has been a brilliant object in the early
mornings during the past two months.               On September 17th, an
observation, apparently unique in the history of astronomy, was made
by Mr. Gill at the Cape, who watched the comet right up to the sun's
limb. It could not, however, be detected in the sun, and this circum
stance of appearing neither bright nor dark when in front of the sun,
appears to suggest a very small substantiality, or great separation of
the cometary      matter.   After perihelion it presented     a magnificent

324                        Anniversary Meeting.                    [Nov.  30,
appearance, having a tail 30° long, and even on October 30th, the tail
covered a space greater than the mean distance of the earth from the
nun.
   On October 9th, Professor Schmidt discovered a nebulous object
not far from the great comet, the orbit of which strongly suggests
a connexion in the past with the great comet.               This fact is of
more   interest   when   the  orbits   of the great  eomet  of  this year, of
Comet I, 1880, and of the well-known comet of 1843 are compared.
The very near approach of the great comet to the sun will lead
astronomers to watch with great interest for its return to our system,
whatever may be its destiny, to fall ultimately into the sun, or to dis
appear through a process of gradual disintegration.            In the Astro-
nomische Nachrichten, just published, Professor Pickering (one of
whose assistants has computed the elements of the orbit of this
                  " I believe the deviation from a
comet), states,                                         parabola to be real,
although the corresponding period may be very long. These differences
seem to indicate that the disturbance suffered by the comet in passing
through the coronal region could not have been great."
   This comet presented a spectrum similar to that of Comet Wells,
but while receding from the sun, the bright lines of its spectrum
became fainter, and then the usual hydrocarbon spectrum made its
appearance.     This observation, taken in connexion with those of the
 previous comet, suggests a modified condition of an essentially similar
 ehemical constitution.      The phenomena would admit more easily of
 explanation if the cometary light is supposed to be due to electric dis
 charges, as it is well known how preferential is the electric discbarge
 when several substances are present together in the gaseous form.
    Before leaving this subject,     I  venture to quote the following pas
                  " Observatory," which puts in a very clear form the
 sage from the
 speculations now current, on the relation of the present great comet
 to that of 1880, 1843, and possibly 1668.
    "The physical appearance of the comet, which like that of 1843,
 and unlike that of 1880, showed at first a decided nucleus, together
 with the intimation of a period very considerably greater than that of
 the interval from 1880, January 27, the date of perihelion of the 18S0
 comet, suggest that perhaps the 1843 comet suffered disintegration
 when at its nearest approach, and that the 1880 comet was a portion
 of its less condensed material, whilst the body of the comet with the
 principal nucleus, suffering less retardation than the separated part,
 has taken two and a-half years longer to perform a revolution.           The
 remarkable discovery      made    by   Professor  Schmidt,   of  Athens,   on
 October 8, of a second comet only 4° S. \V. of the great comet, and
  having the same motion, would seem to confirm this view."
    The scientific year now concluded has not been so fertile as its pre
  decessor in the initiation of great national and international under

  1882.]                       President     8  Address.                          32o
 takings, neither have any of those larger enterprises which                   I took
 occasion to mention last year, such as the circumpolar observations, or
 the Transit of Venns Expeditions, as yet been brought to their final
 issue.    Nevertheless,    in some of them we have evidence that good
 work is already being done, and in the others, of which we have as
 yet no information, there is no reason to doubt that the same is the
 case.    Nor again, in the border-land between science proper and its
 applications, have I to record anything so important as the Paris
 Electrical Exhibition.          That Exhibition, however, bore legitimate
 fruit  in  the Electric Lighting Exhibition at the Crystal Palace, and in
 the technical     experiments        lately carried out on a large scale at
 Munich.      Perhaps the most prominent feature of the Crystal Palace
 Show was the incandescent light.               At Paris that mode of illumina
 tion appeared to be little more than a possibility, in London it had
 become an accomplished fact.                 The importance attaching to this
 advance in electric lighting may be measured both by the rapid
 extension of its use, and also by the fact that not a few of our leading
 minds consider that the incandescent lamp is the lamp of the future,
not merely for domestic, but even for many other public purposes.
    But in another way the present year has witnessed the most
important step which could have been taken for the promotion of
electric lighting in this country.                The Legislature has passed the
Electric Lighting      Bill,  and, so   far    as  legislation can effect the object,
it has brought electricity to our doors. Up to this time installations
of greater or less magnitude had sprnng up sporadically in many parts
of the country, in railway stations,                    manufacturing works, and
occasionally in private houses.            But, compared with the lighting of a
whole town, or even of separate districts of a large city, even the
most important of these must be confessed still to partake of the
nature of experiments ; experiments, it is true, on a large scale, and,
as I believe, conclusive         as to the ultimate issue.          Indeed, by mul
tiplication    of machines     it  is  certainly,    even   now, possible to increase
the lighting power to any required extent ; but this can hardly be
regarded as the final form of solution of the problem, inasmuch as
such a method would be as uneconomical                     as it would be to use a
number of small steam-engines             instead    of a large one.   And when we
consider that at the time of the passing of the Act in question, there
was but one machine actually constructed which was capable of
                                                                                   '
illuminating even one thousand incandescent lamps (I mean that of
Edison), we cannot but feel that much remained to be done before the
requirements of the public could be fully met.                       I do not mean
thereby to imply that the Act was passed at all too soon ; on the con
trary, it has already 'given just that impetus which was necessary for
producing installations on a larger scale. In illustration of this, I
cannot help mentioning, as the first fruit of the impetus, a remarkable

326                         Anniversary Meeting.                    [Nov. 30,
machine,    by our countryman Mr. J. E. H. Gordon, which appears
capable of feeding from five to six thousand lamps.
   But beside     the  impulse    above   described,   the Bill will   have a
scientific influence perhaps not contemplated by its original promoters.
Under this Act, for the first time in the history of the world, energy
will come under the grasp of the law, will become the subject of
commercial contracts, and be bought and sold as a commodity of
everyday use.       It is, in fact, far from improbable that the public
supply of electricity will be reckoned and charged for in terms of
energy itself.   But whether this be literally the case or not, a measure
ment of energy must lie at the root of every scale of charge.
   And, further, since the Act allows no restriction to be placed upon
the use of the electricity so supplied, it follows that it may be used,
and undoubtedly will be used, at the pleasure and convenience of the
customer, either for lighting, or for heating, or for mechanical, or
for chemical purposes.       This being so, it is clear that the public must
by  this process  become,    practically at least, familiar with the various
modes of the transformation of force ; and the Act in question might,
from this point of view, have been entitled An Act for the better
Appreciation of the Transformation of Force.
   While offering to the public this new commodity electricians may,
in one respect, especially congratulate themselves, namely, that their
article is incapable of adulteration. An electric current of a given
strength and given electro-motive force is perfectly defined, and is
identically the same whether it comes from a Siemens or a Gramme,
from a magneto- or from a dynamo-machine ; or, as was suggested
by an eminent counsel before the Select Committee of the House of
Commons, just as if it had been merely a question of coming from one
machine painted red or from another painted blue.
   It has been said, and perhaps with truth, that the electric light will
be the light of the rich rather than that of the poor.           But in more
ways   than  one  electricity may   now  become   the poor man's  friend. The
advantages in avoidance of heat and of vitiated atmosphere in work
shops and factories have often been pointed out, and may ultimately
become an important factor in the physical growth and prosperity of
our population. But besides this, when electricity is literally brought
to our doors, it will become possible, by converting it into motive
power of limited extent, to revive some of the small industries which
during the last half century have been crushed by the great manu
facturing establishments of the country. There are operations which
are capable of being carried out by the wives and families of work
men ; there are works of small extent which can be performed more
advantageously     in a small establishment than in a large one, and it
can hardly fail to be a gain to the community if this new departure
should give fresh opportunities for the development of our industry
in these directions.

   1882.]                   President's Address.                       327
      On the motion   of Sir Charles Shadwell, seconded by Dr. Gilbert,
   it was resolved    "
                   : — That  the thanks of the Society be returned to the
   President for his Address, and that he be requested to allow it to be
   printed."
      The President then proceeded to the presentation of the Medals    : —
      The Copley Medal has been awarded to Professor Arthur Cay ley,
   F.R.S., for his numerous profound and comprehensive researches in
  Pure Mathematics.
      One Royal Medal has been awarded to Professor William Heury
  Flower, F.R.S. During the last thirty years Professor Flower has
  been   actively engaged in extending our knowledge of Comparative
  Anatomy and Zoology in general and of the Mammalia in particular.
      His Memoirs on the Brain and Dentition of the Marsupialia pub
  lished in the " Phil. Trans." for 1865 and 1867, established several
  very important points in morphology, and finally disposed of sundry
  long-accepted errors.
      His paper " On the Valne of the Characters of the Base of the
 Cranium in the Carnivora " (1869), and numerous memoirs on the
 Cetacea, are hardly less valuable additions to zoological literature.
      Professor Flower has been for more than twenty years Curator of
 the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, and it is very largely
 due to his incessant and well-directed labours that the museum at
 present contains the most complete, the best ordered, and the most
 accessible collection of materials for the study of vertebrate structure
 extant.
      The publication of the first volume of the new Osteological
 Catalogue in 1879, affords an opportunity for the recognition of
 Professor Flower's services in this direction. It contains carefully
 verified measurements of between 1,300 and 1,400 human skulls, and
 renders accessible to every anthropologist a rich mine of cranological
data.
     The other Royal Medal has been awarded to Lord Rayleigh, M.A.,
F.R.S.
     The researches of Lord Rayleigh have been numerous, and extend
over many different subjects;     and they are all characterised by a rare
combination of experimental skill with mathematical attainments of
the    highest order.
     One class of investigations to which Lord Rayleigh has paid much
attention is that of vibrations, both of gases and of elastic solids.
The results of most of these researches are now embodied in Lord
Rayleigh's important work on the " Theory of Sound — a work
                                                                "
which not only presents the labours of others up to the time of
writing in a digested and accessible form, but is full of original matter.
     VOL. XXXIV.                                                 Z

 328                      A nniversary Meeting.                  [Nov.   30,
    The subject of vibrations naturally leads on to a mention of other
 hydro-dynamical researches.       Lord Rayleigh has investigated the
 motion of waves of finite height, and in particular has shown that the
 "great solitary wave" of our late Fellow, Mr. Scott Russell, has a
 determinate character ; and he has investigated the circumstances of
its motion to an order of approximation sufficient to apply to waves of
 considerable height.
   Lord Rayleigh has examined more fully than had previously been
 done the theory of diffraction gratings, and the effects of irregnlarities ;
and also investigated the defining power of optical combinations, and
its limitation by diffraction and spherical aberration.
   He has lately been engaged in the elaborate re-determination of
the B.A. unit of electrical resistance.
   The Rumford Medal has been awarded to Captain W. de W. Abney,
R.E., F.R.S. Captain Abney has contributed largely to the advance
ment of the theory and practice of photography by numerous investi
gations.    In the Bakerian lecture for 1880, he has given an account
of a method by which photography can be extended to the invisible
region below A, which had been hitherto but very imperfectly examined
by means of the thermopile.
   Making use of plates prepared with silver bromide in a particular
molecular condition, Captain Abney, by means of a diffraction grating
containing 17,600 lines to the inch, constructed a detailed map of the
infra-red region of the solar spectrum extending from A down to
X 10,650 (Plate XXXI, " Phil. Trans.," 1880).            The lowest limit of
this map was fixed by conditions of the diffraction apparatus, and net
by a falling-off of the sensitiveness of the plates at this low point ;
for, when a prismatic apparatus was used, photographs were obtained
which show a continuous spectrum down as far as A. 12,000.
   In a subsequent paper ("Phil. Trans.," 1881, p. 887), Captain
Abney, working with Lieut.-Col. Festing, R.E., applied this new
extension of photography to a research on the influence of the atomic
grouping in the molecules of organic bodies on their absorption in the
infra-red region of the spectrum.        The authors believe that their
results indicate, without much doubt, that the complex substances
they examined can be grouped according to their absorption spectra,
and that such grouping, as far as their experiments go, agrees on the
whole with that adopted by chemists.        They have more confidence in
their results,  as they  were   careful to select such bodies as might
be regarded as typical ;  but,  of course, much patient labour of many,
for a long period, will be necessary before this new branch of physico-
chemical research can be regarded as     fully established in any complete
form.
   Captain Abney has since carried on his work in this new region         of

1882.]                    President's Address.                       829
the spectrnm at different elevations during a recent visit to Switzer
land.
   The Davy Medal has been awarded to Dimitri Ivanovitch Mendeleeff
and Lothar Meyer.
   The attention of chemists had for many years past been directed to
the relations between the atomic weights of the elements and their
respective physical and chemical properties ;- and a considerable num
ber of remarkable facts had been established by previous workers in
this field of inquiry.
   The labours of Mendeleeff and Lothar Meyer have generalised and
extended our knowledge of those relations, and have laid the founda
tion of a general system of classification of the elements. They
arrange the elements in the empirical order of their atomic weights,
beginning with the lightest and proceeding step by step to the
heaviest known elementary atom. After hydrogen the first fifteen
terms of this series are the following, viz : —
      Lithium                  7          Sodium                 23
                                  •
      Beryllium                9          Magnesium              24
                                                                    '
      Boron                   11          Aluminium              27
      Carbon                  1*2         Silicon                28
      Nitrogen                14          Phosphorus             31
      Oxygen                  16          Sulphur                32
      Fluorine                19          Chlorine               35
                                          Potassium              39
   No one who is acquainted with the most fundamental properties of
these elements can fail to recognise the marvellous regularity with
which the differences of property, distinguishing each of the first
seven terms of this series from the next term, are reproduced in the
next seven terms.
    Such periodic re-appearance of analogous properties in the series of
elements has been graphically illustrated in a very striking manner
with respect to their physical properties, such as melting-points
and atomic volumes.      In the curve which represents the relations of
atomic volumes and atomic weights analogous elements occupy very
similar positions, and the same thing holds good in a striking
manner with respect to the curve representing the relations of
melting-points and atomic weights.
   Like every great step in our knowledge of the order of nature, thi;
 periodic series not only enables us to see clearly much that we could
 not see before ; it also raises new difficulties, and points to many
 problems which need investigation.     It is certainly a most important
extension of the science of chemistry.
                                                            z 2

 330                          Number    of Fellows.                 [Nov.   30,
   The Statutes relating to the election of Council and Officers were
then read, and    Sir Heury Lefroy and Mr. Vaux having been, with
the consent of the Society, nominated Scrutators, the votes of the
Fellows present were taken, and the following were declared duly
elected as Counoil and Officers for the ensuing year : —
   President. — William Spottiswoode,     M.A., D.C.L., LL.D.
   Treasurer.— John Evans, D.C.L.,      LL.D.
                 S   Professor George Gabriel Stokes, M. A., D.C.L.,   LL.D.
                 \   Professor Michael Foster, M.A., M.D.
   Foreign Secretary. — Professor Alexander      William Williamson, Ph.D.,
LL.D.
                       Other Members of the Council.
   Professor W. Grylls Adams, M.A. ; John Ball, M.A. ; Thomas
Lauder Brunton, M.D., Sc.D. ; Professor Heiurich Debus, Ph^D. ;
Francis Galton, M.A. ; Professor Olaus Heurici, Ph.D. ; Professor
Thomas Heury Huxley, LL.D. ; Professor E. Ray Lankester, M.A ;
Professor Joseph Lister, M.D. ; Professor Joseph Prestwich, M.A. ;
Professor Osborne Reynolds, M.A. ; Professor Henry Enfield Roscoe,
B.A., LL.D. ; Marquis of Salisbury, K.G., M.A. ; Osbert Salvin, M.A.;
Warington W. Smyth, M.A., F.G.S. ; Edward James Stone, M.A.
   The thanks of the Society were given to the Scrutators.
   The following Table shows the progress and present state of the
Society with respect to the number of Felhn vb : —
                       Patron             Com         £4      £3
                        and    Foreign. pounders.  yearly.  yearly.   Total.
                       Royal.
 Nov.  30, 1881  ..        4      50        227        214      39      534
 Since Elected   . .   +   1             +     6    +    2  +   11       20
                                                   —
                                -                           -         -
 Since Compounded
                                         -          -
                                         +     1         1
                                    4                                    24
                                                    -
 Since Deceased  . .                         12          7        1
 Since Withdrawn                                         1            —    1
 Defaulter
                                •
                                                    -    1            —     1
 Nov.  30, 1882  . .       5      46        222       206       49      528

     1882.]                                                   Financial Statement.                                331
      -
          oOo           ej
          r4    Q   o   <e
                IS-           J-l* -
                    „   -tJ   goo B
                                        tj    a
          t3    b5"oEH2                                                         r
                                                  , t3 bins           Ch   rr
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                              J
                                                                                    3                   5 S   s
                                                          u,.-   a m- w *3      a
                                                                                    '5 •   |   £=3
                                                                                                        oa
-                                                     '   -   = o o   w °       B E     111-- I k3I P?
                                                                                    £H     -»<iPM   S
           *        O         * * t^ * CO * CO * N
           O        O         O O N     CO to     O   CO O CO
           pH
           O
                    O
                    ^
                              it5QH05HNcoCN
                              CS CO I* H to 00 50 * *
     <H    g
•5        Ctf
                                        ndi
                                        to
                                        ill
                                              :
                         3
          £il ^
                        .3 3
                          . o
          •J             = 3
                         3 J3
          3
                    S 5 a
          =
          c         "so
                    ill
          O
          3
          =                     S   s   >
                                                  <^©            -
          c
          -0

332       Financial Statement.
                                             * 05
                                             * ,*             «
                                                              ,.7
                                             oi
                                             rH
                                                              s
          .,              i   —          ^
                                                                    g1
                                                                    w
                                                                    w
                                                                    o
           „        3    SI jj^                   c
           § £'.£o-S3 §.3.3
           c z .
      4           o
           GGtSoPPompqu & m
                              o
                              rn
                                                   -J'
                                                   c.
                              r-
                              i0                   (M
                                                   0»
           N        **x            at        0i CO H
          ' OS i* K5 CO <0
           '1-3
                                    .3S„:
               "E   "P   t;
           PO            §               3   X    J«     "2
           >t3t3
           C        C a
               a      £
                       3
                               J         j        PQ
                                                       -=>
                                   *3
                    -3
                                         0
           i-2  i
               ° -tZ               §-1   fe' 3|5
                              oRo n

                                                                      Estate*                 and      Property                         the       Roya-          Society,          inc-uding           Trvit     Fund
                                                                                                                                of 2
                       Estate       at     Mablethorpe,                   Linco-nshire                         (**      A.         R.   2        p.),    £8fi         per    annum.
                       Fee      Farm       near   Lewes,                 Sussex,               rent         £88       **. per annum.
                       One-fifth           of the         c-ear       rent          of an estate                     at Lambeth    Hil-,                       from        the     Co--ege        of     Physicians,        £8 per annum.
                       Stevenson             Bequest.       Chancery                            Dividend.                         One-fourth                    annual           interest         on     £8*,8.(8,        Government   Annuities                 and
                                Bank        Stock     (produced    £7„                               ]».     9d.      in **8-82).
                        j>ot dm           T      £**,8*2          82».        id.        Reduc.                8     per        Cent.           Annuities,
                       i^l.uuo
                                           \£8>8i*              *,,sd.                          u                           n                             n            Hand-ey            Fund.
                        £T,888            Mortgage              Loan,
                                                                              *         per    Cent.
                                                                                                                                                          £T,88             *8».    id.    in  name   of the R. S., and
                                                                                                                                        ("being
                        £*8,.**           8». 2d.         Conso-idated                        Bank          Annuities,/                                       £8,**2         **.    8d.     in Chancery,    arising from sale of the Coleman
                                                                                                                                      L                                                                8treet*Estate.
                        £48.       8*.    8rf.      New      2$      per       Cent.           Stock—              Bakerian               and                          Meda-        Fund.
                                                                                                                                                        Cop-ey
                        j>,i en           c            ^                      T         £8,.28          lis.         2d.        Scientific              Belief       Fund.
                        £88,*8*                    Ihrees
                                              New~ n
                                          8*. -m
                        £88        **.    8d.       8ndia       Fours.
                                                                         |     *
                                                                                          ^                ^         wd           Jodrell           Fund
                        £888       Madras            Guaranteedper Cent.     Rai-way      Stock. — Davy      Meda-    Fund.
                        £fi,888           8ta-ian
                                             8rrigation      Bonds.—     The   Gassiot      Trus8
                        £8,888  Great     Northern       Rai-way        per Cent.    Debentures *     — The
                                                                                                               Trevelyan                                                                          Bequest.
                        £888   Metropolitan            per  Cent.
                                                                .i  Stock.   — Scientific      Relief  Fund.
                        £] ,*7                  „                                   „                             —Fee             Reduction                  Fund.
                        £*,888           London           and        North              Western                Railway
                                                                                                                                   1
                                *               Debentures.
                                                                                                                                            -                    -
                                    per Cent.
                        Two       Hundred     Shares  in the                            Whitworth                     Land         8
                                                       Limited.
                                                                                                                                 JJ         ,                    "
                               Company,
                        £*,888    Madras                Rni-way               Guaranteed                    *     °/0       Stock.
                        £*,888           North        Eastern         Rai-way
                                                                                                *     °/„      Stock.
                        £*,808           London           and     North    Western                           Consolidated                       Preference              Stock.
         We,     the     Auditors           of      the      Treasurer's                  Account*                   on         the      part of                                   We,      the    Auditors          of    tho    Treasurer's        Accounts          on    the     part     of
the   Council,    have         examined              these      Accounts                  and
                                                                                              is
                                                                                                       found            them           correct           ;           the     Society,        have       examined          these    Accounts          and   found         them       correct    j
and   we find    that     the      Ba-,ce             at the         Ban-rs'                        £8,828            8*. *d.                                        and     we find        that        the    Ba-ance      at the    Ban-rs'         is   £8,828      8*.    *d.
                                                                W.    8POTT8SWOODE,                                               Pre*.                                                                                                 J.   T. BO8LKAU.
                                                             J    AS.  R8SDON
                                                                ALEXANDER
                                                                                  BENNETT.
                                                                                                            JOHN                 ELL8S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WARREN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                H.   M.    CHR8ST8E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DE      LA       RUE.
                                                                JOSEPH                        L8STER.                                                                                                                                   G.      MATTHEY.
                                                                U.       O.         STOKES,                    See.

                                                                            Pn\l                    'spuM                         'ZSSl
                                                                                                                                                3F    »
                                                  msjj   g ioA     -:we9y   89prauny          ,'                                          •   Bze'8   it
                                                  nB^tjoc8oJiapt            sjojao^                                                             8O*   8    ,e8
         ''•a                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                          8e8'83F     Tt
                                                                                       *           -*    -p                                                           3F    s     -p
ox         ooucpig                                                                      88         8                                                                   88   8
 "         «pU8ptAI(J     -                                                            *8      8T
                                                                                                         e8                BOUttpJff                                 ET     8     88
                                                                                                                       "
                                                                                                   8     e                                                                  *     8
                                                                                            8B8'83F         -*o   pi   -siosuoq
                                                                                       3F           '>                                                                3F          .
ox,        sa'u'p'g                                                                    8TL         8l     8                                                          8E8    * 8
 "         flp„Op'AI([                                                                 8n          Li     H                                                          U8     TX
                                                                                                                                                                                  *e
     "     »u".'j,    po¦n]   raojj   X.'jpaojj   punj                                 til          8
                                                                                                                                                                 ois'taF
                                                                                                                                                                            n     2

  1882.]           Trust Funds.                          335
           o                                             O
           CO   „- 00 O  *«
                          rH
                                                         *»
                W •*  O   N                              o
                      iO  o
                                                         4)
                                                3
                                                •0<
                                ,to
a  s
                                 I       e  .
S3            1
                                         4 o =
                                         Is
                                 fa ,
                                               •
                                                 O   o
                                 Hi
                                              4tc
                             V,
                                                  1-3
                                      -3
       -3^                                        '31
                                                  BO
                                       O           o   -
                                                  H

                                     Irutl        Funds.                               [Nov.   30,
   Ol CS          to                  -c     88       O
*i 00 CO          i>                   •a•   CO 05    lO
   *H r-l         rH
4) 54 04          U5                  « N 00 N
                                             ri  s
                                                      «i1
                                                                         i
                               c/:
                                                                             O
                                                                            -*-
                               r                                             r
                                                                                  i
  |     8                                                       B
                                                                o »
                                                                     .
                                                                             C
                           I?
                                                                            -=
                                                                            i
                                                                            —
                                                                |l
                                                                .Sf-        K
                                                                                 z
                                                                t    g
                                                            5   HQ
                  «5   1              toi    o«       O
                               3
  00         00
                           5
                                             X   CO
                               3 e
                                      ^
                                                                                  t—
                                                                                  t
                               o                                           fc»
                                                                         Stf O    *
                                                                c
                                                      55
                                                                55
       H
       is
       5
             o
       i-1   =
             'S
       ¦ -S
       c >i
    I o &
    : 4» ©
    : C
       v o
             3
   8"3       *
   5^ «                                                                     59
  ia S-2

1882.J              Trust Funds.
                                     c io   to
                                        l-t rH
                                            9
                                 n          OS
                                            -*
          -a
           c
           3
           a
           P
           O
          R
               M      5
          id
           o
           E   |      |            ¦X (M U
               ,s                  «  X c
                                   c  x   a
       s
           P    9
                b
                       §
                                   -     pq
                                   >-i
                5,    pq
           n   CO
                t»
                cS
               -a  -« m      -2
               o
               H    £ U5
                   «3
       CO
               5                             5
                       5
           -O         'a
            P
            OS
           -0         H
           '£          O
           R          En

338            Appropriation of    the Government  Grant.       [Nov.   30,
Account of the appropriation of the sum of £4,000 (the Govern
      ment Grant) annually voted by Parliament to the Royal
      Society, to be employed in aiding the Advancement of
      Science (continued from Vol. XXXIII, p. 76.)
                                  1882.
                                                                 £  «.    J.
   A. Macfarlane, for a Quantitative Research on the Con
ditions of Discharge of Electricity of high Potential            25  0     0
   H. S. Hele Shaw, for the construction of an Improved
 Anemometer ; three diagrams and photograph                      50   0    0
   B. Stewart, for the expense of an Assistant in inves
tigating the Inequalities of Sun-spots, and their Terrestrial
Effects                                                          80  0     0
   J. N. Lockyer, for Spectroscopic Researches in connex
ion with the Spectrum of the Sun                               100    0    0
   Thos. and Andrew Gray, for continuation of Experi
ments on the Specific Resistance and Specific Inductive
Capacity of different kinds of Glass                             50   0    0
   J. Kerr, for continuation of Experiments in Electro- and
Magneto-Optics                                                   50   0    0
   Prof. W. N. Hartley, for continuation of Researches on
Ultra-Violet Spectra                                          150   0     0
   H.  Tomlinson,   for  Investigations on the Influence   of
Stress and Strain on the Action of Physical Forces               50  0     0
   T. Stevenson, for the Reduction and Discussion of Meteo
rological Observations made from June to October, 1881,
at Port William and on the top of Ben Nevis                      50   0    0
   E. Neison, for continuation of Computations in the
Lunar Theory                                                     50  0     0
   Prof. G. D. Liveing, for defraying the cost of Apparatus
and Material used by him in Spectroscopic Researches. . . .   200   0      0
   C. Michie Smith, for Spectroscope         and Apparatus
suitable  for observing and photographing the Spectrum
of the Zodiacal   Light                                          50  0     0
   C. Michie    Smith,  for an Electrometer for    observing
Atmospheric Electricity                                          20  0     0
   A. Mallock, for continuing his experiments on  the ruling
of large Diffraction-gratings                                  120  0      0
   G. P. Rodwell, for the construction of an      Apparatus
for determining with accuracy the Coefficients of Expansion
                            Carried forward                £1,045   0     0

1882.]           Appropriation of    the Government   Grant.            339
                            Brought forward                  £1,045   0    0
and Contraction      of  Bodies at temperatures far exceeding
100° C                                                            88 10   o
    G. R. -Vine, for further Investigation of the Morpho
logical Structures of the Organisms found in the Wen-
lock Shales                                                       25  0   0
    Dr. C. Callaway, for continuation of Investigations of
the Relation between the newer Gneissic Series of the
Highlands and the Fossiliferons Ardovician Group                 50   0   0
    Rev. O. P. Cambridge, for Investigation, under high
Microscopic Power, of the Palpi, Palpal Organs, and other
Genital Parts and Processes, external and internal, of
Spiders and other Arachnidae           -                         25   0   0
    Prof. W. C. Williamson, for extension of the Research
into the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures to a Sys
tematic Study .of the Microscopic Aspects of the chief
Coals from all the Coal-Fields of the World                       50  0   0
    E. C. Rye, in aid of the Publication Fund of the Zoo
logical Reoord Association.                                     150   0   0
    Dr. R. Braithwaite, for aid in Publishing a Work on the
British Moss Flora                                               50   0   0
    G. E. Dobson, for continuation of his illustrated Mono
graph on the Anatomical Structure, Systematic Position,
and Geographical Distribution of the Species of the Order
 Insectivora.                                                   100   0   0
    W. Topley (in instalments), for the Preparation and
 Publication   of   a Geological Map of Europe, and the
 adjacent parts   of Asia and Africa, under the authority of
 the International Geological Congress.                         150   0   0
    Dr. J. Hamilton, for continuation of Researches on
 Topographical Anatomy of the Brain                              75   0   0
    Dr. Ferrier, for the purchase of Monkeys and other
 Animals to be used in an Experimental Investigation of
  some points in the Physiology of the Brain and Spinal
  Cord                                                           50   0   0
    Chas. Roy,     for  the  construction  of Apparatus    for
  photographing    the Movements of a Lippmann's Galvano
  meter                                                          35   0   0
    Prof. J. Struthers, for the expense of Investigations into
  the Anatomy of the Greenland Right Whale                       25   0   0
     Rev. A. E. Eaton, to defray further the cost of printing
  and publishing a descriptive Monograph of the Ephe-
   meridso                                                      100   0   0
                             Carried forward.                £2,018 10    0

340            Appropriation of    the Government   Grant.     [Nov. 30,
                             Brought forward               £2,018 10   0
   E. A. Letts, for Materials and Assistance required in
Experiments on the Organic Compounds of Phosphorus
and Sulphur                                                     40  0  0
   L. T. Thorne, for Investigation of the Character and
Mode of Formation of an Anhydrous Substance obtained
by the Distillation of Ethylacetopropionic Acid                 30 0   0
   H. B. Dixon, for aid in a Research on the Phenomena
of the Combustion of Gases in closed Vessels                  150   0  0
   Prof. J. S. Humpidge, for the expense of Materials
and Apparatus to be employed in- the extraction of metallic
Glucinum in the compact form, and for Investigations of
the Metal, if obtained                                          50  0  0
   C. Schorlemmer, for continuation of researches into (1)
Aurin ; (2) the Normal Paraffins ; (3) Suberone                100 0   0
   Profs. Tilden and Shenstone, for assistance in continuing
a research into the Constitution of Solutions and the
Phenomena of Supersaturation and Superfusion                    50  0  0
   Dr. B. Brauner, to defray the cost of a Platinum Tube
and other Platinum Apparatus for Investigation of the
Anhydrous Fluorides by a new Method                             30  0  0
   Prof. M. F. Heddle, for continuation of a Research con
nected with the Scientific Mineralogy and Geognosy of
Scotland— £100 for analyses, £100 personal                     100  0  0
    Spencer   U.  Pickering,  for continuation of a Research
into Molecular Combinations                                     50 &   0
   W. Saville Kent, for a renewal of former grant to aid
him in a further Investigation of the Protozoa and allied
Organisms                                                      100  0  0
    C. Lapworth, for assistance in Studying the detailed
 Geology of the Lower Palaeozoic Rocks of Britain, and
describing the Graptolites they contain                        150  0  0
    Prof. W. K. Parker, for assistance in his Researches
 into the Morphology of the Vertebrata, more especially of
 the  Skull                                                    300  0  0
                                                           £3,168  10  0

1882.]           Account   of Grants from         the Donation Fund.               341
Dr.                                                                                  Or.
                                        £   s. d.                             £   *.   d.
To Balance     on hand, Nov.     30,                 By Appropriations,  as
   1881                              1,446   6  3      above                8,168 10    0
To    Balance   of  Administrative                   Printing, Postage, Ad
   Expenses                             20   1  1      vertising, and other
Interest on Deposit                     22   7  0      Administrative Ex
Moiety of Treasury Grant             2,000   0  0      penses                  59 10   9
                                                     Balance on hand, Nov.
                                                       30, 1882               260 13    7
                                   £3,488 14   4                          £3,488 14    4
Dec. 1, 1882.
To Balance, and Moiety receiva
   ble from the Treasury           £2,260 13   7
       Account of Grants from the Donation Fund in 1881-82.
    Silvanus   P. Thompson, for the cost of Experiments in the con
 struction of Polarising Prisms of large aperture (of angle)...                    £12
    D. Mackintosh, for a Systematic             Series of Observations in
 North     Wales on the Positions          of Boulders, relatively to the
 Forms of the Natural Surfaces on which they rest, with a view
 to throw light on the approximate date of the final disappearance
 of Glaciers and Floating Ice                                                          7
    Dr.   A. Downes, to study farther the Influence of Light on
 low forms of Life, with especial reference to (I) the Behaviour
 of such Organisms in various Media ; (2) the question of their
 Destruction, or reduction to a state of dormant Vitality, by Light                  10
    Profs. Reinold and Riicker, for continuation, with improved
 Apparatus, of Researches on the Electrical Properties of Thin
 Films                                                                               30
    J. N. Langley, for     Observations on the Changes which take
 place   in the Cells of the Liver during Secretion ; and Observa
 tions  on the Liver, and on the Gastric Glands of Birds daring
  Digestion                                                                          30
    E. D. Archibald, for experimental Researches into the Physics
  of the Atmosphere and its Meteorology by means of Kites                            20
                                      Carried forward                            £109

342         Account   of Grants from    the Donation Fund. [Nov. 30,
                               Brought forward                 £109
   R. Etheridge,   Jnn., and P. H. Carpenter, for aid in the
further preparation of their Monograph of the Blastoidea, es
pecially of British species, with their Morphology                30
   Dr. De Burgh Birch, for a Microscopical Research into the
Growth of Bone                                                    10
   A. M. Worthington, for Apparatus for measuring Photographs
of Pendent Drops, and for investigating the influence of Elec
trical Charge on Surface Tension                                  20
   W. T. Dyer, for aid in preparation of an Blustrated Mono
graph of Cycadaea                             ,                   20
                                                               £189

  1882.]              Report   of tlie Kew Committee.                343
        Report of the Kew Committee          for  the  Year ending
                            October 31, 1882.
    The operations of the Kew Observatory, in the Old Deer Park,
 Richmond, Surrey, are controlled by the Kew Committee, which is
 constituted as follows :
                General Sir E. Sabine, K.C.B., Chairman.
    Mr. De La Rue, Vice-Chairman. I Vice-Adm. Sir G. H. Richards,
    Capt. W. de W. Abney, K.E.              C.B.
    Prof. W. G. Adams.                   The Earl of Rosse.
    Capt. Sir F. Evans, K.C.B.           Mr. R. H. Scott.
    Prof. G. C. Foster.                  Lieut.-General W. J. Smythe.
    Mr. F. Galton.                       Lieut.-Gen. R. Strachey, C.S.I.
                              Mr. E. Walker.
    The work at the       Observatory may be considered      under seven
heads : —
    1st. Magnetic observations.
    2nd. Meteorological observations.
    3rd. Solar observations.
   4th. Experimental, in connexion with any of the above depart
           ments.
   5th. Verification of instruments.
   6th. Aid to other Observatories.
   7th. Miscellaneous and financial.
                        I. Magnetic    Observations.
   The Magnetographs have been in constant operation throughout
the year.
   In March a new suspension pulley was fitted to the Bifilar magnet
in order to reduce the distance between the suspension wires from 6-8
millims. to 5-5 millims., and thus to increase the sensibility of the
instrument.    This change was recommended by Professor W. G.
Adams, in order to make the scale-value about '0005 millim. mgrm.
for 1 millim., as suggested in his Report to the British Association
last year. Dr. Wild, of St. Petersburgh, also recommends that all
observatories should adopt as far as possible the same uniform scale
   VOL. xxxiv.                                              2 A

344                     Report    of the  Kew Committee.
for their instruments, and suggests that the scale-values       should  bo as
follows : —
        For the Declination    1 mm.     iD=l'.
            „    Bifilar        1  mm. &E=0-0005 mm. mgr. units.
            „    Balance        1  mm. iV= 0-0005        „      „
   The following are the values of the ordinates of the various photo
graphic curves as determined at the various dates stated : —
            Declination  1  inch=0° 22'04. 1 mm.=0° 0' 87.
      Bifilar Jan. 3, 1882, for 1 inch SH=0 0450 foot grain nnits.
                              „ 1mm. „ =0 0008 mm. mgr. units.
          „   Mar. 27, „      „    1 inch   „ =0'0222  foot grain units.
                              „    1 mm. ,, =0'0004    mm. mgr.   units.
     Balance Jan. 6,      „    „   1 inch £V=0-0341    foot grain units.
                              „    1 mm.     „ =0-0006 mm. mgr.   units.
   The Committee having been asked by the Secretaries of the Inter
national Polar Commission to furnish that body with copies of their
hourly determinations of the magnetic elements, recommenced the
tabulation of the curves which had been suspended in 1879. (See
Report for 1880, p. 4.)
   With a view, however, of reducing the labour of tabulation, it was
decided that a sufficient degree of accuracy and greater rapidity wonld
be obtained by reading the curves by the unassisted eye, without the
aid of the tabulating frame and vernier hitherto employed.             Scales
graduated on glass plates have therefore been prepared, and the
curves tabulated from August 1st up to the present date by this
means ; the declination being recorded to a tenth of a minute of arc,
and the force-traces to the tenth of a millimetre.
   In order to obtain a record of the more rapid .changes which take
place during magnetic storms, a trial has been in progress since July 4
of the highly sensitive argentic gelatino-bromide photographic paper
prepared by Messrs. Morgan and Kidd.
   The results of the experiment show that the paper indicates clearly
small movements of the magnet which the waxed paper is unable to
register, and also that less gas-light is needed for the purpose of illu
mination.
   Three magnetic storms, or periods of considerable disturbance of the
needles, have been registered during the year; viz., on April 17th and
20th and on October 2nd.       All were accompanied by auroral displays,
but these were only observed in this country on the last date.
   The Committee have to acknowledge with thanks the receipt of
photographic copies of traces during those magnetic disturbances
from the Observatories at the Mauritius, Melbourne, Toronto, and
Batavia.

                    Report        of   the   Kew Committee.               345
  The monthly observations with the absolute instruments have been
made   regularly, and the results are given, in the- tables forming
Appendix I of this Report.
  The magnetic instruments have been studied, and a knowledge of
their manipulation obtained by—
            M. Puiseux.
            Captain Dawson, R.A., and 3 of his assistants.
            Dr. Ristori.
            Mr. Dallas.
  Information on matters relating to terrestrial magnetism and various
data have been supplied to Professor W. G. Adams, J. E. H. Gordon,
Dr. Stewart, Messrs. Tate, Zambra, Professor McLeod, The Hydro-
graphic Department of the Admiralty, the Director-General of the
Chart Depot of the French Marine, Lieutenant Chadwick, the Naval
Attache from the United States, and others.
  The following is a summary of the number of magnetic observations
made during the year     :   —
       Determinations of Horizontal Intensity                        33
                                 Dip                                138
              ,,                 Absolute Declination                28
  At   the request of the Polar Committee of the Royal Society a
number of old magnetic instruments were removed out of store, and
after repair, packed and delivered to Captain Dawson, R.A., who
has been intrusted by the Government with the charge of a tem
porary observatory established in connexion with the International
system at Fort Rae, Great Slave Lake, N.W. America.
   Other instruments were lent to the Rev. S. J. Perry, F.R.S., for use
during their residence in Madagascar for the observation of the
transit of Venus by a party under his direction ; and a third set were
prepared for Dr. Ristori, who projected an expedition to Iceland, but
has not yet started for that country. (See Appendix III.)
   A Dip-circle was also lent to the Austrian expedition to Jan
Mayen, to replace one mislaid at the time of sailing of the vessels ;
this, however, having been recovered by the expedition, the Kew circle
has been returned.
                   II.   Meteobological Obsebvations.
   The several self-recording instruments for the continuous registra
tion of atmospheric pressure, temperature, and humidity, wind (direc
tion and velocity), sunshine, and rain, respectively, have been main
tained in regular operation throughout the year.
   The tube of the wet bulb thermograph was accidentally broken on
June 30 by a workman engaged in painting the exterior of the
building.   A spare tube was substituted for           it,
                                                 and only   few hours'
                                                              2 a
                                                                a    2

3-16                  Report  of the Kew    Committee.
trace lost.   The scale value of the curves has been altered, and new-
tabulating scales are accordingly being constructed at the Meteorolo
gical Office.
   The standard eye observations made five times daily, for the con
trol of the automatic records, have been duly registered through the
year, together with the additional daily observations at 0 h. 8 m. p.m.
in connexion with the Washington synchronous system.
   The tabulation of the meteorological        traces has been regularly
carried on, and copies of these, as well as of the eye observations,
with notes of weather, cloud, and sunshine have been transmitted
weekly to the Meteorological Office.
   The following is a summary of the number of meteorological obser
vations made during the past year : —
         Readings of standard barometer                        1929
                      dry and wet thermometers                 4358
               „      maximum and minimum            thermo
                         meters                                 930
               „      radiation thermometers                    706
               „      rain gauges                               730
         Cloud and weather observations                        1929
        Measurements of barograph curves                       9125
                 „         dry  bulb thermograph    curves . . 9125
                 ,,        wet bulb thermograph curves. .      6850
                 ,,        wind (direction and velocity). . 17480
                 ,,        rainfall curves                      809
                 „         sunshine  traces                    2262
   In  compliance with a request made by the Meteorological Council
to the Kew Committee, the Observatories            at Aberdeen, Armagh,
Falmouth, Glasgow, Oxford (Radcliffe), Stonyhurst, and Valencia,
have   been   visited as on former occasions, and their instruments
inspected by Mr. Whipple during his vacation.
   With the concurrence of the Meteorological Council, weekly abstract?
of the meteorological results have been regularly forwarded to, and
                "
published by The Times," "The Illustrated London News," "The
Torquay Directory," and
                              " The Torquay Standard," and data have
been supplied to the editor of
                                     "             Monthly Meteorological
                                       Symons's
Magazine," the Secretary of the Institute of Mining Engineers,
Messrs. Gee, Greaves, Gwilliam, Mawley, Rowland, and others.
   Electrograph. —This instrument has been in continuous action
through the year.
   In August it was dismounted, and a fresh supply of acid placed
in the jar, the charge-keeping properties of which had become slightly
deteriorated.

                     Report    of the Kew  Committee.                  347
    With a view of investigating the effect of locality upon the indi
 cations of the electrograph, a Thomson's portable electrometer         has
 been employed, with a burning-match collector to make occasional
 observations aronud the exterior of the building.      These observations
 are at present suspended, on account of an accidental derangement of
 the instrument which has necessitated its return for a time to the
 hands of the maker.
    The curves   have been tabulated up to the end of 1881, and a
 report on the working of the instrument has been submitted to the
 Meteorological Council.
   Mr. W. L. Dallas of the Meteorological Office, having recently been
 appointed Scientific Assistant to the Meteorological Reporter of
 India, received instructions in the use of meteorological instruments
prior to his departure to that country.
                         III.  Solar Observations.
   The only solar work done at Kew during the past year has been the
regular maintenance of the eye observations of the sun, after the
method of Hofrath Schwabe, as described in the Report for 1872,
in order to preserve the continuity of the Kew records of sun-spots.
These have been made on 197 days. The sun's surface was found to
be free from spots on three of those days.
   A small portable 2§ inch refracting telescope, with a magnifying
power of 42 diameters, was used by the observer till July 3rd, since
that date the observations have been made by means of the Photo-
heliograph, which was removed from the Loan Collection at South
Kensington for that purpose, and reinstated on the pedestal in the
Dome, a position which it occupied prior to its being sent to the
Royal Observatory, Greenwich, in 1873.
   The spots are now drawn by the Observer, as they appear pro
jected upon the focussing screen.
   The measurements and reductions of sun-spot positions, as deter
mined by means of the Kew photoheliograph, from 1864 to 1872,
having been completed for Mr. De La Rue, he has deposited the
manuscript with the Council of the Royal Society.           The correction
of area  measurements,    for foreshortening, still remains  to be applied
to the reductions for the last two years, but this work is now being
rapidly pushed forward.
   Transit Observations. — One hundred and twelve observations have
been made of sun-transits, for the purpose of obtaining correct local
time at the Observatory ; 168 clock and chronometer comparisons
have also been made.
   Shelton's Clock, K.O., has been fitted up in the pendulum room, in
a convenient position for observing, and a hearing tube led to the side
of the transit instrument, so that its errors may be determined

 348                  Report  of the Kew   Committee.
without the intervention of a chronometer.        It has accordingly been
made the standard timepiece of the Observatory, instead of Sbelton
 R.S. No. 35 fixed in the computing room, which has hitherto been so
 employed.
    A redetermination   has been made of the value of the scale divisions
of the level of the transit instrument.
    The De La Rue Micrometer has been recently employed by Dr.
Schuster in the measurement of his photographs of the comet
observed during the eclipse of last May.
                         IV. Expebimental Wobk.
    Exposure of Thermometers. — The observations, made on the lawn of
the Observatory, with the view of determining the relative merits of
different patterns of thermometer screens were discontinued              in
November, 1881, the Wild's screen and the De La Rue portable
screen being dismounted and returned to the Meteorological Office.
The Stevenson's screen was, however, purchased by the Committee,
and remains standing in situ for the purpose of exhibition to visitors,
and also in order that occasional thermometric experiments may be
conducted in it.
    An exhaustive discussion of the twenty-eight months' observations
has been made by the Superintendent, and submitted to the Meteoro
logical Council, at their request.
    It may, however, be stated here, that the results show that the obser
 vations of air temperature in the thermograph screen, attached to the
 Observatory building, only differ in the daily mean from those in a
 freely exposed Stevenson screen 4 feet above the ground by 0o-4, and
 from a similarly placed Wild's screen, 10 feet above the surface, by
 0°-l. The extreme variations observed have, however, occasionally
reached several degrees.
    Glycerine Barometer. — This instrument, although still standing in
the Library, has not been read since December last. No results having
as yet   been published of the comparisons made for Mr. Jordan, the
inventor, the Committee are unable to form any opinion of the
scientific value of the instrument.
    Pendulum Experiments. — The pendulum operations in progress at
the date of the last Report were terminated in November, 1881, by
Major Herschel., R.B., and the instruments he employed (see
Appendix III, p. 24) were conveyed by him, first to the Royal
Observatory, Greenwich, and subsequently to a house near Portland
Place, London.       Series of observations    were made in both those
places, and it is hoped that by this means data will have been
obtained, which will serve to reduce to a common standard the deter
minations of gravity made by Kater, Airy, Sabine, and others.

                        Report  of the Kew Committee.                   349
     On the conclusion of these experiments, Major Herschel conveyed
the pendulums, clock, &c., to America, where, after making a series of
observations at Washington, he handed them over to the officers of
the United States' Coast Survey Department, in whose charge they,
now remain.
     Actinometry. — At the request of the Meteorological Council, the
actinometer devised by Professor Balfour Stewart, and described in
the Report of the Committee on Solar Physics, 1880, Appendix H,
has been obtained on loan from South Kensington, and erected on a
suitable stand on the Observatory Lawn.           Numerous observations of
solar radiation have been made by it during the past summer, and
also several comparative observations          have been made with the
Hodgkinson's Actinometers belonging to the Royal Society and to
the    India Office.
     At   the request and cost of the Indian Government, Sergeant
Rowland, R.B., who has since proceeded to India with a view of
observing, by means of Stewart's instrument, the solar intensity at
Leh, for a period of three years, has received special instruction in the
use of these actinometers.
     The Committee have had under consideration the desirability of
continuing the observations on the actinic power of daylight, which
ceased in November, 1875, on account of the unsatisfactory per
formance of the first photometer constructed. The instrument being
now made in the improved form suggested by Captain Abney, R.E.,
 is not liable to the derangements          experienced  by that formerly
 employed.
     Bating of Chronometers and Watches. — The Superintendent having,
 from time to time, been requested to certify as to the going of chro
 nometers, has been in communication with the Directors of the
 Observatories     at Bidston, Geneva, Neuchatel, and Yale, where
 arrangements exist for the testing and rating of chronometers and
 superior watches.
     The Committee,     after receiving his reports upon the subject and
 also a favourable expression of opinion from the British Horological
  Institute, considered, however, that the funds at their disposal were
  insufficient for the present to allow them to extend their operations
  in this direction.
                                  — At the request of Mr. C. Greaves, C.E.,
      Water-surface Temperature.
  several series of observations were taken at frequent intervals during
  last summer of the temperature of the surface of the pond, a quarter
  of a mile distant from the Observatory. More recently a float has been
  moored in the centre carrying maximum and minimum thermometers
   immersed just below the water-line.    This is hauled to the shore every
   morning at 9 a.m., and the temperatures recorded.       The cost of the
   experiment  is defrayed by  Mr. Greaves.

  350                  Report  of the Kew   Committee.
     Nocturnal "Radiation. — Professor Tyndall having suggested the
 desirability of making a series of experiments on the fall of tem
 perature near the surface of the gronnd at the time of sunset, a
 scheme was organised and apparatus devised by Mr. F. Galton, by
 means of which thermometers suspended at heights of 2 feet, 4 feet,
 and 20 feet could be rapidly read and their indications compared with
 those of a thermometer placed on swans' down on the surface of the
 ground.
    The apparatus employed is conveyed into the open park to some
 distance from any building or treeb, and the thermometers read at five-
 minute intervals from about half-an-hour before sunset until one or
 two hours after.
    The cost of these experiments will be defrayed by a grant from the
Meteorological Council.
                     V. Verification of Instruments.
    The following magnetic instruments have been verified,      and their
constants have been determined      :—
         1 Unifilar Magnetometer for Negretti and Zambra.
        2  Unifilar Magnetometers for Elliott Brothers.
        2  Dip Circles for Elliott Brothers.
         1 Dip Circle for Casella.
   There have also been purchased on commission and verified      : —
        A Unifilar Magnetometer for     the Toronto Observatory.
        A Unifilar    Magnetometer for the Zi Ka Wei Observatory,
           China.
        2 Dip Circles, with tripod stands, for Dr. Neumayer, Hamburg.
           Dip Circle, with tripod stand, for Professor Brioschi, Naples.
            „      „   for M. Snellen, Utrecht.
            „      „   for Dr. Hann, Vienna.
                   „   for Dr. Wild, St. Petersburg.
            „      „   for Professor Nordenskiold, Helsingfors.
        A Vertical Force Needle for Dr. Viegas, Coimbra.
        A Deflection Bar and Pair of Magnetizing Bars for^Dr. Rijke-
           vorsel, Rotterdam.
        A Pair of Dip-circle Agates for Senhor Capello, Lisbon.
   The number of meteorological instruments verified continues      still to
increase, having been in the past year as follows : —
           Barometers,  Standard                             48
                 „      Marine and Station                  105
           Aneroids                                          30
                                      Total                 183

                       Report  of the Kew    Committee.              351
            Thermometers,   ordinary Meteorological         1518
                            Standard                         166
                    „       Mountain                          69
                            Clinical                        5365
                    ,,      Solar radiation                  143
                                       Total                7261
    Besides   these, 27 Deep-sea Thermometers have been tested, 2 cf
  which were subjected     in the hydraulic press, without injury, to
 pressures exceeding three and a half tons on the square inch, and 73
 Thermometers have been compared at the freezing-point of mercury,
 making a total of 7361 for the year.
    Duplicate copies of corrections have been Bupplied in 145 cases.
    Eleven Standard Thermometers have also been calibrated and
 divided, and supplied to societies and individuals during the year.
   The following miscellaneous instruments have also been verified : —
            Hydrometers
                                                              "
                                                        - -
            Anemometers
                                             '
            Rain Gauges                                         ^
            Theodolites                                        *
            Sextants                                          36
            Index Glasses for ditto,, unmounted                2
            Horizon    „       „           »
            Prismatic Compasses
   There are at present in the Observatory undergoing verification,
 7 Barometers, 160 Thermometers, 10 Anemometers and 7 Sextants.
   A Barograph and Thermograph have been examined, and had their
scale values determined for the Government Astronomer, Adelaide,
 South Australia ; and a Standard Barometer has also been com
pared for Professor Tacchini, of the Italian Meteorological Service.
   A Redier Barograph, purchased by Mr. Dowson at the suggestion
of the Superintendent, was put up at the Observatory, and its per
formance tested for a fortnight before being forwarded to him.
   Dr. Siemens having placed one of his Electrical Thermometers at
the disposal of the Meteorological Society for their observations of
the temperature at the summit of Boston Church Tower, 270 feet
high, this instrument was tested for a few days at the Observatory and
found to work satisfactorily.
   Sextant-testing. — A report upon the errors of Sextants, based upon
the comparisons made at the Observatory since the introduction of the
present system in 1865, has been submitted to Mr. Galton, at his
request.

352                    Report   of the Kew   Committee.
     With a view of checking the values given by means of         the Cooii
Collimators,     a series of angles subtended by various distant well-
defined    objects at a point at the Observatory, have been carefullj
determined.
     The number of surveying instruments tested has satisfactorily
increased during the past year.
     Standard Barometers. — From time to time comparisons have been
made between the two Welsh Standard Barometers and Newman
No. 34, the working Standard of the Observatory, and their relatite
values have been found to remain unchanged.
     Standard Thermometers. — Dr. Waldo, Director of the Thermometric
Bureau of the Winchester Observatory, United States of America, has
 visited the Observatory, and selected several standard thermome8-s
for use in that establishment in the verification of American thermo
meters, and for comparison with other instruments purchased of
Continental makers.
     Experiments have been made, but hitherto without complete success,
for the direct comparison of chemical thermometers at high tempera
tures, an operation for which a demand has recently arisen amongst
those who supply these instruments in commerce.
                         VI. Aid to    Obsebvatobies.
     Waxed Papers, 8rc., supplied.  — Waxed paper has been supplied     to the
following Observatories : —
     Coimbra, Vienna, Valencia,      Colaba,  Batavia, and to the    Meteoro
 logical Office.
     Photographic Material, Sac., has been also procured for, and trans
 mitted to, the Coimbra Observatory.
     Anemograph Sheets have been sent to the Coimbra Observato-y, and
   . Blank Magnetic    Observation Forms have been supplied to
          Mr. W. N. Shaw, Cavendish Laboratory        ;
          Professor Mohn, Christiania ;
          Dr. Lodge, Liverpool Science College ;
          Captain Dawson, R.A., Circumpolar Expedition       ;
          The Toronto Observatory ;
  and to Messrs. Casella, Elliott Brothers, and Negretti and Zambra.
     At the request of the Crown Agents for the Colonies, a copy of the
  apparatus used at Kew for measuring the areas of sun-spots has been
  procured for the Mauritius Observatory.
     A Standard Barometer has also been             obtained   for the    same
  Observatory.
      A request has been received from the Director of the Lisbon Obser
  vatory for an Electrograph similar to that employed in the Obserra-
  tory.   The instrument is now in course of construction.

                        Report of the Kew  Committee.                353
     In accordance with instructions received from the Council of the
   Royal Society, ten volumes of miscellaneous registers, principally of
  magnetic observations made at Toronto during the years 1840-49,
  which were deposited in the Magnetic Office of General Sir E. Sabine,
  in the Observatory, have been returned to Canada, in order that they
  may be   utilised by Mr. Carpmael, the Director of the Toronto Obser
  vatory.
     Particulars as to the method employed for testing sextants at Kew
  have been forwarded at his request to Dr. G. Neumayer, Director of
  the Deutsche Seewarte, Hamburg.
                     VII. Miscellaneous and Financial.
     Tenure of the Observatory. — In January last an inquiry was insti
 tuted by Her Majesty's Commissioners of Works and Public Buildings
 as   to the conditions under which the President and Council of the
 Royal Society occupied the Observatory building, and it was dis
 covered that through inadvertence no intimation had been made, in
 1872, to their office of the transfer of the building from the British
 Association to the Royal Society.
     Steps were immediately taken to rectify the omission, and in May
 Mr. Mitford, Secretary to the Office, informed the Secretary of the
 Royal Society that Her Majesty's sanction had been obtained for the
 continuance of the occupation of the Royal Observatory at Kew by
 the Royal Society upon the following conditions : —
    1st. The occupation shall be only during the pleasure of Her
 Majesty and of the Department.
    2nd. The internal rejiairs, painting, papering, and whitewashing
 shall be done by the tenants once at least in every seven years, the
external works being executed by the Department.
    3rd. No structural alteration shall be effected without the consent
of the Board.
    The above conditions were snbmitted by the President and Council
to the Kew Committee, who have agreed to the terms laid down.
    The Secretary of State for the Colonies having consulted the Com
mittee as to the equipment of the new Observatory at Hong Kong,
has been advised by them as to the instruments they would recommend
as desirable for use at that Institution.
    The Committee have also recommended the establishment at the
Royal Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope of a set of self-
recording magnetographs.
    Complete specimen sets of curves from the various photographic
and autographic instruments in use at the Observatory have been
prepared and forwarded to the exhibitions of the Society of Arts,
London, and the Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society, Falmouth.
    A number of anemometers and other instruments of interest were

 354                     Report  of the Kew  Committee.
 also exhibited at the Anemometrical       Exhibition of the Meteorological
 Society, held in the rooms of the Institution of Civil Engineers in
 March.
    By the consent of the Committee the Superintendent, in conjunction
 with Mr. Baker, submitted the following paper to the Meteorological
 Society, which has been published in the Quarterly Journal (Vol.
 VIII, p. 198) :—
    Barometric gradients in connexion with wind velocity and direction
at the Kew Observatory.
    Library. — During the year the Library has received, as presents, the
publications of
    26 English Scientific Societies and Institutions, and
    91 Foreign and Colonial Scientific Societies and Institutions.
    Observatory and Grounds. — The buildings and grounds have been
 kept in order throughout the year, and portions of the exterior m
 well as the interior have been painted by Her Majesty's Commissioners
of Works, &c. They have also fitted stoves in the Superintendent'*
room and Library, and re-covered with sheet zinc the roof of the
 sun-room.
    The footpath and entrance to the Old Deer Park still remain in an
unsatisfactory condition, no action having been taken by Her Majesty's
Commissioners of Woods and Forests in the matter.
                           Personal Establishment.
    No changes having taken place during the year,
    The staff employed now is as follows : —
           G. M. Whipple, B.Sc., Superintendent.
           T. W. Baker, First Assistant.
           J.  Foster, Verification Department.
           H. McLaughlin, Librarian and Accountant.
           F.  G. Figg, Magnetic Observer.
           E.   G. Constable, Solar Observations and Tabulation    of
               Meteorological Curves.
               ?nn*erJ- Verification Department.
                                          v
            C.  Taylor \
           W. Boxall, Photography.
           E. Dagwell, Office duties.
           J.  Dawson, Messenger and Care-taker.
   With the view of exhibiting the financial position of the Observs-
tory during the first decade of its operations under the present Com
mittee, a summarised        statement is appended of the receipts and
disbursements during the ten years 1871-1881.         (Appendix IV.)
    An appendix is also given showing what instruments belonging to
the Observatory are out of the custody of the Superintendent on loan,
at the present time.

Report of the Kew Committee. 355
 356                    Report  of the Kew Committee.
                               APPENDIX I.
 Magnetic Observations made at the Kew Observatory, Lai. 51° 28' 6" N.
    Long. 0h lm 15* 1 W.,for the year October 1881 to September 1882.
    The observations of Deflection and Vibration given in the annexed
 Tables were all made with the Collimator Magnet marked K C 1, and
 the Kew 9-inch Unifilar Magnetometer by Jones.
    The Declination observations have als8 been made with the same
Magnetometer, Collimator Magnets N D and N E being employed for
 the purpose.
   The Dip observations     were made with Dip-circle Barrow No. 33, the
needles 1 and 2 only being used ; these are 3i- inches in length.
   The results of the observations of Deflection and Vibration give the
values of the Horizontal Force, which, being combined with the Dip
observations, furnish the Vertical and Total Forces.
   These are expressed in both English and metrical scales — the unit in
the first being one foot, one second of mean solar time, and one grain;
and in the other one millimetre, one second of time, and one milligramme,
the factor for reducing the English to metric values being 0•46108.
   By request, the corresponding values in C.G.S. measure are also given.
   The value of log n-'K employed in the reduction is 1•64365 at tem
perature 60°    F.
   The induction-coefficient /* is 0•000194
   The correction of the magnetic power for temperature            t0 to an
adopted standard temperature of 35° F. is
                 0-0001194<7o-35)+0•000,000,213(fo-35)'.
   The true distances between the centres of the deflecting and deflected
magnets, when the former is placed at the divisions of the deflection-
bar marked 10 foot and 1•3 feet, are 1000075 feet and 1•300097 feet
respectively.
   The times of vibration given in ihe Table are each derived from the
mean of 12 or 14 observations of the time occupied by the magnet in
making 100 vibrations, corrections being applied for the torsion-force
of the suspension-thread subsequently.
   No corrections have been made for rate of chronometer or arc of
vibration, these being always very small.
   The value of the constant P, employed in the formula of reduction
 ™=mY               is -0 00109.
X     X'V     r0V'
   In each observation    of absolute Declination the instrumental read
ings  have been   referred to marks made upon the stone obelisk erected
1,250 feet north of the Observatory as a meridian mark, the orientation
of which, with respect to the Magnetometer, was determined by the
late Mr. Welsh, and has since been carefully verified.
   The observations    have all been made and reduced by   Mr. F. G. Figg.

                   Report    of the   Kew Committee.                    357
Observations of Deflection for Absolute Measure of Horizontal Force.
                                 Distances
                                                                       m
    Month.         Gk  M. T.
                                     of    Tempe     Obserred    Log-.
                                                                 T
                                Centres of rature. Deflection.
                                 Magnets.                         Mean.
      1881.     d.   h. m.         foot.
                26  12 30 P.M.       10     51 5     15 28 52
                                     1-3              6 58 55  ci .1 neon
                      2 35   „       10     51 -7    15 27 12
                                     1-3    ....      6 58 8
                25 12 37 p.m.        10     55 6     15 27   0
                                     1-3              6 58   5
                                                               9 12613
                      2 30   „       10     54 -7    15 26 46
                                     1-3              6 57 58
                23 12 32 P.M.        10     321      15 29 59
                                     1-3              6 59 26
                                                               9 12600
                      2 19   „       10     34 9     15 29 15
     1882.
                                     1-3    ....      6 59 14
                26 12 30 p.m.        10     350      15 29 31
                                     1-3              6 59 19
                                                               9 12591
                      2 32   „       1-0    35-9     15 28 40
                                     1-3    ....      6 58 57
                28 12 27 p.m.        10     491      15 26 30
                                     1-8              6 57 51
                                                               9 12548
                      2 40   „       10     51 -5    15 25 54
                                     1-8              6 57 33
                24 12 34 P.M.        10     57-7     15 27   0
                                     1-8              6 58 3
                                                               9 12608
                      2 56   „       10     58 -2    15 25 41
                                     1-3              6 57 31
                25   12 43 p.m.      10     572      15 27 17
                                     1-3              6 58 26
                      2 50           10     54 2
                                                               9-12632
                             „                       15 26 43
                                     1-3              6 58   7
May             26 12 34 p.m.        1-0    68-5     15 28 51
                                     13               6 56 51
                                                               9 12558
                      2 51   „       10     66 5     15 23 23
                                     1-3              6 56 40
                27   12 34 p.m.      10     71 7     15 25 18
                                     1-3              6 57 28
                                                               9 12627
                      2 35   „       10     73-8     15 23 35
                                     1-3              6 56 31
                26 12 29 p.m.        10     67-7     15 24   6
                                     1-8              6 57   0
                      2 35           10                        9-12560
                             „              69 -6    15 22 57
                                     1-3    ....      6 56 20
                SO  12 48 p.m.       10     66-8     15 23 50
                                     1-8              6 56 48
                                                               9 12539
                      2 51   „       10     6-87     15 22 41
                                     1-3    ....      6 56  12
                27 12 31 P.M.        10     596      15 25 22
                                     1-3              6 57 24
                                                               9 12553
                      2 32   „       10     57-8     15 24 30
                                     13     ....      6 57   5

358                     Report    of  the   Kew Committee.
 Vibration Observations for Absolute Measure of Horizontal                 Force.
                                                   Time of
                                         Tempe                Log mX.       Value
       Month.             O. M. T.                     one
                                          rature.              Mean.        of «.t
                                                  Vibration*
        1881.           d.  h. m.                    sees.
                       26 11  54a.h.       508      4 6483
                            3 13 p.m.      519      4-6465   08-0915     0-52212
                       25 11 51a.m.        543      4-6510
                            3  4 p.m.      541      4-6502   08-0883     0-52177
                       23 11 53 a.m.       302      46438
                            2 50 p.m.      364      4-6448   08-0876     0  52165
        1882.
                       26 11 50 a.m.       331      4-6427
                            3  3 P.M.      360      4-6425   08-0918     052184
                       28 11 50 a.m.       479      4-6468
                            8 11p.m.       519      4-6499   030903      0-52149
                       24 11  55a.u.       563      46536
                            3 34 p.m.      566      4-6495   08-0880     0-52172
                       25 12   4 p.m.      576      4-6540
                            3 36 p.m.      527      4 6485   08-0877     0-52184
                       26 11 59 a.m.       682      46557
                            8 27 p.m.      683      4-6548   0 30885     052145
                       27 11 48 a.m.       715      4-6579
                            3 13 p.m.      748      4-6578   08-0866     0 52176
                       26 11 54 a.m.       674      4-6535
                            8 12 p.m.      701      4-6535   0-30918     052166
                       30 12 14 p.m.       65-5     4-6551
                            3 24 p.m.      69-6     4-6526   08-0904     052145
                       27 11 49 a.m.       597      4-6550
                            3 19 p.m.      601      4-6513   08-0870     0-52133
  * A vibration is a movement of the magnet from a position of maximum displace
ment on one side of the meridian to a corresponding position on the other fide,
      "
  t m magnetic moment of vibrating magnet.

                                     Beport          of the Kew       Committee.                                                 359
                                                Dip Observations.
                                                                                                          JO
 nth.    G. M. T.                    -a              Dip.      nth.       G. M. T.                        -3              Dip.
                                                               o
a                                                            a
                                                North.                                                                  North.
1881.   d. h. m.                     No.                     1882.       d.    h. m.                      No.
Oct.    28             10 p.m.                  67 41-31     April       26             32 p.m.                         67 40-56
             3 3 3 3                 2 1 2 1                                  3 3 3 3                     2 1 2 1
                                                                                                                    .
                       10 „                        41-31                                32 „                               4040
        31             15 „                        42 43                 27             43 „                               4081
                       15 „                        42-62                                43 „                               41-50
                       Mean                     67 41-92                                Mean                            67 40-82
Noa.    29                    p.m.              67   4312     May        25             27 p.m.                         67 39-43
             2 2 3 3
                                                                                                          2 1
                                                                              3 3 3 3
                        7 7
                                     2 1 2 1
                               „                     43-34                              25 „                               4018
        30             59      „                     4243                30             20 „              1                41-31
                       58      „                     4299                               19 „              2                41-43
                                                67 42-97                                                                67 40-59
Dec.    29                    p.m.              67 41 25      June       26             13 p.m.                         67 42-65
             3 3 3 3                                                                                      2 1 2 1
                        6 6
                                      2 1 2 1                                 3 3 3 3
                               „                   41-81                                14 „                               42-56
        30             11      „                   41-93                 29                         „                      4112
                                                                                         3 6
                       81      „                     4187                                           „                      40-78
                       Mean.                    67 4171                                                                 67 41-78
1882.   30                    p.m.              67 41-50      July       28                        p.m.                 67 39-71
                        4 4
             3 3 3 3                  2 1 2 1                                 3 3 3 3    5 5 3 3          2 1 2 1
Jan.                           „                   41-37                                            „                      88-31
        31             16      „                   41-62                 31                         „                      39-81
                       15      „                   41-25                                            „                      3956
                                                67 41-43                                                                67 39 35
Feb.    21             10 p.m.                  67 41-25      Aug.       26             23 p.m.                         67 41-34
             3 3 8 3                  2 1 2 1                                 3 3 3 3                     2 1 2 1
                       11 „                        42-12                                23 „                               89-96
        23             20 „                          4068                28             49 „                               4137
                       19 „                           4106                              50 „                               39-74
                       Mean..                   67 41-2S                                                                67 40'60
Mar.    28             11 p:m.                  67 40-87      Sept.      28             81 p.m.                         67 40-24
             3 3 3 3                 2 1 2 1                                  3 3 3 3                     2 1 2 1
                       10      „                     4131                               14 „                               39-68
        29             14      „                     4131                29             14 „                               4081
                       15      „                     40-62                              81 „                               4012
                       Mean                     67 41 03                                                                67 40-21
VOL. XXXIV.

                          •no-jda-9aaQ
       •9HuoK                                                                                                                              -0 ©     --    •o4ran
                            D«i}1     JO
                          Bn-99BAJ--q0          'X      *°                           x  '    jo    'x       jo                 'x     jo                 JO
                                                                                                                  9*-°I
                                             j-nnoz8jojj     9oO99Ja^              pnuoz9jj                                 jvjuoz9fj
                                                                         •i-JOJ
                                                '33JOJ        •oojotf                 •as9j                                                   •oOJOtf
         •9-9
JdqoqoQ               •
                      •
                      •
                           t-J        P       e   -99        SoI8-9     O9 4---     9                                                        9
                                                                                       8994-                     9--4-        99498               4-9.             ».o
jaqm-AOjj             •     9 9       -8       999-           9-,9      99999       9   -994            999                  9                                     9
                                                                                                                 -Q-4--         9948         99-f-9                     8-4--
                            9    4-   9       -   -,-        9  99o-    O9 ---      9  8994-
                                                                                                  - -
                                                                                                    48--         -  HH-      9  9948         9    4--.             9 A9-     If
         e-9
£ Xjsnnw
                      •
                      '
                      •     9 --      -        9999          949-9      O9 94-9    t   899        T----          ---4-        899            9    ---.             wo
'A-junjq-_j           '
                      •     9 9       89       -809-         999-9      -9-8I      I   989        -  09--        m4--         99I8           9                     9
                                                                                                                                                  9---               ff9f-
qojcjf                      9    99   9        4-99-         9  998-    O9 -449     9  o994-      9--               9-4-      99498          998                   ee.f-o
9HdT                        9    9-   9-       T99-          9  -98-    O9 -249     9  994-       -  -X--
                                                                                                                 - -894-      9949-9         --f8                  9 4-4--
*-Ji                        9 9 9              999-          9   -99    O9 99--     9  899-       9o-9--         -9-4-        999-9          9    9--.             9-4-9
-nnji          ....   .     9 9       9-       999-9         9999       -94999     I   -94-       - T8--         •- 494       9949           8-9f8                 9to
                                         9     909-                                 9  -
*v*s                        9 9                              9-98.9     O9 4849         99        -2---          -  94-4-     899            9    ---.
                            9 if      4-       -8999         99.9       9   899      T9T          9  i4--        9-949       9   9ii9        9    4i9*.            94t8
jsqunrjdo-            '     9 9       -8       999-          8898-9                               V              -                           9
                                                                        -OT 944-     -999T           ---            9B4-      9998                -,-              94-T

         Report       of     the Keie Committee.                                                        3(51
         fa c
    2
         so         x oS co *                                 *
    J HI
    fl          .c                                    cm            w     -*? cm ao            eo
                  c^ciHN
                  CMNNN CM
                            co
                                                      CM
                                                              ia
                                                              CM
                                                                    oS
                                                                    A     05 CO
                                                                                xso
                                                                                 CO
                                                                                               cm
                                                                                               CO
                 ¦ 0S OS ffl CO                                      )    CO H        CO   OS
                 ai   ao o                                           t    ^ CM        CO   CM
                ^3     o
                      ao oo sm                                       t    Tf<CO       CM   CM
            3                                                        i
                                                                     t
                                                                          OS OS
                                                                          CM tN
                                                                                      0S
                                                                                      CM
                                                                                           OS
                                                                                           CM
                                                      S       a     c a »             a
                                 %
                                                              PH    g     -ii   fM
                             -              -§                io    P     N     iC    c0   co
                 - -*J* C8 OO CO
                T3 fH CM «
                                            00                                        "J
                                                                                      N
                                            CM
                  ' CO 0S                                                             Oi   CO
-                                iO oo               CO       CO    6   U5 30
s               .e ip            to   8              CD       CO    l.O CO                 CO
            3                                        6       6      6
                                                                    6
                                                                    6                 o  6
                                                              CO    CO CO CO          CO CO
                                 53   =    S     S       5     S     S     =     S    5    =   =
                                 <
                xHHO
                ^  i—
                      O     °    t
                                           00OS       X       X 0OHNO5**
                                                      CO        *,» r-t t- *""5fi"'x
                                                                    rH          CM
                  •N                                                io co co               x
                                                                    *AHN
                                 CO i—                        to                      5
                  ?H             o
                                      t
                            to                                0O                      CM   CO
                                                      o       *i'     OS 0O           OS   CO
                  O   TCO8O
                        CM CO CO
                                                     6
                                                      CO
                                                              OS
                                                              CM
                                                                    O
                                                                    » OS
                                                                      N N
                                                                         OS           OS
                                                                                      CM
                                                                                           OS
                                                                                           CM
                E     CO
                                                      CO      CO    CO CO 00          O    iQ
                                                      O       CO    CO rH CM               CO
                                                      CO      CO    CO    ^           ^    CO
                                      '4
                                      OS    \o
                            i.0 U5 X»       rH                      OS CMlO           0O       *
                       *      ^ *                    *
                                            fl §
                            8
                ^      CO   CiOH                     CO      CO rH CMlO
                  . »-i ia
                'CH
                                 x
                                 H
                                   co       co        X
                                                      rH
                                                             QHNNC
                                                             CM CM CM CM
                                            CM
                       ,*   o x       cp                            CO          OS    H    M3
                      oib
                       ^
                            6    6
                                 6                                  'if66
                                                                    io »o U9
                                                                                      6
                            ^* CO ^                                                   CO
                                 sap
                                 CJ 3
                                                                                      3        9
                                                                                               *
                                            E                 t3
                                 cj c       Xi                      &•§          5?
                       o o                                                            3
                                 fit?                         H Si-5i-a               ,<   oo
                                                                                           2   b    2

3fl2                                 Report                           of   the              Kew Committee.
                                                     1*
                 blew                                                             OSH'S                                  iQ i.O *» CO                 »      00     il OS CO                     lO
               it
                                                                                  ,*                   N                 ^lO*NMN0OiO                                                             O
                 which
                                                 Is                                                    f*                rH pH  rH                                                               0>
                                                 00                                                                                                                                              rH
              §
                                                 oi                               rHCCN                                  tO-*             .to<D-*lOco«
                &
               of
                                                 W                                HUH                                    BBMSrHHN                                           .OB
                                                 00
               3 iber
                 a
               J
                                                                                            ,*            .              rH CO                                       -CO*
                                                                                                                                                                                                 C0
                                                 w                                to           . m                       H          .    .     ,*     x      ea e> e*            ,*              -H
                Wind
                                                                                                                                                                                                 C5
                                                                                  N            .                          .        «           co     N       . rH tH                            rH
                                                                                                                                                                                                 CO
                                     ilj                                          C0U5N
                                                                                  HrHH                                   03)0S rH -*
                                                                                                                         Ot. i-l rH i-H i-i
                                                                                                                                            rH
                                                                                                                                               rH rH
                                                                                                                                                      *««
                                                                                                                                                  -* 0i                                          **.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 S»
            a                           o            w      *                                                                                                                                    rH
 5           o
,2                                              i.
                                                                                            rH CO                        HNN-^tQ                              .      ,HH                         04
            of dayi
                                                                                                                                                                                                 CO
       J
 H
       u
£      o                registered
 -si
                                                                                                                                                                                                 '*
                                                            storms.
                                                     der-
O           'mber                         Thun
       is
       o               )
 o
,—     M    fc
              |                                                                                                                                                                                  to
 to                                  I
            ^|
                                                                                                                                                                                                 t^
                                                 §
 1/                                              00
3
            |                                    d
                                                                                  NrHO
                                                                                  rH CI Ot.
                                                                                                                         ,*   CD        -J
                                                                                                                                 X O to t.0
                                                                                                                         HrirHHriHSHH
                                                                                                                          CO                          ,»                                         *
                                                                                                                                                                                                 rH
                                                                                                                                                             'Ht
                                                a                                 « -ft-                                 oooc«!aiot,«sHse
                                                                                  N C-t rH                                         cN   N      CM            •S3        COOS
               '                                                                                                                                             X
                                                                             .©i.OO                                      W X5           *
                                                                                                                               O © O U5 io O
                 Rainfa--
                                                a      a
                                                a 3                        — OS -* to                                    -^COlDt-COCO-^COX
                                          S            S                          O6O                                    666666666
                                                                           .  ic its U5                                  *iOl5                 888ifl**                                          2
                                                                           'C CO '* i.0                                  «lO*COMoS-4ffl                                                          X
                                     i                                            N N N                                  HHH il^lililrHN                                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                                                 CM
                        3             3 *             £      ^
                                                                                                                         rHr-i00b-OOCOrHN
                        S
                                                                                  ^* -*P 05
                                                                                  05     CO                              X X ia CO Xt^ *- GO            tb
                                                                                     .                                     .        .     .                                  .
                                                                                     .                                     .              .                                  .
                                                                                                                                          .                                                       «
                                                                                                                                               ....          ....
                                      Months.
                                                                                            November   December                                                                      September
                                                                                                                                    February
                                                                                  October
                                                                           8*8.
                                                                                                                         January
                                                                                                                  8*2.
                                                                                                                                                                            August
                                                                                                                                    March       April        June    July
                                                                                                                                                                                     i

      Report       of the Kew          Committee.                      3(53
                a
                            ,*NQ         «   CO CO OS  * SO *- CO N
               O
            1HO).
                1 -a    js i-i Co O      oS -«      cc os cc co -a  x
 5 •
 t  h                    gNtico          so co so co io      ^ ^ io
             Bi,JSi
                         «*H        N    CO CO OS   N*    —' CO ih co
 a
             Sao        ^3 CO OS CO
                         g 64 co
                                         t-t CO j> CO CC t^ lO OS C8
                                         cn-M    n  eo n  M  «n     H
           '4     >-
                           r-l  N   *?   lO 04         t> CO i-4 OS CO
                          V,co      io   -^cot^ooSt^cocoio
 £  £          o
                                         xCocoosCoi>Nioao
 c
                           i>OSN
                                i-hi-4
                                         OS  N   * O OS *N HN N CO
                                             i-l CO 04 04
 e ^
               EC
                         Uj.N OS N       Np*CpNCOpNip
                         * OS N CO
 I  2
                        T3**00           ^dS*^^COOSOCcb
                                         CCOSC4OtCOCOCOC0N
               a
J3 ¦
 a
                         CSO.
                               H
                               NN
                        TJ0OCOCO
                                         c0N*fisON*H.h-*JiO
                                         H^H*N*N**
                                         COt-*HMNNtlH
53
         fo i8;
               !3l         "iJS-ffr.     N NNQ            OS r-i CO CO
              a o
        On       D-
        'S § 5
                     §                                    N  * CO ^
          as.*
          3 O g «
                        c'im
                        ^WNN
                               CD        v.O N   co H ap C. Ci *- t
                                         (N Ctt CO "<t           t*"C
   10
               o    .
           Hi
                         6 N   lO   ^    CO i-H CN CO CO     U5  H  co
                           rH                    pHr-l(NrHtNi—lrH
               3
                        95 b i*S -c 99
        O

364                         Report    of the Keie    Committee.
                                    APPENDIX III.
List of Instruments, Apparatus, Ac. the Property of the Kew Com
  mittee at the present date out of the custody of the Superintendent,
  on Loan.
     To whom lent.                                Articles.
  Q.  J. Symons,    F.R.S.    Old Kcw Thermometer Screen
                              Portable Transit Instrument . .
  The Science and Art         The articles specified in the list in the Annual
     Department, South           Report for 1876, with the exception of the
     Kensington.                 Photo - Heliograph,    Pendulum Apparatus,
                                 Kew Dip-Circle, Portable Unifilar, and
                                 Hodgkinson'o Actinometer.
  Dr. T. Thorpe, F.R.S.       Three Open Scale Standard         Thermometers,
                                 Nos. 561, 562, and 563.
  Major Hersehel,     R E.    Invariable Pendulums, Nos. 1821, 4, and 11,
                                 Shelton Clock, R.S. No. 34.
                              Stands, Telescopes, and Accessories.
  Mr. R. W. Muuro        . .  Standard Straight-edge
  Capt. Dawson, R.A.       .  Unifilar Magnetometer by Jones, No. 102,
                                 complete, with three Magnets and Deflection
                                 Bar.
                              Dip-Circle, by Barrow,     one Pair of Needles,
                                 and Magnetizing Bars.
                              Two Bifilar Magnetometers.
                              One Balance Magnetometer.
                              Two Declinometers.
                              Two Tripod Stands.
  Rev.   S.  J.    Perry,     Unifilar Magnetometer, No. 101, complete
    E.R.S.                    Dip-Circle by Barrow, No. 24, complete, with
                                four Needles, and a Pair of Magnetizing
                                 Bars.
  Mr. Casella.  . . .         Dip-Circle,  by Barrow, with two Needles
  Dr. E. Ristori    .         Small Theodolite, by Bobinson, No. C. 41 . . . .
                              Old mahogany Declinometer, with Mirror
                                 Magnet, N.L.
                              Tripod Stand.
  Major-General Sir H.        Two parcels Magtietical and Meteorological
    Lefroy,  E.A.                MSS. from the Sabine Magnetic Office.

Report of the Kew Committee. 3(i5
                    Dr. A. Waller and A. de Watteville.                      [Dec,   7,
                                December 7, 1882.
                      THE PRESIDENT                   in the Chair.
     The President    announced        that he had appointed as Vice-Presi
dents : —
                            The Treasurer.
                            Mr.   J.   BalL
                            Professor Lister.
                            Professor Prestwich.
                            The Marquis of Salisbury.
 Mr. Frederic Ducane Godman, Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, and
Mr. Walter Weldon were admitted into the Society.
     It              that the question of the re-admission into the
          was announced
Society of Dr. H. E. Armstrong would be put to the vote at tbe next
meeting.
  The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered
for them.
     The following Papers were read           :   —
F.
     " On the Alterations          of the Excitability of the Sensory
          Nerves of Man by the Passage of a Galvanic Current."    By
          A.  Waller,  M.D.,  and A. de  Watteville,   M.A.,   B.Sc.
          Communicated by Dr. Burdon Sanderson, F.R.S.          Re
          ceived October 26, 1882.
   Hitherto the only experiments concerning this subject have been
made on animals, the degree of sensory excitation being estimated by
the amount of reflex action produced.* During our experiments on
the alteration of excitability in the motor nerves of man we had the
  * Zurhclle,   "   De Nervorum Sensitivorum Irritibilitate in Statu Electrotoni,"
Berlin, 1864.     Also " Untersuchungen aus d. Physiol. Labor, zu Bonn," 1865, p. 80.
                            " Handbuch der
(Reference in Hermans,                       Physiologic," 1879, vol. ii,
                                                                      part  pages 46,
                                                                            i,
        Hallsteu,  " Elektrotonus    Sensibla Nerver," " Nordiskt Med. Arkiv." 1880,
47.)                           i
vol. xii, part v. (And in Du Bois Reymond's " Archiv," 1880, page 112. Reference
in Virehow's " Jahresbericht," 1810, pages 202, 204, by Gad and Pannm.)

 1882.]           Excitability of Sensory Nerves of Man.                        367
 opportunity of noticing the occurrence of apparently similar pheno
 mena in the sensory nerves of the skin.
    This fact led us to undertake a preliminary series of experiments,
 of which we propose to give here the main results.
    The methods we employed were precisely the same as those used
 for the investigation of the excitability of the motor nerves.* One
 electrode of small size — the exploring electrode — was fixed over the
 nerve chosen for the experiment ; whilst the other electrode, of large
 size, rested on a distant part of the body.              In order to secure the
 coincidence of the zones of polar          alteration   and  of stimulation, the
 polarising and testing currents were united in the same circuit.
    This is effected, when the induced current is used for testing the
 excitability, by including the secondary coil in the circuit of the
 polarising battery.     When galvanic makes and breaks are so used,
 the current of the testing battery is thrown into the circuit of the
 polarising current without breaking the latter, by means of the double
 key of Helmholtz arranged in the usual manner.
    The precautions we took for the elimination of errors arising from
 changes in the resistance of the body and in the current strengths
 during the experiments were either 1st, the galvanometric control
of the currents used ; 2nd, the intercalation of large additional
 resistances in the circuit (viz., 10,000 ohms, which is about 8 times the
resistance of the human body under the conditions of our experiments).
 The influence of any changes in that resistance would thereby be
diminished in the same proportion.
    We usually employed the method of minimal stimuli, first noting
the current strength required to produce, by its action on the normal
nerve, a reaction in consciousness ; then finding the changes of the
current strength necessary to produce the same effect during and
after polarisation, anodic and kathodic.
    Two points of importance with reference to such experiments may
briefly be alluded to here : — First, the necessity of carefully distin
guishing between the continuous sensation produced by the polarising
current when it has reached a certain intensity ; second, the necessity
of using a uniform rhythm of excitation, owing to the readiness with
which stimuli summate in the sensory nerves of man. The sensations
are referred either to the portion of the skin immediately under the
electrode or to the parts supplied by peripheral distribution of the
nerve. In experiments on mixed nerve-trunks care must be taken
to eliminate the possible admixture of sensations due to muscular con
tractions.
    Our general conclusion is, that during and after the passage of a
galvanic current the alterations in the excitability of the sensory
      • "Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 33, p. 353 1 and  "Phil. Trans.," 1882, p. 9§1.

3G8              Dr. A. Waller and A. de Watteville.                     [Dec.   7,
nerves of man follow a course essentially similar to those observed in
the motor nerves.
           Proof   by Makes and      Breaks of a Galvanic Current.
   1. The effect of a make excitation is increased by the katbodic
influence of the polarising current. This effect             is,
                                                          as usual, more
marked in the polar zone (where the density          greater) than in the
                                                        is
peripolar, and  increases, within physiological limits, with the strength
of the polarising current.
   Placing the neutral electrode on the back and the exploring elec
trode over one of the cutaneous nerves at the wrist we obtained the
following numbers.      No external resistance was used, but the galva
nometer showed that no change of resistance in the circuit took
place during the experiment —   :
                                                   0    2      4     6       8
                                    "In polar"!
  Strength of current necessary                    9    6      5     4       2
                                       rone
     to produce minimal sensa                 J
     tion expressed in number of*
                                      In peri
                                    polar zone     }-   8      6     5      3
  2.  The effect of   a break excitation in the polar zone     rapidly
                                                                     is
diminished and abolished by the anodic influence of the polarising
current. (Owing to the strength of current required this can scarcely
be ascertained for the peripolar zone.)
   Arranging our electrodes as in the experiment first described, we
take a current of thirty cells, which gives a distinct sensation at
break.   We then introduce a polarising current gradually increased.
The sensation becomes rapidly fainter, and disappears altogether when
the polarising current has reached five or six cells.
                       Proof   by    Induction Currents.
  1,  The effect of induction shocks     increased when the excitation
                                              is
falls upon the kathodic zone of the polarising current.
   A.  series of experiments made with the testing electrode placed
(according to the method above described) on various superficial
nerves gave the following numbers they are derived from experiments
                                         ;
made with and without additional resistance (the numbers obtained
having been reduced in the latter case).    For the sake of comparison
we also give the numbers obtained from experiments on motor
nurves.

   1882.]                 Excitability of Sensory Nerves of Man.                                  369
                                                                                             Ditto, of
                                     Variations of excitability of sensory nerves
                                                                                               motor
                                  expressed in terms of distance of secondary coil.
    Strength of kathodic                                                                      nerves.
         polarisation.
                                  1.     2.     3.    4.  5.    6.     7.   8.   9.    10.    a.   b.
                                 100   107     110 122   127  110     127  100 104    115    116  181
    Weak, 5—10 cells        . .  142   115     118   128 813  120     813  115  148   810    127  118
    Stronger,   10 — 20 cells    910  120 124        136 139  126     819  122  166   141    153  137
      The number of cells given for the polarising current were those
  used     when no resistance was added. In some of the experiments
  10,000 ohms were thrown in, and a proportional increase in the
  number of cells became necessary (viz., about eight times as many as
  in the former instances) : —
      2. The effect of induction shocks is at first diminished, then in
  creases to normal, or above normal, when the excitation falls upon the
 anodic zone of the polarising current. We suppose this effect, which
 is the same as that observed on the motor nerve, to be due to an
 invasion of the anelectrotonic by the katelectrotonic influence when
 the polarising current is increased beyond a certain strength. This
 invasion takes place more readily from the polar into the peripolar
 zone, than in the opposite sense.
   Number of cells oi po-)
                                  0    2     4     6   8 10  12    14   16  18 20   22   24   to   40
   Distance oi se- rPeri - 1
    condary     coil    polar j  102  92    88    66  87 92  35    101 104 107 111  114  116
    necwary       toi
    produce   mini
    mal sensation..  (.Polar ... 115                     85                    Ti        ...  80   85
     This experiment was made upon the cutaneous nerves of the back
 of the arm, the other plate resting on the leg. The galvanometer
 showed that the variations in the effect were unaccompanied by any
 changes in the resistances in circuit.
     With reference to the after-effects of which the accurate deter
 mination offers considerable difficulties, we content ourselves with
stating here that they appear to consist in an increase of excitability
both after anodic and kathodic influence, preceded in the latter case
by a short but appreciable diminution when the polarisation has been
long and strong enough.

  370              Mr. E. A. Schiifer.         On the Coagulation          [Dec.   7,
  II. "Preliminary       Notice of an Investigation into the Coagula
        tion of the Perivisceral Fluid of the Sea-Urchin."                   By E.
        A. Schafer, F.R.S. Received November 8, 1882.
     The perivisceral fluid of the sea-urchin is a coagulable fluid of
 about the same specific gravity and chemical composition as sea-
 water.     The corpuscles which float in it have been described by
 several observers, and recently very carefully by Mr. P. Geddes, in
 the " Archives de Zoologie Experimentale
                                                       " for 1880. The
                                                                           majority
 are pale and very amoeboid, resembling the lymph-corpuscles                      of
 vertebrates, and the blood-corpuscles           of most invertebrates.      Others
 are more granular in appearance, and others again contain a reddish-
 brown colouring matter.            The fluid in which they float is usually
 perfectly clear and colourless when the corpuscles are separated by
 filtration, and contains no appreciable amount of any proteid matter.
     When the fluid is drawn from the shell into a glass vessel it rapidly
 undergoes what appears to be a sort of coagulation ; the coagulnm
 soon begins to shrink, and continues to do so to such an extent that
 at the end of a few hours it is reduced to but a small shred of
 coloured substance.        In this respect the coagulum closely resembles
 that of vertebrate blood, aud especially of frog's blood, which may
also shrink in a few hours to a very small bulk.
     If the clot is examined with the microscope it is found to contain
all the corpuscles ; and these are so closely arranged, and their
processes are frequently so long and ramified, that it is difficult to
make out the material in which they are embedded.                    The material of
coagulation seems on this account to have been overlooked by Geddes,
who refers the coagulum wholly to the remarkable massing together
of the amoeboid pale corpuscles, which he has observed and described.*
It is easy, however, to demonstrate the presence of this material of
coagulation, and to show that the phenomenon of coagulation is inde
pendent of the formation of masses or "plasmodia" of the cor
puscles.
    If the fluid be mixed as          it flows from the shell with an equal
volume of saturated solution of sulphate of magnesia, its coagulation
is indefinitely delayed.        With such a fluid the following experiments
may be made      : —
    1.  Diluted with water it immediately forms a coagulum which
shrinks on standing as does the coagulum of the freshly drawn peri
visceral fluid.    The coagulum, when examined with the microscope,
appears as a clear substance in which the cells, which are of course
dead and for the most part rounded, lie separately embedded.
    2. If the mixture be filtered all the corpuscles remain on the filter,
                  * Loc. ext., and
                                   " Proc.
                                           Roy. Soc.," vol. 30, p. 252.

 1882.]              of the  Perivisceral Fluid of        the  Sea-Urchin.            371
 and a clear fluid passes through.              This gives no coagulam on dilution,
 but the corpuscles,         if  removed     from the filter and suspended in a
 saturated solution of sulphate of magnesia, exude abundance of the
 coagulable material on the addition of water.                  This is not unlike the
results obtained by Mr. Wooldridge in the Leipzig Laboratory with
 white corpuscles from the lymphatic glands and from the blood of
 mammals.*
     I   have spoken throughout of the substance, upon the formation or
exudation of which from the corpuscles the clotting of the Echinus
flnid seems to depend, as coagulable material, and not as fibrine. It
does not, in fact, either in its chemical reactions or in its microscopic
characters, bear any sort of resemblance to the fibrine of vertebrate
blood, but appears to be more nearly allied to mncin, although the pos
session by it of the remarkable property of spontaneously shrinking
after its first formation gives it a deceptive similarity to fibrine.
    The detailed account of the above investigation will be published in
the " Journal of Physiology."t
III.      "Preliminary Note on the Structure, Development, and
         Affinities of Phoronis."             By W. H. Caldwell, B.A., Caius
          College, Cambridge, Demonstrator of Zoology.                      Communi
          cated by Dr. M. FOSTER, Sec. R.S.                    Received November
         24, 1882.
    Owing to the time that must necessarily elapse during the prepara
tion of plates, it has seemed to me advisable to publish the following
preliminary account of my observations on the anatomy and develop
ment of Phoronis. These studies were made for the most part in the
Zoological Station at Naples.                 I  am much indebted to Dr. Anton
Dohrn for his great kindness and assistance.                     I  have not thought
it necessary in this preliminary note to refer at any length to the
                                                     J
observations of previous investigators, and the bearing of the facts
on recent morphological speculation has at most been indicated in
the briefest possible manner.               I   would, however, specially refer to
some observations on the development made in the summer of 1881,
by Dr. Hatschek, who most generously not only sent me material, but
on his return to Naples resigned his work and drawings to me.
   * "    Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 32, p. 413 ; and " Archiv. f. (Anat. u.) Physiol.," 1881.
   t The opportunity for carrying on these observations was afforded me at the
Scottish Zoological Station of Professor      J.  Cossar Ewart and Mr. G-. J. Romanes.
   X   J-  Miiller, Wagener,  Krohn,  Gegenbaur,    Schneider, Kowalewsky, Metschnikow,
Claparede, 'Wright, Dyster, Van Beneden, Mcintosh, Wilson, &o.

372                       Mr. W. H. Caldwell.           On the              [Dec.   7,
   Unfortunately,        I  have been unable to confirm Dr. Hatschek*?
account in several points.            To do justice to this, I reserve a fuller
account of the controverted points for my complete paper, when I
hope also to reproduce Dr. Hatschek's figures of the living larvae.*
                          Stbuctube of      Adult Phobonis.
   The mouth and anus are situated at one end. The short line
between them is the median dorsal line. Between mouth and anus
lies an epistome.         This epistmne is the persistent prceorcd lobe of the
larva. New tentacles of the lophophore round the mouth are added
on either side of the median dorsal line.                 There is a mesoblastic
skeleton in the lophophore.            The ventral surface is produced into a
" foot," which constitutes the main part of the animal.
   This determination of the surfaces depends on the development to
be described below.
                               Epithelium of   the Body.
   Nervous processes of the ectoderm cells retain their connexion with
the ectoderm, and concentrations, both of fibres and ganglion cells,
occur in the skin outside the homogeneous basement membrane.
The central nervous system remains therefore in the epidermis,
representing the primitive condition.
    Concentrations of the nervous system take place round the mouth
to form a postoral nerve-ring.           The anus lies outside this. The ring
follows the line along the base of the tentacles, and has therefore like
them the form of a horse-shoe.             In front of this ring are situated a
pair of sense organs, which         I  shall speak of as " ciliated pits." They
lie in the concavity of the lophophore, on either side of the anus.
They have the characteristic structure of sensory epithelium, con
sisting of sense cell, ganglion, and nerve-fibres.              Sarsf has figured
in Rhabdopleura a pair of ciliated protuberances in what I hope to
show is an homologous position.
   A further concentration takes place in the form of a cord, which
runs from the median dorsal part of the nerve-ring two-thirds of the
length of the foot along its left side. It is therefore asymmetrical,
and lies in the epidermis Outside the basement membrane.                       Inside
this nerve-cord lies an apparently hollow tnbe.                  This tube recalls
the so-called large fibres of Chartopoda.
    The alimentary canal is in the form of a ciliated tube, which may
   *  It   is not to be understood  that Dr. Hatschek agrees with my account of the
fac8s of development.
   t    a.   O. Sars, " On Rhabdapleura     mirabilis," " Q. J. M. 8.," toI. irr, cew
series.

  1882.]      Structure, Development,      and Affinities of Phoronis.      373
  be divided into four main divisions, each characterised by a special
  epithelium    : —
     1.   CEsophagns.
     2.   1st stomach.
    3. 2nd stomach.
    4. Intestine.
     The transition from the second to the third of these divisions is
 very marked.        The third forms a small strongly ciliated chamber where
 the gut doubles on itself at the end of the foot.
                                  The Body-Cavity
 is lined throughout by peritoneum, which passes into mesenteries,
 dividing the cavity into several chambers.                There is a ventral
 mesentery extending the whole length of the foot, attaching the out
 side of both descending and ascending limbs of the alimentary canal
 to the body-wall.         Besides this there are two lateral mesenteries,
 which pass from the sides of the stomach to the body-wall. By these
 three mesenteries the body-cavity is divided into three chambers, viz.,
 two anterior and one posterior.           The lateral mesenteries end freely
 before the blind end of the foot is reached, so that all the chambers
 are here in full communication.
    An important secondary connexion takes place some little way
 below the tentacles.        The intestine attaches itself to the left lateral
 mesentery, dividing      it into two parts, a shorter, attaching the intestine
 to the stomach, and a longer, attaching the intestine to the body- wall.
 Throughout the greater part of the foot this results in the posterior
of the three chambers being divided into two.
    The body-cavity is further divided by a septum, which passes from
the line of the nerve-ring in the body- wall to the oesophagus, into two
regions, viz. : — (i,) the space in front of the septum, i.e., the body-
cavity in the epistome and the tentacles ; (ii,) the space behind the
septum, i.e., the rest of the body-cavity.
                                 Excretory   System.
    The genital pores discovered by Kowalewsky, by which he observed
the ova to pass to the exterior, are the external openings of a pair of
nephridia.        Each nephridium consists of a simple ciliated tube, whose
cell-walls are filled with brown concretions.          The tube opens into the
posterior chamber of the body-cavity on the sides of the lateral mesen
teries. The external openings are situated in the regions subtended
by the anterior divisions of the body-cavity.
                                Circulatory System.
   A    closed system of vessels, containing nucleated red corpuscles, is
present.

 374                    Mr. W. H. Caldwell.        On the             |
                                                                        Dec. 7.
   The main vessels are two in number.
   The afferent vessel to the tentacles divides at the median dorsal
region of the septum.
   Each half passes into a vessel lying at the base of the tentacles.
 Prom this caecal vessels pass into these. A second vessel lying out
side the former is also by means of a valvular arrangement in com
munication with the same caecal vessels in the tentacles.            From the
outside ring on either side passes a lateral vessel to the ventral side of
the oesophagus, where, joining its fellow of the opposite side in the
left anterior division of the body-cavity, it runs as the single efferent
vessel to the hind end of the foot, giving off numerous caecal vessels
in its course.
   Further, there is a sinus round the stomach.           This arrangement
will be understood when its development is described below.
   The walls of all the vessels are contractile.
                              Generative  Syntem.
   The animals are hermaphrodite. The ova and spermatozoa are
formed from cells of the efferent blood-vessel, which run9 in the left
anterior chamber of the body-cavity. Round this vessel lies the so-
         " fat body," which is
called                           composed of large cells developed on the
wall of the caecal prolongation of the blood-vessel.           The ova and
testis lie in this tissue on opposite sides of the main vascular trunk.
Thus the nerve-cord and the generative cells are asymmetrically
placed.     They lie on the left side of the foot.
                                Development.
   The following is a brief summary of the more important points:—
   1. At the stage of four segmentation        spheres, a division into two
smaller clear and two larger opaque cells indicates the future ectoderm
and endoderm.
   2.  The    segmentation   proceeds   with considerable regularity,      and
results   in a planula with half the cells smaller and less columnar
than the other half.
   3. Invagination of the larger cells almost obliterates the segmenta
tion cavity, and a spherical gastrula with a blastopore is the final
result of invagination.      The gastrula becomes oval by the growth
forwards of the ectoderm to form the praeoral lobe, and the blastopore
persists as the mouth.
   The mesoblast is formed bilaterally from the endoderm on either side
of the blastopore.     From the time when two or three mesoblast cells
are budded off on either side a cavity is present in each mass so formed.
These cavities are the two halves of the body-cavity.           I regard this

1882.]         Structure, Development,        and Affinities  of Phoronis.       375
mode of origin of the body-cavity as a modification by simplification
of the enterocoel type, as described by Kowalewsky, in Argiope.*
    Quite recently Metschnikowt has described the early stages of
Phoronis.         His account is very different to that given above. In the
first place, he has not detected the origin of at least the main part of
the mesoblast from the endoderm, as                 I  have described.      Further,
Metschnikow has figured a blastula with four mesoblast cells in the
segmentation cavity.            Though    I  have made mimerons complete series
of sections through all stages of the blastula,            I never have found any
cells in the segmentation cavity.               I would offer the following expla
nation of Metschnikow's account.
    When the invagination to form the gastrnla begins, the hypoblast
ceils previously cylindrical become very irregular, and project pseudo-
podia-like into the segmentation cavity. The free ends of these cells
in actual sections are frequently cut off from their origin, and may
then be mistaken for free cells lying in the segmentation cavity.
They, however, never contain the nuclei of the cells.                 I  would sug
gest that Metschnikow, who studied the development of Phoronis by
means of optical sections of glycerine preparations of the whole
larva, has mistaken these projecting ends of the amoeboid endoderm
cells for mesoderm cells.
    Eapid growth of the mesoblast " diverticulum
                                                             "
                                                               into the praeoral lobe
takes place in such a way that distinct somatic and splanchnic layers,
applied to the ectoderm and endoderm respectively, are easily to be
recognised.
    The cells soon become contractile, and the whole praeoral lobe
almost immediately after its appearance becomes actively so. The
muscle cells have all the histological character of Mesenchyme, nsing
this term in the sense used by the brothers Hertwig.J                    Meanwhile
the ectoderm becomes thickened in two regions —
     1.  In   the praeoral lobe.
    2.   In  the form of a postoral       ring round the mouth.
    The former becomes the future nervous ganglion ; the latter indi
cates     the position of the line of future tentacles and the circum-
cesophageal nerve-ring of the older animal.
    The anus is formed by a slight invagination of ectoderm behind the
postoral ciliated ring on the opposite side of the body to that on
which the mouth is placed, and is from the first terminal. The four
divisions of the alimentary canal are now apparent, i.e., the hypoblast
cells have taken on their characteristic form in the several regions of
   * A. Kowalewsky, "Protocol of the First Session of the United Sections of
Anatomy, Physiology, and Comparative Anatomy at the Meeting of Russian Natu
ralists in Kasan, 1873 (Russian)."
       " Z. f. Wiss. Zool.," Ht. IV, 1882.
   t
       " Die
   J           Ccelom-theorie,"  Jena, 1881.
    VOL. XXXIV.                                                       2 0

376                       Mr. W. H. Caldwell.         On  the              [Dec.   7,
the alimentary tract.          The cells of the first stomach, however, though
ciliated, are much more amoeboid than in the adult.                   Throughout
larval life intra-cellular digestion goes on in this region. This mode
of digestion ceases with the metamorphosis.
    With the formation of the anus this end of the body gradually
grows out. The papilla with the anus at its end enlarges, and finally
forms the largest part of the full-grown larva. Tentacles appear in
pairs as outgrowths along the lines of the postoral ciliated ring, new
tentacles appearing dorsally.
 •
    The further development of mesoblast proceeds always in continuity
with the first pair of lateral diverticula.        The body-cavity of the hind
end of     the   larva  is formed    independently in a paired mass of cells
which grows out from the end of the first formed sacs, and remains
separated from the latter by a septum.
    Thus the whole mesoblast of the animal arises as two endodermic sacs,
the walls of which form somatic and splanchnic layers.
                                       Nephridia.
    On either side of the body lies a ciliated canal with cellular walls.
This canal is      not formed of perforated cells.
    Each canal opens to the exterior behind the septum on either side
of the opening of the foot.         The canal lies outside the somatic meso
blast.
    Attached to its inner blind end are a number of cells of very
peculiar form. Each cell has a nucleus and processes similar to those
of ordinary mesoblast cells.         By one of these the cell is attached to
the end of the large canal.            This process is larger than the free pro
cesses, and has a cylindrical         form.   By the canal formed inside the
cylinder, small brown concretions seen in the cell itself pass into the
large canal, and so to the exterior. These excretory cells, with their
fine canals, increase in number with the growth of the larva.                   They
float freely in the body-cavity in front of the septum.
    The cells are similar to the perforated cells which form the internal
ends of the nephridia described by Hatschek in Echiurus.*
    At no time during the free swimming life of larva does the excre
tory canal system open into the body-cavity.
    With regard to the development of the nephridia have observedI
 somatic mesoblast cells, at the time when the mesoblastic sacs of the
 trunk are forming, take the characteristic shape of excretory cells with
 cylindrical processes.
     On the other hand,      I  have failed to discover the   origin of the main
 ciliated canal.
    * Berthold Hatschek, " Ueber Entwick. von Echiurus," Arbeit,   a. d. Zool. Instil.
 Wien, vol. iii, 1880.

1882.]      Structure, Development,       and Affinities   of Phoronis.       377
   Dr. Hatschek believed that the whole organ was formed from the
meso blast cells mentioned      above.
                                 Vascular    System.
   The blood-vessels are all formed from the splanchnopleure.
   The blood-corpuscles found in the vessels immediately after meta
morphosis arise from mesoblast cells in front of the septum.
   They form in masses which vary in number and position with the
species, and lie free in the body-cavity held together by processes
resulting from incomplete division. Each corpuscle has a nucleus,
and with the growth of the larva the hsemoglobin colour gradually
develops.
   The vessels arise as splits in the splanchnoplettre.      The adult condition
is reached partly by constrictions, partly by outgrowths from these.
Thus we have at the close of larval life the blood-system in the
following condition : —
   1.  Blood-corpuscles aggregated in two or more masses, lying free
in the body-cavity of the praeoral lobe, i.e., in front of the septum.
   2. A blood-vessel formed on the dorsal wall of the stomach, a
marked structure in the larva.
    3. The splanchnopleure sac, which in the region of the stomach
forms a loose sac surrounding the gut.
   4. Caecal prolongations of this sac.
   5. Caecal prolongations into the rudiments of the adult tentacles.
                                     Lophophore.
    The larval tentacles are produced in pairs always towards the dorsal
line,  so that the most dorsal are the youngest.            This is also the case
in the adult Phoronis.
    But the first rudiments of the adult set appear laterally, and new
pairs are added both ventrally and dorsally to this pair, so that the
oldest adult tentacles are not the most ventrally situated .
                     Fall-formed Larva and Metamorphosis.
    Finally we get the full grown free swimming larva, whose chief
 organs and their relative positions I shall briefly recapitulate.
    The mouth and anus are at opposite ends of the ciliated body.              The
 mouth is overhung by a large praeoral lobe, whose margin is slightly
thickened, and bears longer cilia than on the rest of the surface.            This
margin corresponds to the velum (praeoral ring) of other larva.
    I reserve the discussion of Kleinenberg's paper* on the origin of the
   *  N. Kleinenberg, " Sull' Origine  del Sistema Nervoso Centrale degli Annelidi."
 Keale Acad. d. Lincei, 1881.
                                                                   2 C 2

378                     Mr. W. H. Caldwell.       On the           [Dec. 7,
nervous    system,   for my fuller paper.      The bearing of the facts of
Plioronis development on the question would involve matter of a too
speculative character.       Suffice it to say, that if the nerve-ring of
Plioronis represents       the nerve-ring of Coelenterate ancestors, the
prceoral lobe   must   be regarded as a development of an anterior region
of the sub-umbrella, while the anus has been formed in the region of
the umbrella.
   The nervous elements of the ectoderm of the praeoral lobe in all
species, are concentrated into a ganglion (Scheitelplatte).        In some
species a large number of nerve fibres pass forwards from it to a sense
organ.     In one species four eye-spots are present. Behind the mouth
an even number of tentacles form a postoral circlet.          Behind these,
and corresponding in number, lie rudiments of the adult tentacles.
Along a line immediately in front of the larval circle, the ectoderm
cells have become vacuolated.          This change extends to a breadth of
only   three or four  cells.  Along line at the base of the rudiments of
                                      a
the adult tentacles, the nervous prolongations of the ectoderm have
formed a definite ring.
    Round the anus a ring of very columnar ectoderm bearing strong
cilia forms the chief organ of larval locomotion.         The mouth opens
into an oesophagus, which leads into a stomach.          The stomach at its
anterior end is produced into one or two ventral recesses.
    In the vacuolated walls of these structures brown concretions are
present.
   The septum is attached in a circle along the lino of the nerve-ring,
and free communication exists between the body-cavity in front of
the septum and the split in the splanchnopleure, which will form the
blood sinus and vessels of the adult.
    The condition of the rest of the vascular system we have already
described in an old larva. The muscular arrangement in the invagi-
nated foot is already similar to that in the adult.
    The ventral mesentery still exists along the whole ventral surface
from septum to anus. The pair of nephridia lie on either side of the
body, their numerous excretory cells floating freely in the body-cavity
in front of the septum.         The external openings are placed one on
either side of the opening of the foot.
    The animal now swims to the bottom, and after swimming round
and round many times on its own axis, and meanwhile undergoing
violent contractions, suddenly begins to evaginate the foot.             In
fifteen to twenty minutes, a healthy individual will have become in
all essential points like the adult.
    During this time the following events take place : —
    i. The whole praeoral lobe with ganglion and sense organs pass
into the stomach by the oesophagus. The rupture takes place along
the line of vacuolated ectoderm mentioned above.

  1882.]     Structure, Development,   and Affinities  of Phoronis.     375)
     ii. The larval tentacles follow the proaoral lobe.
     iii. The blood-corpuscles pass inside the splanchnopleure sac by the
 -opening described above, and break up in the sinus.        From this they
  pass by contractions of the sac into the cacal vessels and into the
  vessel which already exists in the dorsal side of the stomach.
     iv. The larval excretory cells of the nephridia break off from the
  large canal and float freely into the body-cavity in front of the septum.
  They pass with the blood-corpuscles into the vessels. The large
  canals remain as the paired nephridia of the adult.          The external
  openings by     the  changes undergone during      the  evagination have
  already almost their adult position.
      v. The body -wall of the anal cone (at this stage) becomes folded, so
 as to present the appearance of columnar epithelium. By this process
  the invagination of the whole anal cone is rendered possible.         The
  original anus is now half-way up the course of the ascending limit of
  the alimentary tract inside the foot, and the adult position of the
  nerve-ring is thus brought about.
     The ventral mesentery extends along the outer curve of the alimen
  tary tract along its whole extent, attaching the foot to the body- wall.
  At the end of the body it is seen in end view, apparently as a linear
 band, presenting a similar appearance to the funiculus of a polyzoon.
     The ectoderm, from what has been said, must now re-attach itself by
 a secondary growth to the endoderm, along the lines where the
  praeoral lobe broke off.
     In the stomach the disintegrated cells of the tentacles and the
 praeoral lobe with its ganglion and sense organs are now digested,
 not, however, by intercellular method, but, as in the adult, in the
-canal itself.
                            General Conclusions.
     The life history of Phoronis, the chief points in which have been
^briefly mentioned, seems to offer a solution of many morphological
 problems.
     These are of two kinds.
     On the one hand we have those more general questions which con
 cern the origin of various organs and systems of organs.
     On the other those special problems which are concerned in solving
.the body plan of the different animal forms.
                 On the Origin of Organs and Organ Systems.
     The condition of nervous concentrations in the ectoderm in Phoronis,
both larval and adult, shows us how apparently new parts of the
 nervous system arise.
     In Phoronis the praeoral ring, corresponding to the velum of a

.380                     Mr. W. H. Caldwell.             On the            [Dec. 7r
Trochosphaere,        is from the earliest stages reduced          relatively to the
postoral.
   This latter, appearing in the gastrula stage, persists throughout life
as a circumoesophageal    ring. No anterior dorsal sensory part of the
central nervous system exists in the adult.
   The ganglion of the praeoral lobe which in Chaetopoda and Mollosca,
&c., persists as the anterior sensory lobe of the brain, disappears
with the change from a free to a fixed life.
   The ganglion sense organs and velum of the praoral lobe are eaten
during the metamorphosis.
   The pair of sense organs are connected with the postoral nerve-
ring.                                    •
   In Capitellidffi, Dr. Eisig has been kind enough to inform me, the
nerves from the ciliated pits are connected not with the anterior lobes
of the brain, but with the posterior part from which the circumoeso
phageal commissures        are given off.
                                    Body-Cavity.
   The whole body-cavity in the praeoral lobe and in the trunk is an
enterocoel.  The closed vascular system is developed from the spaneh-
nopleure.   The intracellular excretory canals arise in somatic mesoblast
cells.  The existence of two divisions of the excretory system, viz.,
  i. The intracellular closed canals ;
  ii. Large intercellular canals ;
ceases with the metamorphosis.      In Phoronis the atrophy of the intra
cellular system is coincident with the development of the vascular
system.
   If the intracellular  excretory system of larval Phoronis is homo
logous with the similar excretory system in Platyelminthes, there
is a presumption that the cavities in which the cells lie are homologous,
 that in fact Platyelminthes are degenerate enteroccales.
                 On the Relation of Phoronis        to   otlier Groups.
   The most striking result of my researches on Phoronis is to give an
explanation of the relation of Brachiopoda and Polyzoa to other
animals. The identity of the Phoronis larva up to the formation of
the nephridia, and before the outgrowth of the anal region, with
the Trochosphaere type of Hatschek is complete.
   In Phoronis the body-cavity is an enterocoel. The distinction
attempted to be drawn by the Hertwigs* between the histological cha
racters of mesenchyme and mesoderm utterly breaks down in Phoronis.
   I regard    therefore, as probable that the other Trochosphaeres are
                it,
enterocceles.
                            *   O. and R. Hertwig, loc. ext.

1882.]      Structure, Development,     and Affinities of Phoronis.     381
   The larvae of Brachiopoda and Polyzoa I regard as modified from
the Trochosphaere by the earlier attainment of the relation of the
ventral surface which in Phoronis is only accomplished during the
metamorphosis.
                           Phoronis and Brachiopoda.
   The conception of the body plan of Brachiopoda arising in this way
involves an entirely new view of the homologies of the body surfaces.
The following are the chief points which seem to me to determine
these  : —
    1. The praeoral lobe of the larva of Phoronis, and the so-called
" segment "      which bears the eye-spots in certain larval Brachiopoda*
persist   in   part at least as the epistome of the adult.
   2. There is a postoral nerve-ring in all the Brachiopoda           I have
examined) situated as in Phoronis in the ectoderm.
   3. In both the body-cavity of the praeoral lobe is separated from
that of the rest of the body by a septum.
             "            " of
   4. The       segments        Brachiopoda are represented in Phoronis by
the three divisions of the larva.
   1. Praeoral lobe as far back as the septum.
   2. The rest of the body to the anal ring.
    3. The invaginated foot.
                                                                             "
   An evagination similar to that in Phoronis of the third " segment
takes place in Brachiopoda when the larva fixes itself (Morse, Terebra-
tulina.)
    5. The tentacles arise from the line of the nerve-ring and are in the
form of a horse-shoe, the outer curve of which is ventral. In the-
middle of the inner curve there is a break in the continuity of the
tentacles.     This interval is in the median dorsal line. On either side
lies one of the youngest pair of tentacles.
   6. The rectum when present lies in the posterior of the three main
divisions of the body-cavity formed by the ventral and two lateral
mesenteries (vide diagram B).          The nephridia open to the interior in
the posterior, to the exterior in the region of the anterior chambers
of the body-cavity.
    7. The same four divisions of the intestine are formed in both
Phoronis and Brachiopoda.
              I
   Finally, would point out that the so-called segments of Brachiopoda
are at right angles to the ordinary Chcctopod segments.        This is easily
seen to be the case by reference to the diagram, where AB represents
the axis perpendicular to which ordinary segmentation takes place,
CD that perpendicular to which Brachiopoda have been supposed to
 be segmented.
                               * Kowalewsky, loe. cit.

382                     Mr. W. H. Caldwell.        On   the         [Dec.     7,
  Brachiopoda are thus fixed by their ventral surface.
  The dorsal surface is indicated by the epistome,            and   the   line
between mouth and anus (when present).
  Both valves of the shell are ventral.
                           Phoronis and Polyzoa.
     With regard tothe Polyzoa, the evidenoe owing to the simpli"
tion which has taken place in their structure is not obtainable in            tf^j
same quantity.    Iregard it, however, as probable that the epis
of                                                        " foot "
      Endoproct   and  Hippocrepian Polyzoa and the                       Q
Lankester) in Rhabdopleura represent the praeoral lobe.
   The dorsal surface in Polyzoa    is indicated as in Phoronis by
line between mouth and anus. If Phoronis, Brachiopoda, and Polyzoa
have had segmented ancestors no trace of such remains in their
ontogeny.
   The discussion of the various views at present held on the Polyzoa
and Brachiopoda must be deferred to my fuller paper.
   So far as the facts of development and structure of Sipunculns and
                                                                     ~
Phascolosoma are known,     I see nothing to show that these forms
not referable to the same type of body structure as Phoronis, Brachio
poda, and Polyzoa.     On the other hand,      seems quite possible that
                                              it
they may be further stages in degeneration from forms like Echiurus,
which, after the researches      of Hatschek,      seem to be degenerated
Chaetopoda.

1882.]         Structure, Development,         and A jjinities of Plwronis.      383
  Two diagrams to illustrate the body plan of Phoronis, Brachiopoda,   and Polyzoa.
 A. Longitudinal vertical section through the adult animal.
 B. Longitudinal horizontal section through the adult animal.
         E.p. Praeoral lobe or epistome.
           ui. Mouth.
            a. Anus.
           at. (Esophagus.
          x.t. First stomach.
            p. Second stomach,
            f. Intestine.
          v.t. Right tentacle of ventral pair.
         y.t. Right tentacle of dorsal pair.
      p.b.c. Body-cavity of head.
      f.b.c. Body-cavity of foot.
       N.r.    Postoral nerve-ring.
        c.m.   Ventral mesentery.
        l.m. Lateral mesentery.
            a. Nephridium.
       E.o. External opening of nephridium.
         i.o. Internal opening of nephridium.
        p.d. Posterior chamber of body-cavity.
      l.a.d. Lateral anterior divisions of body-cavity.
 V.V. and D.T. Valves of Brachiopod shell.
 A.B. Represents axis perpendicular to which ordinary segmentation takes place.
'C.D. Represents axis perpendicular to which Brachiopoda have been supposed to be
         segmented.

384                       Dr. E. B. Wilson.                    [Dec, 14.
                          December 14, 1882.
                   THE PRESIDENT in        the Chair.
   The Right Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, whose certificate had been
suspended as required by the Statutes, was ballotted for and elected a
Fellow of the Society.
   In accordance  with the announcement made from the Chair at the
last Meeting, the question of Dr. Armstrong's re-admission was put
to the vote, and was decided in the affirmative.   The President there
upon declared that Dr. Armstrong was re-admitted into the Society.
   The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered    for
them.
   The following Papers were read : —
I. "The Development of Renilla." By Edmund B. Wilson,
      Ph.D. Communicated by Professor Huxley, F.R.S. Re
      ceived October 5, 1882.
                               (Abstract.)
   The following abstract contains the more important points estab
lished by a study of the development of Renilla, which was carried on
at intervals during three years at the marine laboratory of the Johns
Hopkins University, conducted by Dr. W. K. Brooks.          The need of
farther studies on the embryology of polyps in general must be
apparent to every zoologist ; and Renilla, as a highly specialised form,
presents a number of special morphological problems, which can only
be solved by a study of the embryological history of the organism.
This genus appeared, therefore, to be a doubly desirable object for
study.
   The paper is divided into four parts. The first comprises an account
of the segmentation of the egg and formation of the germ-layers ; the
second a description of the formation of the tissues and organs of the
primary or axial polyp ; the third part treats of the formation of the
colony produced by budding from the axial polyp ; and the fourth
deals with a few theoretical questions suggested by the phenomena
observed.    The leading points of the paper are as follows : —

   1882.]                The Development     o/Renilla.                   385
                                       I.
     (1.) As in other Alcyonaria, Renilla is dioecious, and fertilisation is
  effected in the water after discharge of the generative            elements
  through the months of the feeding polyps. The ovarian or spermatic
  follicles are ruptured and cast aside at the time of spawning.
     (2.) The action of the vitellus during segmentation is extremely
 variable, while the division of the nuclei appears to be nearly regular.
  The vitellus, after a preliminary division of the nuclei, may divide at
  the first cleavage into two, four, (?) eight, sixteen, or thirty-two
 spheres, which may be equal or noticeably unequal. In some cases
 cleavage begins at one pole a considerable time before any sign of
 activity is shown at the opposite pole, so that the segmentation appears
 precisely like that of a true meroblastic egg.     In others, again, the seg
 mentation is irregular and extremely unequal, so as to appear quite
 like that of an epibolic gastrula. All of these forms gave rise, how
 ever, to quite similar larvae, which were proved by isolation in small
 aquaria to be normal and healthy.
     In several cases of division into sixteen and thirty-two spheres, the
 vitellus was observed to undergo slight changes of form some time
 previous to actual division. These changes appear to be the expres
 sion of attempts at division on the part of the vitellus, which has not,
 however, energy enough to carry out a complete cleavage.            In other
 cases the attempts    are partially successful and  the egg  divides  incom
 pletely into spheres which do not become clear and well defined until
 the following cleavage.       The series of forms appears to be produced
 by variations in the activity of the vitelline protoplasm or in the
 resistance (in the form probably of deutoplasm) which is opposed to it.
 The phenomena are of considerable interest, as showing how natural
 selection may find a field for action even in the earliest stages of an
organism, and as a caution against drawing too hasty conclusions in
regard to the character of segmentation from the study of a few indi
viduals only. It is further remarkable to find the action of the vitellus-
and of the nuclei as independent of one another as these facts seem to
indicate.
     (3.) Cleavage is at first superficial, a considerable central mass
remaining unsegmented.          The furrows finally extend to the centre,
and a small temporary segmentation cavity is formed
     (4.) The layers are separated by a process of delamination. The
endodermic mass is at first solid and is not separated by a supporting
lamella from the ectoderm.
    (5.) The supporting lamella is derived mainly from the ectoderm
by a very peculiar process of secretion at the inner ends of the cells.
    (6.) The gastric cavity is formed by absorption of the central endo-
derm cells by those which are more peripherally placed. The former
undergo a peculiar process of disintegration and form a granular debris,

386                          Dr. E. B. Wilson.                   [Dec.  14,
 which is absorbed by the peripheral cells by a process which appears
to be identical with the amoeboid absorption of yolk observed by
 Reichenbach in the embryo crayfish. At this period the gastric cavity
 is without any communication with the exterior.
                                       II.
    (7.) The oesophagus is formed as a solid invagination of ectoderm,
 in which a slit-like cavity, elongated in the dorso-ventral plane,    soon
Appears.     The lower end of the oesophagus is then absorbed, placing
the gastric cavity for the first time in communication with the exterior.
 Much variation exists in the process of absorption.      Most commonly it
 begins  at one side, so that the bottom   of  the  oesophagus hangs down
 like a valve from the opposite side. It is then absorbed bodily.
    (8.) The radial septa and the horizontal or peduncular septum differ
widely in structure and mode of origin.            The former arise simul
 taneously at the anterior end and grow backwards. Each septum
 consists of two layers of endoderm cells, separated by a structureless
 lamella. The peduncular septum arises at the posterior end and grows
 forwards. It is composed of three layers of endoderm cells, the middle
 of which atrophies. This septum is probably to be regarded as formed
 by the fusion of the dorsal pair of radial septa. The septa have a very
 marked bilateral arrangement.
    (9.) The mesenterial filaments are formed as endodermic thicken
 ings of the edges of the septa. After the formation of the mouth they
 become continuous with the invaginated ectoderm of the oesophagus.
 The filaments are arranged in pairs of different lengths and structure.
 The dorsal pair appears last and develops most slowly.
    (10.) The tentacles appear simultaneously and are at first destitute
'of pinnae.   They arise as hollow caecal outgrowths from the anterior
 extremities of the radial chambers.
    (11.) The calyx-teeth are formed in a similar manner but in a
 definite sequence.    The ventro-lateral pair first appear and then the
 median dorsal tooth. The remaining two pairs appear nearly at the
 same time, but the medio-lateral pair usually precedes the dorso
 lateral. Occasionally, however, the reverse is true.
    (12.) The muscles are entirely endodermic, with the possible excep
 tion of those of the tentacles.     They are developed from the bases of
'epithelial cells, as
                        "                     " cells or myoblasts. The
                          epithelio-muscular
 cell-body, in many cases at least, becomes reduced to a small granular
 mass enclosing the nucleus and closely applied to the side of the fibre,
'and the entire muscle-element lies below the epithelium.
    The muscles are arranged in two sets, longitudinal and circular, the
 latter being outside the former. The circular muscles form a nearly
 uniform sheet, but the longitudinal fibres are at first arranged in
'definite tracts which exhibit a striking bilateral symmetry.

 1882.]                The Development   of Kenilla.                 387
     (13.) The spicules are developed in the interior of cells and are of
 two kinds, ectodermic and endodermic, which differ widely in form-
 and size. Professor B. K. Emerson has kindly examined them for me
 with the polariscope, and finds them to consist of a crystalline corer
 probably of aragonite, surrounded by an amorphous layer and this by
 a second crystalline layer, the axes of which correspond with those of
 the core.
     (14.) The ventral chamber becomes closed in front by membranous
outgrowths from the septa and body-walls. The dorsal chamber is
 closed by the forward extension of the foro edge of the peduncular
septum, which finally unites with the dorsal wall of the body just
anterior to the exhalent zooid (vide infra).
                                    III.
     (15.) The development of the buds is essentially like that of the
axial polyp, but no trace of the peduncular septum is formed and the
mesenterial filaments appear in a different sequence, the dorsal pair
appearing first and developing most rapidly.
    (16.) The buds which are to form sexual polyps appear always in
symmetrically placed pairs, and, in the earlier stages, in a definite
sequence.      They are arranged in two simple lateral rows, which
extend    both forwards and backwards by the appearance of new buds
upon the axial polyp. The backward extension is, however, limited,
whence results the sinus, into which the peduncle is inserted.       An
teriorly the two rows of buds extend forwards and downwards until
they meet at the ventral side of the axial polyp, which is thus
included within the disk.
    New buds are constantly formed in the angles between older buds,
and each lateral bud is in time enclosed by the younger adjacent buds
in the same manner as the axial polyp.
    (17.) The ventral sides of the buds are at first directed down
wards, and hence, when the polyps in later stages bend upwards so
as to assume a vertical direction, the ventral side is turned outwards,
away from the centre of the disk.
    (18.) The zooids develop in the same manner as the polyps and are
indistinguishable from the latter in their early stages. They are at
first single but soon multiply to form clusters, in which the ventral
chambers of the zooids are always turned away from the centre of the
group.     The law of budding is therefore the same for the zooids and
polyps. In rare cases the secondary zooids become in turn centres of
multiplication according to the same law.
    The axes of the primary zooids are definitely related to those of
the polyps on which they are placed.
                " Hauptzooid " of Kolliker is formed at an early stage
    (19.) The
as a median bud upon the axial polyp, and its function is to discharge

388           Mr. H. M. Ward.       On   the Morphology and     [Dec, U
water from the colony.       The other zooids draw in water from the
exterior by the action of the cilia which line their cavities.      This is
true also of the sexual polyps in their early stages (though this
function is entirely lost as they become older). Hence the zooids are
physiologically, as well as anatomically, identical with the young
polyps ; they are, in other words, polyps in a state of arrested de
velopment.
   The taking in of water is of vital importance to the organism, since
the movements of the peduncle, by which the creature creeps, are
effected by forcing the water to and fro.         In this fact we find,
probably, the explanation of the very early appearance of buds upon
the axial polyp.
                                    IV.
    (20.) The facts of development, so far as they go, indicate the
derivation of Renilla from a form related to the Bathyptileae, which
probably possessed a horny axis.        This view is opposed to that of
Kolliker, who considers that Renilla is related to the Penniforme*
                                   " Archiptilum."
only through a primitive simple
    (21.) The following section contains a brief discussion of the
bilateral symmetry, which is strongly exhibited, both in the in
dividual polyps and in the entire colony.      It is shown that in both
cases the bilateral structure is correlated with a bilateral environment,
 which indicates a causal relation between the two ; and I conclude
that the bilateral environment determines the bilateral structure.
    (22.) The last section contains a discussion of the polymorphism
 of Renilla.   An attempt is made to show that the zooids are pro
 bably not degenerated polyps but bnds in a state of arrested develop
 ment, whose direct ancestors never possessed a more highly organised
structure than at present.
    Other theoretical questions suggested by the investigation are dis
cussed under the various sections in the body of the paper.
 II.  " On the Morphology and the Development of the Perithe-
       ciuui of Meliola, a Genus of Tropical Epiphyllous Fungi."
       By H. Mabshall Wabd, B.A., Fellow of Owens College.
       Victoria University ; late Cryptogamist to the Ceylon Go
       vernment.     Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dteb,
       F.R.S. Received November 28, 1882.
                                (Abstract.)
    The author has investigated the life-history, structure, and develop
 ment of several species of these remarkable epiphytic fungi. The

  1882.]            Development    of Perithecium of Meliola.             389
 much branched       mycelium consists of joiuted cylindrical hyphae, with
 hardened brown or black cell-walls and finely granular protoplasmic
 contents ; these are closely attached to the epidermis of tropical
 plants by rudimentary haustoria, which are closely adherent to the
 cuticle, but do not pierce the cells of the host.
    The mycelium supports setaceous appendages of varions forms,
 simple or branched ; these setce spring from scattered points along the
 course of the hyphae, and are especially developed         from around the
 fruit-bodies, arising from richly branched hypha in their neighbour
 hood. Bornet considered these as forming a special part of the fungus,
                              "
 under the name of the          receptacle," but development teaches that
 they  cannot   be  regarded as  of importance ; no special function can be
 assigned to the setm, and they are certainly not tubes for the outlet of
 the spores, as earlier observers surmised.
    Other appendages occur as short, lateral, pyriform, or flasked-shaped
 branchlets ; some of which become free, and develope new mycelia by
 budding, much as is the case with the conidia of Erysiphe and allied
 fungi.   Others give rise to the Perithecia, which are globular or sub-
 globular cases containing asci in their interior, and with hard black
outer cell-walls.
    The author has studied the origin aud development of the Peri
 thecium very particularly.       A short ovoid or pyriform lateral branch-
let becomes cut off as a nnicellnlar body, by a firm septum close to
the parent hypha ; this cell is next divided into two by a cell- wall
passing obliquely across it. Of the two cells thus produced, one divides
more slowly, and forms a mass or
                                          " core " of thin-walled cells, with
richly developed protoplasmic contents ; the other, dividing much
more rapidly, produces a layer of cells, which gradually envelopes the
   core " of thin- walled cells, and forms the outer walls of the Peri
"
thecium.
    The " core " of more slowly dividing thin-walled cells is an asco-
gonium ; in later stages, certain of its constituents are seen to form the
asci and spores, while others deliquesce and serve as nutritive material.
The outer walls of the enveloping layers become thick, hard, and
dark-coloured ; the inner cells of the series deliquesce, and serve for
nutrition of the young asci, &c., as before.         All these processes are
recognised in vertical sections of the young Perithecium in various
stages, and are figured and described in detail.
    The asci are delicate clavate sacs, developed successively, and con
taining two to eight uni-tri-septate spores, the formation of which is
also figured.      The germination of the spores was also examined ; each
puts   forth  a germinal tube, which soon developes a rudimentary haus-
torium, and becomes irregularly branched, finally growing forth as a
mycelium like that first described.
    The author examines and criticises the views held by Fries and

890               Prof. Moseley and Mr. A. Sedgwick.             [Dec.   14,
Bornet (who only worked with dried specimens), especially as to the
systematic position of Meliola, and the opinion that they are repre
sentative tropical species of the European Eiysiphece.       He shows that
the original cell, from which the Perithecium is developed by continuous
cell-multiplication, must be regarded as containing in itself the
undifferentiated elements of an Archecarpium and Antheridium-branrh
(in the sense of De Bary and others) ; and that after the primary
division into two unequal cells, we must look upon one of these — the
more     slowly divided   oncogenous  cell — as  an Archecarpium,     which
produces the asci and spores, &c., while the other more rapidly de
veloping cell may be considered the equivalent of the Antlieridium and
enveloping tissues of such a fruit-body as that of Erysiphe. Thus
the sexual process, reduced to a minimum (physiologically)           in Erg-
siphecc,  has here disappeared entirely,  the morphological equivalents of
sexual organs being also further withdrawn.         One step further, and
we arrive at forms in which no trace of sexual organs exist.             The
Meliolas must therefore be regarded as a group, developed alonj
similar lines to those of the Erysiphece, Eurotium, &c., but in which the
Rexual process has become suppressed to a still greater extent.
   With respect to the pathological action of these fungi on their
hosts, the investigations show that no direct parasitic action of the
mycelium is recognisable ; the rudimentary haustoria do not injure the
cell-contents, nor even pierce the cell-walls.    Injury results indirectly,
however,    because the well developed mycelium      deprives the leaves   of
light, air, &c., and blocks up the stomata.
I II.  " Note on a Discovery, as yet unpublished, by the late           Pro
       fessor F.  M. Balfour, concerning the Existence of a Blasto
       pore, and on the Origin of the Mesoblast in the Embryo of
       Peripatiis Capensis."     By Professor MOSelEY. F.R.S., and
       Adam Sedgwick, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Cam
       bridge. Received December 4, 1882.
    The late Professor F. M. Balfour left a considerable amount of
material, both in the form of drawings and MSS., which he had
intended to employ in the publication of a monograph on the anatomy
and development of the members of the genus Peripatns, together with
an account of all known species.       The portions relating to anatomy
and development have been prepared for the press, and will in the
course of some months appear in the
                                            "
                                              Quarterly Journal of Micro
                    " in full but as some of the
scopical Science             ;                        embryological results
are of especial interest and of general morphological importance, -

1882.]            On  the  Embryo  of Peripatus Capensis.             391
has been considered more expedient that these should at once be
communicated to the Royal Society in the present note.
   The Blastopore. — Balfour left no manuscript account or notes of his
discovery in connexion with the drawings which he prepared in order
to illustrate it, but he spoke about it to Professor Ray Lankester and
also to us, and he further gave a short account of the matter in a
private letter to Professor Kleinenberg, from which, by the courtesy
of that distinguished embryologist, the following extract is made : —
   " There is
               (in the early embryo of Peripatus capensis) along the whole
ventral surface a groove which leads into the alimentary canal, and,
as shown in sections, the walls of the alimentary canal give off pouches
like those in Amphioxus, which form the mesoblastic somites. The
hypoblast cells are large and filled with yolk, but the alimentary canal
has a clear lumen.       I  have not yet got earlier stages, and the next
later stages only differ from that described in the fact that the
groove-like blastopore is closed and the mesoblastic somites are more
numerous, while two widely separated thickenings of the epiblast
constitute the first rudiments of the ventral nerve-cords."
   The drawings left by Balfour in connexion with the above remark
able discoveries are four in number : one of the entire embryo, show
ing the slit-like blastopore and the pouch-like outgrowths of the
archenteron, the other three depicting the transverse sections of the
same embryo.
   The first drawing, viz., that of the whole embryo, shows an embryo
 of an oval shape, possessing six somites, whilst along the middle of its
ventral surface there are two slit-like openings, lying parallel to the
long axis of the body, and placed one behind the other. The meso
blastic outgrowths are arranged bilaterally in pairs, six on either
side of these slits. The following note in his handwriting is attached
to this drawing : —
   " Young larva of Peripatus capensis.        I could not make out for
certain which was the anterior end. Length l-34 millims."
   One of these openings is much longer than the other, and they
present the appearance of having been once part of a single continuous
slit, running nearly the whole length of the embryo. Balfour's own
statement in the above letter, and two other embryos, which we have
fonnd among his material, prove that such is the case. These em
bryos, both taken from the uterus of the same female, are of two
ages, but both are younger than that from which Balfour's drawing
was made.       The youngest is -7 millim. in length and possesses three
somites and a continuous slit extending along nearly the whole length
of its ventral surface. The older one is -86 millim. in length and
possesses five somites. In this embryo the side walls of the middle
portion of the slit have come together, preparatory to the fusion,
which will almost immediately divide it into two parts. These two
    vol. xxxiv.                                               2 D

 392                 On  tfie Embryo    of Peripatus Capensis.         [Dec. 14.
 embryos have been drawn by Miss Balfour, and will be             figured in the
 first part of the forthcoming memoir above referred to.
    Origin of     the Mesoblast. — Balfour's    three remaining drawings are,
 as already stated, representations       of transverse sections of the embryo
 figured by him as a whole.             They show that, as he stated in the
 letter quoted, the mesoblast originates as a series of paired outgrowths
 from the hypoblast, and that these outgrowths are formed near the
junction of. the hypoblast with the epiblast at the lips of the blasto
 pore.     The mesoblast can be seen in the actual sections to have the
 form of paired sacs, the cells forming which pass continuously unto
 those of the hypoblast. One of them distinctly shows that at the
 stage with six somites, communications exist between the cavity of
 the mesenteron and that of the mesoblastic somites, and there is no
need for us to enlarge upon the importance of these facts.                 Their
close bearing upon some of the most important problems of morphology
will be apparent to all, and we may, with advantage, quote here some
                                   " Comparative Embryology," which show
passages from Balfour's
that he himself long ago had anticipated and in a sense predicted
 their discovery.
    " Although the mesoblastic groove of insects is not a gastrnla, it is
quite possible that it is the rudiment of a blastopore, the gastrnla
corresponding to which has now vanished from development."
                                                                         " Com
parative Embryology," vol. 1, p. '678.
    " Tbacheata. — Insccta. It
                                      (the mesoblast) grows inwards from the
 lips  of  the  germinal groove,     which  probably represents the remains of
a blastopore."        " Comparative Embryology," vol. 2, p. 291.
    " It is, therefore,
                           highly probable that the paired ingrowths of the
 mesoblast from the lips of the blastopore may have been, in the first
 instance, derived from a pair of archenteric diverticula."          " Compara
tive Embryology," vol. 2, p. 294.
    They were discovered in June last, only a short time before he
 started for Switzerland ; we know but little of the new ideas which
 they called up in his mind. We can only point to passages in his
 published works which seem to indicate the direction which his specu
 lations would have taken.
    " In the first
                     place it is to be noted that the above speculations render
 it probable that the type of nervous system from which that found in
 the adults of the Echinodermata, Platyelminthes, Chaetopoda, Mol-
 lusca, &c., is derived, was a circumoral ring, like that of Medusa',
 with which radially-arranged sense-organs may have been connected ;
 .   .   .    .  Its anterior part may have given rise to supra-oesophageal
 ganglia     and  organs of vision ; these being developed on the assump
 tion of a bilaterally symmetrical form, and the consequent necessity
 arising for the sense-organs to be situated at the anterior end of the
body.       If this view is correct, the question presents itself as to how

    1882.]        On  the Refraction   of Plane Polarised Light.         393
   far the posterior part of the nervous system of the Bilateralia can be
   regarded as derived from the primitive radiate ring.
       " A circumoral
                         nerve-ring, if longitudinally extended, might give
   rise to a pair of nerve-cords united in front and behind, — exactly such
  -a nervous system, in fact, as is present in many Nemertines (the
   Enopla and Pelagonemertes), in Peripatus and in primitive mol-
   lnscan types (Chiton, Fissurella, &c.). From the lateral parts of
   this ring it would be easy to derive the ventral cord of the Chsetopoda
  and Arthropoda. It is especially deserving of notice, in connexion
  with the nervous system of the above-mentioned             Nemertines and
  Peripatus, that the commissure connecting the two nerve-cords
  behind is placed on the dorsal side of the intestines. As is at once
 -obvious, by referring to the diagram (fig. 231 B), this is the position
  this commissure ought, undoubtedly, to occupy if derived from part
  of a nerve-ring which originally followed more or less closely the
 -ciliated edge of the body of the supposed radiate ancestor."        " Com
  parative Embryology," vol. 2, pp. 311, 312.
      The facts of development here recorded give a strong additional
  support to this latter view, and seem to render possible a considerable
'extension of it along the same lines.
 IV. "On       the Refraction     of Plane Polarised Light at the Surface
          of a Uniaxal Crystal. II." By R. T. Glazebrook, M.A.,
          F.R.S., fFellow and Lecturer of Trinity College, Demon
          strator in the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge.          Received
          December 4, 1882.
      A  paper of mine bearing the above title was read before the Royal
 Society in November, 1881, and has since been printed in the " Phil.
 Trans.," Part II, 1882. An abstract appeared in the " Proc. Roy.
 Soc.," No. 216, 1881.
      While continuing with the same apparatus a series of measurements
of similar nature, which have occupied me for the greater portion of
 the present year, I have jnst discovered a source of error which had
 hitherto escaped my notice, and which seriously affects all the results
I     have arrived at.     I have been using     a spectrometer  made   many
years since by Grubb, of Dublin, for the late Dr. Robinson, of
Armagh, and kindly lent to me by Professor Stokes.
      A chance   observation has showed me that the object-glasses of both
'collimator and telescope in this instrument are strongly doubly
 refracting.
      If  plane polarised light fall on either, the emergent beam is ellip
                                                              2 d 2

 394           On    the  Refraction of Plane Polarised Light.        [Dec. H,
 tically polarised.      The defect is most marked with the object-glass o;
 the collimator.      If  it be looked at between crossed Nicols in a pencil
of parallel rays the field of view is bright, and is traversed by two
 brushes, hyperbolic in form, which for two positions of the lens
 become two straight lines, cutting each other at right angles.
    If, again, plane polarised light be allowed to pass through the lens,
 and only the central part of the lens examined, while it is turned round
 its own axis   I find that for four positions of the lens at right angles to
 each other the emergent beam is quenched by a Nicol placed with -s
 principal plane at right angles to that of the polarising Nicol, the
 emergent light is plane polarised ; but for all other positions of the
 lens the light is not quenched, but reduced to a minimum ; the emer
gent beam is elliptically polarised, and the principal plane of the
analysing Nicol is then (according to Fresuel's supposition) parallel
to the minor axis of the elliptic vibration.          Moreover, the position
of this minor axis, as the lens is rotated, changes by about 25'.
    Now, in the experiments described in my paper, it was supposed
 that plane polarised light, polarised in a known plane, fell on a
certain prism of Iceland spar.
    These recent experiments have shown me that the light was not
plane polarised, and that even if we suppose the vibration along
the minor axis of the ellipse to be so small that it may be neglec8d
 in our theoretical calculations,       still the vibration along the major
axis will differ considerably in direction from that of the plane
 polarised beam incident on the lens, while the angle between this
major axis and the direction of vibration of the original beam will
depend on the position of certain lines in the lens relatively to the
plane of polarisation of the incident beam, and will vary as this
position changes.
    Moreover, the errors produced for two positions of this plane of
polarisation differing by 90° will be the same in amount but opposite in
sign, and this was the case in my experiments.           It is certain that this
defect must modify seriously the results of my experiments, it mar
possibly reduce to nothing the differences recorded in my paper be
tween the electro-magnetic theory of light and experiment.
    I have found, moreover, that the defect is a common one w-h
lenses.    Most of those I have tested since I observed it, some ten or
twelve in number, show it to some extent.          In none, however, is it so
marked as in the one I have         had the misfortune to use continnonslr
during the past two and a halt' years in experiments on polarised
light, all of which are affected by it.          I am now endeavouring to
procure a lens suitable for my purpose free from the defect, with the
intention of repeating the experiments, and hope at some future time
to lay my results before the Royal Society.

                                     Presents.                              39, >
1882.]
                          Presents, November 16, 1882.
-Transactions.
   Basel : — Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen.            Theil  VII.
         Heft  1.    8vo.   Basel 1882.                            The Society.
   Cherbourg — Societe Nationale des Sciences Naturelles. Memoires.
                 :
         Tome XXIII. , 8vo. Paris et Cherbourg 1881.               The Society.
    Devonshire : — The Devonshire Association.           Report and Transac
         tions. Vol. XIV (Crediton).          8vo. Plymouth 1882.
                                                              The Association.
              —
   London: Institution of Civil Engineers. Minutes of Proceedings.
         Vols. LXVIII-LXX and Subject Index I-LVIII. 8vo. London
         1881-82.                                              The Institution.
      Iron and Steel Institute. Journal. No. 1. 1882. 8vo. London.
                                                                  The Institute.
      Royal College of Surgeons.         Descriptive Catalogue of the Patho
         logical Specimens     contained    in the Museum. Second edition.
         By Sir James Paget, Bart., F.R.S. Vol. I. General Pathology.
         8vo.    London 1882. Calendar, 1882. 8vo.                 The College.
                 —
    Melbourne : Public Library of Victoria.          Catalogue of the Library.
         2 vols.    8vo.   Melbourne 1880.
                                        The Trustees per the Agent- General.
    Paris: —Association Francaise. Compte Rendu.             Sessions 9° et  10e.
         8vo. Paris 1880-81.                                  The Association.
    Utrecht :-— Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap.           Geschiedenis   van
         de  Kerspelkerk van St. Jacob te Utrecht, door Th. H. F. Van
         Riemsdijk.      4to.  Leiden 1882.                        The Society.
    -Washington:    — Smithsonian     Institution.    Bureau    of  Ethnology.
         First Annual Report. 1879-80. 4to. Washington 1881.
                                                               The Institution.
                   —
    Wellington : New Zealand Institute.            Transactions and Proceed
         ings.    1881.   Vol. XIV. 8vo. Wellington.             The Institute.
                  —
    Yokohama : Asiatic Society of Japan.              Transactions. Vol. X.
         Part 1. 8vo. Yokohama 1882.                               The Society.
    Calcutta : — Meteorological Office, India.         Indian Meteorological
         Memoirs. Vol. 1. 4to.           Calcutta 1876-81.      Meteorological
         Observations recorded at six Stations in India.             Title and
         Introduction, 1880. May to November, 1881. 4to. The Office.

396                              Presents.                        [Nov.   15,
Observations   and Reports.
    Survey    of India.   General Report.       1880-81.     4to.   Calcutta
       1882.                                                   The Survey.
  Cambridge : — University Library.       Annual Report of the Library
       Syndicate to the Senate.     June, 1882. 4to.         The Librarian.
  Ghristiania:  — Den Norske Nordhavs-Expedition (1876-78). Me
       moirs IV and V.     4to.   Ghristiania 1882.
             The Norwegian Government per the Editorial Committee.
  Greenwich : — Royal Observatory. Observations. 1880. 4to. Londm
       1882.    Astronomical Results.       1880.   4to.   Magnetical and
       Meteorological Observations.     1880. 4to. London 1882.       Spec
       troscopic and Photographic Results, 1881. 4to.
                                                          The Observatory.
            —
  London : Meteorological Office. Meteorological Charts for the Ocean
       District adjacent to the Cape of Good Hope. Oblong. London
       1882. Remarks explanatory of the Charts. 4to. London 1882.
       Report on the Gales experienced in the Ocean District adjacent
       to the Cape of Good Hope.          By Captain H. Toynbee. 4to.
       London 1882. Quarterly Weather Report. New Series. Part I.
       January to March, 1876. 4to. London 1881. Meteorological
       Observations   at Stations of the Second Order.          1879.    4to.
       London 1882. Contributions to our Knowledge of the Meteor
       ology of the Arctic Regions. Part III. 4to. London 1882.
       Hourly Readings at the Seven Observatories.         December, 1880.
       4to.   Report on the Storm of October, 13-14, 1881. 8vo.
       London 1882.                                              The Office.
         —
  Paris : Depot de la Marine. Pilote de la Manche. Cotes Sud et
       S.-O. d'Angleterre. 8vo. Paris 1881. Mer du Nord. Partie 4*.
       De Dunkerque jusqu'au Cap Skagen.          8vo. Paris 1881. Trait*
       d'Hydrographie.     Leve   et   Construction des Cartes Marines.
       Par A. Germain. 8vo. Paris 1882. Tables. 8vo.                  Pari*
       1882.    Annuaires des Courants de Maree de la Manche, 18S2.
       12mo. Paris 1882.      Annuaire des Marees des Cotes de France,
       1856, 1872, 1874, 1883.         12mo.    Paris 1855-82. Annates
        Hydrographiques.    2e  Serie.   1"  Semestre,   1882.  8vo. Pari*:
       Also, 26 Charts.                                         The Depot.
Alnwick Castle. A descriptive Catalogue of Antiquities, chiefly British,
    at Alnwick Castle.       Printed for Private Distribution.          4to.
    Neu-castle-upon-Tyne    1880.      Catalogue of the Collection of
    Egyptian Antiquities at Alnwick Castle. By S. Birch, LL.D.
    Printed for Private Distribution.      4to.   London 1880.
                                           The Duke of Northumberland.

1882.]                              Presents.                              397
Bristowe (John Syer) M.D., F.R.S. A Treatise on the Theory and
     Practice of Medicine. Fourth Edition.          8vo.   London 1882.
                                                                 The Author.
Quain (Jones), M.D. Elements of Anatomy. Ninth Edition. 2 vols.
      8vo.    London 1882.                       Messrs. Longmans and Co.
Quain (Richard),        M.D., F.R.S.    A  Dictionary of Medicine. 8vo.
      London 1882.                               Messrs. Longmans and Co.
Raimondi (A.) El Departamento de Ancachs y sus Riquezas Minerales.
      4to. Lima, Peru. 1873. El Peru. Tomo II. Historia de la Geo-
      grafia del Peru. Libro I. 4to. Lima 1876.             Colonel Almonte.
Romanes (George J.), F.R.S. Animal Intelligence.                8vo.   London
      1882.                                                      The Author.
Tidy (C. Meymott),
                "        M.B. Legal Medicine. Part I. 8vo. London
      1882.                                                       The Author.
White (W. H.) A Manual of Naval Architecture.                Second Edition.
      8vo.    London 1882.                                        The Author.
 Wilson (Sir Erasmus), F.R.S.           The Egypt of the Past. Second
      Edition. 8vo. London 1882.                                 The Author.
Woodward (Professor C. M.) A History         *
                                               of the St. Louis Bridge. 4to.
      St.  Louis  1881.                                       Mr. J. B. Eads.
                         Presents, November 23, 1882.
Transactions.
   Baltimore : — Johns Hopkins University.           Circular No. 17. 4to.
         Baltimore 1882.      Studies from     the Biological      Laboratory.
        Vol. II. No. 3. 8vo. Baltimore 1882.                  The University.
      Medical and Chirurgical Faculty of the State of Maryland. Trans
         actions.    84th Session. 8vo. Baltimore 1882.          The Faculty.
      Peabody Institute.      Fifteenth  Annual    Report.   8vo.    Baltimore
         1882.
   Berlin: — K.P. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Abhandlungen.              Ih80,
         1881.    4to.  Berlin 1881-1882. Sitzungsberichte 18-38. 8vo
         Berlin 1882. Politische Correspondenz Friedrich'i des Grossen.
         Band VIII. 4to. Berlin 1882. C. G. J. Jacobi's Gesammelte
        Werke.      Band II. Herausg. von K. Weierstrass auf Veran
        lassung    der K. P. Akademie. 4to. Berlin 1882. The Academy.
      Physikalische Gesellschaft. Die Fortschritte der Physik. Jahrg.
        33. Abth. 1-3.        8vo. Berlin 1881-2.                The Society.
               —
   Berwick: Berwickshire Naturalists' Club. Proceedings. Vol. IX.
        No. 3. 8vo.                                                 The Club

398                               Presents.                        [Nov. 23,
Transactions (continued).
  Breslau: — Schlesische      Gesellschaft fUr vaterlandische         Cultur.
        Jahresberichte 51, 52, 56, 59. 8vo.        Breslau 1874-82.
                                                               The Society.
  Briinn : — Naturforschender Verein. Verhandlnngen. Band XTX.
        8vo.   Briinn 1881.                                      The Union.
  Dublin : — Royal      Irish Academy. Transactions. Vol. XXVIII.
        Science.    Nos. 6-10.      4to.  Dublin 1881-82.      Proceedings.
        Science. Ser. 2. Vol. III. Nos. 7, 8. Polite Literature.       Ser. 2.
       Vol. II. No. 3. 8vo. Dublin 1881-82.                  The Academy.
  Easthourne : — Natural History Society. Transactions. New Series.
        Vol. I. Part 2. 8vo. Eastbourne 1882.                  The Society.
  Edinburgh    : — Scottish    Meteorological Society. Journal.         New
       Series. Nos. 64-69. 8vo. Edinburgh and London           The Society.
  Essex : — Epping Forest and County of Essex Naturalists' Field
       Club.     Transactions. Vol. II. Part 6.        8vo. Buckhurst Hill
       1882.                                                      The Club.
  Glasgow : — Philosophical Society. Proceedings. Vol. XIII. No. 2.
       8vo. Glasgow 1882.                                      The Society.
  Hertfordshire : — Natural History       Society.   Transactions.   Vol. I.
       Parts 8, 9. 8vo. Hertford 1882.                         The Society.
  Leeds : — Philosophical     and Literary  "   Society.
                                                       *   Annual    Report.
       1881-82. 8vo. Leeds 1882.                               The Society.
  London: — Anthropological Institute. Journal. Vol. XII. Nos. 1, 2.
       8vo. London 1882.                                      The Institute.
    British Museum. List of Hymenoptera. Vol. I. Tenthredirudae
       and Siricidae.      By W. F. Kirby. 8vo.        London 1882.     Cata
       logue of Additions to    the  MSS. 1876-1881. 8vo. London 1882.
       Catalogue of Oriental Coins. Vol. VII. 8to. London 1882.
                                                              The Trustees.
     Entomological Society. Transactions. 1882. Parts 2, 3. 8vo.
        London.                                                The Society.
     Geological    Society.   Quarterly   Journal.    Nos.  150,  151.   8vo.
        London.                                                The Society.
     Linnean Society. Transactions. Vol. II. Parts 4, 5. 4to. London
       1882.     Journal. Zoology. Vol. XVI. Nos. 93-95. Botany.
       Vol. XIX. Nos. 120-121. 8vo. London 1882.
                                                               The Society.
     Mathematical Society. Proceedings.        Nos.  184-190. 8vo. List of
        Members.     8vo.                                      The Society.
     Meteorological Society.      Quarterly Journal. Nos. 42, 43. 8fo.
       London 1882. The Meteorological Record. Nos. 4, 5. 8vo.
        London 1882.                                           The Society.
     Mineralogical Society. Mineralogical Magazine. Vol. V. No. 22.
         8vo. London 1882.                                     The Society.

 1882.]                             Presents.                           399
                        «
 Transactions (continued').
      Musical Association. Proceedings. 1881-2. 8vo. London 1882 .
                                                          The Association.
      Physical, Society. Proceedings. Vol. V. Part 1. 8vo. London 1882.
                                                               The Society.
      Royal Agricultural Society. Journal. No. 36. 8vo. London.
                                                               The Society.
      Royal Asiatic Society. Journal.         Vol. XIV. Parts 3, 4. 8vo.
         London 1882.                                         The Society.
Observations and Reports.
   Adelaide : — Observatory. Meteorological Observations, 1879. 4to.
         Adelaide 1881.                                  The Observatory.
   Berar : — Report on the Census, 1881. 4to. Bombay 1882.
                                               The Deputy Superintendent.
   Brisbane : — Registrar-General's Office.      Sixth Census of Queens
        land, 1881. 4to. Brisbane 1882.
           The Registrar-General of Queensland per the Agent-General.
Journals.
   Geologist. 1842. 8vo. London 1842.                      Mr. W. Topley.
   New York Medical Journal. Vol. XXXV. No. 6. Vol. XXXVI.
        Nos. 1-4. 8vo. New York 1882.                           The Editor.
     Van Nostrand's Engineering Magazine. Vol. XXVII. Nos. 1-5.
        8vo. New York.                                          The Editor.
Buller   (W. L.), F.R.S.     Manual of the Birds of New Zealand.       8vo.
     New Zealand 1882.                                         The Author.
Kent (W. Saville)       A  Manual of the Infusoria. Part 6. 8vo. London
     1882.                                                    The Author.
Mueller   (P. von), P.R.S.   Fragmenta,  Phytographiae Australia}. Vol. XI.
     8vo. Melbourne 1878-81.                                   The Author.
Owen (Prof. R.), F.R.S. Experimental Physiology : its benefits to
     Mankind.       8vo. London 1882.                          The Author.
                          Presents, December 7,
Transactions.
   Jena: — Medicinisch - naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft.         Zeit-
        schrift. Band XV. Heft 4. 8vo. Jena 1882. Sitzungsberichte,
        1881.   8vo. Jena 1881.                               The Society.

400                               Presents.                            [Dec.   7,
Transactions (continued).
  Leipzig : — Astronomische Gesellschaf t. Publication XVI. Syzgien-
        Tafeln fur den Mond. 4to. Leipzig 1881. Vierteljahrsschrift.
        Jahrg. XVII. Hefte 3, 4. 8vo. Leipzig 1882.               The Society.
     Naturforschende Gesellschaft.        Sitzungsberichte, 1881. 870.
                                                                  The Society.
   Liege: — Societe Geologique.      Annates.      Tome    VIII.    8vo. Liege
        1880- 82.                                                 The Society.
  London: — East India Association.         Journal.    Vol. XTV. Nos. 3,4.
        8vo. London 1882.                                    The Association.
      Royal Astronomical Society.         Monthly*     Notices.    Vol. XLII.
        Nos. 7-9. 8vo. London 1882.                               The Society.
      Royal Geographical Society. Supplementary'             Papers. Vol. I.
        Part   1.  8vo.   London 1882.                            The Society.
      Royal Institute    of British Architects.       Transactions. 1881-82.
        4to.    London 1882.      Proceedings, 1881-82.           Nos. 16-19.
        1882-83. Nos. 1, 2. 4to.     List of Members. 4to.
                                                                The Institute.
      Royal Institution.       Proceedings.      Vol. IX. Part 5.           8vo.
        London 1882. Weekly Meetings. Jan. 27. Feb. 10. Mar. 3, 10r
        13, 24, 31.   May 5, 19. June 9. 8vo. London 1882. List of
        Members. 1882. 8vo. Catalogue of the Library. Vol. II.
        1857-82.    8vo.                                      The Institution.
      Royal Microscopical Society.         Journal.     Vol. II. Parts 3-5.
         8vo.  London   1882.                                     The Society.
      Royal Society of Literature.      Transactions. Vol. XII. Part 3.
        8vo. London.                                              The Society.
      Royal United Service Institution. Journal. Nos. 116, 117. 8vo.
        London 1882.                                          The Institution.
      Sanitary Institute of Great Britain.           Transactions.     Vol. III.
         1881- 82. 8vo.    London  1882.                        The   Institute.
      Society of Biblical Archaeology.           Transactions.      Vol. VII.
        Part 3. 8vo. London 1882.                                  The Society.
      Society of Chemical Industry.          Journal.    Vol. 1. Nos. 5-11.
         4to. London 1882.                                         The Society.
      Statistical Society.     Journal.      Vol. XLV. Parts 2, 3. 8to.
         London 18b2.                                              The Society.
      University College,    London.    Calendar    1882-83.   (2 copies.)  8vo.
         London 1882.                                              The College.
      Victoria Institute.     Journal   of   the Transactions.      Vol. XVI.
         No. 62. 8vo. Lo7idon 1882.                              The Institute.
      Zoological Society.       Transactions.      Vol.  XI.     Part   7.   4to.
         London 1882. Proceedings. 1882. Parte 1-3. Index 1871-80.
         8vo. London.     List of Fellows, 1882. 8vo.              The Society.
   Lund: — Universitet.        Acta    Universitatis.      Tom. XIV-XVII.

 1882.]                            Presents.                               401
Transactions (continued) .
        Math.-Nat. och Phil.-Hist.         4to.  Lund 1877-81.      Festskrift
        till K. Universitetet i Kopenbamn. 4to. Lund 1879. Uni-
        versitets-Biblioteks.    Accessions-Katalog.      1878-81.    8vo.
                                                              The University.
      Kongl. Fysiografiska Sallskapet. Minneskrift.          4to. Lund 1878.
                                                                 The Society.
                             —
   Newcastle-upon-Tyne : North of England Institute of Mining and
        Mechanical Engineers.        Transactions. Vol. XXXI. 8vo. New
        castle-upon-Tyne 1882.                                  The Institute.
   Plymouth    : — Plymouth    Institution.     Annuel   Report and Trans
        actions.    Vol. VIII. Part 1. 8vo. Plymouth 1882.
                                                             The Institution.
                      —
   St. Petersburg : Académie Impenale des Sciences. Memoires.
        Tome XXX. Nos. 3-8.           4to. St. Petersbourg 1882. Bulletin.
        Tome XXVIII.        No. 2. 4to.      Neue Reduction der Bradley'-
        schen Beobachtungen. 1750-62. Von A. Auwers.                 Band II.
        4to. St. Petersbourg 1882.      Tableau General des Publications.
        Supplement I. 8vo. St. Petersbourg 1882.               The Academy.
   Vienna: — K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Denkschriften. Math.-
        Nat. Classe.    Band XLIII, XLIV.          Phil.-Hist Classe. Band
        XXXII. 4to. Wien 1882. Sitzungsberichte. Math.-Nat.
        Classe.     Erste Abth.       Band LXXXIII.          Heft 5.     Band
        LXXXrV Hefte 1-5. Zweite Abth. Band LXXXIII.
        Heft 5. BandLXXXIV. Hefte 1-5. BandLXXXV. Hefte 1, 2.
        8vo. Wien 1881-82. Dritte Abth. Band LXXXIII. Hefte 3-5.
        Band LXXXIV. Hefte 1-5. 8vo. Wien 1881-82. Phil.-Hist.
        Classe.    Band XCVIII. Heft 3. Band XCIX. Hefte 1, 2.
        8vo. Wien 1881-82.      Anzeiger.     Jahrg. 1882. Nrs. 14-22.
                                                               The Academy.
               —
  Warwick : Warwickshire Naturalists' and Archaeologists'                Field
        Club. Report.    1881.  (2 copies.)   8vo.  Warwick.       The Club.
Observations and Reports.
  Christiania : — Den Norske Nordhavs Expedition.              1876-78. Nos.
        VI, VII. Holothurioidea and Annelida. 4to. Christiania 1882.
                                                   The Editorial Committee.
     Norwegische Commission der Europa'ischen Gradmessung. Geo-
        datische    Arbeiten. Hefte      1-3. 4to. Christiania 1880-82.
        Vandstandsobservationer. Heft 1. 4to. Christiania 1882.
                                                                 The Survey.
  Copenhagen :    —  Commissionen     for Ledelsen af de Geologiske og

402                               Presents.                      [Dec.  14,
Observations, Ac. (continued).
         Geographiske Undersögelser i Grönland.        Meddel elser. Hefte
         1-3. 8vo. Kjöbenhavn 1879-81.                   The Commission.
             —
   London : Admiralty.         The Nautical Almanac for 1886. 8vo.
         London 1882.                                      The Admiralty.
      Army Medical Department. Report for 1880. Vol. XXII. 8to.
         London 1882.                                     The War Office.
      Local Government Board. Report, 1880-81 : Supplement on
         Use and Influence of Hospitals for Infectious Diseases. 8vo.
         London 1882.                                          The Board.
      Meteorological Office. Quarterly      Weather   Report,  1879.    Ap
         pendices and Plates. 4to. London 1882.         Hourly Readings,
         1881. Part 1. 4to. London 1882.                        The Office.
      St. Bartholomew's Hospital.         Statistical Tables, 1881. 8vo.
         London 1882.                                        The Hospital.
 Brasilia (Spiridion)      Fossile Binnen - Mollusken aus Dalmatien.
      Kroatien und Slavonien. 8vo. Agram 1874.                The Author.
 Édon (Georges) Écriture et Prononciation du Latin savant et dn
      Latin populaire. 8vo. Paris 1882.
                                    The Author, per the French Embassy.
 Ensor (Edward John)         Chronological Chart, synchronistically and
      ethnographically arranged. (Two copies, folded and rolled.)
      folio. London.                                          The Author.
.Johnstrup     (F.) Gieseckes Mineralogiske Rejse i Grönland. 8vo.
      Kjöbenhavn.                                             The Author.
 Loomis (Élia3)     Mémoires de Metéorologie Dynamique.            Traduits
      de l'Anglais par M. H. Brocard. 8vo. Paris 1880.
                                                        M. PAbbé Moigno.
                        Presents, December 14, 1882.
 Transactions.
   Batavia: — Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen.                Ver
         handelingen. Deel XXXTX. Stuk         2.   XLI. Stuk  1-3.   XLII.
         Stuk 1. XLIII.     4to.   Batavia 1880-81. Tabel van Oud- en
         Nieuw- Indische Alphabetten. 8vo. Batavia 1882. Notulen.
         Deel XVUI, XIX. 8vo. Batavia 1880-82. Tijdschrift voor
         Indische Taal-, Land -, en Volkenkunde.      Deel XXVI. Aflev.
         2-6. Deel XXVII. Aflev. 1-5. 8vo. Batavia 1880-81. Bealia.
         Register op de Generale Resolutiën van het Kasteel Batavia.
         1632-1805. Deel 1. 4to. Leiden 1882.                 The Society.

1882.]                           Presents.
Transactions (continued).
  Calcutta : — Geological Survey of India.         Palaeontologia     Indica.
        Ser. 10. Vol. II. Parts 1-3. 4to. Calcutta 1881-82. Memoirs.
        Vol. XIX.      Part 1. Records. Vol. XV. Parts 2, 3. 8vo.
        Calcutta 1882.                                          The Survey.
   Indian Museum. Catalogue of Mammalia. Part 1. 8vo. Calcutta
        1881.                                                 The Museum.
                         —
   Cambridge (Mass.) : Harvard Museum of Comparative Zoology.
        Memoirs. Vol. VII. No. 2. Part 2. 4to. Cambridge 1882.
        Bulletin. Vol. X. No. 1. 8vo. Cambridge 1882.
                                                               The Museum.
      Harvard College Observatory. Statement of Work done, 1877-82.
        8vo. Cambridge 1882.                              The Observatory.
             —
   Catania : Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali. Atti. Serie 3.
        Tomo XVI. 4to.        Catania 1882.                  The Academy.
   Cincinnati : — Ohio Mechanics' Institute.      Scientific Proceedings.
        Vol. I. No. 3. 8vo. Cincinnati, Ohio.                 The Institute.
   Danzig : — Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Schriften.          Neue Folge.
        Band V. Heft 3. 8vo. Danzig 1882.                       The Society.
   Edinburgh: — Royal Physical Society.       Proceedings, 1880-81. 8vo.
        Edinburgh 1881.                                         The Society.
   Geneva : — Institut National Genevois.       Bulletin.     Tome XXIV.
        8vo.    Geneve 1882.                                  The Institute.
   Gloucester : — Cotteswold Naturalists' Field Club.           Proceedings.
        1881-82. 8vo. Gloucester.                                  The Club.
   Goteborg   : — K. Vetenskaps  och  Vitterhets Samhalle.       Handlingar.
        Haftet XVII. 8vo. Goteborg 1882.                        The Society.
   Graz : —Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fiir Steiermark. Mitthei-
         lungen. Jahrg. 1881. 8vo. Graz 1882.                     The Union.
           —
   Japan : Seismological Society.      Transactions. Vols. I-IV. 8vo.
                                           The Society, per Mr. J. Milne.
             —
   London: Institution of Mechanical Engineers. Proceedings, 1882.
        Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. London.                             The Institution.
      Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society.           Transactions.     Vol.
        LXV. 8vo. London 1882. Proceedings. Vol. IX, No. 4. 8vo.
                                                                The Society.
      Society of Antiquaries.     Proceedings.   2nd    Series.    Vol. VIII.
        No. 5. 8vo. London.     List of Fellows. 1882. 8vo.
                                                                The Society.
           —
    Lyon : Académic dcs Sciences, Belles-Lettres, et Arts. Memoires.
        Classe des Sciences. Vol. XXV. Classe des Lettres. Vol. XX.
        Table des Matieres, 1845-81. 8vo. Lyon 1881-82.
                                                              The Academy.
      Societe d' Agriculture.   Annales.    Serie 5.     Tome III.      1880.
        8vo. Lyon 1881.                                         The Society.

 404                                  Presents.                          [Dec.  14.
 Transactions {continued).
      Societe d' Anthropologic.        Bnlletin.     Tome   I.  8vo. I/yon 1882.
                                                                      The Society.
      Societe Linneenne.        Annales. Tome       XXVIII.     8vo.  Lyon 1882.
                                                                      The Society.
   Vienna : — K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt.                     Abhandlnngen.
         Band VII. Heft 6. nnd Band X. 4to. Wien 1882. Jahrbuch.
         Band XXXII. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. Wien 1882. Verhandlnngen.
         1832.      Nos. 8-11. 8vo.                               The Institntioo.
'Observations and Reports.
   Washington : — Commission on the Transit of Venns.                 Instructions
         for the use of the Observing Parties. 4to. Washington 1882.
                                                    The Secretary of the Navy.
      U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey. Report of the Superintendent,
         1878. 4to. Washington 1881.             Ditto, 1858. 4to. Washington
         1859.                                              The Superintendent.
      U. S. Naval Observatory. Observations, 1877. 4to. Washington
        1881.                                               The Superintendent.
     Office   of   the  Chief  Signal   Officer.    Professional   Papers of the
         Signal Service.      No. 1. Report on the Solar Eclipse of Joly,
        1878.    4to.  Washington 1881.       No. 2. Isothermal Lines of the
        United States, 1871-80. 4to. Washington 1881. No. 3. Chrono
        logical List of Auroras, 1870-79. 4to. Washington 1881. No. 4.
        Tornadoes of May 29 and 30, 1879. 4to. Washington 1881.
        No. 5. Construction and Maintenance of Time-balls.                     4to.
        Washington 1881.         No. 6. Reduction of Air-pressure.             4t«.
        Washington 1882.        No. 7. Character of Six Hundred Torna
        does. 4to. Washington 1882.          Annual Report. 8vo. Washington
       1880.                                           The Chief Signal Office.
     Surgeon-    General's    Office.   Index      Catalogue to the Library.
       Vol. III. 4to. Washington 1882.                    The Surgeon-General.
  Wellington     : —  Colonial  Museum.       Manual     of   the Birds of New
       Zealand. 8vo. Wellington 1882. Sixteenth Annual Report.
       8vo. Wellington 1882.                                        The Museum.
  Westminster:       — Free Libraries.    Annual Report. 8vo. 1881.
                                                             The Commissioners.
Moodie (D. C. P.).        The Ethnology of the Zulus of Soath-Eastern
    Africa. [From the Victorian Review.]                             The Author.
Mueller (Baron Ferdinand von), F.R.S.                  Address to the Rural
     Section of the Social Science Congress, Melbourne, on the Deve
    lopment of Rural Industries.          8vo.                       The Author.

                                   CONTENTS (continued).
                                        November 23, 1882.
                                                                                       PAGE
   I.   Monthly Means of the Highest and Lowest Diurnal Temperatures of the
            Water of the Thames, and Comparison with the corresponding Tempe
            ratures of the Air at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich.            By Sir
            Geobge BrDDEll Aibt, K.C.B., F.R.S., late Astronomer Royal .             .  276
 II.    Experimental Determinations of Magnetic Susceptibility and of Maximum
            Magnetisation in Absolute Measure.         By R. Shida, Thomson Experi
            mental Scholar, University,    Glasgow                                      285
 III.    On Abel's Theorem and Abelian Functions.            By A. R. FobjjYTH, B.A.,
          - Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, • Professor      of Mathematics in
            University College, Liverpool        .     .   .    .     .    .    .    .  288
IV.     Note on the Recent and Coming Total Solar Eclipses.             By J. Noemaij
           Lockyeb, F.R.S                                                            .  291
                                        November 80, 1882.
                                   ANNIVERSARY MEETING.
Report of Auditors                                                                      301
List of Fellows        deceased since last Anniversary                                  301
                      elected    .    .     .    .     .   .    .     .    .    .    .302
Address of the President                                                                302
Presentation       of the Medals                                                         327
Election of Council and Officers                                                         330
Financial Statement                                                               331—333
Trust Funds          .     .    .     .                                           334—337
Account of the appropriation of the sum of £4,000 (the Government Grant)
        annually voted by Parliament to the Royal Society, to be employed in
       aiding the Advancement of Science                                                338
 Account of Grants from the Donation Fund                                               341
 Report of the Kew Committee                                                            313
                                         December 7, 1882.
    I. On      the Alterations of the Excitability of the Sensory Nerves of Man by
             the Passage of a Galvanic Current. By A. Wallbb, M.D., and A. »o
           Wattbville, M.A., B.Sc                                                        366
    II.  Preliminary Notice of an Investigation into the Coagulation of tho Peri
            visceral Fluid of the Sea-Urchin.      By E. A. Schafeb, F.E.S.     .    .  370
  III.   Preliminary Note on the Structure, Development, and Affinities of Pho-
           ronis. By W. H. Caldwell, B.A., Caius College, Cambridge, Demon
           strator of Zoology                                              .    .    .   371

                             CONTENTS           (continued).
                                    December 14, 1882.
                                                                                    PAGE
   I. The Development of Senilla.      By Edmund B. -Wilson, Ph.D.          .     .   394
  II. On the Morphology and the Development of the Perithecium of Meliola,
        a Genus of Tropical Epiphyllous Fungi. By H. Mabshall Wabd,
        B.A., Fellow of Owens College, Victoria University ; late Cryptogamist
       'to the Ceylon Government                                                      888
                                  ..........
III.  Note on a Discovery, as yet unpublished, by the late Professor F.        II.
        Balfour, concerning the Existence of a Blastopore, and on the Origin
        of the Mesoblast in the Embryo of Peripatus Capemis.         By Professor
        Mosblbt, F.R.S., and Adam Sedgwick, M.A, Fellow of Trinity
         College, Cambridge                                                           390
IV. On    the Refraction of Plane 'Polarised   Light at the Surface of a Uniaxal
         Crystal.  II.   By  R.  T.   Glazebbook,      M.A., F.R.S., Fellow and
         Lecturer of Trinity College, Demonstrator in the Cavendish Laboratory,
         Cambridge                                                                     393
List  of Presents                                                                      395
Obituary Notices    :—
    Sib Jakes Aldeebon                                                           .       ti
    Chables Ansell                                                                       vii
    Dbcimtts   Bubton                                                                   viii
    Right Hon.     Sib- James Colvile                                                     x
    Db. Geoeoe Dickie                                                                    xii
    Ronald Campbell Gunn                                                                xiii
    John Scott Russell                                                                   xv
    Colonel J. T. Smith                                                                 xvi
                                Now published.      Price is.
     CATALOGUE        OF THE SCIENTIFIC BOOKS IN THE                 LIBRARY OF
                                THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
  Fibst Section : — Containing     Transactions, Journals, Observations and Reports,
                                     Surveys, Museums.
                  GOVERNMENT GRANT OP £4000
            FOR THE PROMOTION               OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH.
 A Meeting of the Government-Grant Committee will be held in April, 1883. It
 is requested that applications to be considered at that Meeting be forwarded to
 the Secretaries of the Royal Society, Burlington House, before the 31st of March
 next.
         HARRISON        AND SONS,     45 & 46,    ST.  MARTINS LANE, W.C.,
                                  AND   ALL oOOKSELLEoS.

                          PROCEEDINGS OF
              THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
vol. xxxiv.                          ,'nvar    'B'   -                       No. 223.
                                      CONTENTS.
                                    December 21, 1882.
                                                                                     PAGB
   L   On the Normal Paraffins.     Part  IV.  By C. Sciioklemmek, F.R.S., and
         T. E. Thohpb, F.R.S.          .                                              405
  II.  On the Connexion between the State of the Sun's Surface and the
         Horizontal Intensity of the Earth's Magnetism.             By Balfoto
         Stewabt, F.R.S                                                                400
 III.  On a Method of Photographing the Solar Corona without          an Eclipse.
         By "William Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S                                    409
 IV. On    the Bark Plane which is formed over a Heated Wire in Dusty Air.
         By Lohd Ravleigh, F.R.S., Professor of Experimental Physics in the
                                                                ....
         University of Cambridge            .     .                                    414
   V. On the Origin of the Hydrocarbon Flame        Spectrum. By Or. D. Livkino,
         M.A , F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry,      and J. Dewab, M.A., F.R.S.,
         Jacksonian Professor, University of Cambridge                                 418
 VI. On    the Inversion   of the Blastodermic Layers in the Rat and Mouse.    By
         Alexandeb FbAseb, M.B.,         &c., Owens College, Manchester    .      .   430
VII.   On the Electric Discharge with the Chloride of Silver Battery. By
         Waeeen De La Rue, M.A., D.C.L., F.R.S., and Hroo Mullek,
         Ph.D., F.R.S                                                        .     .   437
                                       January  11, 18S3.
    I. Experiments, by the Method of Lorentz, for the further Determination
         of the Absolute A'alue of the British Association Unit of Resistance,
         with an Appendix on the Determination of the Pitch of a Standard
         Tuning-Fork.     By Loed Rayleigh, F.R.S. , Professorof Experimental
         Physics in the University of Cambridge, and Mits. H. SlD8WICK            .   438
                For, continuation of Contents   see ith page of Wrapper.
                        Price Four Shillings and Sixpence.

        PHILOSOPHICAL                            TKANSACTIONS.
                                     Part  II,  1882.
                                       Contents.
 VII.   On the Structure    and Development       of Lepidosteus.   By F. M. Balko.
          LL.D., F.R.S.,  and W. N. Pabkeb.
VIII.  On the Development of the Skull in Lepidosteus             osseus.   By Wniux
          Kitchen Pabkeb, F.R.S.
  IX. On   the Vibrations of a Vortex Ring, and the Action upon each other of Tto
          Vortice9 in a Perfect Fluid.    By  J. J. Thomson, B.A.
   X. The Bakebian Lectube. — Chemical Theory of Gunpowder.                 By BT. Dun.
          Ph.D., F.R.S.
  XI. On    the Effraction of Plane Polarized       Light  at the Surface of a Unisi-l
          Crystal.   By R. T. Glazebbook, M.A.
 XII.  On the Results of Recent Explorations of Erect Trees containing Animal
          Remains in the Coal-formation        of Nova Scotia. By       J.  W. Dawscw,
          LL.D., F.R.S.
 XIII.  Experiments to Determine the Value of the British Association Unit of         Re
          sistance in Absolute Measure.      By Lord Ratleigh, F.R.S.
 XIV.   On the Comparative Structure        of the Brain in Rodents.       By W.   Betas
          Le.wis, L.R.C 2. (Lond.).
Index  to Part  II.
                                        Price £2.
Extra volume (vol.    168) containing  the Reports of the Naturalists attached to     the
                       Transit of Venus Expeditions.      Price £3.
                              Sold by Harrison and Sons.
Separate copies of Papers in the Philosophical Transactions, commencing with        1875,
                   may be had of Triibner and Co., 57, Ludgato HilL

  1882.]                  On  the  Normal Paraffins.                   405
 Muybridge (Eadweard)         Attitudes of Animals in Motion.     Arranged
       in slips for the Zoetrope.                              The Author.
Oppelt (Gustave)         Navigation Aerienne par les Ballons — Systeme
       Oppelt. 870. Brnxelles 1882.                            The Author.
 Portrait of the Rev. Claries Turnor, Compiler of the " Collectanea
       Newtoniana."     Also a Medal, formerly      belonging to the same
       Rev. Charles Turnor.                          Mr. Anthony Hanmer.
                              December   21, 1882.
                      THE PRESIDENT in          the Chair.
    The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for
 them.
    The following Papers were read : —
 I. " On   the Normal Paraffins.        Part IV." By C. Schorlemmer,
        F.R.S., and T. E. Thorpe, F.R.S. Received December 5,
        1882.
                                   (Abstract.)
    This communication contains the results of an inquiry made to
determine the constitution of the heptane which one of them found in
 the resinous exudation from Pinus Sabiniana. The pure heptane was
converted into a mixture of chlorides, and these were transformed into
 the corresponding primary and secondary alcohols.         The alcohol wits
 then oxidised, and from the analysis of the silver salts it was proved
that Pinus heptane had yielded primary hoptyl alcohol and methyl-
pentyl-carbinol, exactly as in the case of heptane from petroleum.
    A second portion of the chlorides was converted into heptylene,
boiling at 98'5°, which, unlike the hexylene of analogous constitution,
combines only slowly with hydrochloric acid. The heptylene by
oxidation was shown to be butyl-methyl -ethylene, C4H9CH=CH.CH:» ;
it had been formed from the secondary heptyl chloride —
                          CjHg — CHj — CHCI.CH3.
    The results of the investigation afford further evidence of the fact
that when chlorine acts upon a normal paraffin, not all the chlorides
indicated by theory are formed, but only the primary chloride, and a
secondary chloride, which contains the group — CHC1.CH3.
    vol. xx xiv.                                              2 E

40G                            Prof. B. Stewart.                 [Dec.   21,
II.       " On the Connexion between the State of the Sun's Surface
           and the Horizontal Intensity of the Earth's Magnetism."
           By Balfoub Stewabt, F.R.S.        Received December 6,
           1882.
     1. The late John Allan Broun, in a paper published in the " Trans
actions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh " (vol. xxii, Part 3), has
compared together the daily changes of the earth's horizontal magnetic
force at the four stations —Makerstoun (Scotland),             Trevandrum
(India), Singapore, and Hobarton, and has come to the following
conclusions : —
    (1.) The daily mean horizontal force increases at the same time at
all the stations, and diminishes at the same time at all the stations.
    (2.) The proportional amounts of increase and diminution at the
stations are not very different from each other.
    (3.) If this holds for all the points of the earth's surface, we may
infer that the intensity of the magnetism of the whole earth is vari
able, increasing, or diminishing from day to day.
    2. It is easy to see that the selection by Broun of the horizontal
force component in preference to the vertical force or the declination
was a happy choice.      For since the magnetic system of the earth has
two pairs of force-foci, one pair of which     is,perhaps, chiefly affected
by   transient  changes, the variations of declination at different stations
might not possess that uniformity which those of horizontal force
might be expected to exhibit       ; and in like manner the changes of
vertical force might have opposite signs at opposite sides of the
equator of the variable magnetic system.
    On the other hand, at all stations in ordinary latitudes the hori
zontal force might be expected to increase or diminish at the same
 time, and nearly in the same proportion, whether the cause of this
change were due to only one of the two magnetic systems, or whether
it   were shared by both.
      3.Assuming, therefore,
                           as the most probable conclusion that these
changes of horizontal force represent changes in the intensity of the
magnetism of the whole earth, let us now endeavour to ascertain
whether they depend in any way on the state of the sun's surface.
   In order to determine this point.      I have taken the daily means
given by   Broun  for the four stations above mentioned.
   These are for the years 1844 and 1845, the unit being the same
fraction of the horizontal force for each station.     The next step has
been to take the mean of these four daily means, and to assume that
this represents approximately at least the value from day to day of
the relative intensity of the magnetism of the earth.

 1882.]              On       the   Suns Surface and       the    Earth's Magnetism.                               407
   Here it is necessary to remark that the indications recorded by
 Broun are those of a differential instrument (the Bifilar), which is
not well adapted for recording long-period variations of the horizontal
component in a trustworthy manner ; but             on the other hand,          is,
admirably   suited for short-period  variations. As       with this latter             it   is
species of change we have now to deal, we may therefore trust without
hesitation to the instrumental records given by Broun.
      The state of the sun's surface as regards spotted area for the
      4.
years 1844 and 1845, will be found in an appendix to the Report of
the Solar Physics Committee.          The information there given                                                    is
derived from Schwabe's sun pictures, and the whole amount of spotted
area for each observation day       expressed in millionths of the sun's
                                                   is
visible hemisphere.
      The value of the comparison of these two records, terrestrial
      5.
and solar,   lessened by the fact that in the four observatories Sunday
                     is
was always a blank day, while bad weather caused the catalogue of
Hofrath Schwabe to present many blank days, and even groups of
days, during which    would be hazardous to estimate the spotted area
                                      it
by interpolation.
  The comparison has been made in the following manner.         The
various days exhibiting a maximum    of horizontal force have been
taken as central epochs and compared  with two days before and two
days after, and this comparison has been extended to sun-spots, as
well as to magnetic force. The method will be seen from the follow
ing specimen.
                                       Horizontal force.                                    Sun-spots area.
Central date. .. . (1)   (2)    (3)    (+)    (5)                          ..         (1)   (2)   (3)       (t)   (5)
Jan.     1841 . 12 -41 15 -47 16 -25 13 22 (13 -48)
           4,        .                                                     .
                                                                           .      (81)       30   36         0      0   ]
  „ 16, „ .. 15 -06 16 -76 17 -02 15 -75 15 '18                            ..         210   150 210 (202)         (195)
April      24, 1844 .         18 -53 18 11 19 68 14 77     9     -88       ..     480 420 516               396   390
  „        28,   „       .     9-88   12 67 15-47 15-01    13 85           ..     390 594 420               270   270
  From what wo have said,      will be inferred that the central dates
                                                it
represent the dates of (3), whether for horizontal force or sun-spots.
The method     analogous to that adopted by Professor Loomis, when
                         is
comparing together sun-spots and disturbances.
  A  comparison precisely similar was next made for days of magnetic
minima.
  6.  The following results have been obtained from this comparison.
  For magnetic maxima there were in all 69 cases in which the com
parison was reasonably good, while for magnetic minima there were
49 such cases.
  The mean of these                    is   expressed as follows       —
                                                                       :
                                                                                              2   e     2

408       On   the   Suns Surface and        the  Eartlis Magnetism.           [Dec.    21,
                        Table   I. — Horizontal Force Maxima.
Horizontal force      = a constant quantity  plus
   the following expression, the unit being
    one hundred-thousandth         of the whole          Spotted area in mulionths of    the
    horizontal force, increasing numbers de-                  sun's visible hemisphere,
    noting increasing force.
  (1)         (2)         (3)        (4)      (5)   ..    (1)     (2)     (3)    (4)    (5)
.311    1   321    6    339 5      316 5    303 3    . .  341    354      356   305     284
             Table    II. — Horizontal     Force Minima (unita as above.)
   (1)        (2)         (3)        (4)      (5)         (1)     (2)     (3)    (4)    (5)
322 -6      306 4       275   G    298   1  309 '8  . .  310     253      267   271     284
     7.  It will at once be seen from these results that high values of                 the
 horizontal force correspond to large sun-spot areas, and low values to
small sun-spot areas. Thus the mean value of the horizontal force for
 the first or maximum series is 318-4, while for the second or minimum

1882.]      Photographing   the Solar Corona without an Eclipse.      409
series  it is 302-5. Again, the mean sun-spot value for the first series
is 328, while for the second series it is 277. A difference in mean
spotted area of 51 millioDths of the visible disk would therefore
appear to correspond to a difference in terrestrial magnetic intensity
equal to 15-9 hundred thousandths of the whole.            The results of
Tables    I and II are exhibited graphically in the diagram.
    8. If we refer to this diagram we shall see that the appearance of
the curves representing magnetic change is very similar to that of the
curves representing solar change, but that the epoch of maximum
or minimum for the latter slightly precedes the corresponding epoch
for the former.
    The magnetic means recorded by Broun, from which these results
have been derived, are for the Gottingen astronomical day (0h. to
23 h.), while the sun-spot observations were made by Schwabe and
 Dessau, at times not far distant from noon (0 h.). Had the two sets of
carves, terrestrial and solar, marched exactly together, we might thus
 have inferred that in reality the terrestrial (corresponding to 12
 hours), was behind the solar (corresponding to times not far distant
 from 0 h.).     Bnt in addition to this, the curves denote a decided
 precedence of the solar over the terrestrial.         There is thus con
 siderable evidence in favour of a lagging behind on the part of the
 terrestrial results, and hence in this respect these magnetic pheno
 mena of very short period form no exception to other magnetic
 phenomena, such as those connected with daily range, which exhibit a
 lagging behind the corresponding solar changes in a very un
  mistakable manner.
  III.  " On a Method of Photographing the Solar Corona without
        an Eclipse."    By William Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S.
        Received December 13, 1882.
     Problems of the highest interest in the physics of our sun are
  connected, doubtless, with the varying forms which the coronal light
  is known to assume, but these would seem to admit of solution only
  on the condition of its being possible to study the corona continuously,
  and so to be able to confront its changes with the other variable
                                           " Unless some means be found,"
  phenomena which the sun presents.
                                  "
  says Professor C. A. Young,       for bringing out the structures round
  the sun which are hidden by the glare of our atmosphere, the progress
  of our knowledge must be very slow, for the corona is visible only about
  eight days in a century, in the aggregate, and then only over narrow
  stripes on the earth's surface, and but from one to five minutes at a
  time by any one observer."*
                              • " The Sun," p. 239.

410                Dr. W. Huggins.           On a Method      of          [Dec. 21.
   The spectroscopic method of viewing the solar prominences fails,
because a large part of the coronal light gives a continuous spectrum.
The successful photograph of the spectrum of the corona taken in
Egypt, with an instrument provided with a slit, under the super
intendence of Professor Schuster during the solar eclipse of May 17,
 1882, shows that the coronal light as a whole, that is the part whicli
gives a continuous spectrum, as well as the other part of the light
 which may be resolved into bright lines, is very strong in the region
of the spectrum extending from about G to H. It appeared to me.
therefore, very probable that by making exclusive use of this portion
of the spectrum it might be possible under certain conditions, about to
be described, to photograph the corona without an eclipse.
                             I
   In the years 1866-68 tried screens of coloured glasses and other
absorptive media, by which       I  was able to isolate certain portions of
the spectrum, with the hope of seeing directly, without the use of the
prism, the solar prominences.*        I was unsuccessful, for the reason that
I was not able by any glasses or other media to isolate so very
restricted a portion of the spectrum as is represented by a bright line.
This cause of unsuitableness of this method for the prominences,
which give bright lines only, recommends it as very promising for the
corona.    If by screens of coloured glass or other absorptive media the
region of the spectrum between G and H could be isolated, then
the coronal light which is here very strong would have to contend only
with a similar range of refrangibility of the light scattered from the
terrestrial atmosphere.      It appeared to me by no means improbable
that under these conditions the corona would be able so far to hold its
own against the atmospheric glare, that the parts of the sky imme
diately about the sun where the corona was present would be in
a sensible degree brighter than the adjoining parts where the
atmospheric light alone was present.           It was obvious, however, that
in our climate and low down on the earth's surface, even with the aid
of suitable screens, the addition of the coronal light behind would be
able to increase but in a very small degree the illumination of the
sky at those places where it was present.              There was also a serious
drawback from the circumstance that although this region of the
spectrum falls just within the range of vision, the sensitiveness of the
eye for very small differences of illumination in this region near its limit
of power is much less than in more favourable parts of the spectrum ;
at least such is the case with my own eyes.             There was also another
consideration of importance ; the corona is an object of very complex
form, and full of details depending on small differences of illumina
tion, so that even if it could be glimpsed by the eye, it could scarcely
be expected that observations of a sufficiently precise character could
            * " Monthly Notices," vol. xxvui, p. 88, and vol. xxix, p. 1.

  1882.]    Photographing   the Solar Corona without an Eclipse.      411
 be made to permit of the detection of the more ordinary changes
 which are doubtlessly taking place in it.
     These considerations induced me not to attempt eye-observations,
 but from the first to use photography, which possesses extreme sensi
 tiveness in the discrimination of minute differences of illumination,
 and also the enormous advantage of furnishing a permanent record
 from an instantaneous* exposure of the most complex forms. I have
 satisfied myself by some laboratory experiments that under suitable
 conditions of exposure and development a photographic plate can be
 made to record minute differences of illumination existing in different
 parts of a bright object, such as a sheet of drawing paper, which are
 so subtile as to be at the very limit of the power of recognition of a
 trained eye, and even, as it appeared to me, those which surpass that
 limit.
     My first attempts   at photographing   the corona were made     with
 photographic lenses, but uncertainty as to the state of correction of
 their chromatic aberration for this part of the spectrum, as well as
 some other probable sources of error which     I wished to avoid, led me
 to make use of a reflecting telescope of the Newtonian form. The
 telescope is by Short, with speculum of 6 inches diameter, and about
 Z\ feet focal length. A small photographic camera was fastened on
 the side of the telescope tube, and the image of the sun after reflection
 by the small plane speculum was brought to focus on the ground glass.
 The absorptive media were placed immediately in front of the sensitive
 film, as in that position they would produce the least optical distur
 bance.    Before the end of the telescope was fixed a shutter of adjust
 able rapidity which reduced the aperture to 3 inches.          This was
 connected with the telescope tube by a short tube of black velvet for
 the purpose of preventing vibrations from the moving shutter reaching
 the telescope.   On account of the shortness of the exposures it was
 not necessary to give motion to the telescope.
    It was now necessary to find an absorptive medium which would
 limit the light received by the plate to tho portion of the spectrum
 from about G to H. There is a violet (pot) glass made, which prac
 tically does this.  I had a number of pieces of this glass ground and
 polished on the surfaces.       Three or four of these could be used
 together, castor-oil being placed between the pieces to diminish the
reflection of light at their surfaces.    Some inconvenience was found
from small imperfections within the glass, and it would be desirable
in any future experiments to have a larger supply of this glass, from
which more perfect pieces might be selected.
    In my later experiments I used a strong and newly made solution
of potassic permanganate, in a glass cell with carefully polished sides.
This may be considered as restricting the light to the desired range of
wave-length, since light transmitted by this substance in tho less

 412               Dr. W. Huggins.           On a Method    of      [Dec. 21r
refrangible parts of the spectrum does not affect the photographic
plates.
   Different times of exposure were given, from so short an exposure
that the sun itself was rightly exposed, to much more prolonged
 exposures, in which not only the sun itself was photographically
reversed, but also the part of the plates extending for a little distance
from the sun's limb.
   Gelatine plates were used, which were backed with a solution of
asphalt um in benzole.
   After some trials    I satisfied myself that an appearance peculiarly
coronal   in its outline and character was to be seen in all the plates.
I was, however, very desirous of trying some modifications of the
method described with the hope of obtaining a photographic image of
the corona of greater distinctness, in consequence of being in more
marked contrast with the atmospheric illumination.
   Our climate is very uupropitious for such observations, as very few
intervals, even of short duration, occur in which the atmospheric
glare immediately about the sun is not very great.            Under these cir
cumstances     I think it is advisable to describe the results          I   have
obtained without further delay.
   The investigation was commenced at the end of May of this year, and
the photographs were obtained between June and September 28th.
    The plates which were successful are twenty in number.                In all
these the coronal form appears to be present.           This appearance does
not consist simply of increased photographic action immediately about
the sun, but of distinct coronal forms and rays admitting in the best
plates of measurement and drawing from them.                This agreement in
plates taken on different days     with different absorptive media interposed,,
and with the sun in different parts of the field, together with other
necessary precautions observed, makes it evident that we have not to
 do with any instrumental effect.
    The plates taken with very short exposures show the inner corona
only, but its outline can be distinctly traced when the plates are
 examined under suitable          illumination.     When the exposure was
increased, the inner corona is lost in the outer corona, which shows
 the distinctly curved rays and rifts peculiar to it.
   In the plates which were exposed for a longer time, not only the
sun but the corona also is photographically reversed, and in these
plates, having the appearance of a positive, the white reversed
portion of the corona is more readily distinguished and followed in its
irregularly sinuous outline than is the case in those plates where the
sun only is reversed, and the corona appears, as in a negative, dark.
   Professor Stokes was kind enough to allow me to send the originals
to Cambridge for his examination, and          I have his permission to give
                                        I
the following words from a letter received from him : " The appear

 1         Photographing   the Solar Corona urithout an Eclipse.      413
   882.]
ance is certainly very corona-like, and       I am disposed to think it
probable that it is really dne to the corona."          Professor Stokes's
opinion was formed from the appearance on the plates alone, and
without any knowledge of their orientation.
    I have since been allowed, through the kindness of Captain Abney,
to compare my plates with those taken of the corona in Egypt during
the eclipse of May last. Though the corona is undergoing doubtless
continual changes, there is reason to believe that the main features
would not have suffered much alteration between May 17th and
September 28th, when the last of my plates was taken.           This com
parison seems to leave   no  doubt   that the object photographed on my
plate is the corona.      The more prominent features of the outer
corona correspond in form and general orientation, and the inner
corona, which is more uniform in height and definite in outline, is
also very similar in my plates to its appearance in those taken during
the eclipse.
    Measures of the average height of the outer and of the inner corona
in relation to the diameter of the sun's image are the same in the
eclipse plates as they are in my plates taken here.
    There remains little doubt that by the method described in this
paper, under better conditions of climate, and especially at consider
able elevations, the corona may be successfully photographed from
day to day with a definiteness which would allow of the study of the
changes which are doubtlessly always going on in it. By an adjust
ment of the times of exposure, the inner or the outer corona could be
obtained as might be desired.      It may be that by a somewhat greater
restriction of the range of refrangibility of the light which is allowed
to reach the plate, a still better result may be obtained.
    Plates might be prepared sensitive to a limited range of light, but
the rapid falling off of the coronal light about H would make it
undesirable to endeavour to do without an absorptive screen.        Lenses
properly corrected might be employed, but my experience shows that
excessive caution would have to be taken in respect of absolute clean
ness of the surfaces and of some other points.      There might be some
advantage in intercepting the direct light of the sun itself by placing
an opaque disk of the size of the sun's image upon the front surface of
 the absorptive screen.    Though for the reasons    I have already stated
 I  did not attempt eye-observations, there seems no reason why with
suitable screens and under suitable atmospheric conditions the corona
 should not be studied directly by the eye.        There might be some
advantages    in supplementing   the   photographic records by direct eye-
observations.     I regret that the very few occasions on which it has
been possible to observe the sun has put it out of my power to make
further experiments in these and some other obvious directions.

414                    Lord Rayleigh.              On the Bark Plane                  [Dec.   21,
                   Postscript. — Received December 15, 1882.
      I
     have Captain Abney's permission to add the following letter this
                          " A careful examination of your series of
day received from him.
sun-photographs, taken with absorbing media, convinces me that your
claim to having secured photographs of the corona with an uneelipsed
sun,      is   fully established.       A   of your photographs with
                                            comparison
those obtained during the eclipse which took place in May last, shows
not only that the general features are the same, but also that details,
such as rifts and streamers, havo the same position and form.     If in
your case the coronal appearances be due to instrumental canses, I
take it that the eclipse photographs are equally untrustworthy, and
that my lens and your reflector have the same optical defects. \
think that evidence by means of photography of the existence' of a
corona at all is as clearly shown in the one case as in the other." —
Bee. 15, 1882.]
IV.       " On the Dark Plane which is formed over a Heated Wire
          in Dusty Air." By Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Professor of
          Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge.
          Received December 8, 1882.
  In   the course of his examination of atmospheric dust as rendered
evident by a convergent beam from the electric arc, Professor Tyndall
noticed the formation of streams of dust-free air rising from the
summits of moderately heated solid bodies.*          " To study this effect a
platinum wire was stretched across the beam, the two ends of the
wire being connected with the two poles of a galvanic battery.              To
regulate the strength of the current a rheostat was placed in the
circuit. Beginning with a feeble current, the temperature of the wire
was gradually augmented ; but before it reached the heat of ignition,
a flat stream of air rose from           which, when looked at edgeways,
                                             it,
appeared    darker  and  sharper  than  one of the blackest lines of Frann-
hofer in the solar spectrum.       Right and left of this dark vertical band
the floating matter rose upwards, bounding definitely the non-luminons
stream of air."
   "When the wire          white hot,
                              is          sends up a band of intense dark
                                                 it
ness. This,      say,
                 I      due to the destruction of the floating matter. Bat
                         is
even  when   its  temperature does not exceed that of boiling water, the
wire produces a dark ascending current. This,             say,    due to the
                                                                     I           is
distribution of the floating matter.      Imagine the wire clasped by the
mote- filled air. My idea      thatis  heats the air and lightens it, without
                                            it
                              " Proc.
                                      Roy. Inst.," vol.
                          *                               6,   p.   3,   1870.

1882.]         which is formed over a Heated Wire in Dusty                  Air.   415
in    thesame degree lightening the floating matter.      The tendency,
therefore, is to start a current of clean air through the mote-filled air.
Figure the motion of the air all round the wire. Looking at its trans
verse section, we should see the air at the bottom of the wire hending
round it right and left in two branch currents, ascending its sides, and
turning to fill the partial vacuum created above the wire. Now as
each new supply of air, filled with its motes, comes in contact with
the hot wire, the clean air, as just stated, is first started through the
inert motes. They are dragged after                it,
                                                but there      a fringe of
                                                                       is
cleansed air in advance of the motes. The two purified fringes of the
two branch currents unite above the wire, and, keeping the motes that
once belonged to them right and left, they form by their union the
dark band observed in the experiment.       This process   incessant.   is
Always the moment the mote-filled air touches the wire, the distribu
tion   effected, a permanent dark band being thus produced.
          is                                                   Could
the air and the particles under the wire pass through its mass, we
should have a vertical current of particles, but no dark band. For
here, though the motes would be left behind at starting, they would
hotly follow the ascending current, and thus abolish the darkness."
   Professor Frankland,* on the other hand, considers that what                     is
proved by the above described observations        that " very large pro
                                                         is        a
portion of the suspended particles in the London atmosphere consists
of water and other volatile liquid or solid matter."
   Last summer (1881)     I  repeated and extended Tyndall's beautiful
experiment, not feeling satisfied with the explanation of the dark plane
given by the discoverer. Too much stress, it appeared to me, placed           is
upon the relative lightening of the air by heat. The original density
is probably not more than about TTrV Par* of *na* of
                                          o                 particles, and
it difficult to see how a slight further lightening could produce so
     is
much effect. In other respects, too, the explanation was not clear to
me. At the same time         I  was not prepared to accept Professor
Frankland's view that the foreign matter       volatilised.
                                                   is
   The atmosphere of smoke was confined within a box (of about the
size of a cigar-box), three of the vertical sides of which were com
posed of plates of glass.        A beam of sunlight reflected into the
darkened room from a heliostat was rendered convergent by a large lens
of somewhat long focus, and made to pass in its concentrated condition
through the box. The third glass side allowed the observer to see
what was going on inside.       It could bo removed when desired so as
to facilitate the introduction of smoke.     The advantages of the box
are twofold.    With its aid much thicker smoke may be used than
would be convenient in an open room, and              more easy to avoid
                                                         it   is
draughts which interfere greatly with the regularity of the phenomena
to be observed.     Smouldering brown paper was generally used to
                      * " Proc. Rov. Soc.," toI.   25, p. 542.

416               Lord Rayleigh.       On the Bark Plane         [Dec, 21,
produce the smoke, but other sabstances, such as sulphur and phos
phorus, have been tried. The experiment was not commenced until
the smoke was completely formed, and had come nearly to rest. In
some respects the most striking results were obtained from a copper
blade, about j-inch broad, formed by hammering flat one end of a
stout copper rod. The plane of the blade was horizontal, and its
length was in the line of sight. The unhammered end of the rod
projected from the box, and could be warmed with a spirit-lamp.
The dark plane was well developed.          At a moderate distance above
the blade it is narrow, sometimes so narrow as almost to render neces
sary a magnifying glass ; but below, where it attaches itself to the
blade, it widens out to the full width, as shown in the figure. Whether
 the heated body be a thin blade or a cylindrical rod, the fluid passes
round the obstacle according to the electrical law of flow, the stream
lines in the rear of the obstacle being of the same form as in front of
i t.   This peculiarity of behaviour is due to the origin of the motion
 being at the obstacle itself, especially at its hinder surface.       If a
stream be formed by other means, and impinge upon the same
obstacle without a difference of temperature,         the motion is of a
different character altogether, and eddies are formed in the shadow.
     The difference of temperature necessary to initiate these motions
 with this dark plane accompaniment is insignificant.         On July 20,
 1881, a glass rod, about j-inch in diameter, was employed.         It was
 heated in a spirit-lamp, and then inserted in the smoke-box.           The
 dark plane gradually became thinner as the rod cooled, but could be
 lollowed with a magnifier for a long time.        While it was still quite
 distinct the experiment was stopped, and on opening the box the glass
 rod was found to be scarcely warmer than the fingers.       It was almost
 impossible to believe that the smoky matter had been evaporated.
     In order to test the matter more closely, smoke was slowly forced
 through a glass tube heated near the end pretty strongly by a spirit-
 lamp, and then allowed to emerge into the concentrated sunshine.
 No distinct attenuation of the smoke could be detected even under
 this treatment.
     It is not necessary to dwell further upon these considerations, as the
 question may be regarded as settled by a decisive experiment tried a
 few days later. The glass rod before used was cooled in a mixture of
 salt and ice, and after wiping was placed in the box.      In a short time

1882.]        which is formed over a Heated          Wire in Dusty Air.      417
a    dark plane, extending doumwards from the rod, clearly developed
itself and persisted for a long while. This result not merely shows
that the dark plane is not due to evaporation, but also excludes any
explanation depending upon an augmentation in the difference of
densities of fluid and foreign matter.
     The experiment was varied by using a U-tu^ei through which
cooled water could be made to flow.            When the water was not very
cold, the appearances were much the same as with the solid rod ; but
when, by means of salt and ice, the tube was cooled still further, a
curious complication presented itself. Along the borders of the dark
plane the smoke appeared considerably brighter                   than elsewhere.
 Sometimes when the flow was not very regular it looked at first as if
the dark plane had been replaced by a bright one, but on closer ex
amination the dark plane could be detected inside. There seems no
 doubt but that the effect is caused by condensation of moisture upon
the smoke, due to the chilling which the damp air undergoes in pass
 ing close to the cold obstacle.          Where the fog forms more light is
 scattered, hence the increased brightness.            That the fog should not
 form within the smoke-free           plane itself is what we might expect
 from the interesting observations of Aitken.
     With respect to the cause of the formation of the dark plane, the
 most natural view would seem to be that the relatively dense par
 ticles are thrown outwards by centrifugal force as the mixture flows
 in curved lines round the obstacle.          Even when the fluid is at rest, a
 gradual subsidence must take place under the action of gravity ; but
  this effect could at first only manifest itself at the top where the
  upper boundary of the gas prevents the entrance of more dust from
  above.    It is known that air in a closed space will gradually free
  itself from dust, but the observation of a thin dust-free stratum at
  the top of the vessel is difficult.         If we conceive a vessel full of
  dusty air to be set into rapid rotation, the dust might be expected to
  pass outwards in all directions from the axis, along which a dust-free
  line would form itself.        I have tried this experiment, but looking
  along the axis through      the  glass top of the vessel    I could see no sign
  of a dark line, so long as the rotation was uniform.           When, however,
  the vessel was stopped, a column of comparatively smoke-free                 air
  developed itself along the axis.       This   I attributed to the formation of
  an inward flow along the top of the vessel, combined with a down
   ward flow along the axis after the manner described and explained
   by Professor James Thomson, so that the purified air had been hi
   intimate proximity with the solid cover.         It would almost seem as if
   this kind of contact was sufficient to purify the air without the aid of
   centrifugal force.
      The experiments    made hitherto      in order to elucidate this question
    have given   no   decisive   result.   If  the thin convex blade already

     418                 Profs. G. D. Liveing and          J.  Dewar.        [Dec. 21,
     spoken     of be held in the smoke-box in a vertical instead of in a
     horizontal plane, the lines of motion are much less curved, and we
     might expect to eliminate the influence of centrifugal force.              I have
    not succeeded in this way in getting rid of the dark plane ; but since
    under the magnifier the curvature of the motion was still quite
    upparent, no absolute conclusion can be drawn.
    V. " On the Origin of the Hydrocarbon Flame Spectrum."                          By
            G. D. Liveing, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, and
            J. Dewar, M.A., F.R.S., Jacksonian Professor, University
            of Cambridge. Received December 14, 1882.
        In  previous communications* to the Society we have described the
   spectra of what we believe to be three compound substances, viz.,
   cyanogen, magnesium-hydrogen,              and water.
        In these investigations our chief aim has been to ascertain facts,
   and to avoid     as  far  as possible     adopting any special theory regarding
   the genesis of the spectra           in question.     Thus, in speaking of the
   magnesium-hydrogen spectrum,                 which   consists   of three sets of
   flutings closely resembling in character the flame spectrum of hydro
  carbons, wo remark : — " Wc have been careful to ascribe this line
  and its attendant series to a mixture of magnesium                   and hydrogen
  rather than to a chemical compound, because                this expresses the facts,
  and we have not yet obtained any independent evidence of the ex
  istence of any chemical compound of those elements."
       In dealing with the cyanogen spectrum, we sometimes refer to it as
  the " nitro-carbon spectrum," in order to convey that
                                                                            " we are
  dealing with a spectrum invariably associated with the presence of
  nitrogen and carbon, in such conditions that chemical union takes
  place."      Finally, in summing up our observations on the spectrum of
                              "
  v.'atcr, we remark : — In writing of this and other spectra which we
 have traced to be due to compounds, we abstain from speculating
 upon the particular molecular condition or stage of combination or
 decomposition which may give rise to such spectra."
      The difficulties we have met with in endeavouring exhaustively to
 clear up many apparently simple spectroscopic problems, on a basis of
 fact as opposed to theory, is further illustrated in the concluding
remarks of our paper entitled " Investigations on the Spectrum of
     •   " On the
                  Spectra of the Compounds of Carbon with Hydrogen and Jiitrogen."
 I and II. "Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 30, pp. 152, 494. "On the Spectrum of
Carbon," ib., vol. 33, p. 403.     " General Observations on the Spectrum of Carbon
and its Compounds," ib., vol. 34, p. 123. " On the Spectrum of Water," ib., to]. 30,
                                 "
p. 680, and vol. 33, p. 274.       Investigations on the Spectrum of Magnesium," ib.,
vol. 32, p. 189.

 1882.]     On the  Origin of the Hydrocarbon Flame Spectrum.        419
                                                          "
 Magnesium," wherein the following passage occurs: — The chemical
atoms of magnesium are either themselves capable of taking up a
great variety of vibrations, or are capable by mutual action on each
other, or on particles of matter of other kind, of giving rise to a
great variety of vibrations of the luminiferous ether; and to trace
satisfactorily the precise connexion between the occurrence of the
various vibrations and the circumstances under which they occur, will
 require yet an extended series of observations." (" Proc. Roy. Soc.,"
vol. 32, p. 203.)
   Specific spectra have been satisfactorily proved to emanate from the
compound molecules of cyanogen, water, and magnesium-hydrogen, so
far as we can interpret in the simplest way the many observations pre
viously detailed. The fact that a fluted spectrum is produced under
certain conditions, by a substance which does not give such a spectrum
under other conditions, is of itself a proof that the body has either
passed into an isomeric state or has formed some new compound ; but
we are not entitled to assert, without investigation, which of these two
reasonable explanations of the phenomena is the true one.       There is,
however, a spectrum to whieh we have had occasion to refer in the
papers on the spectra of the compounds of carbon, which closely
resembles that of a compound substance, and which we, in common
with some other spectroscopists, have been led to attribute to the
hydrocarbon acetylene, without, however, being able to bring forward
such rigid experimental proofs of its origin as we have adduced in
the case of the three substances above referred to. In other words,
the experimental evidence that the hydrocarbon flame spectrum is
really due to a hydrocarbon was always indirect.      Thus, we showed
that many flames containing carbon, such as those of hydrogen mixed
with bisulphide of carbon or carbonic oxide, and the flame of
cyanogen in air, did not give this spectrum, and these particular
flames are known, from the investigations of Berthelot, to be in
capable of generating acetylene under conditions producing incom
plete combnstion.     On the other hand, we found that a flame of
hydrogen mixed with chloroform, which easily generates acetylene,
gives the hydrocarbon flame spectrum in a very marked manner, and
it is known that the ordinary blow-pipe flame, in which the same
6pectrum is weil developed, contains this hydrocarbon.
   These and other experiments point to the intimate relation of
hydrogen and carbon in the combined form of acetylene to the pro
duction of this spectrum during combustion.      In our various observa
tions on the spectrum of the electric arc taken in different gases, the
flame spectrum was always noticed, and seemed to be independent of
the surrounding atmosphere.       In the mode in which those experi
ments were conducted, it was easily shown that the carbons were
never free from hydrogen, and that the gases always contained traces

420               Profs. G. D. Liveing and     J. Dewar.       [Dec.   21,
 of   aqueous   vapour.    Under these conditions acetylene is formed
 synthetically   during   the electric discharge, the line spectrum of
 hydrogen heing absent ; so that we were never convinced that the
 spectrum was not due to the former substance.
    It is well to remark in passing, that our previous work on the
 spectrum of the carbon compounds was mainly directed to that par
 ticular spectrum which is characteristic of the flame of cyanogen, and
 only indirectly to the flame spectrum of hydrocarbon.          We were
 further supported in connecting the latter spectrum with acetylene,
 by observing that cyanogen compounds are continuously formed when
 the arc discharge takes place in gases containing nitrogen, and that in
 all probability their formation is due, as Berthelot has shown, to a
 reaction taking place between acetylene and nitrogen. Berthelot is
 positive in his assertions that cyanogen is never formed by a direct,
combination between carbon and nitrogen, and that any such apparent
 combination is due to impure carbon, or to the presence of an imper
 fectly dried gas ; in other words, hydrogen is essential to the pro
 duction of cyanogen under such conditions according to the views of
 Berthelot.    Such considerations led us to suggest the following view,
expressed at the time the experiments      were made, as to the origin of
the hydrocarbon flame spectrum.
    " The mere presence of the latter spectrum feebly developed in the
electric discharge in compounds of carbon supposed to contain no
hydrogen, appears to us to weigh very little against the series of
observations which connect this spectrum directly with hydrocarbons."
 (" Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 30, p. 160.)
    " The arc in the middle of a
                                  magnesia crucible often shows no trace
of the hydrocarbon set, although the cyanogen are strong.        If, how
ever, puffs of air or carbonic acid are passed into the arc, the hydro
carbon lines are produced."
    " When the hydrocarbon spectrum is strong the brilliancy and
number of the cyanogen groups that are visible are undoubtedly in
creased, so that the one variety of vibrations seems to affect the other.
This is easily accounted for by the chemical interaction which takes
place between acetylene, nitrogen, and hydrocyanic acid.     The hydro
carbon spectrum is brought out at once in the magnesia crucibles by
moistening one of the poles. All such actions seem to show thaf
hydrogen is essentially connected with the production of this flutel
spectrum just as nitrogen is with the cyanogen series." {Ib., vol.
34, pp. 126, 127.)
    The fact that carbonic oxide, which is one of the most stable binary
compounds of carbon, forms a distinct spectrum of a character similar
to that of the flame spectrum, tended to support the view that the
flame spectrum might originate with acetylene.      The similarity in the
character of the magnesium-hydrogen spectrum to that of the hydro

1882.]      On the Origin     of the Hydrocarbon Flame Spectrum.             421
carbon flame spectrum        induced us to believe that they were due to
similarly constituted compounds, and inasmuch as we felt sure about
the accuracy of the view which assigns the former spectrum to some
compound of magnesium with hydrogen, we accepted the analogy in
favour of the supposition that acetylene is the substance which pro
duces the flame spectrum ; or, at any rate, that acetylene is a necessary
concomitant of the reaction taking place during its emission, and con
sequently might give rise to this peculiar spectrum.
   Having examined this question in the way described, we adopted
the view* of Angstrom and Thalen as to the genesis of this spectrum
in opposition to the views of Attfield, Morren, Watts, Lockyer, and
others, who held that this spectrum was really due to the vapour of
carbon.      The delicate character of the experiments which were
required to discover the origin of the peculiar set of flutings in the
more refrangible part of the spectrum of cyanogen made it apparent
that, whatever views as to the origin of the hydrocarbon flame
spectrum were adopted by different workers, experimental proof
was still wanting to show which was the correct one.               In referring
to the theory that carbon vapour is the cause of the peculiar spectrum
of cyanogen, we remarked : " Now, the evidence that carbon uncom-
bined can take the state of vapour at the temperature of the electric
arc is at present very imperfect.        Carbon shows at such temperatures
only incipient fusion, if so much as that, and that carbon nncombined
should be vaporised at the far lower temperature of the flame of
cyanogen is so incredible an hypothesis that it ought not to be
accepted if the phenomena admit of any other probable explanation."
(" Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 30, p. 506.)
   With the object of being able to exhaust this question, a special
study was subsequently made of the ultra-violet line spectrum of
carbon, in order to ascertain whether any of its lines could be found in
the spectra of the arc or flame. We have found that the ultra-violet
lines of metallic substances have as a rule the greatest emissive power,
and are often present when no trace of characteristic lines in the
visible part of the spectrum can be detected. If carbon resembled the
metals in this respect, then we might hope to find nltra-violet lines
belonging to its vapour, thus enabling us to detect the volatilisation of
   * This  view was first suggested by Plucker and Hittorf in the same paper in
which they published the theory of spectra of different orders. They write : — " It
appears doubtful that the different types depend solely upon temperature.    If so,
the temperature varying in the different parts of the ignited vapour of carbon,
different types may be seen simultaneously. We shall not now discuss the influence
which the coexistence of foreign gases might have on the spectra of the vapour of
carbon, nor may we here decide whether or not in the lower temperature of the
flame, a gaseous compound of carbon, not being entirely decomposed, exhibits with
the spectra of the vapour of carbon simultaneously the spectrum of the undecom-
posed gas."—" Phil. Trans., 1865." (Jan. 26, 1883.)
    VOL. XXXIV.                                                    2  I

  422              Profs. G. D. Liveing and      J. Dewar.       [Dec. 21,
  the substance at the relatively low temperatures of the arc and flame.
  The test experiments made on this hypothesis are recorded in the
 paper entitled
                  " General Observations on the Spectrum of Carbon     and
 its Compounds." It is there shown that some seven of the marked
 ultra-violet spark lines of carbon occur in the spectrum of the arc
 discharge, although one of the strongest lines, situated in the visihle
 portion of the spectrum at wave-length 4266, could not be found.
 Further, it is proved that the strongest ultra-violet line of carbon does
 occur in the spectrum of the flame of cyanogen fed with oxygen.
  Thus it seems probable that the same kind of carbon molecule exists,
 at least in part, in the arc and flame, as is found to be produced by the
 most powerful electric sparks, taken between carbon poles or in carbon
compounds.
    Now the spark gives ns the spectrum which is associated with the
highest temperatures, and therefore it is assumed that this spectrum
 is that of the simplest kind of carbon vapour. If that be the case, we
cannot avoid inferring that denser forms of carbon vapour may exist
in arc and flame, emitting, like other complex bodies, a fluted, in
contrast to a line, spectrum ; or rather that the two distinct kinds of
spectra may be superposed.       Such considerations showed that a series
of new experiments and observations must be made with the special
object of reaching a definite conclusion regarding the origin of the
flame spectrum, and the following paper contains a summary of the
results of such an inquiry.
                               Vacwus Tubes.
    We have heretofore laid little stress on observations of the spark in
vacuous    tubes on account of the great uncertainty as to the residual
gases which may be left in them.          The film of air and moisture
adherent to the glass, the gases occluded in the electrodes, and minute
quantities of hydrocarbons of high boiling-point introduced in sealing
the glass, may easily form a sensible percentage of the residue in the
exhausted tube, however pure the gas with which it was originally
filled. The excessive difficulty of removing the last traces of moisture
we learnt when making observations on the water spectrum, and the
almost invariable presence of hydrogen in vacuous tubes is doubtless
due in great measure to this cause.     Wesendouck (" Proc. Roy. Soc.,"
vol. 32, p. 380) has fully confirmed our observations as to this diffi
culty. By a method similar to that employed by him, we have, how
ever, succeeded in so far drying tubes and the gases introduced into
them that the hydrogen lines are not visible in the electric discharge.
For this purpose the (Pliicker) tube was sealed on one side to a tube
filled for some six or eight inches of its length with phosphoric anhy
dride throngh which the gas to be observed was passed, and on the
other side to a similar tube full of phosphoric anhydride, which was in

   1882.]       On   the Origin of   the Hydrocarbon     Flame Spectrum.         423
  turn connected by fusion to the (Sprengel) pump.               To dry the gas it
  is not enough to pass it through such a tube or even a much longer
  one full of phosphoric anhydride ; it has to be left in contact with the
  anhydride for several hours, and to get the adhering film of mois
  ture out of the tube it has to be heated after exhaustion, while con
  nected as above described with the drying tubes, up to the point at
  which the glass begins to soften, and kept at near this temperature for
  some time.        To get most of the gases out of the electrodes the tube
  must be exhausted and sparks passed through it for some time before
  it is finally filled with the gaa to be observed. Even when these pre
  cautions have been taken, the lines of hydrogen can often be detected
  in tubes filled with gases which should contain no hydrogen. The
  general result of our observations on the spectra observed in tubes
  so prepared is that the channelled spectrum of the flame of hydro
  carbons is not necessarily connected with the presence of hydrogen ;*
  it does not come and go according as hydrogen is or is not present
  along with carbon in the way that the channelled spectrum of cyanogen
  comes and goes according as nitrogen is present or absent.                     Our
  observations confirm those of Wesendonck on this point.
      A tube filled with hydrogen containing a small percentage of
  cyanogen and exhausted, was found to give plainly the seven channel-
  lings in the blue and six channellings in the indigo characteristic of
  cyanogen, and the hydrogen lines of course strongly, but no more
  than a trace of the brightest green line of the spectrum of the flame
 'of hydrocarbons.         The use of a Leydeu jar brought out no more.
  Continued sparking made no sensible difference, the cyanogen spec
 trum remained, the green line did not alter : and no other line of the
  spectrnm of the hydrocarbon flame appeared.
      Tubes filled with carbonic oxide exhibit in general at different
  stages of exhaustion the following phenomena.             When the exhaustion
 is commencing and the spark will just pass, the spectrum of the dis
 charge in the capillary tube is usually that of the flame of hydro
 carbons and nothing else. As the exhaustion proceeds the spectrum
 of carbonic oxide makes its appearance superposed on the former,
 and gradually increases in brilliance until it overpowers and at
 last, at a somewhat high degree of exhaustion, entirely supersedes
 the flame spectrum.          This is when no jar is used.           In the earlier
 stages of exhaustion the effect of the jar is to increase the relative
 brilliance of the flame spectrum and diminish that of the carbonic
    * This statement may have to bo qualified if the spectrum described as the second
spectrum of hydrogen by Plucker and Hittorf and by Wiillner, and recently further
investigated by Hasselberg ("Mem. Imp. Acad. Sc., St. Petersburg," xxx, No. 7), be
the most persistent spectrum of hydrogen at low pressures ; because the statement
in   the text is based on the supposition that hydrogen could be detected with cer
tainty by the " C " or " F " line. (Jan. 26, 1883.)
                                                                   2 F 2

424               Profs. G. D. Liveing and     J. Dewar.        [Dec. 21,
oxide spectrum, and at the same time to bring out strongly the line*
of oxygen and carbon ; at a certain stage of the exhaustion, when the
flame spectrum is very weak without the jar, the effect of the jar is to
bring it out again but without sensibly enfeebling the carbonic oxide
spectrum, and without bringing out the carbon lines. At a still
higher stage of exhaustion, when the carbonic oxide spectrum alone is
seen without the jar, the flame spectrum is sometimes, not always,
brought out by putting on the jar, though the carbon lines again
show well. At this stage, at which the flame spectrum is not seen at
all, the distance between the striae in the wide part of the tube is con
siderable, and much metal is thrown off the electrodes, which are
rapidly heated by the discharge.       Some of these tubes were filled
with carbonic oxide made by heating a mixture of potassium oxalate
and lime contained in a prolongation of the tube containing the
phosphoric anhydride. Others were filled from a mixture of oodinm
oxalate and sulphuric acid heated in a flask sealed to a long tube
which had the middle part filled with quicklime and the two ends
filled with phosphoric anhydride ; and after all the air was expelled and
the flask had been sealed off, the quicklime was heated to absorb the
carbonic acid.    These tubes showed no trace of the cyanogen flutinjrs
at any stage of exhaustion, either to the eye or in photographs of the
spectrum. Nevertheless, in the earlier stages of exhaustion, some of
such tubes do show, when the jar is used, a group of three lines in
the indigo which is seen in the flame of cyanogen, and has formerly
been described by us as part of the spectrum of cyanogen.        We must
now, however, retract the opinion that this group is due to cyanogen.
We have before noted (" Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 34, pp. 125, 127) that
these three lines are seen under many different circumstances when
the cyanogen flutings are absent, and as the flutings also are fre
quently seen without the three lines, it seems that the three lines
belong to some other spectrum than the flutings, and as we have
now found them where nitrogen has been carefully excluded, we are
forced to attribute them either to carbon or some compound other
 than cyanogen.
     In one case a very little copper-nitride was introduced into one
end of the drying tube, and after the whole had been filled with gas
and the generating flask sealed off, the nitride was heated so as to mix
a small quantity of nitrogen with the carbonic oxide.    In the spectrum
of this tube the cyanogen flutings were not visible to the eye, but the
 ultra-violet set between K and L came out plainly in the photo
 graphs. No hydrogen line could be detected in it. This is remarkable,
 because Berthelot did not find that cyanogen is generated by electric
 sparks in a mixture of nitrogen and carbonic oxide unless hydrogen
 be also present.   It would, however, be rash to assume that no trace
 of hydrogen was present because the lines of hydrogen were not

  1882.]      On the   Origin of the Hydrocarbon    Flame Spectrum.      425
 visible in the spectrum, since we know by experience that the electric
 •discharge does not always light up all that is in a tube.         Mercury,
  for instance, must he present in all these tubes, but its lines do not
  usually show until the exhaustion is carried to a high degree.
     One tube was filled with nitrogen with which was mixed a small
  percentage of cyanogen obtained by heating a little mercury-cyanide
  placed at one end of the drying tube.      This tube gave well the chan-
  nellings in the blue and indigo characteristic of cyanogen, but neither
 the hydrogen lines nor the spectrum of the hydrocarbon flame. The
 cyanogen seems to be scarcely at all decomposed by the spark when
 thus diluted, for the carbon lines were not brought out by the use of a
 jar, and the cyanogen spectrum remained after continued sparking.
 We remark that Berthelot found it exceedingly difficult to get
 acetylene from a mixture of cyanogen and hydrogen at atmospheric
 pressure ; and in order to make this experiment succeed, short and
 very powerful sparks had to be continued for some hours.
     In a tube filled with carbonic oxide mixed with a little air imperfectly
 dried, when not too highly exhausted, the carbonic oxide spectrum,
 that of the flame of hydrocarbons, and that of cyanogen, may all be
 seen at once superposed when no jar is used.            With a jar and a
 tolerably high exhaustion the carbonic oxide spectrum, the hydro
 carbon flame spectrum, and the carbon line spectrum, may all
 be seen at the same time.       All the foregoing observations were made
 -when the tubes were viewed end on and the image of the narrow
 part of the tube thrown on the slit by a lens. Tnbes filled with
•carbon disulphide and carbon tetrachloride at reduced pressures have
 been examined by us, but these compounds of carbon are very quickly
 decomposed by the spark, so that few observations can be made with
one tube. If the exhaustion is not carried very far the spectrum of
 the hydrocarbon flame is seen both in carbon disulphide and in
carbon tetrachloride, when all the precautions above mentioned have
 been taken to remove moisture, and when no trace of the hydrogen
spectrum is visible. At higher exhaustions the spectrum is a faint
 continuous one together with that of sulphur or chlorine as the
one or other is present.       The spark taken without condenser between
 electrodes near together in wide tubes filled with saturated vapour of
'carbon disulphide or carbon tetrachloride dried with phosphoric
anhydride and deprived as completely as possible of air by pumping or
boiling out, shows the spectrum of the flame of hydrocarbons brightly ;
but in tubes filled with carbonic acid gas from ignited sodium car
bonate and boric anhydride and sealed off at a high temperature, the
spectrum is that of carbonic oxide together with that of oxygen.
   Spectrum of     the Spark in Compounds of Carbon at Higher Pressures.
    In   the spark taken between poles of purified graphite in hydrogen,

 42<5               Profs. G. D. Liveing and        J. Dewar.        [Dec.  21.
  the spectrum of hydrocarbon flames is seen, and it increases in bril
 liance as the pressure of the gas is increased up to ten atmospheres,
 and continues bright at still higher pressures so far as we have ob
 served, that is, up to twenty atmospheres.           The spark without con
 denser   in carbonic oxide at atmospheric pressure, shows both the
 spectrum of carbonic oxide and that of the hydrocarbon flame; and
as the pressure of the gas is increased,         the former spectrum grows
 fainter, while the latter grows brighter, no jar being used.          The line
 spectrum of carbon     is also visible. At the higher pressures the flamr
spectrum predominates and is very strong.              The observations wen-
carried up to a pressure of twenty-two and a half atmospheres.               On
letting down the pressure, the same phenomena occur in the reverse
order.    All the parts of the flame spectrum, as seen in a Bunsen burner,
are increased in intensity as the pressure is increased.         The fact that
the effects of high pressure are so similar to those produced by the nse
of a condenser at lower pressures, seems to point to high temperature
as the cause of those effects.       Bnt against this, we have the fact that
at reduced pressure       we   get  in carbonic oxide, the carbonic oxide
spectrum and the line spectra of carbon and oxygen simultaneously,
without that of the hydrocarbon flame. As we cannot doubt that a
very high temperature is required to give the line spectrum of carbon,
wo must suppose that reduced pressure is unfavourable to the stabil-y
of the molecular combination, whatever it be, which gives the hydro
carbon flame spectrnm.          Wesendonek has remarked (loc. cit.) that
in carbonic acid at pressures too low for the flame spectrum to be
developed without a jar, it is only in the narrow part of the tube that
the use of a jar brings out that spectrnm.         It would appear, therefore,
t hat the constraint, due to the confined space in which the         discharge
occurs,  has the  same  effect, in regard  to the stability of the combination
producing the spectrum in question, as increase of pressure.
                          Cyanogen Flame Spectrum.
    Our former observations " On the Flame Spectrum of Cyanogen
                   "
Burning in Air were made on cyanogen gas, prepared from well-dried
mercury cyanide, which was passed over phosphoric anhydride, and
burnt from a platinum jet fused into the end of the tube.              We ob
served what Pliicker and Hittorf had noted, that the hydrocarbon
bauds were almost entirely absent, only the brightest green band was
seen, and that faintly.       When gaseous cyanogen is liquefied by the
direct pressure of the gas, the researches of Gore (" Proc. Roy. Soc.,''
vol. 20, p. 68) have shown that it is apt to be contaminated with
a brownish, treacley liquid, which probably arises from the imperfectly
purified or dried cyanide of mercury. In order to obtain pure cyanogen
we have prepared quantities of liquid cyanogen, not by compression,
but by passing the already cooled gas into tubes placed in a carbonic

  1882.]     On the  Origin of  the Hydrocarbon   Flame Spectrum.      427
 acid and ether bath.       By this method of condensation any easily
 liquefiable substances are isolated, and any permanently gaseous
 substance escapes. The samples were sealed up in glass tubes into
 which different reagents were inserted.        After such treatment the
 cyanogen    was   used for  the production  of  the flame in dry air or
 oxygen.    The liquid cyanogen was left in contact with phosphoric
 anhydride, Nordhausen sulphuric acid, and ordinary sulphuric acid.
  By means of a special arrangement of glass tubing surrounding the
 flame dry oxygen could be supplied, or oxygen made directly from
 fused chlorate of potash could, by means of a separate nozzle, be
 directed on to the flame, and thus perfectly dry and pure gases used for
 combustion. Liquid cyanogen which had remained in presence of the
 above reagents gave only the single green hydrocarbon line faintly in
 dry air, all the cyanogen violet sets being strong. When oxygen
 made directly from the chlorate of potash was directed on to the
 flame, all the hydrocarbon flame sets appeared with marked brilliancy.
 The set of lines which we have formerly referred to as the three lines
 or set of three flutings of the cyanogen spectrum, show marked altera
 tion of brilliancy with variations in the oxygen supply. Thus liquid
 cyanogen, purified by the action of the above reagents, does yield the
 spectrum of hydrocarbons on combustion in pure oxygen.              From
 the great precautions we have taken we feel sure that the amount of
 combined hydrogen in the form of water or other impurities in the
 combining substances must have been exceedingly small, and that
 the marked increase in the intensity of the flame spectrum when
 oxygen replaces air is essentially connected with the higher tempera
ture of the flame, and is not directly related to the amount of hydrogen
present. This being the case, it must be admitted that the hydrocarbon
 flame spectrum requires a higher temperature for its production during
the combustion of cyanogen than that which is sufficient to cause a
powerful emission of the special spectrum of the molecules of cyanogen.
Now the two compounds of carbon which give the highest temperature
on combustion are cyanogen and acetylene. Both of these compounds
decompose with evolution of heat, in fact they are explosive compounds,
and the latent energy in the respective bodies is so great that if kinetic
in the separated constituents it would raise the temperature between
three and four thousand degrees.           The flames of cyanogen and
acetylone are peculiar in respect that the temperature of individual
decomposing molecules is not dependent entirely on the temperature
generated by the combustion which is a function of the tension of
dissociation of the oxidised products, carbonic acid and water. Wo
have no means of defining with any accuracy the temperature which
the particles of such a flame may reach. We know, however, that the
mean temperature of the flames of carbonic oxide and hydrogen lies
between two and three thousand degrees, and if to this be added that

428               Profs. G. D. Liveing and     J. Dewar.        [Dec. 21,
which can bo reached independently by the mere decomposition of
cyanogen or acetylene, then we may safely infer that the temperature
of individual molecules of carbon, nitrogen, and hydrogen in the
respective flames of cyanogen and acetylene may reach a temperature
of from six to seven thousand degrees.
   A previous estimate of the temperature of the positive pole in the
electric arc made by one of us, gave something like the same value.
   Further evidence of the high temperature of the cyanogen flame is
afforded by the occurrence in the spectrum of that flame, when fed
with oxygen, of a series of flutings in the ultra-violet, which appear to
be due to nitrogen.    The series consists of four, or perhaps more, sets,
each set consisting of a double series of lines overlapping one another.
The lines increase in their distance apart on the more refrangible side,
othorwise the flutings have a general resemblance to the B group of
the solar spectrum.      The accompanying figure gives the general
appearance   of two of the sets, but is not drawn to a scale.
   The four sets commence approximately at about the wave-lengths
2718, 2588, 2479, 2373 respectively.      They are frequently present in
the spectrum of the arc taken in a magnesia crucible, and show
strongly in that of the spark taken without a condenser either in air
or nitrogen. As they appear in the spectrum of the spark in nitrogen,
whether the electrodes be aluminium or magnesium, and do not appear
 when the spark is taken in hydrogen or in carbonic acid gas, they are
in all probability due to nitrogen. When a large condenser is used
they disappear.
   The formation of acetylene in ordinary combustion seems to be
the agent through which a very high local temperature is pro
duced, and this is confirmed by the observations of Gouy on the
occurrence of lines of the metals in the green cone of the Bunsen
burner, which are generally only visible in spark spectra ; on this
view acetylene is a necessary agent in the production of the flame
spectrum during combustion. The fact that when the arc is taken
in a magnesia crucible, although the cjanogen spectrum is strong, the
flame spectrum is often invisible, but may be made to appear by
introducing a cool gas or moisture, may be accounted for by an

1 882.]     On the   Origin of   the  Hydrocarbon    Flame Spectrum.      429
increased resistance    in the arc producing temporarily a higher mean
temperature.      Experiments in course of execution, where the arc will
be subject to a sudden increase of pressure, will, we trust, solve this
problem.
        Electric Discharge  between Graphite    Poles in different Oases.
    When pure graphite is employed, instead of the ordinary carbon
poles, and the arc discharge is taken in different gases, in the same
way as was described in our first paper, " On the Spectra of the Com
pounds of Carbon," we have noticed some slight differences which are
worthy of record. In carbonic acid gas, fine channellings are seen
covering the whole extent of the spectrum from the low red as far as
the blue set of the flame spectrum, the flutings of the one group being
observable as far as the next group. The triple set of the cyanogen
flame spectrum remained very strong when all the cyanogen groups in
the violet had disappeared.         When the carbonic acid is displaced by
hydrogen,    the  hydrogen   lines   appear, the hydrocarbon flame and the
 triple sets remaining bright ; but in this gas the flame group at 431 is
particularly well marked, and the carbon line at 4266 keeps flashing in
'occasionally. Thus we have in the same field of view the hydrocarbon
series, the hydrogen lines, and one of the strongest lines of carbon.
 The De Meritens intermittent arc discharge was employed in these
experiments, and it is curious to note that hydrogen, instead of
 favouring the passage of the arc between carbon poles, really intro
 duces some peculiar resistance, perhaps owing to the reduction of
 temperature by the gas surrounding the arc, or because of the
 formation of acetylene.       The arc is at any rate much shorter and
 smaller in section than in air, but the temperature seems to be corre
 spondingly increased, as we may infer from the fact that the hydrogen
and carbon lines are now very marked. The Siemens arc in air does
 not show the carbon line at 4266, although we have proved that some
 of the chief ultra-violet lines occur in this discharge. The arc taken
 in carbonic oxide shows the triple group along with the usual sets of
 the hydrocarbon flame spectrum, without any trace of the carbonic
 oxide spectrum being visible. The occurrence of the triple set of lines,
 in the absence of other groups characteristic of cyanogen, makes us
 doubt whether this set has anything really to do with nitrogen. We
 are inclined to think that their previous appearance when the arc was
 taken in glycerine containing nitro-benzole was really due to some
 indirect effect, and ought not to be taken as proof of the formation of
 cyanogen in the absence of other characteristic groups under such
 circumstances.

430            Mr. A. Fra8er.     On the Inversion   of the      [Dec.  21.
VI. "On the Inversion of the Blastodermic Layers in                the Rat
      and Mouse." By Alexandeb Fkaseb, M.B., &c., the Owens
      College, Manchester. Communicated by Allen Thomson,
      F.R.S. Received December 18, 1882.
   Having been engaged since May, 1881, in the investigation of the
early plaeentation in some of the Rodentia, rat, mouse, and guinea-
pig, in which it presents peculiar features, I was so fortunate in the
commencement of July of the present year to ascertain the fact that
in the common grey rat and its white variety, an arrangement of the
blastodermic layers existed, similar to that which had been known in
the guinea-pig since the publication of Bischoff's observations in
1852.
   I was able, early in August, to extend this fact so as to  include    the
common house mouse and its white variety.
   These facts were ascertained by the examination of entire series of
microscopic sections made in three different planes of the uterine
loculi of rats and mice pregnant from the eighth to the tenth day.
For the method used in imbedding       I am indebted to the kindness of
Professor His, Director of the Anatomische Anstalt in Leipzig.
   These facts were communicated to Dr. Thomson early in July, and
formed the subject of an oral statement made to the Biological Section
of the British Association at the Southampton Meeting in August.
   At that period my observations did not cover a stage early enough
to enable me to give a satisfactory explanation of the inversion, but
since that date I have been occupied in tracing the history of the ova
in the rat, mouse, and guinea-pig from the time of their leaving the
ovary up to the thirteenth day of pregnancy. My observations on
the ova up to the sixth day are as yet incomplete, but as the inversion
can be explained from ova of this d&tc and onwards, I do not hesitate
to offer them to the Society.
   From the sixth day onwards to the thirteenth     I  have  made,   at in
tervals of four hours, series of sections from pregnant loculi in three
different planes as already stated.
   The remarks which are to follow will have reference chiefly to the
rat (so far as the ovum is concerned) in which animal my work has
been more complete than in the other two, and      I  shall deal first with
the changes taking place in limited areas of the mucous membrane of
the uterus, leading to the formation of the decidua, and onwards to
the fully formed maternal portion of the placenta, and secondly with a
brief outline of the developmental phenomena, so far as these are
peculiar, from the sixth day onwards to the thirteenth.

1882.]               Blastodermic Layers in      the    Hat and Mouse.        431
                                      The Decidua.
    So far     the history of this structure is concerned, the following
                as
description will answer equally well for any one of the three animals
under consideration.
    It is formed by the transformation of the tissue lying between the
epithelium of the uterus and the muscular wall. This change is
accompanied by the total disappearance of the uterine glands, and
consists in the formation of a large mass of round-celled material,
occupying the whole circumference of the uterine tnbe in each
loculus.    The centre of this decidual mass is occupied by a prolonga
tion of the uterine cavity formed by the extension of the decidual
substance round            it,
                      while the main cavity of the uterus remains for a
time continuous throughout the whole length of the uterine tube.
This continuity     interrupted about the ninth day by the obliteration
                          is
of the cavity caused by the increased decidual growth, with the ex
ception of that part of the cavity in the centre of the decidual mass
in which the ovum       situated.is
    In the early stage the ovum          equally surrounded by decidua
                                            is
on all sides, but as development proceeds the decidua at the free
side of the uterus gradually diminishes and disappears.             Before
t  his takes place a separation between the decidua and the muscular
 wall of the uterus occurs in this region, but not until about the six
teenth day, and the slight connexion which then exists between the
 decidua and the free side of the uterus can be recognised as        white
                                                                         a
 line passing transversely over the pregnant loculus on removing from    it
 the abdominal cavity. In this manner the uterine cavity becomes
 again continuous throughout the whole length of the uterine tube.
 The changes taking place in the decidua at the mesometrial side of
the uterus depend upon the formation of the maternal portion of the
 placenta in this region the decidua becomes vacuolated, these vacuoles
            ;
 forming the maternal vessels, lined at first by a single layer of flat
 cells, and which with the blood-vessels of the foetal portion of the
 placenta soon come into intimate relation.
     This decidua, present in the three animals under consideration,
 differs remarkably in its history and extent from that of other
  Mammals in which the development of the blastodermic layers                   is
 regular, and     would appear that there
                     it                        a close association between
                                                       is
 the form and extent of this      decidua  and   the peculiar modification
  of the ordinary type of development which            am now about to
                                                             I
describe.
                                       The Ovum.
    Of the many pregnant loculi of which    have made sections between
                                                  I
 the sixth and seventh day, the one which affords the key to the expla
 nation of this deviation from the ordinary type of development   from   is

432              Mr. A. Fraser.        On  the  Inversion   of the [Dec.  21,
 a rat pregnant six days and twelve hours.            This ovum has been cut
 parallel to its long axis, which lies in the transverse vertical axis of the
 uterus.   (Fig. 1.)
                   Section of ovum from rat, 6 days and 12 hours.
    The ovum measures in its long axis 0-16 millim., in breadth 0 0G
 millim.
    Of the zona there is no trace. The ovum has reached the stage of a
blastodermic vesicle, B.v., the wall of which is formed over the greater
 part of its circumference by a delicate membrane, in which there lie
 sparsely scattered cells.      At the placental pole of the ovum, p.p., or
at that part of the circumference turned to the mesometrial side of
the uterus, there projects into the cavity of the vesicle a flask-shaped
mass of cells, the long axis of which lies in the same direction as the
long axis of the vesicle, and measures O09 millim. ; in breadth it
measures 0-04 millim.
   It will thus be seen that this mass of cells fills up the greater part
of the cavity of the vesicle, and the placental pole of the mass is
continuous with, and forms part of, the wall of the blastodermic
vesicle.   The flask-shaped mass of cells inside the vesicle, and which
has its origin at the placental pole, is formed of cells, the subsequent
history of which shows that they are mainly epiblastic with a cover
ing of hypoblast.
   The epiblast cells, e.p., are roughly circular, approaching the columnar
character in form, and at the placental pole of the ovum lie in contact,
if not actually continuous, with this limited area of the wall of the
blastodermic vesicle.       They are covered on the side next the cavity
of the blastodermic vesicle by a single layer of hypoblast cells, hy.,
which also at the placental pole of the ovum lie contiguous with the
wall of the blastodermic vesicle at the margin of the epiblast cells.
   The vesicle, then, at its placental pole exactly resembles the ger
minal area of an ordinary vesicle, such as that of the rabbit, which,
taking the widely accepted description, is formed of a protective cover
ing of cells (Rauber's layer of " Deckzellen ") continuous with the wall

1882.]        Blastodermic Layers in       the  Rat and Mouse.          433-
of the blastodermic vesicle ; below this a layer of epiblast cells, while-
still more internal is tho hypoblast layer. These only extend over a
limited area of the wall of the vesicle, and it is still a disputed question
whether the epiblast forms the wall of the vesicle, or whether this is
formed by the covering layer. The vesicle above described for the rat
has all the elements described for the rabbit with this difference, and
herein lies the whole explanation of this form of development — that
there is an enormous development of the epiblast cells, which are
thrust, as it were, into the cavity of the vesicle and carry the hypo
blast as a single layer of cells over their surface. This early stage, in
which the epiblast is solid and is not in the form of a cellular layer, is
succeeded in the course of a single day by a stage in which the solid
epiblast of the preceding stage is converted into an epiblastic vesicle
by the formation of a cavity in the interior of the solid mass. (Pig. 2.)
This epiblastic vesicle is not open either at the placental or free pole of
the ovum, and it has to be now noted that the embryonic area is not
formed at the placental pole of the ovum, where the epiblast cells
began first to multiply and protrude into the cavity of the blasto
dermic vesicle, but adjacent to the free pole of the ovum, which the
epiblast, owing to its great development, has now almost reached
(covered of course by the hypoblast layer).
   At this stage, in addition to the changes in the solid mass of epi
blast, leading to the formation of a cavity in its centre, there has also
been a development of cells from the placental pole of the blastodermic
vesicle, which go on increasing during the course of development, and
which ultimately form a layer of large cells lying next the maternal
decidua. (Fig. 2, c.v.i) In the course of another day the last-mentioned
stage is succeeded by one in which the single epiblastic vesicle becomes
                                     Fia. 2.
                   Section of ovum from rat, 7 duys 91 liouiv.

434            Mr. A. Fraser.       On   the  Inversion of  the     [Dec. 21,
nipped   in the middle by a circular constriction, the edges of which
ultimately meet, and thus the once single epiblastic cavity is now
divided into two (fig. 3). One at the free pole of the ovum becomes
the neuramniotic cavity, N.a., the other next the placental pole of the
ovum is what may be termed the false amnion cavity, f.a.
   It is at this stage that the mesoblast first makes its appearance,
budding ofF from the epiblast at the hinder end of the embryonic
area, and spreads rapidly over this area in the form of two lateral
plates, which are not continuous across the middle line ; but in
addition to this embryonic portion, the mesoblast also spreads in
another direction, splitting at the anterior and posterior ends of the
embryonic area. One part of it passes over the amniotic part of the
neur-amniotic cavity, the other passes internal to the hypoblast, over
the free surface of the epiblastic wall (that surface adjacent to the
true amnion) of the false amnion cavity. (Fig. 3, m.~)
   This stage in the course of another day is succeeded by one in which
the two halves of the epiblastic vesicle are separated by a space, which
Dr. Thomson suggests, may be termed the interamniotic space (fig. 4,
i.a.), while the upper wall of the false amnion cavity has begun to
                                    Fia.   3.
                   Section of orum from rat, 8 days 16 hours.
 be depressed towards     the lower, encroaching upon and       filling up -s
 own cavity. (Fig. 4.) This encroachment goes on more and more
 until finally the walls approach and fuse with one another, the cavity
 disappearing, and the walls of the false amnion are converted into a

1882.]          Blastodermic Layers in        the Rat and Mouse.      435
                                      Fia. 4.
                    Soction of ovum from rat, 9 days 17 hours.
solid mass of cells, which forms a considerable part of the structure
of the foetal placenta, and which comes into relation with the allantois
in a manner to be presently described.
   The allantois consisting of a solid mass of mesoblastic cells, in which
there is no hypoblastic dilatation, grows outwards from the posterior
end of the embryo into the above-mentioned inter-amniotic space.
 (Fig. 4, all.) A little over the eleventh day it reaches the mass of cells
formed from the false amnion, while its vessels formed in the same
manner as in other animals, pass through the mass of cells and pene
trate the maternal part of the placenta, accompanied by extensions of
the cellular structure derived from the placental pole of the blasto
dermic vesicle.     The alimentary canal begins to be separated from the
general hypoblast in the form of a groove which up to the twelfth
day opens freely into the space between the hypoblast, and the wall
of the blastodermic vesicle.         The peripheral portion of hypoblast
ontside the alimentary groove, which is equivalent to the yolk sac of
other animals, and becomes vascular in a similar manner by the meso
blastic lining on its inner surface, becomes thrown into villous pro

436           Blastodermic Layers in tlie Rat and Mouse.              [Dec. 21,
cesses  which are continued over the surface of the placenta as far as
the central place of insertion of the allantois.
   The arrangement of the fully formed membranes is now easily
seen : the wall of the blastodermic vesicle is the external one, and is
continuous with the margins of the placenta ; it becomes much
stronger in the older stages. Inside this membrane is one formed of
hypoblast and vascular mesoblast and which was continuous with the
alimentary canal, while inside the interamniotic space is the stalk of
the allantois.
   I do not at present enter into a further description of the general
phenomena of foetal development, because after the closure of the
neur-amniotic cavity and the establishment of the relation of the
parts already described, the subsequent phenomena are essentially
similar to those of other animals.
   As to the cause of the peculiar form of development of the blasto
dermic layers in some of the rodents to which reference is made in
this communication, it would be premature to speculate until its con
ditions have been more fully ascertained ; but             I would remark that
this peculiarity appears to stand in some close and constant relation
to the very early, rapid, and voluminous formation of the solid mass
of decidua within which the ovum is from the first enclosed in all
those animals in which the so-called inversion of the layers has been
observed.
   Since the observations above recorded were made, three short
papers bearing upon the subject have appeared in Germany during
the month of November, one by Professor Hensen, of Kiel,* dealing
with the guinea-pig, another by Professor Kupffer, of Munich,!
on the field mouse, and a third by Professor Selenka, of Erlangen,             J on
the white mouse, all of which were unknown to me until some time
after I had arrived at the conclusions stated in the preceding pages.
Without entering into any detailed criticism of the contents of these
papers,   I   may state that the main difference between Professor
Kupffer and myself has reference to the early condition of the
epiblast, which is solid in the rat, but which he describes as forming
in the field mouse a single involuted layer.
                     I
   In conclusion have to express my warmest acknowledgments to
Dr. Thomson, who has gone over all these observations with me, and
to whom     I  am indebted for many suggestions in my description of
this work.
   The figures are diagrammatic.
       * " Vcrhandl. des Physiol-Yereins in Kiel."                 Nov.,
                                                    Sitzung vom  2       1882.
         " Sitz. Ber. d. k. B. Akad. der Wiss." 4
       t                                           Nov., 1882.
         " Biolog. Ccntralblatt."
       J                           15 Nov., 1882.  P. 550.

 1882.]       Electric Discharge with Chloride of Silver Battery.                437
                         Alphabetical List of  Reference Letters.
   All.    Allantois.
   B.v.    Blastodermic vesicle.
   c.v.    Cellular layer derived from placental pole of blastodermic vesicle.
   ep.     Epi blast.
  f.a.     False amnion cavity.
   hy.     Hypoblast.
   t'.o.   Interamniotic space.
   m.      Mesoblast.
   S.a.    Neur-amniotic cavity.
  p.p.     Placental pole of blastodermic vesicle.
VII. " On the Electric Discharge with the- Chloride of Silver
         Battery."      By Wabben De La Rue, M.A., D.C.L., F.R.R.,
         and   Hugo    Mulleb, Ph.D., F.R.S. Received December 21,
         1882.
    In anticipation of      a paper to be shortly communicated to the Society,
we    wish to state that we have found that the pressure of least resis
tance for a given gas is not a constant, but that it varies with the
diameter, shape, and dimensions of the vessel employed.
    Moreover, that the dark space near the negative in electric dis
charges in vacuum tubes is dark only by comparison ; for we have
obtained a photographic image of the dark discharge in a tube in which
the strata remained steady during forty-five minutes.                   The time of
exposure was fifteen and thirty-five minutes ; a comparison of the
latter result with a photograph obtained of the strata in two and a half
seconds shows that the dark space is 840 times less bright than a
stratum.
    Lastly, a tube with palladium terminals, which we made several
years ago, containing hydrogen gas, shows in a remarkable maimer
the power of terminals to occlude gas and to give it off again.                   On
passing an electric discharge through this tube for a few seconds, it
becomes blackened, especially near the negative, by the deposit of a
mirror-like film ; on leaving the tube for few days' rest, this mirror
disappears entirely, and is reproduced by passing a fresh current.                 It
is most probably a volatile hydrogen alloy of palladium.                  The effects
described have been reproduced very many times during eight years.
    The Society adjourned over            the   Christmas      Recess to Thursday,
January 11th, 1883.
     VOL. XXXIV.

4o8                                                                      [Jan.   11,
                                January    11, 1883.
                    THE PRESIDENT               in the Chair.
     The Presents received     -were   laid on the table, and thanks ordered for
them.
     The following Papers were read —     :
I.   "Experiments, by the Method of Lorentz, for the further
       Determination of the Absolute Value of the British Asso
       ciation Unit of Resistance, with an Appendix on the Deter
       mination of the Pitch of a Standard Tuniug-Fork."      Bv
       Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Professor of Experimental Physics
       in the University of Cambridge, and Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
       Received December         8,
                               1882.
                                   (Abstract.)
   The experiments described in the present paper were carried out
during the spring and summer months of the present year, at the
Cavendish Laboratory, and are divided into three distinct series. In
the first and second series, the induction coils were situated nearly             in
the plane of the revolving disk, as in Lorentz      original use of the
                                                        's
method   ; the difference between the two series relating only to the
speed of rotation, which was varied in the proportion of 10    16. The
                                                                     :
third series presents a point of novelty, in that the induction coih
were separated from the disk to such a distance as to render the
accuracy of the result practically independent of the mean radius                 of
the coils.
   The small resistance, traversed by the battery current, to which the
terminals of the galvanometer branch are connected, was obtained
indirectly by  amethod of shunting.    Thns in the first series, the prin
cipal part of the battery current passed on one side through two un-
coils, placed in multiple arc, and equivalent to       and only a com
paratively small remainder through   a second branch, composed of two
coils in series, of values 10 and -fa. The terminals of the galva
nometer branch were connected with the extremities of the -fa, and
the difference of potentials between them, due to the primary current,
was thus reduced to that which would be required to drive the
current through    aresistance of
   From the first series —
                       1   B.A. unit=-98674xl0» C.G.S.

1883.]         On  the Skeleton  of the  Marsipobranch    Fishes.       439
    From the second series —
                      1  B.A. unit=-98669x    10»  C.G.S.
    From the third series —
                      1 B.A. nnit=-98683x 10" C.G.S.
    As  a mean we take —
                       1 B A. nnit=-986i ,'x 109 C.G.S.
    With use of the ratio between the mercury unit and the B.A. unit,
found by us    (" Proc. Roy. Soc." May,    1882) this gives
                                                             —
                  1  mercury unit= -94150 x    10a C.G.S.,
or, which is the same thing, the ohm is the resistance of a column of
mercury at 0° Cent., whose section is one square millimetre, and
whose length is —
                              1062'14 millimetres.
    The very close accordance between the result of the present inves
tigation, and that obtained by the method of the revolving coil ('98651),
and by Glazebrook ('986d5), using another method again, leads us to
hope that no error of importance can have escaped detection.
    The Appendix is devoted to a record of experiments having for
object the determination of the absolute pitch of a certain tuning-
fork, which has served as the standard of time throughout all our
work upon this subject. It is believed that the method employed is
worthy of attention, and may be useful to other physicists.
II. "On      the Skeleton of the Marsipobranch Fishes.               Part I.
       The Myxinoids.          (Myxine and BdelloMoma.)           By W. K.
       Pabkeb, F.R.S. Received December 14, 1882.
                                  (Abstract.)
    At present nothing is known of the development of these remarkable
 fishes, but their structure in the adult state is of great interest, and
 as  the other related type — the Lamprey — has had great attention
                                               I
 given to it lately, in most of its stages, have thought it would be
 profitable to anatomists to have a detailed account of the skeleton
 in these lower and less known types.         I received several specimens
of the adult Hag-fish (Myxine) from my friends the late Professor
 Elolleston, F.R.S., and Mr. Frank Buckland ; for fine specimens of
the gigantic type (Bdellostoma)         I am indebted to Professor Ray
 Lankester, F.R.S.
    My guide in this work has been the excellent and most accurate
 Johannes Miiller — his four memoirs (well known to anatomists) on
                                                              2 g 2

 440                                Mr. W. K. Parker.              [Jan.   11,
 the Myxinoids and related types have been absolutely necessary to me.
 I shall be proud if this and the next paper are thought worthy of being
 considered an appendix to his incomparable works on these types.
     But    as         the Marsipobranchs generally, especially the
                     regards
 Lamprey,        I
              am deeply indebted to Professor Huxley's writings and
 to discussions with him upon these fishes ; and in the same way to
 the late Professor F. M. Balfour, F.R.S. ; and         I
                                                am indebted further
 to my young friend Mr. W. B. Scott, of Princeston, U.S., who,
 after Calberla, has worked largely on the early development of the
 Lamprey.
     What    I       have been able to make out with regard to the skeletal
  parts of the Lamprey will be offered to the Royal Society very soon,
 and then     the structure of the adult Myxinoids and of the various
  stages of the Petromyzoids can be compared together.
     But the various kinds of the " Anurous Amphibia " — hundreds of
  species — give us, in their larval state, a sort of temporary generalised
  Marsipobranch fish ; it is not unknown that       I
                                                    have given several years
 of labour to these types, and I feel now that I may, with caution,
 attempt to explain the morphology of the skeleton in all these three
 related groups — the Myxinoids, the Petromyzoids, and the Anura.
     However far apart, noic, these three groups may be, they are
 seen to be the nearest of kin to each other when we consider the
 other " Icbthyopsida."      Moreover, they form a curious scale, so to
 speak, one rising above the other in a regular order ; for the Myxinoids
 are a sort of arrested Ammocoete or larval Lamprey, and the Lamprey
 in its adult state is quasi-larval if it be compared with the anurous
 amphibian — Frog or Toad.
     The Myxinoids are very anomalous, and this is seen even in their
 histology ; in them, as in the Lamprey, there are two kinds of cartilage
 — one very dense and almost as hard as bone, and the other soft, like
the cartilage of young embryos of higher types.
     But in the Myxinoids one very large bar, the great basi -branchial,
is formed of a light, elastic, vacuolar tissue, but little denser than
that of their great persistent non-segmented notochord, and, like          it,
ensheathed in a very thick web of fibrous or tendinous tissue.
 I    suspect that this fact will have a meaning for the student of the
lower von-craniate " Chordata" — Amphioxiis, the Ascidians, &c.
    In the wide-mouthed, non-suctorial larvae of the Cape Toad (Dadyl-
ethra) I— found the whole chondro-skeleton composed of a peculiar
kind of cartilage intermediate between hyaline cartilage and this
vacuolar tissue of the Myxinoids it      ;    more like the pith of a plant
                                             is
than like ordinary cartilage.
    In their cranio-facial skeleton the Myxinoids are very remarkable;
where segmentation             is
                             perfect  in other piscine types they only
exhibit a lattice- work of continuous growth; in the median region         of

   1883.]       On  the Skeleton of the Marsipobranch Fishes.           441
  the skull-base, where other types show but little or only temporary
  distinctness of parts, these fishes develop and retain large indepen
  dent cartilages.
     The lamprey has a large superficial basket-work of soft cartilage
  (extra-branchial), and its gill-poucbes keep related to this and to the
  rest of the structures of the mouth and throat.     But in the Myxinoids
  the basket-work is intra-branchial, and corresponds to the system of
  segmented arches of the higher Cartilaginous, the Ganoid, and the
  Osseous fishes.   But these non-segmented arches soon lose all relation
  to the branchial pouches, which are removed so far backwards that
 they begin under the twentieth myotome; whilst the end of the peri
 cardium is under the fortieth.
     In seeking light upon the primordial condition of the Vertebrata, one
 naturally looks to such forms as the Myxinoids.        For in these types,
 even in the adult state, there are neither limbs nor vertebrae, and no
 distinction between head and body, except the beginning, in the head, of
 a cartilaginous skull — a continuous structure — not showing the least sign
 of secondary segmentation, and by far the greater part of it in front
 of the notochord, or axis of the organism. But here our gradational
 work agrees with the developmental, for the continuous skull-bars con
 stantly arise before the secondary cartilaginous segments that are found
 between the myotomes behind the head. Evidently, therefore, the early
 " Craniata " grew supports to the enlarged and subdivided front end
 of their neural axis, long before any structures beyond strong fibrous
 septa were developed between the muscular segments of the body.
 As for the linear growth, the greater or less extension backwards of
 the main organs — circulatory, respiratory, digestive, urogenital — that,
 in the evolution of the primary form, was a thing to be determined
by the "surroundings" of the type.          "Thereafter as they may be"
was the tentative idea in this case.
    Certainly, in the Marsipobranchs, and in their relations, the larval
" Anura," we have the most archaic " Craniata " now existing ; in
these the organs may be extended far backwards in a vermiform
creature, as in these low fishes, or kept well swung beneath the head
—the body and tail together forming merely a propelling organ, as
seen in Tadpoles, especially the gigantic Tadpole of Pseudis.
    Thus we see that in low limbless types there is no necessity for the
development of more than fibrous
                                       " metameres " in the spinal region ;
but the vesicular brain, the suctorial lips, the branchial pouches, and
the special organs of sense — these all call for support from some
tissue more dense than a mere fibrous mat or web. In the MyxinoUls
we see that four special modifications of the connective tissue series
are developed for the support of the properly cephalic organs, and for
them only; thus these fishes are Craniata, but are not Vertebrata;
that is, if we stick to the letter, which, of course, we do not.

442                       Mr. W. K. Parker.                     [Jan.   11,
   At first  some disappointment is felt, after careful stndy of these
types, for, notwithstanding the low level in which they remain — they
are mere specialised Ammnccetes, keeping on the same "platform"
as the larval Lamprey ; — yet Rome parts of their organisation        do
undergo a marvellous amount of transformation, and are, indeed, as
much specialized in conformity with their peculiar habits of life as any
Vertebrates whatever, the highest not excepted.
  Yet, on the whole, the Myxinoids are a sort of Ammoccetine          type,
whilst        transformed Ammocoete, the adult Lamprey, comes
               the
nearest to the untransformed Frog or Toad — the Tadpole.           Bat the
mere putting of this shows (suggests at any rate) what losses the
Fauna of the world has sustained during the evolution of the Craniate
forms ; now, the Myxinoids, Petromyzoids, and numerous Amphibia
must all be kept
                  " within call " of each other but the
                                               ;          types that have
been  culled out between  them  cannot  be numbered.    Some   other kinds
                                                     "
of fish are evidently the descendants of primordial Marsipobranchs,"
notably Lepidosteus, the development of which has been lately studied,
and the results of which are being published in the
                                                           " Philosophical
Transactions."    But the Chimceroids, Dipnoi, and, still more important,
the Myxinoids, themselves, have still to be followed through their
early stages. If the present paper is of any value to the morpho-
logist, one on the embryology of these low forms would be worth
much more.
   The Myxinoids keep on the low "platform " of the larval Lamprey
(Ammoccete) in the following particulars, namely :
                                                     —
   a. The notochord haa no paired cartilaginous vertebral rudiments in
the spinal region.
   b. The trabeculae end in the ethmoidal region without growing for
wards into a cornu (or two continuous cornua) .
   c. There are merely
                         " barbels " round the mouth ; no labial carti
lages.
   d.The last character involves this, namely, that the special armature
of horny teeth, attached to the labials in the adult Petromyzon, is
absent.
   e. The organs of vision are very feeble, and probably almost useless ;
in the Ammocoete they are arrested for a time.
  /. The cranium is a mere floor, without side- walls or roof.
   The Myxinoids come near to the adult Lamprey in the following
particulars, namely : —
   a. There are developed outside the skull proper, but not segmented
from     it,
         palato-quadrate and hyoid cartilages.
   b. There     very large median cartilage belonging to both the hyoid
                     is
                      a
and branchial regions.
   c. The cranium acquires a floor by the development      of a special
" hinder intertrabecula."

1883.]            On    the Skeleton   of the Marsipobranch Fishes.   443
    d. There is a large median cartilaginous olfactory capsule.
   The Myxinoids go beyond even the adult Lamprey in the following
particulars, namely : —
   a. The facial basket-work is much more perfect ; and as this is a
generalised condition of the true intra-vlsceral system of cartilages, it
is a very important character ; there is not only a development of the
" suspensorium,"
                  equal to that of the Lamprey, but the suspensorial
part of the hyoid is developed also (it is suppressed in the Lamprey) ;
and there     in Bdellostoma, a large complete first branchial arch, and
              is,
in both kinds pharyngo-branchial rudiments of the second branchial
arch.
    b.   The respiratory (branchial) pouches are much more specialised
by being carried far back under the spine.
  c. There    not only a distinct sub-cranial intertrabecula, but also
               is
alarge pre-cranial or nasal median cartilage of the same nature.
     The opening of the median olfactory sac
    d.                                              not a mere short
                                                         is
membranous passage,   but  a long tube, encased in a series of cartila
ginous (imperfect) rings.
  e. Correlated with the        non-development of the suctorial labial
cartilages, there     an enormous development of the lingual, this basal
                        is
bar becoming not only double, but in front quadruple, and the
"                "
  supra-lingual      cartilages, which are very small in the Lamprey,
and carry only one pair of rows of small second teeth, are in the
Myxinoids very large, and carry two pairs of rows of large teeth,
with the addition of a median antagonistic " ethmoidal tooth."
   Lastly, the greater development of the intra- visceral (= intra-
                                                                   "
branchial     cartilages
             ")              correlated with the suppression of the extra-
                              is
visceral basket-work seen both in the larval and adult Lamprey, and
also in the larvae of the
                            " Anura,"
                                       generally.
   Morphologists must kindly accept this piecemeal work of mine       ;   it
will take on     form, or frame, some day but much of the materials
                    a                             ;
for its completion are still wanting, and, when obtained, the working
of them out must not be done hurriedly.
 I   may remark, that having just now to work at "the extremity of
            " of the Vertebrata — the
 both ends                                Marsipobranchs and Mammalia
 — find the former very excellent as carriers of light to the latter.
 I
 Everyone will see that by far the greater bulk of the existing Verte
 brata are very specialised, each order and class on its own lines, and
 that any creature to be like a primordial mammal must be very
 generalised or archaic.

444                    Bate   of Beat of the Dog     8   Heart.        [Jan.    11,
III.    " The Direct Influence of Gradual Variations of
                                                        Tempera
        ture upon the Rate of Beat of the Dog's Heart." By H.
        Newell Mabtin, M.A., M.D., D.Sc., Professor in the Johns
        Hopkins University, Baltimore, U. S. A. Communicated by
        Dr. M. Fosteb, Sec. R.S. Received December 27, 1882.
                                  (Abstract.)
   In the investigations described, the method of experiment was               such
as to  completely isolate physiologically the heart of the dog from all
 the rest of the body of the animal, lungs excepted.
   This was accomplished by occluding the right and left carotid and
 subclavian arteries, the aorta just beyond the origin of the left
 subclavian, and ligaturing both venae cavae and the azygos vein. In
 consequence the only fraction of the systemic circulation left open
was that through the coronary system of the heart ; no organ but the
heart itself has any blood sent            it,
                                          except the lungs.      Hence the
cerebro-spinal nerve-centres and the sympathetic ganglia very soon die,
while the heart remains alive, in good working condition, for two hours
or more. The right auricle         supplied uniformly with defibrinated
                                  is
calf's blood, conveyed to the superior vena cava from Marriotte flasks.
The blood, after traversing the pulmonary circuit,          finally pumped
                                                                  is
by the left ventricle into a cannula, which        tied into the aorta just
                                                     is
beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery.      From the distal end
of the cannula a wide rubber tube carries the blood to an exit cannula
seven or eight feet above the level of the heart.      By raising or lower
ing this exit, and by raising or lowering the level of the Marriotte
flasks feeding the heart, arterial and venous pressures could be
changed at will, or maintained very nearly constant.
   Venous and arterial pressures being kept constant, the temperature
of the blood supplied to the heart was gradually changed by raising
or lowering the temperature of the water contained in the vessels                in
which the feeding Marriotte flasks were immersed.
   The pulse rate was recorded by a Fick's spring manometer, and
arterial pressure by    a  Marey's mean-pressure mercury manometer,
each being connected with the central stump of a carotid artery.
Temperatures were read by means of a thermometer tied into the root
of the left subclavian, so that its bulb projected into the aortic arch.
   Uniform artificial respiration was maintained.
   As the result of many experiments        was found (1) that the isolated
                                                it
dog's  heart beats quicker   when supplied with warm blood, and slower
when cold blood   is supplied to   it  (2) that the rate of beat depends
                                       ;
much more upon       the   temperature    of the blood in the coronary
nrteries than on its temperature in the right auricle or ventricle (3)    ;
that when defibrinated calf's blood      used to feed the heart that organ
                                           is

  1883.]            On a  Uniform Rotation Machine, SfC               445
 cannot be kept alive as long as when defibrinated dog's blood is em
 ployed ; (4) that no matter how long an experiment lasts the defibri
 nated blood, circulated again and again through heart and lungs,
 shows no tendency to clot ; hence fibrinogen is not produced in those
 organs.
    The question answered by the first of the above results was the one
 for whose solution the research was undertaken. The experiments
 show that, in spite of its highly developed extrinsic nervous appara
 tuses, the heart of the mammal does, so far as its rhythm is concerned,
in its own nervo-muscular tissues, respond to temperature variations
within wide limits (42° — 27° C.), just as the frog's heart or that of the
 embryo chick does. To account for the quick pulse of fever we,
 therefore, need not look beyond the mammalian heart itself ; we
require no theoretical assumption of any paralysis of inhibitory, or
any excitation of accelerator cardio-extrinsic nerve-centres.
                             January 18, 1883.
                    THE PRESIDENT          in the Chair.
    The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered for
them.
    The following Papers were read    : —
I.  "Preliminary Paper on a Uniform Rotation Machine; and
       on the Theory of Electromagnetic Tuning Forks."             By R.
       H. M. Bosanquet, St. John's College, Oxford. Communi
       cated by Professor H. J. S. Smith, F.R.S. Received De
       cember 20, 1882.
                                 (Abstract.)
   The primary object of the machine is the construction of standard
notes. It admits also of the accurate determination of tuning forks, &c.,
having pitch near that of any standard note of the machine, besides
other applications.
   The machine consists of a three-crank axle with a fly-wheel. The
cranks are acted on by electro-pueumatic levers, the valves of which
control the wind supply as the slide-valve of a steam engine does the
steam.     Two of these are acted on by a commutator on the axis ;
the third is connected with a clock which closes the circuit at every
second.     The effect of this is to govern the machine, so that it will

446               On a Uniform Rotation Machine, §c.          [Jan. 18,
revolve once per second under wide variations of the driving power.
The fly-wheel originally consisted of, and now carries, brass disks
two feet in diameter, having various numbers of slits cut in them
spokewise.      Those disks which have been made represent pitches
of tenor C, covering the whole range in practical or theoretical
use.
   Tuning forks having any multiple or submultiple of the frequency
of the disk employed, present, when examined against an illumi
nated background behind the disk, toothed patterns which remain
stationary. If the fork is a little sharp the pattern moves in the
opposite direction to the slits, if flat in the same direction.   When
the machine oscillates about its mean velocity, a fork in tune with
the machine presents a pattern which swings backwards and forwards.
    While the machine was yet in an early and imperfect state, it was
demonstrated that large tuning forks, when excited electrically with
a mercury contact, vary their frequency by change- of level of the
 mercury, within limits which may readily amount to 1 in 200.
    A device due to Lord Rayleigh was employed with the object of
 extinguishing the oscillations. A ring of metal tubing was filled
 with water, and mounted as a rim on the disk. But this had practi
 cally no effect. An extensive series of experiments was then under
taken, in which large quantities of tubing filled with water were
 employed.     Some slight effect was ultimately obtained, but nothing
 useful. The end desired was attained with mercury in india-rubber
 tubes.     The damping does not as yet amount to a dead beat action,
 and it is hoped that it may be improved.       The damping at present
 obtainable under practical conditions is reduction of swing to
 \  in 10*.
     With the machine thns improved, observations have been made of
 the variations of pitch of a middle C fork, with an electric spring
 contact, under varying tension.    The changes which occur appear to
 be less than in the case of the mercury contact.
     The experiments that have been made on electromagnetic tuning
 forks lead to an outline of the theory of the motion in this case,
 which appears to depend on the time of magnetization of the
 magnetic system.     Although studies have been made on this subject,
 there is nothing in the shape of a theory depending on absolute
 measure for guidance in arranging and interpreting experiments.
 Such a theory is here outlined, and compared with experiment.
     The theory depends on the assumption that the systems dealt with
 are closed magnetic circuits with small breaks, or cores of solenoids
 not projecting far from the coils.       Under certain limitations the
 resistance of the magnetized iron can be neglected in comparison with
 that of the air spaces traversed, according to the values of the
  permeability of iron furnished by Rowland's experiments.

1883.]         On   the Skeleton of  the Marsipobranch   Fishes.       447
    The permeability of the system is then deduced from the comparison
of resistances in the air space of the core of the solenoid, and in the
air spaces which form the breaks in the magnetic circuit.
    The coefficient of electromagnetic momentum is then, by means of
known equivalents, expressed in terms- of the permeability of the
system, and thence, according to the above result, in terms of the
configuration of the breaks in the magnetic circuit.
    A method is then developed of calculating the coefficient of electro
magnetic momentum from the observed mean current during the
excitation of a tuning fork of known period.
    Four experiments of this description were made, and the value of
the terms depending on the configuration of the air spaces analysed
and interpreted in connexion with the numerical results thus obtained.
                       I
    In this manner was led to distinguish two theoretical cases which
were connected by an empirical configuration formula, bridging over
the gap between them.         The experiments in question agree with the
configuration formula to a degree far beyond what could have been
anticipated, considering the roughness of the methods employed for
the determination of the several elements concerned.
    The result is, that in a certain class of electromagnetic systems,
when the configuration is given, the permeability and coefficient of
electromagnetic momentum can be approximately assigned, and the
whole electromagnetic behaviour of the system approximately calcu
lated.
    With this theory at my disposal        I   hope to make further contri
butions to the knowledge of electromagnetic tuning forks.
 II. " On the Skeleton of the Marsipobranch Fishes. Part IT.
       The Lamprey."           By YV. K. Pabkeb, F.R.S.          Received
       January 10, 1883.
                                   (Abstract.)
    In working out this type I have been greatly indebted to the
 labours of   J. Miiller, Huxley, Schneider, Balfour, and Scott.
     For materials   I am indebted to two of the above-mentioned     anato
 mists, namely.    Professor Huxley and the late Professor Balfour, also
 to   Surgeon-Major Francis Day, of Cheltenham, and Osbert Salvin,
 Esq.,  F.R.S.
     The transformed skeleton is described in various young individuals
 of the Sea   Lamprey (Petromyzon marinus), from four to eight or nine
 inches  in length.    The smallest of these was scarcely through its meta
 morphosis.     A   specimen of P. planesi was worked out at the same

 448            On   the Skeleton      of   the   Marsipobranch Fishes.            [Jan.   18,
 stage.  The various sections of the adult were made from the larger
river species, P. fluviatilis, so also were the various larval specimeas;
but the embryos were of the small kind —P. planesi.            These weri
reared by Messrs. Salvin and Balfour.
 I   have first described the skeletal structures after metamorphosis, is
their condition then         best known to anatomists.
                             is                              then explain I
what     seen in the embryo, and after this the larval or ammouetiik
          is
stage.    If my friends are successful in obtaining for me larval
Lampreys actually transforming,        Third Part, a much smaller paper,
                                              a
will be prepared.
     In
      spite of the invaluable help   have received from my fellow-
                                                  I
workers, my task has not been an easy one         has been taken np
                                                            ;   it
again and again, after research into the development of other fishy
types.
     The suctorial mouth has its highest development                      in the   Lamprey   ;
in the Myxinoids (Myxine and Bdellostoma) there      no circular diskis
with horny teeth, but merely an oral fissure, surrounded by barbels,
and having inside     a huge tongue beset with two oblique rows
                        it                                                                   of
recurved and inturned horny teeth, antagonised by a single ethmoidal
tooth. In the larva of the Lamprey the mouth    not circular, and the
                                                                is
lower lip    far back, covered by the upper, which is
               is                                                              like a   hood;
there are no teeth of any kind, only moss-like " barbels
                                                                               " or
                                                                                     papilla
under the upper lip.
     In
      the Tadpole the mouth            suctorial, the lower lip being converted
                                       is
into an imperfect ring, which           completed by the upper lip. Here the
                                       is
 cartilage  of  the  lower  lip    not
                                  is    a perfect ring, as in the Lamprey, but
is  in two parts, and        isformed into a sort of horseshoe.        Inside this
 compound ring      there  are  sharp horny plates or teeth, and the folds                  of
 the lips, all round the mouth, are covered with a horny rasp.
    Correlated with the perfectly suctorial lower lip of the Lamprey,
which     is a post-oral structure entirely, we have the most perfect form
of the superficial branchial skeleton, a basket-work of soft cartilage,
which appears in the early embryo, and only gains enlargement, fore
and aft, with all its suags and outgrowths, after metamorphosis.            Besides
this there are no rudiments of internal branchial arches, such as if                        e
find in the Tadpole. The only parts developed inside the head-
cavities and branchial arches are the generalised and rudimentary
mandibular and hyoid arches.             In the Tadpole there       no pier to the
                                                                          is
hyoid    arch,  and  the first cleft    arrested
                                       is         as a small  blind  pouch this      ;
state     ispersistent in the Lamprey. But, after metamorphosis— the
lingering latter part of that profound change of structure— the
young Frog and Toad acquire a pier to their hyoid arch, right and
left. This, however, does not become functional to the arch, much
less assist in supporting the mandible, as            " hyomandibular," bnt
                                                        a                                  is
transformed into an osseo-cartilaginous              chain —     stapedio-incudil
                                                                     a

  1883.J        On   the Infectivity of the Blood and  other Fluids.     449
  series,   specialised   correlatively with the expanded rudiment of the
  first cleft, now enlarged into a eavum tympani, with a large
  " Eustachian " opening. The little mandibles of the Tadpole, which
  served as arms to carry the divided suctorial disk, and lay across the
 fore face, become very long, and are often hinged on to their pier
 behind the occiput, and the cartilages of the snctorml disk
  straighten out and add to the length of the lower jaw in front.
 These things show how this temporary " Petromyzoid," the Tadpole,
 blossoms out into unthonght-of specialisations, and becomes a quasi-
 reptile, worthy of a place far above the Lamprey, and even far above
 all other Ichthyopsida.
      The Myxinoids never gain the level (or platform) of the adult
 Lamprey or the larval Frog ; they acquire no rudiments of vertebra
 —only a huge notochord — uniform or non-segmented.            But then their
 lingual teeth, rudimentary in the Lamprey, and not present in the
 Tadpole, are very large, and have a large buccal skeleton of their
 own.      They have no extra-branehial basket-work, but do develop at
 least four visceral arches, the hyoid (or second) being very large and
perfect, but not segmented as in higher fishes. Everything is in a
generalised state. But the first arch has no lower jaw developed on it,
its lower part is arrested, and the two or three proper gill-arches are
 dissociated from the gill-pouches, which are carried far back, under
the spine. I must refer to the main paper (Parts I and II) for details,
 but    I feel sure that every morphologist will agree with me when         I
 assert that these three related, but widely separated groups — the
Myxinoids, Petromyzoids, and Anura, are worthy of all the attention
 that anatomists have given to them, and that if ever we come to see
 how the Vertebrata have arisen, during time, from chordate forms
on a lower platform, we shall have to question and cross-question these
Marsipobranchs — not once nor twice, but many times.
     For myself,     I shall be grateful if this limited contribution to the
anatomy of the Marsipobranch fishes should draw the attention of
other workers, and attract them to this fruitful field of research.
 III.   " On the Infectivity of the Blood and other Fluids in some
        Forms of Septic Disease, and the reputed occurrence therein
        of an Increase of Virulence in Successive Inoculations."
        By G. F. Dowdeswell, M.A. (Cantab.), F.L.S., F.C.S., &c.
        Communicated by Dr. M. FOSTER, Sec. R.S. Received
        January      15, 1883.
     The remarkable fact that in some cases the blood of an animal,
intoxicated with putrid matter, becomes itself " infective," capable of

450                                 Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell.                    [Jan.    18.
reproducing in other animals those symptoms which have occurred
in     it,
        though previously asserted by others, was first conclusively
demonstrated    in 1866 by MM. Coze and Feltz in France,* who
further stated that in successive inoculations from one animal to
another of the same species, such blood acquires a progressive increase
of virulence, becoming more toxical than putrid matter itself, and
that death follows inoculation with increasing rapidity.             These
observations were confirmed and greatly extended by Davaine,             in      t
long investigations hence the form of septichaemia here in question
                               ;
has since been known by the name of the latter observer.        The first-
mentioned writers founded their assertion of an increase of infective
virulence upon the alleged fact that in successive inoculations^ the
incubation period was progressively shortened whereas Davaine sought
                                                               ;
to show, by numerous experiments, that in the same manner succes
sively smaller quantities of Wood were required to create infection                     ;
that whereas to originate       some drops were necessary, ultimately,
                                         it
after several generations of transmitted infection, the billionth (in the
French notation the trillionth) part of drop, or less, was sufficient
                                                         a                              ;
but he regarded, indeed defines, septichaemia as a putrefaction of the
blood in the living animal, a view naturally encouraged by the decom
position which in these cases occurs so rapidly after death.
    Davaine's experiments were repeated by many observers, both in
 France and elsewhere.     It remarkable, however, that they one and
                                   §      is
 all contented themselves with merely reproducing his earlier obser
vations, inoculating in succession several animals with constantly
diminishing quantities of blood, but without making any control expe
riments to ascertain whether in the first stages the blood was not
already infective in the degree supposed to be attained only after
several generations, and overlooked the fact that, in his later writings!!
Davaine had qualified his first statements by showing that a maximum
of infectivity was attained in the earlier generations.   These c8nclu
sions and the theory of an increase of infective virulence in successive
inoculations have since been generally accepted but the question here
                                                                   ;
 *     " Rechcrchcs Cliniquesct Experimental es sur lea Maladies Infectieuaes,    Ac.,"
Strasbourg, 1866, and Paris, 1872.
 t     Comptes Rend, de l'Acad. des Sc.," Paris, Feb.               1,
                                                            1869, et passim.         Aln
" Bull. Acad. Med.," Paris, 1872, p. 907, Ac.
J    Or, as   was termed, " generations," with reference
               it                                          to the microphytes found
to be present in the blood of these cases, which were regarded as constituting the
active contagium, and which by propagation in the blood of living animals,       it
                                                                                  was
said, acquired " renewed vigour
                                  " in successive                 have retained this
                                                  generations.           I
term " generations
                     " as convenient, but without here
                                                       implying anything more than
successive inoculations from one animal to another.
 §   As by H. Dreyer, " Archiv.      Expt. Path. u. Pharm." 1874, Bd. II, s. 149, Ac
                                         f.
and  Clementi  and  Thin.
  ||   Lot.   ext.,   "Bull.   d. rAcad. de   MM,"   1873, p. 124, Ac.

1883.]           On   the Infectivity of   the Blood and other Fluids.              451
involved has recently acquired fresh importance in reference to the
relations of the lower fungi to disease, and the occurrence in them, as
lately asserted by Dr. Hans Biichner,* P. Grawitz,f and others, of a
transmutation of physiological species under altered conditions.
      In observations recently made upon septichaemia in the mouse,J
 and other experiments, I obtained results which seemed to me to
 negative the occurrence of any progressive increase of virnlence in
 the blood in successive inoculations, or of any transformation, physio
 logical or morphological, in the organisms present, an opinion which
 was confirmed and the question discussed by Dr. R. Koch,§ in a
 work recently published.
      In the case of the mouse, from the small size of the animal and the
 blood in most cases being more or less coagulated when examined, it
 was not easy to obtain accurately measured minute fractional quan
  tities, by successive dilutions, for the purposes of experiment; for
 which reason, and also as it was with reference chiefly to the blood of
 the rabbit that the statements had originally been made, I selected
 <U+2666>hat animal for the investigation of this question by the following
  methods.
      To originate infection in the same manner             as  in other experiments
  on the same subject, putrid blood was used, generally that of the ox ;
         I
  but have also employed that of the pig, sheep, &c., or of the rabbit
  itself, all with similar results. Of such blood, diluted with an equal
  bulk of normal saline solution and strained, a few drops were injected
  into the subcutaneous tissue of the back or abdomen, by means of a
   Pravaz syringe. In the subsequent high dilutions five or ten drops
  were generally injected, and these comparatively large quantities were
  employed in order that there might be less chance of error in the
   quantity of blood actually received by the animal, than would be the
  case with smaller         injections, e.g., of ono drop, as. used by Davaine ;
   though his method probably reduces the liability to formation of
   abscesses at the site of injection, with the accompanying failure of
   infection, which, however, only occurred to me in a few instances. In
   these experiments, where it was requisite to guard against the possi
   bility of accidental infection or contamination, instead of a syringe                I
   used a glass tube drawn out to a fine point ; this is readily inserted
   under the skin of the back in young animals, still more so nnder that
   of the abdomen.          When the quantity to be injected requires to be
   accurately    measured,     it is easy once for all to calibrate the tubing by
   the usual method, and extemporise a graduated pipette, containing a
   given qnantity, between two marks of the file.
      • " Sitxber. k. B. Akad. Wiss. zu Munchen," 1880.
                   "
      t Virchow, Archiv.," Bd. 81, H. 2, s. 355.
     t "Qrly. Journ. Micros. Sc.," N.S., No. 85, January, 1882, pp. 66-75.
        " Untersuch. ii. d. jEtiol. d. Wundinfectionskrankheitcn,  &c.," Leipzig, 1878.
      §

452                           Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell.                            [Jan.  18.
    The symptoms which are observed after the injection of small quan
tities of putrid blood into a rabbit, when primary infection occurs, are
very constant, and similar in most essential respects to those in the
subsequent cases of transmitted infection, excepting that the inflam
mation at the seat of injection is more severe and extensive in the
former than in the latter case, owing no doubt to the comparatively
large quantity of septic* matter used. The period of incubation too is
here very variable, in accordance with the uncertain toxicity of putrid
blood ; its duration is usually from twenty to forty, or sometimes
sixty, hours, but if in specific infection an animal survives the latter
period, to my experience, it invariably recovers.                  Putrid blood, how
ever, in the quantities here used may be toxical, whether fatally or
not, owing to the chemical poison it contains in solution, the sepsin
of Pannm, Bergmann, and other writers, whereas in subsequent cases
of transmitted infection, when infinitely smaller quantities of the blood
itself are used, — the thousandth or the millionth of a drop or less, — it
is either fatally infective or, where not so, no symptoms of disturbance
can be recognised.         In these latter cases the incubation period is
remarkably constant, being in the great majority of instances from
twenty to twenty-four hours.
    Beyond an extreme coagulability, which in this specific disease                      I
have found invariable, in this differing from the observations of
others, and frequently a great increase in the number of the white
corpuscles of the blood,        I  have not recognised any constant change in
the characters of that fluid nor in the form of the red corpuscles, as
described and figured by Coze and Feltz, and as stated by others, in
this case ; and it seems to me that the appearances there described
are often rather those which occur in normal blood from the methods
of preparation, exposure to the air, &c., than constant pathological
features.     Theso authors, however, describe (op. cit., p. 67) filamentous
processes developed from the red corpuscles, of the nature of which
they are uncertain, and conjecture that they may be parasitical micro
organisms.       This statement of theirs has not been noticed, as far as I
know, previously.           I   have observed the same thing, as already
recorded,t in the blood of septichaemic mice. These bodies, which I
have investigated and fully described elsewhere,J are mere processes
developed from the stroma of the red corpuscles.                         They may be
produced artificially and are indicative of a pathological condition of
the blood.
    The rapid coagulation of the blood upon death, often within                          a
   •  I here use the term
                           *'
                              septic
                                     "
                                       in its proper signification of " causing putrefac
tion," or accompanying it.
   t " Qrly. Journ. Micros. Sc.." loc. cit., p. 69.
   t lb., Vol.  25, January,  1881.

 1881.]      On   the Infectivity   of the Blood    and other Fluids.       453
 very few minutes,       rendered   it necessary to obtain it with the least
 possible delay.    In  the latter cases, i.e., of transmitted infection, where
 the period of incubation is constant within a few hours, it is easy to
 watch the death of an animal and examine it immediately ; but in the
 case where   it is originated by putrid matter, this period varies within
 comparatively wide limits, death perhaps occurring during the night
 or when not expected. It is then more difficult to obtain it before
 coagulation occurs, and hence several failures were experienced in
 endeavouring to prepare successively diminishing quantities of the
 blood of this generation by fractional dilution.
                                   Experiments.
    Infection was originated in a young rabbit, No. 1, after some previous
failures, by injection under the skin of the back of 3'0 gtt. of putrid
bullock's blood, diluted, the animal was found dead forty hours after
inoculation, with the appearances mentioned as usually occurring in
these cases.       Around the site of injection was observed diffuse
hyperaemia, with extravasation of blood from the small vessels, a
marked induration and discoloration of the subcutaneous tissue at the
same spot, which appearance             I  have found invariably whenever
infection occurred.        There was no oedema, nor, beyond congestion,
was any change in the spleen or other organs apparent.               The blood
on examination was much coagulated ; in that of the heart were found,
though irregularly distributed, numerous micro-organisms, a form of
bacterium hereinafter more particularly referred to. These were not
found in this or subsequent cases in any of the organs or other tissues,
but as they are minute, and even in the blood when unstained, are
difficult to recognise, in other tissues they may easily escape observa
tion. The case of this rabbit so intoxicated by putrid blood,           I have,
in accordance with the phraseology of Davaine and other previous
writers, termed the first generation of infection, though obviously for
the reasons referred to, it would be more strictly accurate to designate
such animal, as itself, not infected but poisoned, and originating
infection.
   Another rabbit, No. 2, thereupon received in like manner by injec
tion, one drop diluted of the blood of No. 1. It died within twenty-
four hours ; blood from its heart was immediately diluted to different
degrees, and ten drops of the various dilutions were injected into five
other rabbits, all of similar size and condition, so that they received
respectively the following quantities of blood, viz. : — No. 3, TVth gtt. ;
No. 4, -rfoth gtt. ; No. 5,    ^th     gtt ; No. 6, -n^th gtt. ; and No. 7,
ioAb6tn             No.   3 died  in  25  hours, No. 4 in 24 hours, No. 5 in
25 hours, No. 6 within 40 hours, and No. 7 in 27 hours ; all, with the
exception of No. 6, in my presence, and all with very similar
symptoms; thus showing (1) that in this form of septichaemia the
   vol. ixxit.                                                    2 H

454                      Mr. G. F. Do-wdeswell.                   [Jan.  18,
period of incubation is in nowise proportionate to the quantity used
for inoculation, and (2) that in the so-termed second generation of
infection, septichaemic blood is already infective in the TUoWofh of *
drop.    Infection was then transmitted through the fourth, fifth, and
sixth generations, by inoculation with similar small quantities and
like results, the animals dying respectively within 23, 48, and 20
hours. The blood of this latter — the sixth generation — was diluted
to different degrees, and ten drops of the solution injected into four
other rabbits, which received — No. 11, -j-jnyth gtt. ; No. 12, i Or1,00th ;
No- 13. \ 66*660 5 No- 14, Tinreocroiytl1 of a ar0P- These died all in my
presence in, respectively 20, 26, 25|, and 20 hours, showing in addition
to the first point above-mentioned,          that there is no appreciable
shortening   of  the incubation  period   between  the second and the sixth
generation.     As the blood here proved to be infective in the ten-
millionth part of a drop, it was now necessary to determine the limits
of infectivity in the first generation.
   Again five drops of putrid bullock's blood, diluted with an equal
bnlk of saline solution, were injected into a rabbit, No. 15, which died
within 48 hours ; its blood was diluted as before, and ten drops
injected into each of five other rabbits, so that they received — No. 16,
one-thousandth; No. 17, one hundred-thousandth; No. 18, one-
millionth ; No. 19, one ten-millionth ; and No. 20, one hundred-
millionth of a drop.      No. 16 died in 24 hours, Nos. 17 and 18 died
within (that is, were found dead in) 35 hours, and No. 19 within 48
hours ; No. 20 was apparently unaffected ; subsequently, however, it
lost flesh, though continuing to feed, without any material rise in
temperature or the occurrence of microphytes in the blood, and a
small abscess was found at the spot of injection, which suppurated
and healed spontaneously in about eighteen or twenty days, and the
animal recovered.
   From this series of experiments it appeared that the blood of an
animal poisoned by inoculation with putrid matter, in the so-termed
first generation, is infective in less than the millionth part of a drop,
and the considerations mentioned below showed that it was useless
attempting to investigate the limits of infectivity beyond this point ;
but in order to ascertain whether there occurred subsequently any
appreciable shortening of the incubation period, as was considered to
be the case by MM. Coze and Feltz, infection was transmitted in
 succession up to the tenth generation, in which the blood of a rabbit
that had died septichaemic, was again diluted as before, and ten drops,
each of the same dilutions as in the last-recorded experiments, injected
into four other rabbits, one-thousandth, one-millionth, a ten-millionth,
and a hundred-millionth of a drop respectively into rabbits Nos. 21,22,
23, and 24, which died, No. 21 in twenty-one hours, while the other three
survived upwards of twenty-seven, but died during the night within

1883.]         On   the     Infectivity   of   the   Blood and other Fluids.              455
forty hours ; here obviously there is no appreciable shortening of the
incubation* period ; but the instances recorded show how constant in
the large majority of cases this period        the quantity used for inocu
                                                        is,
lation    is absolutely without any influence upon it, whether some
drops, or the hundred-millionth of that quantity           used    is   even;   it   is
seen frequently that inoculation with materially smaller quantities of
the same blood produces death in a shorter period than larger quan
tities do, in such cases       would appear that the result can only be
                                    it
owing to a difference in constitutional vigour, the power of resisting
infection, in the animals experimented upon.           It must be remarked,
too, that the apparent variation in the length of the incubation
period as recorded herein, appears sometimes greater than was
actually the case, for when an animal died, e.g., during the night,                          it
recorded as having occurred " within
                                             "                                            it is
                                                a certain time, whereas
may    have  occurred, and  in some instances   certainly did so, some hours
previously;       the death of all the animals had been actually wit
                 if
nessed, this period would appear even more uniform than                  does        it
here.
    In all these cases the appearances on death above mentioned were
observed without material variation, and in every case there were
found in the blood large numbers of a microphyte which              very chais
racteristic and distinctive yet although some previous writers have
                                     ;
clearly recognised its presence, regarding              as constituting
                                                              it          the
active contagium and materies morhi, no accurate account of its micro
scopical characters has been given, nor its direct relation to the infec
tive virulence of the blood which       infests considered.f
                                                it
    This microphyte        somewhat minute and in fresh preparations
                               is
   •
   I   have here used the term " incubation period" in the same manner as done by
Savaine and others, not in its proper sense of denoting the period between infection
and the first appearance of any symptoms of disturbance, but in reference to the
duration of the malady between inoculation and the death of the animal this,          ;
though not strictly correct in the proper signification of the term, may, perhaps,          be
excused, inasmuch both as the first occurrence of any constitutional disturbance             is
not well marked nor easy to recognise, in the animals the subjects of these experi
ments, and also as the period between the appearance of such symptoms and subse
quent death is, in ordinary  cases, very short, seldom exceeding a few hours.
f      MM. Coze and Feltz, indeed, described and figured    microbe which they found
                                                               a
in the cases they examined. If their figures are drawn to scale, this cannot be the
same bacterium here in question, or otherwise the figures ore erroneous, for they re
present a form fully double in breadth that which      have obtained, and more nearly
                                                          I
resembling the common septic ferment, B. termo (Cohn), than any other species
with   which I   am acquainted. If, however, these cases were examined immediately
after death,           this form could not have developed, being
               as stated,                                          septic and not a
                                                                        a
pathogenic species, nor capable of multiplying or subsisting in the tissues of the
living animal. It must, however, be remembered that at the time of their observa
tions, nearly twenty vears since, the available microscopical appliances were greatly
inferior to what we now possess.

 456                           Mr. G. F. DowdeswelL                           [Jan.   18,
 difficult to examine ; it is a form of Bacterium, but when stained is
readily recognised by the size of the cells, which is but little variable,
and by its form, which is distinctive.* The numbers in which it appears
in the blood in different cases, in various portions of the same blood,
or even in different parts of the same preparation, are very variable ;
this appears to arise in some measure from a disposition to agglome
rate together in places, and may be due to the tendency of the blood
to coagulate.         To enumerate these organisms in unstained prepara
tions is impossible with any of our present microscopical appliances,
as they cannot be sufficiently clearly distinguished, and in dried and
stained preparations, not knowing the depth of the layer of blood,
it can only be done by comparison with the number of the red cor
puscles, obviously a rough and uncertain method.                      In some cases,
however, they are fully ten times as numerous as the red corpuscles,
and taking the number of the latter at about 5,000,000 to the cubic
millimetre, we have of the former, 50,000,000, or in a drop upwards
of 3,000,000,000, which corresponds as nearly as could be expected
from their variable numbers and irregular distribution                          to the
minimal quantities in which               I have found the blood to be infec
tive,    viz.,   almost     invariably   in  the 100 millionth of a drop ;t in
much smaller quantities its action is uncertain, in correspondence
with the view that the microphyte does constitute the active con-
tagium ; for in that case, or if the contagium be particulate, what
ever its intimate nature, to whatever degree the fluid in which
it is contained may be divided by successive dilution, it is evident
that any given portion may, and some one or more portions must,
contain the infective particle ; and hence that to determine the
least quantity in which it is constantly infective is impracticable.
 From the dimensions of the organisms and the numbers that can be
comprised in a given space,J it is evident that blood containing
them cannot be constantly infective in the quantities stated by some
observers, viz., in the trillionth of a drop or less, yet it might be so
exceptionally, and consequently the original statement of Davaine
may have been strictly correct, in the instances he has recorded,
though the inference usually drawn from them is erroneous.
    In regard to the origination of infection by putrid blood, in several
 series of experiments,          I  have found that during the summer and
   •  Its  characters I have already described (" Journ. R. Micros. Soo.," 1882, vol. ii.
p. 310) : it is easily distinguished from B. termo, which it superficially resembles, by
its size ; being but half the breadth (0 o p), and by its form ; the cell-wall not being
constricted in the centre as in the latter species.
                        I
   t In one instance found 10 gtt. of the blood diluted 10,000,000,000 times fatally
infective within about the usual period.
   Z Viz.,     as already shown      ("Journ. Roy. Micros. Soc.," 1883, p. 311),
250,000,000,000    in a drop taken as the sixteenth part of a cub. centim.

 I883.]      On. the lnfectivity  of the Blood and        other  Fluids.       457
autumn months, it is generally obtained in two or three trials ; in the
          I
winter have also obtained it ; but during the present winter (1882)
I   have failed in numerous attempts. In putrid blood, not too old, a
large number of septic microphytes of many different forms may be
observed ; in cases when such blood proved infective,                I  have some
times, though     not always,   been able   to recognise     the specific organism
herein described as invariably occurring in the blood of infected
animals, and apparently constituting the actual contagium of the
disease, though they were never numerous ; but in these cases when
the blood did not prove specifically infective,          I never in one instance
could recognise them, often as they were sought for. Davaine states
that blood taken fresh and kept at a temperature of about 38° C. for
forty-eight hours,* becoming putrid, is as virulently infective as
blood in the later generations of transmitted infection, in the rabbit,
viz., in the hundred-millionth of a drop or less.               In several experi
ments, made at different times and places, I found that such blood,
 though rapidly developing a variety of septic bacteria, was not speci
 fically infective in any case, even when injected in quantities of some
 drops ; neither in such blood did I ever find the specific organism,
although sometimes, and in one instance most conspicuously, there
 were present a large number of bacteria proper, very similar in
appearance to the specific organism here in question, from which in
fresh or unstained preparations it is somewhat difficult to distinguish,
 but when stained after the usual methods they were found on measure
ment, to be fully double the size in breadth of the others, and with a
 perceptible difference in form. But few other species were observed
in these cases ; that which was present is the B. termo of Cohn,
usually the first to develope in putrefying animal or vegetable
matter, they very shortly disappear and are replaced by other forms.
Not having succeeded during these latter experiments in getting
infection, I was unable to try the effect of inoculating fresh blood
from the infection, and then incubating or artificially putrefying it.
     The fact above referred to as established by MM. Coze and Feltz,
and Davaine, was in the year 1872 further extended by the experi
ments of Drs. Sanderson and Klein, t in this country, who showed
that by injection into the peritoneal cavity of an animal, either of
various pathological products or, ultimately of a chemical irritant,
itself free from living organisms, or even parasiticidal, and with anti
septic precautions, an inflammatory affection was induced, the exuda
tion products of which, always abounding in micro-organisms, pro
duced on inoculation into other animals similar symptoms, with the
recurrence of the same microphytes. Farther, it was thought that in
                     • " Bull. Acad. MeU," Oct. 8, 1872.
                       " Med. Chir. Trans.," vol. lvi, p. 345,
                     t                                         ic.

458                         Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell.                            [Jan.  18,
this  case, too, there occurred      an increase in the       infective virulence of
the pathogenic fluids, in successive generations of transmitted infec
tion, similarly to the case considered hereinbefore.               The remarkable
circumstance       here shown of the origination of an infective bac-
terinm-containing        product by means of a chemical irritant, seems
to have been since lost sight of in reference to its bearings on
the question        of the relations of micro-organisms to infective
disease.    The affection was first described under the title of the
" Infective Products of Inflammation ;" but
                                                         recently a similar disease
has attracted attention under the designation                  of Pasteur's septi-
cheemia, a term which is decidedly a misuomer,* the blood neither in
the living animal nor shortly after death, to my experience, being in
anywise infective or septic.          I have found in numerous experiments
made since those herein recorded, some of which have lately been
communicated to the Royal Society, that these two forms of disease,
which may be originated by various methods, are essentially the same,
inasmuch as they are interchangeable at will, merely by altering the
place of injection, the pathological symptoms in both are similar, only
differing in extent and severity ; the serous exudation in each has a
very similar character, though the subcutaneous oedema is more con
stantly highly coagulable than the peritoneal exudation, the period of
incubation after inoculation is similar, and the micro-organisms
which occur in each are identically the same, vaguely as they are
characterised by recent French writers.f
    Guinea-pigs were used in this case, healthy animals being selected ;
for comparative experiments young and as much as possible of the
same size.      To originate infection, a small quantity of a dilute solu
tion  of  ammonia       was injected by means of a Pravatz syringe into
the peritoneal cavity of one of these animals ; the water used was
previously boiled, the syringe was new, rinsed out with boiling water,
and the vessels employed were disinfected by heat. In subsequent
experiments with infective fluids the syringes after use were treated
first with boiling water, then with a strong solution of potassic per
manganate, and again washed in boiling water ; that these measures
were sufficient to destroy infection was proved by several experi
mental injections with these syringes of normal saline solution, which
in every instance were innocuous.              I have found guinea-pigs as well
suited as rabbits for experiments on this affection, and although
here, as is shown, the period of incubation is somewhat less constant
     It                                                                     "
   •     has since   been   styled by Dr. R. Koch more       appropriately    malignant
xdema."
   t M. Pasteur, however, shows that he is familiar with the microscopical character!
                                          "
and  measurements     of these organisms, Bull. Acad. Med.," 1881, p. 97, and from
                                                                         "
this passage and other circumstances it seems to me shown that the new disease"
therein referred to as a form of rabies, is identical with Davaine's septicheemia.

 1883.]       On the Infectivity        of the Blood and other Fluids.               459
than in the case of Davaine's septichaemia in rabbits, above recorded,
yet it was found that when infection occurred death always followed
within about thirty or forty hours ; some few instances occurred in
which animals that had been inoculated died subsequently to this
period while under observation, but in such cases it was found that
this   was the result of accidental causes and not of infection.               In   some
cases where infection failed and the animal was obviously                      in good
health, as evinced by there being no loss of weight or of appetite, it
was, after the lapse of two or three weeks, used for other experi
ments ; it is quite contrary to my experience in this case or in that of
Davaine's septicheemia, that an animal inoculated should die of septic
infection after the lapse of several days or some weeks, as has been
recorded by other observers.                In the experiments on transmitted
infection the septic fluids employed were always diluted with normal
saline solution recently made and freshly boiled : in cases where
moderate quantities — two or three drops or upwards — were used,
equal parts of each were taken ; when much smaller quantities were
required, they were obtained by the method of
                                                               " fractional dilution."
In all cases the quantities given as having been used for injection
apply _to the actual quantities of the septic fluid and not to its dilution.
                                        Experiments.
    0-3 cub. centim.     of a dilute solution of ammonia was injected into
the peritoneal cavity of          a guinea-pig which, when examined the next
morning, had apparently died some hours previously, decomposition of
the viscera and abdominal wall being far advanced, destructive in
flammation around the site of injection had occurred, and there was a
considerable quantity of peritoneal exudation, containing red blood-
corpuscles, much altered ; some pus or leucocytes, mostly largely
vacuolated, with a great number of Bacilli, and spores or Micrococci ;
the former actively mobile, i.e., they possessed the power of inde
pendent movement, while the spores or Micrococci weve merely
affected by the Brownian movement.*
    In the lower layer of the tissues of the abdominal wall were found
in places several Bacilli and some few Micrococci or spores ; these
occurred mostly in the connective tissue and between the muscular
fibres ; none were found in the skin or subcutaneous connective tissue,
either here or in any case of the intra-peritoneal injection of a
chemical irritant ; the puncture in the skin and abdominal wall by
insertion of the needle of the syringe had produced but very slight,
   * Micrococci, however, are eometimes actively mobile ; but in many cases
where moving bodies seen under the microscope are taken for these organisms
                                                                                 "
they are merely the elongated cells of bacteria or Bacilli seen endwise, in        optical
        " as it is termed, i.e., floating perpendicularly to the cover-glass of the pre
section
paration.

460                          Mr. G. F. Dowdeewell.                          [Jan.   18,
scarcely appreciable, inflammation ; in some other cases the spot was
not perceptible       even on microscopical examination of the tissues.
The occurrence of the microphytes, in the situation only here stated,
in conjunction with the circumstance that the substance injected
was a chemical irritant, germ-free, is important in respect to the
question of their origin.
     These Bacilli are in width        about    1'0 to   13    /»  (0-001 to 0 0013
millim.) : in length, the single cells vary up to about 4 or 5 p. (0-004
to 0'005 millim.) ; filaments consisting of some few of these, united
end to end, and in less active           movement than the individual rods,
also occurred in the fluid as examined fresh under the microscope,
but in dried and stained preparations these are not nearly so
numerous.       In dimensions these Bacilli are somewhat similar to the
B. anthracis, but it is impossible for any careful observer to confound
the two ; for independently of the species here described being active,
while the B. anthracis is invariably immobile, and though in the
serous fluids the former develope into filaments of variable length,
yet the segments of these show the original mature cells of about the
dimensions here given, into which they again break up, preserving
their rounded ends, and are distinctly unlike the segments which the
 filaments of B. anthracis* form, as it is possible to be, for the latter
are rectangular, pretty uniform in length, of little more than about
twice the width; in cases of Anthrax, whether in the animal organism,
or in artificial cultivation this formation may invariably be recognised
where the cells are sufficiently developed to form filaments.                  In the
present    case blood    from   the heart   contained   no   organisms,    but  in the
spleen and peripheral portion of the kidney were found several Bacilli,
thongh not in the other organs.              In this case it is to be noted that
death had occurred some, probably several, hours before examination,
and decomposition was advancing with the rapidity that characterises
all these cases.        In other experiments where the infected animals
were examined immediately after death, in no instance were any
microphytes found either in the blood or organs, but only in the serous
fluids and in the connective tissue as before stated. t
    Of the exudation fluid in this case 0'05 cub. centim., diluted with
equal parts of salt solution, was injected into guinea-pig No. 2, and
0 022 cub. centim. similarly into another, No. 3. Both these animals
    • The terminal cells, however, of this form too, it must be remarked, retain their
rounded ends, "the growing-point," though but few of these may be found in
mature development.
    t Some writers, however, in experiments upon Pasteur's septichaemia have re
ferred to organit mfi found in the blood of infected cases. What the import of this
is I cannot say, in the absence of a clearer diagnosis of this disease ; whether some
other form of specific septichtemia or septic infection had been obtained, or, in the
absence   of any precise statements on the subject, whether examination had been
deferred until some hours after death, and septic bacteria had developed.

 1883.]     On   the  lnfectivity  of the Blood and  other  Fluids.       461
died in between twelve and eighteen hours with appearances similar
to the first case, but less severe ; the same organism occurred in the
peritoneal exudation, but none elsewhere.          Two other animals were
also injected at the same time with respectively O0044 and 0-0022
ctib. centim. of the same fluid diluted, but neither was appreciably
affected.    It thus appeared that the inflammatory exudation fluid of
the first generation originating infection is fatally infective in quan
tities of from 0-022 cub. centim., but not in 0'0044 cub. centim.           To
continue the infection through subsequent generations, 0'05               cub.
centim. of case No. 2 was injected into another animal, which likewise
died in about thirty hours, and was examined immediately, the same
hyperaemia with exudation and the occurrence of numerous organisms
was found ; of this serum, 0 05 cub. centim. diluted, was injected into
another animal, No. 7, which survived, without being materially
affected, thereby showing that the infective virulence of the fluids is
variable, and that in the third generation of successive infection there
is at least no gain in virulence from the first, in which it was fatal in
less than half the quantity that was here without material effect.
Infection being thus lost, it was again originated in another series of
experiments by injecting 0'22 cub. centim. of a dilute solution of
ammonia into the peritoneal cavity of another guinea-pig, which died
within twenty-four hours, and was examined some time after death
with very much the same appearances as in the first case recorded
above, though here the serum was more deeply sanguineous and more
coagulable; the same organisms were found to be present.               Of this
fluid 0'05 cub. centim. was injected into another animal, No. 9,
without, however, producing any appreciable              effect ; thus again
showing that      in the   same   generation of infection,   viz., here in the
first, the virulence of the septic product is variable ; it was therefore
necessary to work with larger quantities.        In a fresh series of experi
ments infection was again originated by the injection of a solution of
ammonia into another animal, No. 10, which died in manner similar
to the former. Of the exudation fluid in this case 0"22 cub. centim.
diluted, was injected into No. 11, which died in between eight and
nine hours after ; another, No. 12, which received by injection 0'055
cub. centim., died in between twelve and twenty hours ; subsequently
0-022 cub. centim. of the same fluid, of No. 11, was injected into
another animal, No. 13, which remained without being materially
affected, beyond, as in other cases which survived, some rise of the
rectal temperature, which, however, in these animals is not sufficiently
 constant normally, for variations in it to give any reliable indications,
 unless very marked.        In healthy animals I have found it fluctuate
 from very slight     causes,  such as fright, being handled, &c., between
 97° F. and 101° F.       Other animals which here received injections of
 smaller quantities than the above all remained similarly unaffected.

                                Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell.                                  [Jan.       18,
From the above-mentioned                 animal of the second generation that died
infected, 0  cub. centim. of the serous fluid diluted was injected into
              '22
another guinea-pig, No. 14, which died within four hours, but 0-22 of
the exudation in     being similarly injected into another, No. 15, of
                         it,
the fourth generation, this survived for twelve hours, and was found
dead some hours subsequently, showing that, as judged by the period
of incubation, the septic fluid was inferior in virulence to that of                                a
prior generation. Infection was continued through another generation,
the fifth, by injection of the same quantity of serum of No. 15 into
another animal, No. 16, of which finally 0'2 cub. centim. was injected
into No. 17 of the sixth generation in succession, which died in about
the same period after inoculation, viz., four to five hours, as had the
one previously of the third generation.        The following successively
diminishing quantities     were  then  injected into other animals, viz.                             :
0'022 cub. centim., 0'0022, and 0'00022 cub. centim., and some smaller
quantities still, all alike without producing any material symptom
of disturbance.      In every instance here the Bacilli were present in
such numbers in the exudation serum from which the dilutions were
made that the smallest quantities injected must have contained very
many of them.*
   In regard to the relation of these micro-organisms to the diseases
in which they appear,      has been assertedt that they occur normally in
                               it
the blood of healthy animals, and are only enabled to develop by the
pathological condition caused in these cases by the injection of septic
matter.    As this point      ot fundamental importance to the subject,
                                    is
to determine        experimentally, a young healthy rabbit, nearly full-
                    it
grown,   was  killed  by asphyxiation, and then placed in the incubator
intact, for twenty -four hours at the end of that time the abdomen
                                          ;
was largely distended with gas, and putrefaction obviously well
advanced.     On examination there was found in blood from the heart,
in rather small numbers, a Bacillus, the cells of which were of consi
derable width, but of no great length, nor forming long chains,
mobile, and evidently in active multiplication, in some few cases
apparently forming spores at one end only there were a very few free
                                                            ;
spores, but growing cells in all stages of development; no small
Micrococci nor any other species of Scuizophyte, no B. termo, nor any
one of the organisms here described as specifically distinctive of
Davaine's septichaemia. In blood from the lungs and the liver the
same Bacillus also occurred, as        did in the spleen, but in smaller
                                              it
numbers.     In none of the organs or tissues examined was any other
  * In the experiments here recorded " infection "              was originated      by the intra
peritoneal injection of a chemical irritant in other
                                                   1            series,   by   putrid matter   ;   the
results are substantially the same in both cases.
 t   Most recently by Professor Kossbach, " Vcrmehrung der Bakterian in lebenden
Tiere, &c.," Ctbl.   d. Med. Wiss., 18S2, No.
                    f.                            p. 82.
                                                       5,

1883.]        On the Infectivity   of   the Blood and other Fluids.     463
species    found ; whereas in cases of infection with this specific form of
Davaine's septichaemia, the particular bacterium increases within
certainly fifteen hours, so as to outnumber many times the red blood-
corpuscles, here none were to be found in a materially longer period.
Hence it seems to me to be clear that the specific bacterium of Davaine's
septichaemia does not normally exist in the blood of healthy rabbits.
Nnmerous preparations of blood from different parts were made,
stained, and carefully examined, with the same result in all.
    The experiment was repeated with a guinea-pig, similarly killed
and kept in the incubator for twenty-four hours, at the end of which
time it was enormously distended with fetid gases, the blood from the
heart and principal organs also contained a Bacillus in some numbers ;
this wad similar in form to that found in the case of the rabbit, but
somewhat less in size, and spore formation was more advanced.         To all
appearances it is identically the same as that which developes in cases
of peritonitis or the so-called Pasteur's septichaemia in the guinea-pig.
Whether or not it is specifically identical with the Bacillus that
developes in dead healthy rabbits or in septic diseases in that animal,
can only be determined by interchanging inoculations or cultivations
of each growth, for though there is a slight morphological difference
in the organisms of the two animals, it is clearly the fact that the
same species of Bacillus, growing in different media, varies appreciably
in its dimensions, as is typically exemplified in the case of the Bacillus
of Anthrax.
                             Artificial   Cultivation.
    In the first trials of cultivating the organisms here in question in
open    tubes,  both those of Davaine's and the so-called Pasteur's
septichaemia,    I failed to obtain conclusive results with any of the
nutrient fluids employed, infusions of the flesh of different animals, and
with blood serum : in the latter the bacteria of Davaine's septichaemia
germinated, producing a turbidity which extended very slowly and to
small extent, dying out generally after abont the second day ; the
serum used being partially solidified by evaporation in prolonged
 heating, though still perfectly pellucid and not in any way coagulated.
 The Bacilli in the other case behaved in much the same manner in
 different fluids.
    In the last experiments made daring the winter, as I failed to again
 originate specific infection with Davaine's septichaemia by inocula
 tion with putrid blood,   I  have been unable to repeat the attempt to
 cultivate these organisms.     As, however, it has been stated that the
 microphyte of Pasteur's septicheamia has been successfully cultivated
 in vacuo in France, and it seemed probable, from the conditions under
 which it occurs in the animal organism, that it would thrive best in
  the absence of oxygen or atmospheric air, the experiments wero

464                               Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell.                     [Jan.        18,
repeated.    In the former trials, where inoculations were made under
antiseptic spray, both in the tubes of bouillon and of serum, acci
dental contaminations sometimes occurred.             In the present experi
ments, inoculations were made through sterilised cotton wool, which
is the only reliable method of artificial cultivation with which           am  I
acquainted,    and which      haveI   found  in  numerous  experiments,  even
with such unstable substances as blood serum, to be absolutely                           in
fallible, with moderate care in manipulation. It was communicated
to me by Dr. E. Klein, and              is,
                                         believe, described by him in detail
                                         I
elsewhere.     The infective     exudation   serum used for inoculation                   in
this case was from        guinea-pig, in which         had been produced
                                                       it
                                                                                          in by
                              a
the subcutaneous injection of a few drops of the serous fluid
infective peritonitis, artificially induced the organisms herein were
                                                   :
not very numerous, consisting chiefly of short rods of somewhat
variable breadth, one end being frequently swollen, as in the forma
tion of spores, distinct forms of which, however, were not apparent,
though cell-rods, in a very early stage of development, were.               at      It
first seemed as        there were here two distinct species of Bacilli
                         if
present,   but  subsequent    observations     showed that thoy were only
forms of one and the same in different stages of development.             The
narrower cells were, in fact, degenerating and withering, which
frequently accompanies         spore formation, the cell presenting                        a
shrivelled and somewhat contorted figure instead of the usual uni
formly cylindrical sharp contour.        This stage      more frequently and
                                                          is
readily   seen  in artificial cultivation    outside the  animal body. The
tubes containing sterilised blood serum and beef bouilkm being
inoculated with a small particle of this fluid, were then exhausted                       of
air, sealed, and placed in the incubator, when the next day their
incipient turbidity showed that vegetation was proceeding readily;
on the second they .were opened, and both the serum and bouillon*
were found to be full of the same species of Bacilli originally inocu
lated, in various stages of development, forming numerous and distinct
spores.    More than one tube of each nutritive medium was always pre
pared, and       was observed in those containing serum that the more
                it
solid it  had become by evaporation the more slowly did the vegetation
progress in     it,
                 rendering      fluid as
                                   it       proceeded.
                                              it         On opening the tuba
  * Blood sorum offers    a suitable cultivating medium for probably all pathogenic
                                                                                          be be
organisms  ;   it easily sterilised, and when once this
                    is                                   effectually done,
                                                         is                  it
                                                                              msy
kept for any length of time, and while remaining perfectly translucent may
rendered by prolonged heating of any consistency required.         Koch's method          of
gelatine culture, though most valuable for particular purposes,       not for seve-al
                                                                     is
reasons  suitable for use generally in these experiments.   With the exception      B.
                                                                                    of
anthracis most pathogenic bacteria, as distinguished from the merely septic, vegeta8
sparsely  ifat all in vegetable infusions, the attempts to cultivate them in which are
generally disappointing and misleading.

 1883.]     On the  Jnfectivity   of the Blood and other Fluids.       4(55
the strongly fetid odour caused by the development of the vegetation
was remarkable and distinctive, and was observed in the case of every
tube opened, both those with serum and those with bouillon. Their cul
tivation was repeated four times, in exactly similar manner, each cul
tivation lasting two or three days, and precisely similar appearances
being observed in each. From the fifth collection, which contained
the Bacillus in considerable numbers, five drops, diluted with an equal
quantity of normal saline solution, were injected into the subcutaneous
tissue of the abdomen of guinea-pig A, which died with the usual,
though slight, symptoms of infection in about forty hours after
inoculation.   Another guinea-pig, B, at the same time received in
like manner ten drops of the same fluid, diluted 1,000 times
(=T£7 gtt. of the cultivation).           This animal was perfectly un
affected, beyond a slight local and temporary irritation at the spot of
injection, which, without infection, sometimes occurs with animals
inoculated in the abdomen, and arises probably, as I have witnessed,
from their scratching ; it passed off within forty-eight hours and the
animal remained unaffected.          The quantity of fluid here injected
must have contained many thousands at the least, and probably some
millions of the Bacilli, but they do not appear capable per se of
developing to any extent in the tissues of a healthy animal.
    From these experiments      I conclude  that in the affections here in
question, that is, in Davaine's septichaemia in the rabbit and the so-
termed Pasteur's septichasmia in the guinea-pig, there is no increase
of infective virulence in the septic fluids in successive generations,
either in respect to the minimal quantities required to produce fatal
infection, nor as to any constant difference in the incubation period,
though in the latter case this period is less constant than obtains in
Davaine's septichaemia ; the infectivity, too, of the inflammatory pro
duct, though not comparable in virulence to septichcemic blood, is
here more variable, partly owing it may be, as Dr. Sanderson
originally considered, to differences in the severity of the cases afford
ing the infective matter, and partly also, as I have above stated, to
constitutional idiosyncrasy in the animal inoculated.
    With respect to the nature of the contagium and the relation of the
micro-organism to the disease in which they occur, I conclude that in
the first case, i.e., in Davaine's septichaemia in the rabbit, all the
circumstances taken into consideration, the microphyte constitutes the
actual contagium, and that the numbers in which it is present in the
blood, both septic (putrid) and septichaemic, clearly condition its
infective virulence. Its numbers alone would not account for the
 difference in the incubation period — so-called — of the two cases, but
 the purity of the growth in the latter case, and in the other the fact

  4(56                      Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell.                      [Jan. 18,
  of the specific bacterium being always far outnumbered by other
  species with which it has to contend in order to establish its growth,
  fully accounts for its slower development, and the consequent pro
  traction of the incubation period.
      In the second case, that of infective peritonitis, or Pasteur's septi-
  chaemia in the guinea-pig, the circumstances are materially different ;
  in the first place, the microphyte appears to originate from within the
  animal organism, as shown both by the anatomical examination of the
  tissues, in the case of originating the disease by the injection of an
  antiseptic fluid; and, further, by the fact that a Bacillus, as far as
  can be determined, identical with the form occurring in these cases, is
 found to be present normally in healthy animals shortly after death,
  when kept at the temperature of the body.            Moreover, the pathogenic
 matter containing these organisms when infective, is only so in incom
 parably larger quantities than is the case with the blood in Davaine's
 septichmmia, nor are cultivations of the specific organism more virulent;
 hence, although as shown elsewhere,* the infectivity of the pathogenic
 matter is destroyed by heat, I cannot conclude that in this case the
 microphyte is to be considered as constituting the contagium, per se,
 purely and simply as in Davaine's septiehsemia ; the large numbers in
 which it must be injected in order to develop its growth, in addition
 to the circumstances of its origin, seem to forbid this view, which
 would imply that in the one case it constituted the exciting cause of
 the pathological condition, to which it owed its development, that it
 is to be regarded in the one case as the secondary result, in the other
 as the efficient cause of the same thing.           No doubt, however, when
present in sufficient numbers, they greatly modify the characters of
the pathological condition which they accompany.                This, which was
the opinion of Dr. Sanderson, at the time referred to, does not seem
since to have received the attention it deserves, as the case of a disease
in which the presence of micro- parasites originated by the injection
of a germ^ree chemical substance stands alone, and has the most
important bearing on the relation of these organisms to disease.
     In both the forms of septic infection herein referred to, the impor
tant fnnction of the lower fnngi which therein occur, is clear, but it
is remarkable that, notwithstanding the numerous observations and
experiments that have been made on the subject, and the fact that in
both     cases these   affections were recognised by the chief writers
thereon,    as being of micro-parasitical origin, yet so little attention
should have been paid to the microscopical examination and de
scription of the organisms themselves.            In the one case, indeed, the
bacteria which occur had been figured and described by MM. Coze
                      • " Proc.
                                Roy. Soc.," vol. xxxiv, p. 150.

   1883.]       On  the lnfedivity of     the Blood and other Fluids.               467
  and Feltz, but imperfectly as above mentioned, and this, as far as                    I
  know, is the only attempt to describe them at all particularly ; the
  terms in which the microphytes they mention are referred to by
 later French writers are most vague, while others have scarcely alluded
  to their presence, save in the most general manner, while recording
 experiments made with the object of investigating the aetiology of
 these diseases.
      In  the case    of Davaine's septichaemia,        I   have been able in all
 essential points, not only to confirm his original statements, but to
 account for them, more especially with regard to the incredibly minute
 quantities in which the blood in these cases is infective, statements
 the accuracy of which has been sometimes doubted.                      To emphasise
 this is due to the reputation of one who has done so much in many
 directions to advance our knowledge of micro-parasitical diseases, and
 indeed, it may be said that almost the only points left undetermined
 by this observer, or the mistakes which he made,* were those depen
dent upon microscopical investigations, the immense advance in the
appliances of which the last few years now enables this to be done.
 In the other case, the so-termed Pasteur's septichamia in the guinea-
pig, the relations of the Bacillus therein occurring are not so clearly
shown as in the former, yet if its characters of morphology and
mobility as above mentioned had been carefully observed, neither
this affection, nor, still less, the former, could for an instant have been
confounded with charbon or anthrax, as was the case ; nor again in
this latter disease could any observer have fallen into the grave error
of confounding the B. anthracis with either the Bacillus here in
question, or the hay Bacillus, the characters above briefly described
being perfectly constant and sufficiently distinctive to be at once
readily recognised under even moderate magnifying power.
                                            I
     It is on the microscope that have relied for determining the
questions herein, and it appears to me that it is on the more assiduous
use of its greatly increased powers which we now possess, that the
advancement of our knowledge of these subjects depends.
     The observations here recorded were commenced and chiefly per
formed in the Physiological Laboratory of the New Museums at
Cambridge, during the last winter (1881) : circumstances have delayed
their final completion till lately, in the meantime an article on the
same subject has been published at Berlin, by one of Dr. Koch's
assistants, Dr. G. Gaffky,t who has arrived at the same conclusions
mainly as myself with reference to the principal point in question ; but
    * As in regarding the specific organism of septichsBmia  and the putrid ferment as
one and the same.
       " Experimentell erzeugte Septikamie, &c.," in " Mittheil.
    t                                                            a. d. Kaiserl. Gesund-
heitsamte, &c.," Berlin, 1881.

468                                                              Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell.                                                      [Jan.         18,
on the other hand, the doctrine of an increase of virulence                                                                                     in    septic
fluids in successive generations has been again affirmed by Professor
Rosenberger* in relation as appears to both the forms of disease
here in question, without, however, giving any detailed account of the
experiments on which he grounded his opinion.
   In conclusion I have to thank the British Medical Association,
through the Scientific Grants Committee, for assistance in defraying the
expenses of these experiments.
Table                      I. — Showing                    the Result of the Subcutaneous                                   Injection of Septic
                          and Septicheemic Blood in different quantities                                                     in Rabbits.
                               88on.
 No.                                           Matter injected.                                  Quantity.                        Result.
                      Genera
                                                                                                       gtt
                                       Putrid bullock's blood dil..                                   3            Died within 40 hours.
  9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
                         1                                                               .            0
                                       Blood of No.               diluted                              10                      24    „
                        3 2
                                           „     „
                                                            2 1                                         j_           ii    ii
                                                                                                                   Died in 25 hours.
                                                                                                        To
                          ii                                                                                                M     24        „
                          n                                                                                                 „     25        „
                          a                                                                                        Died within 40 hour*.
                          n                                                                                          i,    ii  27    n
                                                                                                                   Died ia 23 hours.
                        7 6 5 4
                                                                                                      3 8   0 0    Died within 48 hours.
 10                                                                                                    3-0           „ . n     20    „
 11                                                   ,.10                                             i
                                                                                                       i00         Died in 20 hours.
 12                       ii                          „ 10             „                              TOTItTO              26   „
                                                           10                                                              25i „
                                                                                                        1
 13                       a                                                                          100O0O             „
 14                       a                                10                                    i   5AtloOOOO          n  20    „
 15                   l                Putrid bullock's blood dil..                      .            5     0      Died within 48 hours.
 16                     2              Blood of No. 15 diluted                                        ToVo              n         n        24        ,,
 17                       ii               a          a     15             a          •• ••          TITuVoS*           n         -        35        „
 18                       ii               a          a      1**           ii
                                                                                     *
                                                                                     •
                                                                                     •       •                          „   „   3°                   -
 19                       a                n          a     15             „          ....        lOOOOOOO                  „    48     „
 20                       „                a          ii    15       ni06$ooo^
                                                                           ii         . . ' •                      Survived, abscess formed.
                                   Infection continued through successive generations up to the 10th.
 21                     11             Blood        of rabbit          of            10th
                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0            Died in 21 hours.
 22                       n                    i1           ii                  ji                   lOOOOOO       Died after 27 hours,
                                                                                                                     within 40 hours.
 23                       )i                   a            ii                  ii               i ooooooo           ,i               n-
 24                                            ii           ii                  n                -nn;tiooooo         -       ii       ii
  Note. — The quantities employed are here given in drops (minims),                                                                                       in
order that they may be comparable with the experiments of others on
the same subject.
                                            •       " Ctrlb.      f.   d. Med. Wiss.," 1882, No.                  4,   p.   66.

1883.]                                  On the Infectivity            of the Blood                    and other Fluids.                469
 Table                                II. — Showing          the Result of the Intra-peritoneal                      Injection of
                                                  different matter in Guinea-pigs.
No.                                            Matter injected.                      Quantity.                     Kaiult.
                 Genera
    '                        tion.
                                                                                               c.e.
                                       Solution of ammonia diluted.              .                        Died within 20 hours.
 2 1                                                                                 0 0
                                                                                               3
                    2 1                Exudation fluid of No.  dil..  1          .             05         Died in between 12 and
                                                                                                            24 hours.
                                                   ii                                          022                    »
                                                                                     0 0 0
 9 8 7 6 5 4 3
                       ii                 M                      H                                            M               M
                       n                  M        n             tt   1     t
                                                                            »-
                                                                             '                 0044       Survived.
                       tt                 n        ii            tt   i     „ ..               0022           ii                           .
                                                                 „ ..                 0-05                Died in 30 hours.
                                                                      3 2
                                          ti       ii
                    2 1 2 1 4 3
                                                                 tt
                                                           "     „ ..                          05         Survived.
                                                                                     0 0 0 0
                                           n       n
                                       Solution of ammonia diluted.              .             22         Died within 24 hours.
                                       Exudation fluid of No.   dil.. 8          .             05         Unaffected.
 10                                    Solution of ammonia diluted.              .             22         Died within 24 hours.
 11                                    Exudation fluid of No. 10 dil..                0-22                Died in between    and
                                                                                                                              8        9
                                                                                                            hours.
 12                 3                     n        tt            tt   10     „   .    0-055               Died in between 12 and
                                                                                                            24 hours.
 13                                                                   10 „ .          0-022               Unaffected.
                    6 6 6 6 5 4 3 2
                                          tt        Ji           n
 14                                       tt       ii    '       ii   11 „       -   0         22         Died within4  hours.
 15                                       ii       tt.           ii   14 „ .          0-22                Died after 12 hours.
 16                                       n        tt            ii   15 „ .          0-22
 17                                                                   16 „                     22         Died in about       hours.
                                                                                     0 0 0 0
                                          ii       tt            u               .                                        4
 18                                       ti        tt           ii   16 „       .             022        Unaffected.
 19                                                 tt           ii    16,       .             0022           »
 20                                                                    16    „   .             00022
   VOL. XXXIV.

470                          Mr. W. H. L. Russell on                       fJan.  25,
                                   January 25, 1883.
                       THE PRESIDENT              in the Chair.
     The Presents received         were laid on the table, and thanks ordered
for them.
     The following Paper was read : —
I.    "On certain Definite Integrals."                   No. 11. By W. H. L.
             Russell, F.R.S. Received January 16, 1883.
     The method     by which integral         (227) was obtained may be thus
extended.
     Suppose  it was required to obtain
Put                                           T»
                                   T v*> T c« + ezs+
                                 a+bz+cz*
                                 u                  T .-  - -
                           Z~a' + b'z+c'x* + e'xi+       . .  .'
                     O(z)=a+bz+cx*+ezs+              . . .,
                     <j1(z)=a'+b'z+c'zi+e'xs+            . .  .,
then 0{z) =z<f1(x), and        if (a)   be any root of the equation 0(x) =0, and
ff',          0', <p", . .  ., are the values of O'x, 0"x when *=<*, then we
find by differentiating 0(x)=ztj>(x)          that
                                                                 +  ...
when
                                      -
                                        _0       XT  _200'_0V
                                                                   3g"03
                   _30V_9020J>'fl"           60g1'g_g"'0s        ,
                 3
                        Q,$          ffi
The theorem applies with great facility when f(z)=.y/i*.                 I of course

1883.]                           certain Definite Integrals.                                              471
suppose that /(z) can be expanded in terms of z by a converging
series in other cases. The series TJj + U2z + . . . would, believe, be                    I
convergent in many cases, where 6' is large when compared with
0, 0',   ...   ;   but the subject requires further consideration.
  If    we put as=0,                               z— —r.
                                                      a
Hence we immediately deduce from the equation
                                      x=JJ0+XJ1z+TJtJL              +                                 (235)
                                  »
the theorem           U0 + Ul         +   JSt                             ...   =0.
                                                                ^
Since                                 I   I   dxx*~l=
                                                          n(n+l)(n+2)'
                                                                1.2.3
                               dx(l— x)a;"-i=-
                         JoJ
                               '       '
                                                     n(»+l)(»+2)(n              +   3)'
 and,    therefore,      as before,
j*jixa:*-ty(l-z)
   —          Ao     +         Ai.1.2                       Ajj.1.2.3                                 ,236)
                                                                                                      V
        n(«+l)           n(»+l)(m +           2)    n(n+l)(n+2)(»+3)
 with precisely similar formulae for                                              x)      and other       like
                                                       |1j'j'ife8a!"910(l—
 integrals.
    We also have
 P<l)(l-x*)dzx*'
 Jo       Vl—x*
                         2n+2         (2»+2)(2n+4)
                                                                '
                                                                         jJovT^i                      V
                   = /Aq+^+ A<-1-8-
                         2» 2n(2»+2)
                                                          + ' ,Ac.'l["
                                                                /   Jo   (1
                                                                              -
                                                                           +«!»)•
                                                                                              •   •   (238)-
                                                                                                      V    '
   It    is   easily seen that these investigations extend                        to a great multi
                                                                                       2  i       2

472                                    On certain Definite Integrals.                                                [Jan.     25,
tude of what are usually called binomial integrals.    It will be                                                             seen
that these formula} include a vast number of such integrals as
f    ,                             .     .     (239).                   f                                       -     -   (240).
                              f
                                  ^—
                              Wa + bx1 + cx*+
                                                      - dx    . xSm
                                                               . . .   +
                                                                                  ,
                                                                            ex**^X-xl
                                                                                                  ....                    (241).
                                                         dx   . Xs*
                                                                                                  '             .    .    (242).
                               ^/a+bx2+cx*+                   . . .    +exln^X—xi
     If we      have an integral of the form
                                                     fd0j,*Q=e"b,
where       P   and Q are functions of 0, we have by applying                                                       the symbol
0— to the integral
    ax
                                       fdO(t1(V)<?'Q,=<f1(a)a*b                                                           (243).
     As an example of this
\rde{<tl(cobs
Jo
                      063i    V    co"       *** +
                                                     (0 cos8 0£-3i«)€*                        }
                                                                                                  = ^.Q)eJ                (244),
from whence
                          00s      (x   cosS 6 s™       ^)                      cos    (a;                s*n
f;   dOe*   «»'»«•i«                                                   0088 ^                0083     O
                                                                                                                    30—30)
Jo                                              1    +   2/1 cob8
                                                                       0   cos 30 +    a*3   cos8     9
                                                                                                                      .   (245).
                                                                                  P+8
     In   the same way we may deduce                    from integrals general        formula;
(86), (87), (116), (118), (122), (129), (130), of the present series.
  The following integrals were obtained by the use of reciprocal
functions —     :
                          \    d0 cos' ee*™* cob (a sine                       +r0)=^-            .   .         .    .    (246),
                          Jo                                                         2r
                          f'j/,     ra
                               d0cosr0.
                                                cosr0— «cos(r — 1)8
                                                —                   r
                                                                -J—=—      >                                              (2iA,'
                                                                                                  .   .         .    .
                                                        1-2.COs0 + *1                        2'
                                                                                                                          v
                          J0
Jo   (l-2»cosr0               +   «2)(l-2/3cosi0+/33)                          (1-«3)(1— /33)(1-^)
                                                                                                                          (248),
where     r     and   «   are prime numbers.
                                             0aw)   +   £"~*'0(cos0a-»i)}=2»0(i)                                '    -
                                                                                                                          (249).
                |'rfe{<r"*'0(co8

1883.]                      Internal Reflexions in the Eye.                        473
This last formula is derived from (246).                 I   observe that the funda
mental idea by which these integrals are obtained is given by the
equation
 f(
Jo
      A0 + Aj cos 6 +   . . Ar cos rO) (Br cos r6 + B,+1 cos (r + 1) 0 + . .) = ^ArBf .
                                                                                2
This method may           be much extended.
II. " Internal Reflexions in the                Eye-."     By H. Fbank Newall,
        B.A.      Communicated by Dr.                  ML      Fosteb, Sec. R.S.
        Received January 18, 1883.
    1.  The observation I have to record first came under my notice
three or four years ago.           Often when working at night by the light
of a candle, in a room otherwise dark, my attention was caught by a
very faint light some way out of the line of direct vision.                        This
seemed to defy nearer inspection ;              for the    instant  I   turned my eyes
 towards it, it was gone, thus showing that there -was no objective
 cause, but that the light was due to some internal reflexion in the
 eye.    Later, however,        I   foaiid that by keeping the eye fixed and
moving the candle, the faint light could be observed at leisure,
though, as far as I could then make out, never in the line of direct
 vision.    (See however below, § 32.)
    2.  The best conditions soon became apparent, and I have applied
 two methods in later investigations : (i) One in which the eye is
 fixed on a spot on a dark or uniform ground whilst the candle is
 moved to and fro out of the line of direct vision,                (ii). One in which
 the candle or source of light is kept fixed, whilst the eye follows the
 regular movement of some point, such as the end of a pencil moved
 by the hand.
    3. The    first of these methods showed that the ghost, as               I may call
 the faint light, moved roughly speaking              in  a   line drawn through the
 point of clearest vision and the candle, in direction opposed to that of
 the candle's motion with respect to the point of clearest vision, and
 with a velocity equal to that of the candle.
    4. The second method showed what is practically the same thing,
 namely, that the line of movement of the ghost was just as described ;.
 the direction the same as that of the point of clearest vision over the
 field in front ; the velocity apparently about double that of the point
  of regard.
     5. In both methods the ghost merged into the candle close to the
  point of direct vision, and in other positions seemed about equally
  removed    from that point with the candle.

474                                 Mr. H. F. Newall.                    [Jan.   25,
  6.    Both methods lead, as             I
                                        have said, to practically the same
results.      The ghost then is independent of the position of the eye-ball
in the socket, and hence must be produced by reflexions internal to
the eye, and not brought about by its external surroundings.
     7. Nearer inspection of the ghost itself showed it to be an inverted
image of the candle, about equal in size, very faint, and of a slightly
dull bluish tint.
     8. Before saying more            I
                                   will describe what has proved the easiest
way     of finding  the  ghost.   Stand   opposite a uniformly dark wall in a
 darkened room.         Direct the eyes to any point in front (e.g., a mark
 on the wall, a pin in a curtain), and keeping the eyes fixed and being
 ready to perceive any appearance out of the line of direct vision
 without moving the eyes towards               it,
                                             hold up    candle at arm's length,
                                                               a
 and move      it  to and fro over about two inches, on a level with the
 point fixed, and a little to the right or the left of it. The ghost (or
 rather ghosts,          loth, eyes are
                    if                    used) may be seen moving with
 motion opposite to that of the candle on the other side of the point                 of a
 direct vision.
   9.    The best way that         have found for observing the image,
                                    I                                          tois
         candle on the table about a foot from the eye, and place close
                                                                                      of in
 set  a
 front of  it   a dark-coloured board two or more feet in length, and
  breadth just enough to allow the flame of the candle to be seen above
 iv hen the board    is  set up breadthwise on its edge.     Now let the eye he
  fixed on any object which can be moved along the top edge of the
  board.      When this point moves the eye follows        with a, regular steady
                                                                   it
  motion, which     I   have failed to get by any other method, such as the
  seemingly more simple one of letting the gaze move along the edge                    of
  the board, nnhelped by a moving point.           The board in shadow makes
  the best background for faint images, such as the "ghost," which will
  be found in the position above described.
      10. In either of the methods described in the two last paragraphs,
  the motion of the candle or of the moving point should be slow, and
   to and fro, over a short ranges but            should be continued till the
  image   is  found, for the image rests,
                          if                           it it
                                                  makes less and less impression
  on the retina.
      11. Since the ghost depends on the state of the accommodation
                                                                                      it of
   the eye, for distinctness and even visibility (see below,           15-20),
                                                                        §§
   follows that people with different sight may have to look for the ghost
 in different ways.        A short-sighted       person for instance, will probably
 not be able to     see   it   in   the middle of the field at all, and so may fail    to
 recognise the phenomenon, unless indeed his short sight    due to too  is
 great convexity of the cornea only.
     12. Beyond   mere cursory investigation of the phenomenon,
                    a                                              did       I
 nothing at the subject at the time but later, having need to consult
                                                   ;
 Mr. R. Liebreich,   asked him
                        I          he knew of the phenomenon.
                                              if                  He

  1883.]                 Internal Reflexions in   the Eye.                 475
  'was at first incredulous, but being convinced when      I showed him how
  to find the ghost, he attributed it immediately to reflexion from the
  fundus, and compared it with other retinal images. He wrote to me
  after a day or two, saying he had found a complete solution of the
  problem, and would like, if I had no objection, to publish an account
  of some experiments he had made in connexion with the subject.
  Later he told me he had given up the idea, and           I  have not seen or
  heard of any published account.        I  had, however, made observations
                                                I
  which led me to question his theory, and determined to make further
  experiments, measurements, and calculation, to test my own view that
  the reflexion was from the surface of the lens, and not from the fundus
• alone. I was at one time inclined to consider that the ghost was con
  nected with " Sanson's images," but was driven from that idea by
  considerations as to the amount of light that could be reflected back
  into the eye ; this could only be extremely small.           (See also below,
  §   30.)
      13. Many reasons hereinafter related make me believe that the
  ghost is produced in the following way : — An image of the candle
  flame is thrown on the retina by the crystalline lens ; this image,
           I
  which will call the first retinal image, may now be considered as a
  source of light from which rays proceed outwards from the retina,
  and are refracted by the crystalline lens and cornea to a focus again
  outside the eye in such a way that an image of the retinal image
  would be formed in the place occupied by the candle. Part of these
  rays, however, are reflected at the various surfaces bounding the
  different media of the eye, and those reflected by the anterior surface
  of the lens, or what one should more correctly here regard as the
  posterior surface of the aqueous humor, are brought to a focus some
  where between the lens and the retina. The rays from this focus
  have not diverged much before they fall on the retina, and there form
  a blurred inverted image of the first retinal image.             This second
               " referred " outwards, and looks as if
  image     is                                            produced   by a faint
  source of light outside the eye, and having a definite position in
   space.
      14.  I shall  speak in what follows of this imagined source of light
   as the "ghost," to distinguish it from the actual image of the retina
   which gives rise to the sensation, and which        I shall call the second
   retinal image.      The ghost is the analogue of the candle, each being
   the mental image corresponding to the physical image on the retina.
   The name ghost will suggest to the reader similar phenomena in the
   telescope, which, however, are produced in a different way.
      15. The ghost is affected by accommodation, so that with the candle
   about one foot from the eye, and with the eye accommodated for a
   point six inches from it, the ghost does not become visible till it is
   1 1 degrees from the centre of the field.      These numbers refer to the

476                              Mr. H. F. Newall.                             [Jan.   25,
case  of my own eyes, and will, of course, vary with the observer. I
may add here that      I
                       am what wonld be called long-sighted, though
having a very large range of accommodation.
   16. Again, when the eye is focussed for a distant point, the ghost
is visible right up to the middle of the field, but invisible when
removed more than 17 degrees from the centre of the field.
   17. Again, if the eye and candle are fixed whilst the eye is focussed
for different distances, the ghost seems also to pass through regular
gradations of distinctness.   (See also below, § 35.)
   18. Now, in the last case, it is clear that the candle can only give a
clear image on the retina in one particular state of accommodation, so
that generally speaking there will be a blurred first retinal image, the
reflexion of which is the second image.       One would then expect that
the ghost wonld be more likely to be distinct when the candle is at
the same distance from the eye as the point focussed.
   19. This I have found from observation       to be the case when the
eye is focussed for points not nearer than two feet. When the eye is
focussed for a point six inches from             it,
                                           the ghost   invisible when the
                                                                is
candle   isfurther than one foot from the eye, and in no position of the
candle  does  it become very distinct, but     most so when the candle
                                                       is                               is
close to the eye. With so close a point of regard the radius of cur
vature of the anterior surface of the lens would be much diminished,
and hence also its focal length when regarded as a concave mirror, so
that the rays proceeding from the focus have diverged considerably
more before reaching the retina to give rise to the second image than
in the   case when the eye       is   focussed   for long distances.
  20. Here    may be noticed that with the point of regard at arm's
              it
length, the ghost increases much in size   the candle   approached to
                                                       if            is
the eye. And also         if,
                       with the eye focussed for a near point and the
candle about a foot from it, the point of regard be moved gradually
away from the candle across the field, then the ghost, which not to            is
be seen in the centre  of the field, comes into sight and grows more
distinct as   it   becomes more moved from the centre      up to a certain
 point, beyond which    again becomes indistinct and finally disappears.
                          it
 The point of distinctness varies also with the state of accommoda
 tion.
    21. From considerations referred to in        18, the question arises:
                                                            §
 Are we to regard the retina in this matter as a concave mirror, or
 merely as a screen   ?An example will help to make the importance of
 this clear.  Suppose the source of light      the sun isthen    the eye
                                                                 ;        if            is
 accommodated to see       distinctly,
                                it     the   focus  of rays from the sun
 would fall on the retina, which in this case would act simply as                       a
'screen, receiving a distinct image of the sun, whence rays would
 proceed outwards again as in     13.   If, however, the eye was accom
                                        §
 modated for near distances, then rays from the sun would be brought

 1883.]               Internal Heflexions in   the  Eye.                477
to a focus at a point in front of the retina, and would diverge again
from the point and form a blurred image on the retina. Now, will
this blurred image be the source of light from which rays diverge, or
will the retina act as a concave mirror, so that rays from the blurred
image will be reflected from it so as possibly to converge again to a
focus which we may regard as the source of light ; or, to put the matter
more briefly, is the reflexion from the retina "regular" or "irregular"?
    22. I have sought for an answer to these questions in allowing the
first retinal image to fall on the depression of the fovea centralis, where
the radius of curvature is much smaller.           In this case there is no
perceptible alteration in the appearance of the ghost.        This points to
the idea that the retina acts simply as a screen and not as a concave
mirror, and that we may regard the light coming from the first retinal
image (whether this be clear or blurred) as diverging from the retina.
    23. The facts recounted in §§ 19, 20 lead me to believe that the
second image is the reflexion of the first.      One more weighty argu
ment may here be added.         If the positions of the candle and ghost
be noted in any one position of the eye, and the candle be moved into
the apparent position of the ghost, then the ghost will be observed
in the place at first occupied by the candle : that is, the first and
second images of the candle on the retina are conjugate foci with
respect to some reflecting surface in front of the retina.
    24. The ghost is an inverted image of the candle ; therefore, its
physical cause, the second retinal image, must be erect, and hence an
inverted image of the first retinal image of the candle.        The reflect
ing surface is therefore concave.      The possible reflecting surfaces are
the posterior surface of the cornea and the anterior surface of the
lens.
    25.  A priori  the cornea   seems least probable for two reasons: —
1st.   Light  from the retina must pass through the lens twice before
returning to the retina, and calculation shows that the rays would
proceed finally, after leaving the lens, towards the retina, as if coming
from a virtual focus within the lens, 2-39 millims. in front of the
posterior surface.     2nd. The light proceeding outwards from the
retina and reflected back by the cornea would, in cases when the first
image was far from the centre of the field, be reflected on to the
 anterior surface of the iris, and so would not reach the retina again.
    26.  I have attempted to find whether there was any illumination of
 the iris that would correspond to this ; but two observers have failed
 to find light on the iris, which could not be traced to other causes.
 The circumstances in the case were as favourable as possible, for          I
 made use of the sun as prime source of light, so that the light was
 very bright and the pupil therefore much contracted.          Again, if the
 light is intercepted by the iris in its return to the retina, the ghost
  would disappear part by part, the edge of the iris intercepting more

478                          Mr. H. F. Newall.                      f Jan. 25,
and more of the figure of the ghost : but     I find, on the contrary, that
it   dies away gradually, getting " out of focus," as it were, as it
passes from the field.
    27. On the other hand, the anterior surface of the lens seems most
likely to give the solution of the problem.          Calculation shows that
the light proceeding outwards from the first image on the retina
would be, after refraction, at the posterior surface of the lens,
reflexion at the anterior surface, and second refraction at the posterior
surface, focussed at a point in the vitreous humor.        This point, when
the eye is focussed for long distances, will be abont 2-4 millims. from
the posterior surface of the lens : and when the eye is focnssed for a
near point, it will be about 1 millim. from that surface.       The distance
of these points from the retina certainly forms a very great difficult?
in the explanation.
    28. As to the brightness or rather faintness of the image, it seems,
at first sight, improbable that the surface between the lens and
aqueous humor should be capable of reflecting enongh of the light
coming from the first retinal image, to excite the retina.             But the
case    is comparable   with  the  appearance of
                                                  "  Sanson's Images," and
the brightness of the ghost, as compared with the candle, might well
be described as about the same as the two faint images as compared
with the bright one in Sanson's phenomenon.            We might expect to
find some change in the brightness of the ghost when the first retinal
image falls on the more opaque part of the retina at the entry of the
optic nerve.          I
                 But have failed to get certain results. I have allowed
the image of the candle to fall on the blind spot : the ghost does not
lose in brightness, though the whole field of vision seemed to become
brighter, in consequence, no doubt, of the greater diffusion of light
through the eyeball from the image on that part.             That the ghost
does not seem to lose in brightness as the ground becomes more
illuminated, may, perhaps, be taken as a sign of increased brightness;
but nothing definite can be gained from this point towards the
explanation.
    29. The fact that the ghost is visible in the centre of the field (see
below, § 32) shows that the reflexion cannot be from the fundus
alone, that is from the fundus direct, on to another part of the retina,
as I understood Mr. Liebreich to have imagined.         This is clear, more
over, from    the  fact that  if the  fundus were   the only reflector in the
case, the ghost would move in the same direction as the candle.          This
would also be the case if the first reflexion outwards were from a
surface in front of the retina instead of the retina itself.
   30. If, for instance, the reflexions were entirely within the lens (as
I  at first thought possible) or within the aqueous humor, then the
ghost and candle ought to move in the same direction, the former
with greater angular velocity. In fact, the case would be comparable

 1883.]                Internal Reflexions in   the   Eye.               479
with the reflexion sometimes to be seen on the scale of a reflecting
galvanometer.      The light reflected from the mirror is partially re
flected at the surfaces of the worked glass which closes the mirror
tube : and that part reflected within the glass at the surface remote
from the mirror is again reflected within the glass at the surface next
the mirror, so that a second and very faint image of the slit is some
times formed on the scale.        This second image moves in the same
direction as the ordinary bright one, but with greater angular
velocity.
   31. That the ghost is not due to reflexions within the lens is also
made very probable from calculations which show that in any state of
accommodation the focus would be virtual and situated in the aqueous
humor.      That it is not due to reflexions within the aqueous humor is
made more probable from the fact that          I  have discovered a second
ghost, which is almost certainly      due  to this    cause ; it moves in the
same direction as the candle, but the faintness and indistinctness of
this image is too great to allow of any accurate measurements.           It is
very blurred, and I have never been able to bring it even approxi
mately to a focus on the retina.
   32. The wish to see the ghost, if possible, in the line of direct
vision has led me to further very interesting observations.              The
method was suggested by an accidental sight of the ghost in bright
sunlight.     I was standing on the terrace at Heidelberg, and looking
towards    the  sunset ; in front of me on the other side of the ravine
was the Castle, standing out dark against the bright sky beyond.           As
my eye    wandered    slowly over the outline  of   the  buildings, my atten
tion was caught by the ghost flitting down below in the shadow.
Here were all the necessary conditions, a bright light and a dark
screen.    There was no difficulty in moving the eye till the ghost fell
exactly on the point of direct vision. But, strange to say, the sun
was still some way out of the line of direct vision ; that is, instead of
seeing the sun and its ghost equidistant from the centre of the field,
and finally, as the eye moved further, merging into one at the centre
of the field, the ghost had got to the centre first, and had moved on
to the same side of the centre as the sun before they coincided.
   33. Moreover the eccentricity, as I may call it, is different for my
two eyes both in amount and direction.              I  can best describe the
difference by saying that with my right eye, when the ghost was in
the line of clearest vision, the sun was still to the right and above ;
and when the line through my eye was horizontal, the line through
the sun's position and the ghost, or the point of clearest vision, was
inclined at an angle of 36 degrees to the horizon, the angular distance
of the sun from the ghost being 8° 32'. With my left eye, when the
ghost was in the line of clearest vision, the sun was to the left on the
same level, and at an angular distance from the ghost of 6° 25'.

480                  Capt. Abney and Lt.-Col. Festing.                         [Jan.    25,
  34.   This points to something anomalous    in the centering of the
eye surfaces.  The amount and direction of the eccentricity in my
eyes as shown by these means are in somewhat remarkable correspon
dence with those obtained by the entirely different method of Helm-
holtz (" Phys. Opt.," pp. 86, 87).        I
                                      may add below the angles for my
eyes corresponding  to numbers   given by Helmholtz, loe. cit. : —
                                                          Light   came from
                                                   Nasal side.      Temporal side.
            Right eye                               9° 27'       ....   3°   49'
            Left eye                                 7° 36'      ....   7° 36'
  35. One more observation of some interest  may record.   I-With the
sun as source of light and with a fixed direction of vision      have              (I
generally taken that direction in which the ghost comes into the line
of direct vision, so as to avoid the constant tendency of the eye to turn
towards any object of interest in the field), the ghost passes through
a series of forms as the state of accommodation        alters. There are
three marked forms, a horizontal bar with a near focus ; a circle for a
slightly more remote focus ; and a vertical bar for long distance.
There may be signs of a double astigmatism ; but as they are the only
               I
signs that have had of such defect in my eyesight,                      I
                                                             have rejected
this explanation in favour of the equally simple one, that we have
here the focal lines and circle of least confusion such as are observed
in oblique reflexion by a concave mirror.
   The explanation suggested in this paper is attended with difficul
ties, the greatest of which is perhaps that referred to in § 27.      It                 is,
however, the one which on the         whole   explains  best  the greatest
number of the facts to be accounted for. The calculations made on
various points mentioned above are based on measurements given                           by
Helmholtz for his schematic eye. It seems likely that individual
variations from the normal eye should be such as to determine the
visibility of the ghost but have found as yet no obvious relation in
                          ;    I
about fifteen cases between the power to see the ghost and the kind
of sight, as defined by the ordinary terms, long and short sighted-
ness.    Two cases in which    I have notably failed to show the ghost,
are opposed in this respect, one having short sight, the other normal                     ;
whilst of those to whom the ghost         visible there are as many short
                                              is
sighted   as   long sighted.
III.    " Note on the Absorption Spectrum of Iodine in Solution                          in
        Carbon Dieulphide."   By Captain Abney, R.E., F.R.S., and
        Lieut-Colonel Festing, R.E. Received January 18, 1883.
   In   1876,      Sir John Couroy   Proc. Roy. Soc.," vol. 25, p. 46),
                                     ("
described      the absorption spectrum of   solution of iodine in carbon
                                                    a

1883.J     Absorption Spectrum                    of Iodine in Carbon Disulphide.        481
disulphide. He, however, solely regarded the visible spectrum from
near B to above G, about wave-length 4,000.
   Our attention was recently directed to the absorption of this sub
stance, and we have determined photographically the spectra for
different thicknesses and strengths of the solution.
   Our inquiries into the behaviour of carbon disulphide had shown
us that    it, as well as iodine, was transparent for rays of very low
refrangibility, as was first shown by Professor Tyndall.       We are nob
aware, however, that any investigations into the absorption at the
more refrangible end of the spectrum have been published.         An idea
seems to be prevalent that the absorption commences in the green,
and gradually extends, as the thickness or density of the solution                           is
increased, in both directions until finally all the visible rays are
extinguished, leaving the invisible rays at both ends unabsorbed.
   Though one of us employed the solution before to cut off the
visible portion of the spectrum       Phil. Trans.," Part II, 1880, p. 664)
                                                   ("
 in diffraction photography of the lower part of the spectrum, the use
of it   was abandoned owing to the opinion that was expressed that
instead of the infra-red being photographed, the ultra-violet and violet
of the spectrum of the next order might be that which was really
impressed.      Our recent experiments, however, show that no fear need
 have  been   entertained  on this account, as the annexed diagram will
show.*
    The following thicknesses and strengths of solution were employed,
 being placed before the slit of the photographic spectroscope —                     :
                                           Iodine in CS2.               Thickness.
                 No.         ..               per  cent,  equivalent to   millims.
                                           8 4
                       I           .   .                               2
                  „    II    ..      . .              „        ii      2     ii
                  „    III   . .     ..12                      ii      2     Ii
                  „    IV    . .     ..16             „        ii      2     •i
                  „    V     . . .         32                  ii      2
                                       *         <?            F           _2     ir     4
   The source of light was usually the crater of the positive pole of the
electric lamp, though in two instances we were favoured with a
glimpse of sunshine, which enabled us to confirm what we had before
    • This diagram represents the absorption of the continuous spectrum.       The
bright bands in the electric light above K had power to penetrate the solutions              II
and III.

482                                 Presents.                        [Dec. 21,
obtained with the less     brilliant source of light.    For Nos. I, II,   and
III,  photographs     were   taken,   which   gave the red and infra-red
spectrum, as well as the more refrangible end. -With every number
ordinary gelatin plates of great sensitiveness were employed as &
check on the collodion plates.         To the eye, the red, in each case,
extends a trifle more towards D than in the photograph.
   An attempt was made to produce the same range of photographic
action in the spectrum of the thicker solutions as in the less dense, by
increasing the time of exposure.         The result, however, was abortive,
and hence we may conclude that when any visible ray is quenched to
sight by a solution of particular density, it also ceases to be photo
graphically active.
   The last ray to disappear in the blue lies somewhere close to h, and
it will be seen that the ultra-violet rays are absorbed before the
absorption touches the violet. By using a still denser solution than
No. V, we were able to entirely quench the blue, both visually and
photographically, while the extreme red was still visible, and tbe
photograph taken showed no signs of absorption of the infra-red rays.
   In conclusion we would remark, that by the use of this solution in
a rock-salt cell and a grating, the infra-red spectrum from X 7,600 to
X 15,200 may be photographed without the instrumental separation of
the different orders of spectra ; and the conditions of our climate are
such that the atmospheric absorption usually, if not always, prevents
a study of the solar spectrum below the greater wave-length above-
named.
                       Presents, December    21, 1882.
Transactions.
  Bern: — Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen. 1881. Heft 2.
        8vo.    Bern 1882.                                       The Society.
              —
  Bologna : Accademia delle Scienze dell* Istituto. Memorie. Serie
        4. Tomo II. 4to. Bologna 1880. Accademia delle Scienze dello
        Istituto di Bologna dalla sua Origine a tutto il MDCCCLXXX.
        8vo. Bologna 1881.                                    The Academy.
  Brussels : — Académie Royale de Medecine.            Bulletin.    8e Serie.
        Tome XVI. Nos. 4-9. 8vo. Bruxett.es               1882.     Memoires
       Couronnes.     Tome VII. Fasc. 2, 3. 8vo. Bruxelles 1882.
                                                              The Academy.
     Societe Royale Malacologique.          Annales.    Tome XIII.       8vo.
       Bruxelles 1878. Proces-Verbaux, Juin-Decembre, 1881. 8vo.
                                                                 The Society.
               —
  Budapest : Kon. Ungarische Geologische Anstalt. Mittheilungen.
       Band VI. Heft 2. 8vo. Budapest 1882.                 The Institution.

 1882.]                           Presents.                              483
 Transactions (continued).
      Magyar Tudomanyos Akadémia. Almanach, 1882. 12mo. Buda
         pest 1882.    Ertesitb (Akademiai) 1880, Szam 8. 1881, szam
         1-7. 8vo. Budapest 1880-81. Ertesitb (Archaeologiai). Kbtet
         XIV. Fiizet 1. Uj Folyam. Kbtet 1. Resz. 1, 2. 8vo. Buda
         pest 1881-82.    Kblzlemenyek (Math, es Term.). Kbtot XVI,
         XVII. 8vo. Budapest 1881. Kbzlemenyek (Nyelvtudomanyi).
         Kotet XVI. Fiizet 2, 3. 8vo. Budapest 1881. Evkonyvei.
         Kotet XVI. Darab 7. 4to. Budapest 1881. firtekezesek a
         nyelvt. es szepirodalom Kbreb8l. Kotet IX. Szam 3-12. 8vo
         Budapest 1881. Ertekezesek a Bblcseszeti Tndomanyok Kbreb8l.
          Kotet II. Szam 6, 7. 8vo. Budapest 1881. Ertekezesek a
         tarsad. tndomanyok korebol.        Kotet VI. Szam 9-12. 8vo.
         Budapest 1881. Ertekezesek     a tortenelmi tndomanyok korebfil.
         Kotet IX. Szam 4, 6-11. 8vo. Budapest 1881-2.          Ertekezesek
         a Mathem. tudomanyok koreb8l. Kotet VII.              Szam 19-25.
         VIII. Szam 1-12. 8vo. Budapest 1880-81. Ertekezesek a
         termeszet-tudomanyok koreb81. Kotet XI. Szam 1-26. 8vo.
         Budapest 1881-2.      Az Aggteleki Barlang mint Oskori Temetb.
         Irta Bar6 Nyary Jenb. 4to. Budapest 1881. Ungarische Revue.
         1881, 3-12 ; 1882, 1-6. 8vo. Leipzig 1881-2.       Egyetemeink a
         Kozepkorban.      Irta Dr. Abel Jenb. Magyar Orszaggyulesi
         Emtekek torteneti Bevezetesekkel.       Kotet VII. (1582-1587.)
         8vo. Budapest 1881. Erdélyi Orszaggyulesi Emlekek.           Kbtet
         VII. (1614-21). 8vo. Budapest 1881. Nyelvemlektar. Regi
         Magyar Codexek es Nyomtatvanyok. Kotet VII, VIII. 8vo.
         Budapest 1881.       Magyar-Ugor Osszehasonlito Szdtar.        Irta
        Budenz Jozsef. 8vo. Budapest 1881.           Regi Magyar Kbltbk
         Tara. Kotet III. Tin15di Sebestyen Osszes Muvei. 1540-55.
        8vo. Budapest 1881.      A Kozoktatas Tbrtenete Magyarorszagon
        a XVIII.     Szazadban.    Irta Molnar Aladar. Kbtet I. 8vo.
        Budapest 1881. Anjonkori Okmanytar.             Kbtet II. (1322-
        1332). 8vo. Budapest 1881.                           The Academy.
   London : — Clinical Society.     Transactions. Vol. XV. 8vo. London
        1882.                                                  The Society.
Observations and Reports.
  St. Petersburg : — Physikalisches    Central- Observatorium. Annalen.
        Jahrg. 1881. Theil 1. 4to. St. Petersburg 1882.
                                                         The Observatory.
     Internationale Polar-Commission.        Mittheilungen. Heft 3. 8vo.
        St. Petersburg 1882.                              The Commission.
   Sydney:   — Australian Museum. Report of the Trustees, for 1881.
        4to. Sydney 1882.                                     The Museum.

484                                 Present*.                           [Jan.  U
Observations, Ac. (continued').
     Department of Mines, N.S.W.               Annual     Report, 1881.       4to.
         Sydney 1882.
     Observatory. Results of Double Star Measures made
         1871 to 1881. 8vo. Sydney 1882.
                                                                         ....
                                                               The Department
                                                              The Observatory.
   Washington     : — Smithsonian    Institution.    Report of the Board of
         Regents, for 1880. 8vo. Washington 1881.               The Institution.
     U. S. Geological       and   Geographical Survey of the Territories.
         Bulletin. Vol. VL No. 3. 8vo. Washington 1882.
                                                                     The Survey.
Christy (Thos.)       New Commercial Plants and Drugs.                No. 6.  8vo.
     London 1882.                                                    The Author.
Dawson     (J. W.),   F.R.S.    The  Fossil Plants   of  the  Erian   (Devonian)
     and upper Silurian Formations of Canada. Part 2. 8vo. Montreal
      1882.                                                          The Author.
Dollo   (L.)    Note sur l'Osteologie   des Mosasauridce.     8vo. Bruxelles.
                                                                     The Anthor.
Foster (C le Neve) Report upon the Inspection of Metalliferous
     Mines in the Counties of Anglesey, Brecon, Cardigan, Carnarvon,
     Denbigh, Flint, Merioneth, Montgomery, Radnor, and Shropshire,
     and in the Isle of Man, for the year 1881. 4to.                 The Author.
Galloway (W.)         On the Influence of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions
      (Papers 3 and 4). [From the Proceedings of the Royal Society.]
     8vo.                                                            The Author.
Moore    (F.) The Lepidoptera of Ceylon. Part V.             4to. London 1882.
                       The Government of Ceylon, per the Crown Agents.
Riitimeyer (L.)       Beitrage zu der Geschichte der Hirschfamilie.              I.
      Schadelbau. 8vo. Basel 1882.                                   The Author.
Schiaparelli (G. V.) Misure di alcuno Principali Stelle Doppie di
      Rapido Movimento Orbitale enseguite negli anni 1875-1882.
      8vo. MUarw 1882.                                               The Author.
                          Presents, January 11, 1883.
Transactions.
   Angers : — Soci^te) d'Études Scientifiques.          Bulletin.     Annees XI,
         XII.    1881-82.     8vo.   Angers 1882.                    The Society.
   Brussels : — Academic Royale de Medecine.               Bulletin.    3e Serie.
         Tome XVI. No. 10. 8vo. Bruxelles 1882.                   The Academy.
     Academie Royale des Sciences.           Bulletin.    3e Serie.    Tome III.
         Nos. 4-11. 8vo. Bruxelles 1882.                          The Academy.
   London : — Chemical Society." Journal. Nos. 236-239. 8vo. London.
         1882.                                                      The Society.

 1883]                                Presents.                               485
 Transactions (continued) .
      Pharmaceutical Society.          Journal.    3rd Series.   Nos. 625-654.
         8vo.    London 1882-83.                                    The Society.
      Royal Geographical Society.           Proceedings.    July  to December,
         1882.    8vo.                                              The Society.
      Society of Arts.       Journal.    Vols.  XXX-XXXI.        Nos. 1543-72.
         8vo.   London 1882-83.                                    The Society.
    Paris: — Sociote d' Encouragement.           Bulletin.   81e  Annee. Nos.
         100, 101, 103-106.      4to.    Pan's 1882. Comptes Rendus. 8vo.
                                                                    The Society.
      Academic des Sciences de l'Institut. Comptes Rendas. Tome
        XC1V, Tables.         Tome XCV. 4to. Paris.              The Academy.
 Observations and Reports.
   Berlin : — K. P. Akademie der Wissenschaften.                  Circular zum
         Berliner Astronomischen Jahrbuch.            Nos. 174-195. 8vo.
                                                                 The Academy.
   Dublin : — Office of the Registrar-GeneraL            Weekly and Quarterly
         Returns of Births and Deaths.           June to December, 1882.
                                                        The Registrar- General.
              —
   London : Meteorological Office.           Daily and Weekly Weather Re
        ports.    July  to   December,    1882.   Sheets.             The Office.
      Stationery Office. Report on the Scientific Results of H.M.S.
        " Challenger." Zoology, Vols. IV and V. Narrative, Vol. II.
                                                            H.M. Government.
Journals.
   American     Chemical Journal.        Vol. IV.     No. 4. 8vo.      Baltimore
        1882.                                 The Johns Hopkins University.
   American Journal of Otology. Vol. IV. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. Boston
        1882.                                                      The Editors.
   American Journal of Philology. Vol. III. Nos. 9-11. 8vo. Balti
        more 1882.                             The Johns Hopkins University.
   Analyst. July to December, 1882. 8vo. London.                   The Editors.
   Annalen der Physik nnd Chemie. 1882. Nos. 7-13. Beibliitter.
        Nos. 5-11. 8vo. Leipzig 1882.                               The Editor.
  Annales des Mines. 8e Serie. Tome I. Livr. 2-4. 8vo. Paris
        1882.                                               L'Ecole des Mines.
  Astronomie (L'). Juin-Decembre, 1882. 8vo. Paris.
                                                                    The Editor.
  Athenaeum.       June   to  December,    1882.   4to.  London.     The Editor.
  Builder. June to December, 1882. Royal 8vo. London.
                                                                     The Editor.
  vol. xxxiv.                                                      2 K

486                                  Presents.                            [Jan.  11,
Journals (continued).
   BulletinodiBibliografiaediStoria.         Tomo XIII. Indici. Tome XIV.
       Agosto-Dicembre,         1881.    Tomo    XV.       Gennaio e Febbraio,
        1882.    4to.   Roma 1881-82.                The Prince Boncompagni.
   Canadian    Naturalist.     Vol. X.  Nos.  2-5.    8vo.    Montreal.
                                  The Natural History Society of Montreal.
   Chemical News. June to December.              1882. 8vo.        London.
                                                                      The Editor.
   Cosmos  —  Les Mondes. June to December, 1882. 8vo. Paris.
                                                                 I/Abbe Moigno.
  Educational Times.         June to December, 1882.         4to.    London .
                                                                       The Editor.
  Electrical Review.       June to December, 1882.         Royal 8vo. London.
                                                                      The Editor.
  Electrician.    July to December, 1882. 4to. London. The Editor.
  Erdélyi Museum. Evfolyam TK. Szam 3-8. 8vo. [Budapest.]
       1882.                                        The Hungarian Academy.
  Field Naturalist and Scientific Student. Nos. 1-3. 8vo. Manchester
       1882.                                                          The Editor.
  Horological Journal. July to December, 1882. 8vo. London.
                                          The British Horological Institute.
  Indian Antiquary. June to November, 1882. 4to. Bombay.
                                                                      The Editor.
  Jornal de Sciencias Mathematicas         e Astronomicas.         Vol. III. 8vo.
       Coimbra    1881.                                               The Editor.
  Journal of Science.       June to December,       1882.    8vo. London.
                                                                      The Editor.
  Morskoi Sbornik.       1882.     Nos. 6-12. 8vo. St. Petersburg.
                                       The Cronstadt Compass Observatory.
  Nature.     June to December,       1882.   Boyal 8vo. London.
                                                                      The Editor.
  New York Medical Journal.             Vol. XXXVI.           Nos. 5, 6.       Vol.
       XXXVII. No. 1. 8vo. New York 1882-3.                           The Editor.
  Notes and Queries.        July to December,      1882.    4to.   London.
                                                                      The Editor.
  Observatory.      July to December, 1882. 8vo.             London.
                                                                     The Editors.
  Revue Politique et Litteraire.           July   to  December,        1 882.   4to.
       Paris.                                                         The Editor.
  Revue Scientifique. July to December, 1882. 4to. Paris.
                                                                      The Editor.
  Scientific Roll. Vol. I. Nos. 8, 9. 8vo. London 1882.
                                                                      A.   Ramsay.
  Symons's British Rainfall.        1881.    8vo. London 1882.
                                                         G.  J.  Symons, F.R.S.

1883.]                            Presents.                             487
Journals (continued).
   Symons's Monthly Meteorological Magazine.           June to December,
        1882.   8vo. London.                        G. J. Symons, F.R.S.
   Van Nostrand's Engineering       Magazine.      December,    1882.   8vo.
        New York.                                               The Editor.
   Zoological Record.    Vol.  XVIII.    (1881.) 8vo. London 1882.
                                      The Zoological Record Association.
Ballard (Robert)     The Solution of the Pyramid
                                             *
                                                     Problem. 8vo. New
     York 1882.                                                The Author.
Braithwaite (Dr. R.) The British Moss-Flora. Part 6. 8vo. London.
                                                               The Author.
De Candolle (A.) Darwin considére an point de vue des Causes de
     son Succes    et de l'lmportance de ses travaux.           8vo. Geneve
     1882.                                                     The Author.
Evans (John), F.R.S. Unwritten History and how to read it. 8vo.
     London.                                                   The Author.
Gouw (J. Ter) Geschiedenis van Amsterdam. 2 vols. 8vo. Amsterdam.
                                  The Burgomaster's Ofigce, Amsterdam.
Gratezer (Dr. J.) Edmund Halley und Caspar Neumann. Ein Beitrag
     zur Geschichte der Bevolkerungs-Statistik.      8vo. Breslau 1883.
                                                               The Author.
Guy (Dr.), F.R.S. The Claims of Science to Public Recognition and
     Support.    Small 4to. London 1882.                       The Author.
Hooker (Sir J. D.), K.C.S.I., F.R.S.        The Flora    of  British  India.
     Part 9. 8vo. London.                                The India Office.
Kops (Jan) en F. W. van Eeden. Flora Batava. Aflev. 226, 257, 258,
     and Text to accompanying Plate 919. 4to. Leyden.
                                      H.M. the King of the Netherlands.
Lagrange (Louis de) (Envres.         Tomes VIII, IX, XIII. 4to. Paris
     1879-82.                   M. le Ministre de l'lnstruction Pnblique.
Lawes (Sir J. B.), Bart., F.R.S., Dr. J. H. Gilbert, F.R.S., and R.
     Warington.     On the Amount and Composition of the Rain and
     Drainage-Waters collected at Rothamsted.         8vo. London 1882.
                                                              The Authors.
Liversidge  (Archibald),   F.R.S.    The  Minerals  of  New   South Wales.
     2nd Edition.    4to. Sydney 1882.                         The Author.
Norr's (Dr. Richard) The Physiology nnd Pathology of the Blood.
     8vo. London 1882.                                         The Author.
Smyth (C. Piazzi)      Madeira  Spectroscopic.   4to.  Edinburgh 1882.
                                                               The Author.
Sprengel (Dr. H.),     F.R.S.    Sprengel's Vacuum-Pump (commonly
     called "Bunsen's Pump"). 1st Edition.             8vo. London 1881.
     Ditto.   2nd Edition.    8vo. London 1882.                The Author.
                                                            2 k 2

488                                        Presents.                                [Jan.         18.
Thomson (William)              The Germ Theory                of Phthisis verified. 8vo.
      Melbourne 1882.                                                       The Author.
                               Presents, January 18, 1883.
Transactions
  Béziers — Societé
          :           d'Étude des Sciences Naturelles.         Bulletin                           et
       Compte-Rendu. 5e année. 1880. 8vo. Béziers 1881.
                                                              The Society
  Bordeaux   —:Societé de Médecine et de Chirurgie.           Mémoires                            et
      Bulletins. Année 1880. 8vo. Bordeaux 1881.              The Society.
    Societé   des   Sciences    Physiques et Naturelles.        Mémoires.
      2e Série. Tome IV.      Title,  Index, ifec. Tome V. Cahier      8ro.              1.
      Bordeaux 1882.                                          The Society.
  Bruxelles: — Musée Royal d'Histoire Naturelle. Bulletin. Vol.                               IV
      No.     8vo. Bruxelles 1882.
              1.                                            The Museum
           —
  Buffalo: Society of Natural Sciences.         Bulletin. Vol. IV. No.                            2.
      8vo. Bufîalo 1882.                                      The Society.
  Calcutta  —
            : Asiatic Society of Bengal. Journal. Vol. LI. Part                                   1.
      Nos.      1,Part 2.  No.  2,   Proceedings. 1882. Nos. 3-6. 8ro.
                                           1.
        Calcutta 1882.                                                           The   Society
    Geological Survey of India.     Palœontologia Indica.   Ser. 14.
      Vol. I  (3). Fasc. 2. 4to. Calcutta 1882. Records. Vol. IV.
      Part     8vo. Calcu9a 1882.
                4.                                      The Surrey
  Dorsetshire  —  Dorset Natural History and Antiquarian Field Qnb.
                   :
        Proceedings. Vol.            IV.   8vo.    Sherborne.                     The Ed-or.
  Freiburg- - BreiRgau — Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Berich8
              i                 :
       iiber die Verhandlungen. Band VIII. Heft    8vo. Freihm-          5.
      i-B. 1882.                                     The Society.
            —
  Harlem: Societé Hollandaise des Sciences.      Archives Néer
       landaises. Tome XVII. Livr.     8vo. Harlem 1882.
                                                    1,   2.
                                                                                 The   Society.
  Helsingfors       :   — Finska    Vetenskaps           - Societeten.        Forhandlingar
        XXIII.          8vo.                Bidrag till Karmedom
                               Helsingfors 1881.                                              af
        Finlands Natur och Folk. Hiiftet 35, 36. 8vo. Helsingfors 1881
       Eatalog ofver Bibliothek.  Ir. 1881. 8vo. Helsingfors 1881.
       Also    Medal struck in honour of Adolphus Ericus Nordra-
                a
       skiôld.                                         The Society
  Sallskapet pro Fauna et Flora Fennica.    Notiser. Hiiftet VIII
        8vo. Helsingfors        1882.                                            The   Society.
  Innsbruck — Ferdinandeum.
                :                               Zeitschrift.     Folge    3.Heft XXVI
        8vo. Innsbruck 1882.                                              The Institut»

1883.]                          Presents.                               489
Transactions (continued).
  Lausanne: — Societe Vaudoiso.       Bulletin.    2e Sèrie.     Vol. XVI.
        No. 82. Vol. XVIII. No. 87. 8vo. Lausanne 1882.
                                                               The Society.
   London:   — Linnean Society.    Journal. Botany. Vol. XX. Nos.
        123, 124. 8vo. London 1882.                            The Society.
      Mathematical Society.      Proceedings.     Nos. 191, 192. 8vo.
        London 1882.                                           The Society.
      Meteorological Society.   Quarterly Journal. New Series.          Vol.
        VIII. No. 44. 8vo. London 1882. The Meteorological Record.
         1882. Nos. 6, 7. 8vo. London 1882.                    The Society.
      Royal Microscopical Society. Journal. Series 2. Vol. II. Part 6.
        8vo. London 1882.                                      The Society.
      Victoria Institute. Journal of the Transactions. Vol. XVI.
        No. 63. 8vo. London.                                 The Institute.
             —
   Madrid: Comision del Mapa Geològico. Tomo IX. Cuaderno 1.
         8vo.   Madrid 1882.                              The Commission.
   Manchester:     — Geological Society.     Transactions.       Vol. XVI.
         Parts 16-18.   Vol. XVII. Parts 1, 2.                 The Society.
   Melbourne : — Royal Society of Victoria.       Transactions and Pro
         ceedings.   Vol. XVIII. 8vo. Melbourne.                The Society.
   Milan : — Reale Istituto Lombardo.         Memorie.     Sci.-Mor.    Vol.
         XIV. Fase. 2. 4to. Milano 1881. Rendiconti. Serie 2. Voi.
         XIII. 8vo. Milano 1880.                             The Institute.
      Società Italiana.   Atti. Vol. XXIII. Fase. 3, 4. 8vo. Milano
         1881.                                                 The Society.
Observations and Reports.
   Brisbane : — Office of the Registrar- General.        Statistics of the
         Colony of Queensland, 18S1. 4to. Brisbane 1882.
                                  The Registrar- General of Queensland.
              —
    Calcutta : Meteorological Office. Report, 1880. 4to. Calcutta 1882.
                                                                  The Office.
                         —
    Cambridge (U. S.) : Astronomical Observatory of Harvard College.
         Annals. Vol. XIII. Part 1. 4to. Cambridge 1882.
                                                          The Observatory.
              —
    London : Meteorological    Council.  Report  to  the Royal Society for
         the Year 1881-82. 8vo. London 1882.                   The Council.
           —
    Milan: Osservatorio     di Brera.   No.   VII.  Parte   1.   4to. Milano
         1882.                                            The Observatory.
    Moscow : Observatoire. Anuales. Vol. VIII. Livraison 2. 4to.
              —
         Moscow 1882.                                     The Observatory.
    Paris : Observatoire. Annales. Mémoires. Tome XVI. Obser
           —
         vations. 1871-73. 4to. Paris 1882.               The Observatory.

 490                                  Present x.                      [Jan.  18,
 Observations,     &c. (continued).
    Sydney: — Department of Mines.              Annual Report.       1880.  4to.
          Sydney 1881.                                       The Department.
                     —
   Washington : U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey. Report of the
         Superintendent. 1878-79. 4to. Washington 1881.
                                                                   The Survey.
 Blake   (J. H.)      On the Conservancy of Rivers, Prevention of Floods,
      Drainage and Water Supply. 8vo. Hertford 1881.               The Author.
 Bozzo (S. V.)         L'Elenco dei Feudatari Siciliani      sotto   Re Frede-
      rico  II l'Aragonese. 8vo. Bologna 1882.                     The Author.
Brodie (Rev. P. B.) On Fossil Arachnid®, including Spiders and
      Scorpions. 8vo. Warwick 1882.                                The Author.
Buckler (G.)         Colchester Castle, a Roman Building. Fourth Sec
      tion. 8vo. London 1882. (Not Published.)                     The Author.
Daubree (A.) Rapport presente au Ministre des                Travaux    publics
      au nom do la Commission d'Etude des moyens propres a pre-
      venir les Explosions de Grisou. 8vo. Paris 1882.
                                                                   The Author.
Downing (A. M. W.)              Discussion of the Observations of 7 Dra-
      conis, made with the Greenwich Reflex Zenith Tube during
      the years 1857 to 1875 inclusive. 8vo. London 1882.
                                                                   The Author.
 Édon (G.)        Iilcriture et Prononciation du Latin Savant and du
      Latin Populaire. 8vo. Paris 1882.
                                       The Author, per the French Embassy.
Giuseppe (G.)         Linguaggio    Astronomico    delle Macchie Solari. 8vo.
      Torino 1882.                                                 The Author.
Lighthall (W. D.) An Essay on Pure Ethics, with a Theory of the
      Motive. 8vo. Montreal 1882.                                  The Author.
Loew (O.) and To. Bokorny.             Die Chemische Kraftquelle im Leben-
      den Protoplasma. 8vo. Munch en 1882.                       The Authors.
Millar (W. J.) On the Dimensions of Cast Iron at Various Tempe
      ratures. 8vo.                                                The Author.
Pickering (E. C.) A Plan for securing Observations of the Variable
      Stars. 8vo. Cambridge 1882.                                  The Author.
Plateau (F.)          Recherches     Experimentales sur les Mouvements
     Respiratoires      des Insectes.  8vo. Bruxelles 1882.        The Author.
Quain (Dr.) Fatty Diseases of the Heart.              8vo. London 1850.
                                                                  The Author.
Richards (V.) Experiments with Permanganate of Potash, showing
     its use in the treatment of Cobra-Poisoning. 8vo. Calcutta
     1882.                                                        The Author.

1883.]                              Presents.                               491
Roberts (T.) The Pressure of Wheat stored in Elongated Cells or
     Bins. 8vo. Liverpool 1882.                                    The Author.
Roca (General Don J. A.) Argentine Republic. Message to the Hon.
     Congress on the opening of the Session 1882. 8vo. London,
     1882.                                                         The Author.
Simson (J.) John Bunyan and the Gipsies. 8vo. New York 1882.
                                                                  The Author.
Tillo (A. de) Notice sur le Congres des Geographes AUemands a
     Halle (12-14 April, 1882). 8vo. Leipzig.                     The Author.
Tommasi (Dr. D.) Recueil de quelques Memoires publies pendant
     I'annee 1882. 8vo. St. Denis 1883.                           The Author.
                         Presents, January 25, 1883.
Transactions.
  Adelaide : — South Australian       Institute.   Annual Report, 1881-82.
        4to. Adelaide   [1882].    (2 copies.)                  The Institute.
  Baltimore : — Johns Hopkins University.         Annual Report, 1882. 8vo.
        Baltimore 1882. University Circulars.           Vol. II. Nos. 19, 20.
        4to. Baltimore 1882.                                  The University.
  Birmingham: — The Mason Science College.                Calendar, 1882-83.
        8vo. Birmingham 1882.                                     The College.
  Boston : — American Academy.          Memoirs. "Vol. X. Part 2.          XI.
        Part 1. 4to. Cambridge 1882.             Proceedings.     New Series.
        Vol. IX. • 8vo. Boston 1882.                           The Academy.
     Boston Society of Natural History.          Memoirs. Vol. III. Part 2.
        Nos. 4, 5.      4to.  Boston 1882.        Proceedings.      Vol. XXI.
        Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. Boston 1882.                              The Society.
  Brussels : — Musée Royal d'Histoire Naturelle.          Bulletin.    Tome I.
        No. 2. 8vo.                                             The Museum.
     Societé Royale Malacologique.           Annales.    Tomes    XIV, XVI.
        8vo. Bruxelles. Proces-Verbaux.                 —
                                                Fevrier Juillet, 1882. 8vo.
                                                                 The Society.
             —
  Buffalo : Society of Natural Sciences.          Bulletin. Vol. IV. No. 3.
        8vo. Buffalo 1882.                                        The Society.
  Cambridge (U.S.A.) — Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard
        College.    Memoirs. Vol. VII. No. 2. Part 3. Vol. IX. No. 1.
        4to. Cambridge 1882. Bulletin.         Vol. II. No. 10. 8vo.
                                                                The Museum.
  Coimbra: — Universidade.         Annuario.      1882-83.     8vo.    Coimbra
        1882.                                                The University.
  Copenhagen     : — K. Danske   Videnskabernes     Selskab.    Skrifter.   6te

492                                 Presents.                         [Jan.   25,
Transactions {continued).
         Reekke. Nat. -Math. Afd. Bind I. Nos. 6-8. 4to. Kjobenhat*
         1882.    Oversigt. 1882. No. 2. 8vo. Kjobenhavn.
                                                                  The Society.
  Edinburgh — Royal College of Physicians.
                :                                       Historical Sketch and
        Laws.     4to. Edinburgh 1882.                            The College.
  Giessen : — Universitat.       7 Thesen, 1882.     4to. and 8vo.
                                                              The University.
  Heidelberg :— Universitat.         7 Thesen, 1882.     8vo.
                                                              The University.
  Hermannstadt : — Siebenbiirgischer Verein.             Verhandlungen       nnd
        Mittheilungen.      Jahrg. XXXII. 8vo. Hermannstadt 1882.
                                                                   The Union.
  Hertfordshire : — Natural History Society.          Transactions.     Vol. II.
        Parts 1, 2. 8vo.       Watford 1882.                      The Society.
  Innsbruck : — Naturwissenschaftlich-medizinischer Verein. Berichte.
        Jahrg. XII. 8vo. Innsbruck 1882.                           The Union.
  Leipzig   : — K.  Sachsische  Gesellschaft  der Wissenschaften.      Abhand-
        lnngen.      Math.-Phys. Classe.      Band XII. Nos. 7, 8.          8vo.
       Leipzig    1881.    Phil.-Hist.  Classe.    Band   VIII.  No. 4. 8vo.
       Leipzig 1882.       Berichte. Math.-Phys. Classe.         1881.    Phil.-
        Hist. Classe. 1881. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. Leipzig 1882.
                                                                  The Society.
  London    : — British Museum. Catalogue       of  the Batrachia Gradientia,
        S. Caudata, and Batrachia Apoda.          Second Edition.    By   G. A.
        Boulenger. 8vo. London 1882.                            The Trustees.
    British Pharmaceutical Conference.             Year-Book    of Pharmacy.
        1882.     8vo. London 1882.                           The Conference.
    Geological Society.        Quarterly Journal. Vol. XXXVIII. Part 4.
        8vo. London.      List, 1882. 8vo. Abstracts of the Proceedings.
        8vo.                                                      The Society.
    Institution of Mechanical Engineers. Proceedings. 1882. No. 4.
        8vo. London.                                          The Institution.
    Institution of Naval Architects.            Transactions. Vol. XXIII.
        4to. London 1882.                                     The Institution.
     Linnean Society.       Journal. Botany. Vol. XIX. No. 122. 8vo.
        London 1882. List, 1882. 8vo.                             The Society.
    Pathological Society.'      Transactions. Vol. XXXIII. 8vo. London
        1882.                                                     The Society.
    Royal Asiatic Society. Journal. Vol. XV. Part 1. 8vo. London.
                                                                  The Society.
    Royal Astronomical         Society.    Monthly Notices.      Vol. XLIII.
       Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.                                            The Society.
  Newcastle-upon-Tyne.          Chemical Society.      Transactions.    Vol.  V.
       Parts 10, 12. 8vo.                                         The  Society.

1883.]                           Presents.                            493
Transactions (continued').
   New Haven (U.S.A.) : — Connecticut         Academy.       Transactions.
        Vol. TV. Part 2. Vol. V. Part 2.      8vo. New Haven 1882.
                                                           The Academy.
   Paris :— Faculte- des Sciences.   24 Theses.   1882.   4to and 8vo.
                                                             The Faculty.
Observations and Reports.
   London : — Meteorological Office.    Daily Weather Reports. Jan. 1
        to June 30, 1882. Folio. Hourly Readings, 1881. Part 2. 4to.
        London 1882.                                           The Office.
   Paris : — Conference Internationale pour la Determination des
        Unites Electriques. 1882. Proces-Verbaux. 4to. Paris 1882.
                      The French Government, per the Science and Art
                                        Department.
              —
   Pulkowa : Observatoire.        Observations. Vol. XIII. 4to. St.
        Petersbourg 1881.                               The Observatory.
                 —
   Washington : U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey.            Methods and
        Results. Report for 1881. Appendix No. 10. 4to. Washington
        1882.                                                 The Survey.
     U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Part VII. Report for
        1879. 8vo. Washington 1882.                     The Commission.
     U. S. Geographical Surveys West of the 100th Meridian. Report.
        Vol. III. Supplement. Geology. 4to. Washington 1881.
                                     Engineer Department, U. S. Army.
     U. S. Naval Observatory. Observations for 1878. Appendix 1.
        Monograph of the Central Parts of the Nebula of Orion. By
        E. S. Holden. 4to. Washington 1882.             The Observatory.
Journals.
   Acta Mathematica.      Herausg. von G. Mittag-Leffler. No. 1. 4to.
        Stockholm 1882.        The Editor, per Professor Cayley, F.R.S.
   Erdelyi Museum. Evfolyam IX. Szam 9, 10. 8vo.
                                                The Budapest Academy.
   Gazette d'Hongrie. 1882. Folio.              The Budapest Academy.
Benson (L. S.)       Reply to some Inquiries from Mathematicians.
     Single sheet (2 copies). Geometry as a Science. 8vo. New York
     1880-82. (3 copies.)                                    The Author.
Boltzmann (L.) Deber die auf Diamagnete wirksamen Krafte. 8vo.
     Wien [1879]. Zur Theorie der sogenannten elektrischen Aus-
     dehnung oder Electrostriction.      I and II. 8vo. Wien [1880.]
     Entwicklung einiger zur Bestimmung der Diamagnetisirungszahl

494                              Presents.
     nützlichen Formeln. 8vo. Wien [1881.] Zur Theorie der Gas
     diffusion. 8vo.    Wien [1882.] Einige Experimente              über den
     Stoss von Cylindern. 8vo. Leipzig 1882.                      The Author.
Canestrelli (J.)    Sulla graduazione dei galvanometri. 4to. [Rome
     1882.]                                                      The Author.
Kammermann (A.)         Resume' Meteorologique de l'annee 1881 pour
     Geneve et le Grand Saint-Bernard. 8vo. Geneve 1882.
                                                                 The Author.
Kölliker (A.)    Ueber die Lage der weiblichen inneren Geschlechts
     organe. 4to.                                                 The Author.
Mason (John J.) Minute Structure of the Central Nervous System
     of certain Reptiles and Batrachians of America.           Illustrated by
     Permanent Photo-Micrographs.          Series A.      (Author's Edition.
     One hundred.) 4to. Newport 1879-82.                          The Author.
Mueller (Baron F. von)        New Vegetable Fossils of Victoria. 4to.
     Melbourne.                                                   The Author.
Todaro (A.) Hortus Botanicus Panormitanus. Tomus II. Fase. III.
     4to. Panormi 1882.                                           The Author.
Tommasi (D.) List of Memoirs. (Single sheet.)             Paris.
                                                                  The Author.
Vinci (Dr. S.) Les Forces Physiques, Oxygene Transforme. 4to.
     Gatane 1882.                                                 The Author.
Weinberg (Dr. Max)        Interferenzstreifen    im   prismatischen und im
     Beugungsspectrum. 8vo.        Wien 1882.                     The Author.
Wernicke (H.)     Der Ewige     Grund,  oder      Die  ungeschaffene     Kraft
     des Leeren. 8vo. Philadelphia 1882.                          The Author.
Woodward (Horace B.) A Memoir of Dr. S. P. Woodward. 8vo.
                                                                  The Author.

                         INDEX to VOL. XXXIV.
ABEL'S     theorem and Abelian functions   Budd (George), obituary notice of, i.
   (Forsyth),   288.                       Burton (Lecimus), obituary notice of,
Abney (Capt.) and Lieut.-Col. Festing,       viii.
   on the absorption spectrum of iodine
   in carbon disulphide, 480.              Candidates, list of, 27.
Absorption spectrum of iodine in carbon    Caldwell (W. H.) on the structure, de
   disulphide (Abney and Festing), 480.       velopment, and affinities of Phoronis,
Actinometrieal     observations made    in    371.
   India (Hennessey), 45.                  Carbon and its compounds, on the spectra
Address of President, 302.                    of (Liveing and Dewar), 123.
Airy (tJ. B.) on the temperatures of       Chamberlain (Et. Hon. J.), elected, 384.
   the water of the Thames, 276.           Chambers (C), sun-spots and terrestrial
Alderson (Sir James), obituary notice         phenomena, 918, 231, 247.
   of, vi.                                 Chloride of silver battery, on the electric
Animals in motion, on the attitudes of        discharge with (Do La Eue and
   (Muy bridge), 20.                          Miillor),   437.
Anniversary meeting, 301.                  Clarke (Charles Baron)         elected,   69;
Annual meeting for the election of            admitted, 265.
   fellows (June 8, 1882), 69.             Coal-measures, on the organisation of
Ansdell ((*.) on the critical point of       the fossil plants of (Williamson), 31.
   mixed gases, 181.                       Coloured blood corpuscles, on the action
Ansell (Charles), obituary notice of, vii.   of certain reagents on (Stirling), 169.
Armstrong (Dr.) readmitted, 384.           Colvile (lit. Hon. Sir James), obituary
Attitudes of animals in motion (Muy-         notice of, x.
   bridge), 20.                            Comet (Wells) I, 1882, on the photo
Auditors   elected, 265.                     graphic spectrum of (Huggins), 148.
       report of, 301.                     Contagium in two forms of septichmmia,
                                             action of heat upon (Dowdeswell), 150.
Bacilli in phthisis (Ransome), 274.        Council, nomination of, 275.
Hall (Valentine) elected, 69 ; admitted,          election of, 330.
   265.                                    Cunningham (D. D.) on tho relation of
Bellati (M.) and R. Romanese on iodide       structural     features to nyctitropism,
   of silver and its alloys, 104.            268.
Blastodermic layers in the rat and mouse,
   on the inversion of (Froser), 430.      Darwin (C), proposal for interment of,
Bonney (T. G.) on a collection of rock       in Westminster Abbey, 1.
                                                ,
  specimens from Socotra, 145.                    account of a commemoration in
Bosanquet (R. H. M.) on a uniform rota       honour of the late, 81.
  tion machine, 445.                       Darwin (Francis) elected, 69 1 admitted,
Brady (George Stewardson) elected, 69 ;      81.
  admitted, 81.                            Daubree      (Gabriel    Auguste)    (foreign
Bramwell (Rt. Hon. Lord) admitted, 20.       member) admitted, 81.
Browne (W. R.) on the causes of glacier    Decaisne (Joseph), obituary notice of, iii.
  motion, 918, 208.                        De la Kue (W.) and H. Muller on the
Buchanan      (George) elected,   69 ; ad    electric discharge with chloride of
  mitted, 81.                                silver battery, 437.

 496                                        INDEX.
 Dewar (J ) and G. 0. Liveing on an               Frere (Rt. Hon. Sir     H. Bartle)  admitted.
    arrangement of the electric arc, 119.            29.
                on the spectra of carbon and      Frog's lung, on the nerves     of  (Stirling),
    its compounds, 123.                               265.
                 on the ultra-violet spectra of
    the elements, 122.
                                                  Gardiner (W.) on the continuity of the
                 on the origin of the hydro
    carbon flame spectrum, 418.                       protoplasm in the motile organs of
                                                      leaves, 272.
 Dickie (Dr. George), obituary notice of,
                                                  Gaseous volume, an instrument for cor
    xii.
 Dittmar (William) elected, 69; admitted,            recting (Harcourt), 166.
                                                  Gases, on the critical point of mixed
    81.
 Dodds (J. M.) and R. T. Glazebrook,                  (Ansdell), 113.
                                                  GaskeU (Walter Holbrook) elected, 69 ;
    experiments on the value of the ohm.
    Part I,                                          admitted, 81.
               86.
                                                  Geometrical theorems. No. 2 (Russell),
 Dog's     heart, on the rate of       beat of
                                                     85.
    (Martin),      444.                          —
 Donation fund, account of grants from                          (Spottiswoode) , 37.
                                                  Glacier     motion,    on the causes          of
   the (1881-82), 341.
 Dowdeswell (G. F.) on the action of                 (Browne), 168, 205.
                                                  Glass, on the variation of electrical
   contagium in two formsof scpticheeinia,
                                                     resistance of (Gray), 199.
    150.
         on the infectivity of the blood and     Glazebrook (Richard Tetley) elected, 69;
   other fluids, 449.                                admitted, 265.
                                                          and J. M. Dodds, experiments on
Duffus (G.) and W. Stirling on the
   nerves of the epiglottis, 168.
                                                     the value of the ohm.      Part I, 86.
                                                          and E. B. Sargant.    Port II, 86.
                                                          on the refraction of plane polarised
Eclipse      (total) of the sun as seen in
                                                     light, 393.
   Egypt     on May 17 (Lockyer), 81.
                                                 Goduian (Frederic Du Cane) elected,
Election of Fellows, annual meeting for,
                                                     69 ; admitted, 366.
   69.
Electric arc, on an arrangement of the           Government grant (4,000i), account of
                                                     the appropriation of the, 338.
    (Liveing and Dewar), 119.
Electrical resistance of glass, on the           Gray (T.) on the variation of the elec
                                                    trical resistance of glass, 199.
   variation of the (Gray), 199.
                                                 Gunn        (Ronald    Campbell),     obituary
Electrical thermometer, on a deep sea
                                                    notice of, xiii.
   (Siemens), 89.
Elements, on the ultra-violet spectra of
   (Liveing and Dewar), 122.                    Harcourt (A. V.) on an instrument for
Epiglottis, on the nerves of the (Stirling          correcting gaseous volume, 166.
   and Duffus), 168.                            Hartley (W. N.) on spectrum              photo
Ewing (J. A.) on the effects of rcten-              graphy, 81.
   tiveness in the magnetisation of iron        '       ' on the reversal of     the metallic
  and steel, 39.                                    lines in over-exposed photographs of
Eve, internal reflexions in the (Newall),           the spectra, 84.
   473.                                         Heat by conduction, on the propagation
                                                    of (Lombard) , 173.
Fellows deceased, 301.                          Heated wire in dusty air, on the dart
        elected,   302.                             plane which is formed over (Rayleigh) ,
        election of, 69.                            414.
        number of, 330.                         Henderson (G. C.) and M. Morris, the
Festing (Lt.-Col.) and Capt. Abney on               life history of ringworm fungus, 168.
  the absorption opectrum of iodine in          Hennessey (J. B. N.) on actino metrical
   carbon disulphido, 480.                          observations made in India, 45.
Financial statement, 331.                       Huggins        (W.) on the photographic
Forsyth (A. R.) on Abel's theorem and               spectrum of comet (Wells) I, 1882,
  Abelian functions, 288.                           148.
Fossil plants of the coal-measures, on                   on photographing    the solar corona
  the organisation         of   (Williamson).       without an eclipse, 409.
  Part     XII,   31.                           Hunt (A. R.) on the formation of            rip-
Fraser (A.) on the inversion of the                 plemark, 1.
  blastodermic layers in the rat and            Hutchinson                      elected,    69;
                                                                  (Jonathan)
  mouse, 430.                                       admitted, 366.

                                               INDEX.                                        407
Hydrocarbon flame spectrum, on the                 Mercury, on the specific resistance of
    origin of (Liveing and Dewar) , 418.              (Rayleigh), 27.
Hypocycloids,        epicycloids,    and   poly-   Metallic lines, on the reversal of, as seen
    Ledra (Jeffery), 105.                             in over-exposed photographs of spectra
                                                       (Hartley), 84.
Infectivity of the blood and other fluids          Mixed ^ases, on the critical point of
    (Dowdeswell),      449.                           (Ansdelll, 113.
Integrals, on certain definite         (Russell) , Morris (M.) and G. C. Henderson, the
    470.                                              life history of ringworm fungus,
Inversion generale, sur l'(Vanecek), 29.              168.
Iodide of silver and its alloys (Bellati           Moseley (H. N.) and A. Sedgwick on the
    and Roinanese), 104.                              embryo of Peripatus capensis, 390.
                                                   Miiller (H.) and W. de la Rue on the
.Teffery (H. M.), on hypocycloids, epicy              electric discharge with chloride of
    cloids, and polyhedra, 105.                       silver battery, 437.
                                                   Muybridge       (E.) on the attitudes of
 Kew Committee, report of. for the year               animals in motion, 20.
    ending October 31, 1882, 343.
                                                   Nene (V. N.) on a method of tracing
 Langley (J. N.) on the structure of the              periodicities, 168.
    cells of the liver, 20.                        Newall (H. F.). internal reflexions in the
Lankester (E. R.) on the coxal glands of              eye, 473.
    Scorpio, 95.                                   Newmarch (William), obituary notice of,
          on tho position of ganglia, &c., in         xvii.
    ocorpions, 101.                                Niven      (William Davidson),         elected,
 Leaves, on the continuity of the proto                69; admitted, 81.
    plasm in the motile organs of (Gar             Normal paraffins. Part IV (Schorlemmer
    diner), 272.                                       and Thorpe), 405.
 Liquid jets, further observations upon            Nunn (E.) on the enamel of the teeth
     (Rayleigh),    130.                               of vertebrates, 156.
 Liquid surface, on impact with (Wor-              Nyctitropism, on the relation of structu
    thington), 217.                                    ral features to (Cunningham), 268.
 Liveing (G. D.) and J. Dewar on an
     arrangement of the electric arc, 119.         Obituary notices of fellows deceased : —
                on the ultra-violet spectra of         Alderson, Sir James, vi.
     the elements, 122.                                Ansel], Charles, vii.
                on the spectra of carbon and           Budd, George, i.
     its compounds, 123.                               Burton, Decimus, viii.
                on the origin of the hydro             Colvile, Rt. Hon. Sir James, x.
     carbon flame spectrum, 418.                       Decaisue, Joseph, iii.
  Liver, on the structure of the cells of              Dickie, Dr. George, xii.
      (Langley), 20.                                   Gunn, Ronald Campbell, xiii.
  Liversidge (Archibald) elected, 69.                  Newmarch, William, xvii.
  Lockyer (J. N.), observation of total                Russell, John Scott, xv.
     eclipse of sun seen in Egypt on May               Smith, Colonel J. T., xvi.
     17, 81.                                        Officers, nomination of, 275.
          on recent and coming        total solar          election of. 330.
     eclipses,  291.                                Ohm, experiments on tho value of the.
  Lombard (J. S.) on the propagation of                 Part I (Glazebrook and Dodds), 86.
      heat by conduction, 173.                                     Part    II  (Glazebrook and
                                                       Sargant) , 86.
  Magnetic susceptibility (Shida), 285.             Owen, on the great horned saurian of
  Magnetisation       of iron and steel, on            Australia, 267.
      effects of retentiveness in the (Ewing) ,
      39.                                           Palgrave (Robert Henry Inglis) elected,
  Malet (John C.)        elected, 69 ; admitted,       69 ; admitted, 81.
      265.                                          Parker (W. K.) on tho skeleton of the
  Marsipobraneh       fishes,   on the skeleton        marsipobranch fishes.       Part I, 439.
      of (Parker). Part I, 439.                                   Part  II, 447.
           Part II, 447.                            Periodicities,    on a method of tracing
  Martin (H. N.) on the rate of beat of                 (Nene), 168.
      the dog's heart, 444.                         Peripatus capensii, on tho embryo of
  Medals, presentation of, 327.                         (Moseley and Sedgwick), 390.

498                                        INDEX.
Perithecium of Meliola, on the morpho           Sea-urchin, on the coagulation of the
   logy and development of (Ward),                 perivisceral fluid of (Schafer) , 370.
   388.                                         Sedgwick (A.) and Moseley on the
Phoronis,       on the structure, develop          embryo of Peripatut capenri*, 390.
   ment, and affinities of (Caldwell), 371.     Sensory nerves of man. on the excitability
Photographs, on the cause of the light             of (Waller and Watteville), 366.
   border in (Stokes) , 63.                     Septichsomia,    action of heat upon oon-
Phthisis, on bacilli in (Ransome), 274.            tagium in two forms of (Dowdeswell),
Plane polarised light, od the refraction           150.
   of. Part      II  (Glazebrook), 393.         Shida (R.) , magnetic susceptibility, 285.
Present*, lists of, 69, 169, 395, 482.          Sidgwick (Mrs. H.) and Lord Rayleigh.
President, address of, 302.                        experiments by the method of Lorentz
Protoplasm in the motile organs of                 on the absolute value of the British
    leaves, on the continuity of the (Gar          Association unit of resistance, 438.
    diner), 272.                                Siemens (C. W.) on a deep-sea electrical
                                                   thermometer, 89.
                                  in phthisis,
                                                Smith (Colonel    J.  T.), obituary notice of,
Ransome        (A.) on bacilli                     xvi.
    274.
                                                Socotra, on a collection of rock speci
 Rat and     mouse,    on the inversion of the
                                                   mens from (Bonney), 145.
    blastodermic      layers in the (Fraser),   Solar corona without an eclipse, on
    430.
                                                   photographing the (Huggins), 409.
Rayleigh      (Lord) on the specific resist     Solar eclipses, on the recent and coming
    ance of mercury, 27.
                                                   total (Lockyer), 291.
         on liquid jets, 130.
                                                Soundless      zones,    note    on   General
         on the dark plane which is formed
                                                   Duane's (Tyndall), 18.
     over a heated wire in dusty air, 414.
                                                Spectrum photography (Hartley), 81.
          and Mrs. H. Sidgwick, experi
                                                Spottiswoode (W.) on certain geometri
    ments by the method of Lorentz on
                                                    cal theorems.    No. II, 37.
     the absolute value of the British
                                                Stewart (B.) on the sun's surface and
     Association unit of resistance, 438.
                                                    the earth's magnetism, 406.
 Senilla, the development of (Wilson),
                                                 Stirling (W.) and G. Duffus on the
     384.
                                                    nerves of the epiglottis, 168.
 Report of auditors,       301.
                                                           on the action of certain reagents
 Ringworm        fungus, the life history    of
                                                    on coloured blood corpuscles.      Part I,
      (Morris and Henderson), 168.                  169.
 Ripplemark,         on    the formation     of
                                                           on the nerves of the frog's lung,
     (Hunt),    1.
                                                    265.
 Rock specimens, on a collection from
                                                 Stokes (G. G.) on the cause of the light
     Socotra (Bonney), 145.
                                                    border in photographs, 63.
 Romanese (R.) and M. Bellati on iodide
                                                 Stoney (B. B.), admitted, 35.
     of silver and its alloys, 101.
                                                 Sun-spots and terrestrial         phenomena
 Russell (John Scott), obituary notice of,
                                                    (Chambers), 168, 231, 247.
     xv.
                                                 Sun's surface and the earth's magnetism,
          (W. H. L.) on certain geometrical         on the connexion between (Stewart),
     theorems. No. 2, 35.
                                                    406.
                on certain definite integrals,
     No. XI, 470.                                Thames, on the temperatures of the
                                                    water of (Airy), 276.
 Sargant (E. B.) and R. T. Glazebrook,           Thorpe (T. E.) and C. Schorlemmer, on
      experiments on the value of the ohm.          the normal paraffins, 405.
      Part  II,  86.                             Traquair (Dr. Ramsay H.), admitted,
 Saurian of Australia, on the great horned          20.
      (Owen), 267.                               Trust funds, 334.
 Schafer (A.) on the coagulation of the          Tyndall (J.), note on General Duane's
     perivisceral fluid of the sea-urchin, 370.     soundless zones, 18.
  Schorlemmer (C.) and T. E. Thorpe on
      the normal paraffins, 405.                 Uniform rotation machine (Bosanquet),
 Scorpio, on the coxal glands of (Lan-              445.
      kester), 95.                               Unit of resistance (British Association),
 Scorpions, position of ganglia, &c., in            on the absolute value of the (Rayleigh
      (Lankester)     101.                           and Sidgwick), 438.

                                         INDEX.                                   499
Tanecek    (T. S.) sur l'inversion generale,  Watteville (A.    de) and A. Waller on
   29.                                          the excitability of the sensory nerves
"Vertebrates, on the enamel of the teeth        of man, 366.
   of (Nunn), 156.                           Weldon (Walter), elected, 69 ; admitted,
Vice-Presidents appointed, 366.                 366.
                                             Williamson (W. C.) on the organisation
Waller (A.) and A. de Watteville on             of the fossil plants of the coal-mea
   the excitability of the sensory nerves       sures.  Part All, 31.
   of man, 366.                              Wilson (E. B.), the development of
Ward (H. M.) on the morphology and              Senilla, 384.
   development      of     perithecium    of  Worthington (A. M.) on impact with a
   Meliola, 388.                                liquid surface, 217.
                      JSND   OP  THE THIRTY-FOURTH VOLUME.

                          LONDON :
HARRISON   AND SONS, PRINTERS IN ORDINARY TO HER MAJESTY,
         '
                     ST. MARTIN'S LANS.


                                 CONTENTS          (continued).
                                                                                     FAGS
    II.  On the Skeleton of the Marsipobranoh Pishes. Part I. The Myxinoids.
          (Myxine and Bdellustoma.)         By W. K. Pabkeb, P.R.S.        .  .    .  439
 III.   The Direct Influence of Gradual Variations of Temperature upon the
          Rate of Boat of the Dog's Heart.          By H. Newell Mabtin, M.A.,
          M.D., D.Sc., Professor in the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
          U.S.A                                                                        444
                                       January   18, 1883.
     I. Preliminary    Paper on a Uniform Rotation Machine ; and on the Theory
          of Electromagnetic Tuning Forks. By R. H. M. BosAN'QtfET, St.
          John's College, Oxford                                                       445
  II.   On the Skeleton of the Marsipobranch       Fishes.    Part II. The Lamprey.
          By W. K. Pabkee, F.R.S                                                       447
III.    On the Infectiv8y of the Blood and other Fluids in some Forms of
          Septic Disease, and the reputed occurrence therein of an Increase - of
          Virulence in Successive Inoculations.            By G. F. Downs swell,
          M.A. (Cantab.), F.L.S., F.C.S., &c                                           448
                                       January  25, 1883.
     I. On  certain Definite   Integrals.   No. 11.   By W. H. L. Russell, F. R.S.    470
   IT. Internal Reflexions in the Eye.       By H. Fbaxk Newall, B.A.           .  .  473
 III.   Note on the Absorption      Spectrum of Iodine in Solution in Oarbou Disul-
          phide.    By' Captain Abney, R.E., F.R.S.,and Lieut.-Colonel Festing,
          R.E.    .      .   .            .                                           480
List of Presents         .                                                             482
Index                                                                                 495
Title and Contents.
Obituary    Notice : —
    William Newmabch                                                                  xvii
                                   Now published.     Vi'\cc 4s.
    CATALOGUE           OF THE SCIENTIFIC BOOKS IN THE                  LIBRARY    OF
                                  THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
 Fibst Section : — Containing        Transactions. Journals, Observations and Reports
                                       Surveys, Museums.
         HARRISON          AND SONS,      45 & 46,  ST. MARTIN'S       LANE, W.C.,
                                    AND   ALL oOOKSELLEliS.






3 2044 092 762 335
